If you played video games in the nineties, you know Sonic the Hedgehog. You know how Sega dreamed up its spiky, slightly rebellious hero as an answer to Nintendo’s moustache-wielding, mushroom-chomping Mario character. You also know this was very much the Blur vs Oasis of the gaming world, dividing a whole generation along pixellated battle lines. Were you Sonic or were you Mario? School playgrounds around the world were bitterly divided.Over the following twenty years, Sega has updated its mascot for every new generation of hardware, providing fresh enemies and revised environments, and bridging the gap between the character’s 2D origins and the three-dimensional worlds of modern games. There have been notable successes: the first four brilliant, revolutionary titles, Sonic Rush on the Nintendo DS, Sonic Adventure 2 on Dreamcast. There have been depressing failures, too (we’re looking at you, extreme sports travesty, Sonic Riders, and you Sonic Unleashed, in which Sonic turns into a, ugh, werehog). But the original creators of the game –Sonic Team – have usually been in full creative control, prodding their progeny forward with little tweaks here and a few graphical flourish there. A gradual evolution, then.But that is about to change.Sonic Boom is – Sega claims – a bold new take on its hedgehog icon, a sort of side-universe to the main series. David Corless, the global brand director for Sonic, likens it to the way Marvel and DC often have multiple comic book titles for each of their major super heroes. Developed as part of Sega’s current publishing deal with Nintendo, the game will launch only on Wii U and 3DS in the autumn. Who could have imaged a deal likethatwhen Sonic arrived to challenge the Mario hegemony in 1991? Meanwhile, leading French animation studio OuiDo has been brought in to create a companion animated series to coincide with the launch – it’s the first new TV outing for Sonic since the anime series Sonic X ten years ago, and the first to to be developed in CGI. Sega has also inked a deal with Tomy to produce a range of tie-in action figures and playsets. This is a true cross-generation lunge at Sonic’s still vast fan base.Amy has come a long way since her original incarnation as a lovestruck Sonic fan.At the heart of it all is a co-op action adventure, allowing two players to team up and take on Sonic’s archenemy Dr Eggman and his hordes of metallic minions. Early teaser trailers, however, hint that a major new enemy is being added, although Sega is of course, remaining tight-lipped for now. What we do know is there are four familiar heroes to choose from – Sonic, naturally, and his friends Knuckles, Tails and Amy, each with their own specific moves and abilities.What will immediately strike veteran fans is the pretty radical re-design of these familiar platforming icons. Sonic now has a dashing scarf (yes, hedgehogs accessorise) and athletic tape wrapped round his wrists, like a boxer. Also... he has completely blue arms now. Blue arms! They were sort of flesh coloured before – and have been since the beginning. He looks grown up. Which is the point. “The objective was to make the characters instantly recognisable as being from Sonic Boom,” says Bob Rafei, the creative director at LA-based studio Big Red Button, which is handling the new title. “We explored various costume options and quickly found the limits of what works and what doesn’t. Since we wanted to push the characterisation of Sonic and friends to fit our narrative, I thought it more appropriate to make them a touch older by adjusting their head, hand and feet proportions. The athletic tape hints at a team that is ready for any action – it is about practicality rather than vanity. Given they have very clean graphic lines, it was important not to clutter their silhouettes, so any little addition had to be carefully considered. They are designed for an epic action adventure.”The emphasis of the game will be on how the characters collaborate through each level. Sonic has speed (duh), but Knuckles has strength, Tails has his gadgets, and Amy wields her usual gigantic hammer. On top of this, the studio has added a new mechanic, the ‘ener-beam’ a sort of elastic force that links the two player characters together. This is clearly a way of preventing players from straying too far apart on screen, but it can also be exploited in useful various ways – for example, stretching the link to its limit in order to catapult one character over a chasm or into an enemy. It’s a weird concept, it sounds sort of awkward, but at least itisnew.Knuckles is the muscle of the operation.Rafei insists he was determined to avoid some of the cliches of cooperative play. “It was one of our biggest challenges,” he says. “We constantly had to remind ourselves not to fall into the trap of creating babysitting, escort or protection style scenarios where one player is gated by the other simply for the sake of co-op. What we don’t want is forced co-op play resulting in excessive interruption to gameplay momentum. Through extensive play-testing we settled on the right balance of opportunistic moments in combat and co-op environmental puzzles placed at key moments that are meaningful to the player.”So what sort of game is it really? A 3D platformer? An open-world adventure? Rafei, who once worked at world renowned studio Naughty Dog on titles like Crash Bandicoot and Jak &amp; Daxter, says the team was most heavily inspired by Sonic the Hedgehog 2 and the later Sega Dreamcast game, Sonic Adventure, which shifted the feel of the series from platforming to 3D action and exploration. “Sonic 2 had a ‘team’ vibe between Sonic and Tails and we wanted to recapture that plus kick things up a notch by adding Amy and Knuckles to the equation,” he explains. “In Sonic Adventure, the game’s structure offered exploration and discovery that opened up more as the player progressed. We believe this is a great approach and modelled Sonic Boom after it. We also love what Sonic Team did with Sonic Generations, giving the player 2D and 3D variations of the same level. Our take was to integrate 2D and 3D seamlessly within the level in a way that made sense, keeping things fresh for the player.”The environments we’ve glimpsed will be very familiar to Sonic veterans. Lush green hills, azure skies, glowing beaches extending off into a nuclear explosion of a sunset. This time though, everything has been designed with both a game and an animated TV series in mind. The developers at Big Red Button worked closely with OuiDo to get the look of the characters and the world just right, using some of the same art and CGI assets and sharing their ideas with Sonic Team’s Japanese heads who oversaw and advised on the whole project. “There was lots of collaboration on the design side,” says OuiDo executive producer, Evan Baily. “On the TV side, our director, Natalys Raut-Sieuzac, led the way, along with Sandrine and OuiDo’s team of designers. We had creative sessions in San Francisco, Paris, and Tokyo, with people talking all at once in three different languages. It was very exciting to put our heads together to find a look that felt true to the DNA of Sonic, but also new.“• Sonic Boom – the reinvention of a gaming icon, in picturesTails is the inventor of the team, bringing a range of gadgets into the equation. And of course, he can fly.The result is that both the game and the TV series take ideas and inspiration from each other. “Game and TV animation are different animals so we looked for opportunities to cross-pollinate ideas,” says Rafei. “Characters that were developed for the game crossed over to the show and vice versa. Guidelines we developed with Sonic team for bosses, as example, were carried over to the show in effort to have consistency.“A key concern for Big Red Button has apparently been to explore the unique touchscreen interfaces of the Wii U and 3DS consoles. The former comes with its GamePad controller, which features its own screen like a tablet PC. “The GamePad display has given us a great solution for local co-op play,” says Rafei. “We tried different solutions for our co-op camera, including single split-screen display, but ultimately this wasn’t able to service our game vision. The GamePad also has a look-around mode where the player can scan the environment looking for clues and hints to secrets in the game. As for 3DS, there are some crossover plans between it and the Wii U involving special unlocks for Sonic fans who have both versions.”The Sonic teamWith firm details of the game rather lacking right now, skeptical Sonic veterans will no doubt feel they have been here, or hereabouts before. Sega has promised great things from previous Sonic reinventions, but the games have always been anchored to the immutable origins of the character as a 2D hero, a relic of the Mega Drive era. Sega conceded to this with its 2011 title Sonic Generations, which mixed 2D stages in with 3D environments, tugging at the heartstrings of nostalgic fans. Sonic is, in someways, gaming’s Star Wars, an entertainment brand lodged in the memories of thirty-something fans who remember how they once idolised the series but have then had to put up with years of diminishing returns. There have been bright spots, certainly, but can we ever find our way back to Sonic 1, 2 or 3, to the sheer design genius that drove Yuji Naka, Naoto Ōshima and Hirokazu Yasuhara to disrupt the sedate flow of the platforming genre?Sonic Boom, then, has a lot to prove. Keeping fans onboard while attempting to ensnare the eight-to-11 year-olds will be a huge challenge. And we’ve seen far too little to know how it has been met. No doubt Sega will be showing more of the game at the huge E3 video game conference in Los Angeles in June. And the publisher is currently working on deals with TV channels to host the 11min animated episodes. This new action adventure, with its emphasis on comic escapades and an older cast, carries a lot of weight on its re-energised shoulders. The Sonic vs Mario wars may be officially over, but some of us still root for Sega’s spiky icon. This is an intriguing offshoot, but let’s hope it shoots off in the right direction.• Sonic Boom - gallery
Sony's decision to exit the PC business means that after 17 years in the industry, the Vaio brand will probably disappear from western retailers before the end of 2014.The decision highlights a problem that has begun to afflict smaller makers of Windows PCs, and even some of the big ones: as the global market for PCs shrinks, profits are fast&nbsp;turning into losses.Ranjit Atwal, devices analyst at research firm Gartner, says there is a&nbsp;shakeout coming. The PC market is dominated by five big companies – China's Lenovo, the American HP and Dell firms, and Taiwan's Acer and Asus. Together they ship 60% of the PCs sold globally a year. Apple has just over 5% of the market. That leaves about a third of the market for the smaller players, and far less of the profits.As the PC market has contracted over the past two years, from a peak of 361m in 2011 to 315m last year, it has become harder for smaller players to make a profit. Calculations based on financial results suggest that the average selling price of a PC made by the "big five" fell from $614 at the start of 2010 to $544 (£332) in the autumn of 2013.Profits per PC for those big five companies, though, have dropped from $15.71, or 2.6% of the selling price, to $14.87. That is not evenly spread: Asus is the most profitable, while Acer reportedly has made an operating loss for the past three quarters.And those five are the companies that build at real scale, shipping between 5m and 15m&nbsp;units every quarter.Atwal ranks Toshiba, Samsung, Sony, and Fujitsu as the "bottom four" – together they had about 12% of the market last year – and as those most under pressure."They've lost market share, and the market they're in has shrunk as well. Scale is everything in this market. If you haven't got economies of scale then the underlying costs of getting to market, retail and so on, is too great to be profitable," he said.Sony is instead turning to smartphones and tablets, which are growing, unlike the PC business. But even there the challenges are not small. Together, Apple and Samsung dominate both segments, and many other players are struggling to turn a profit."Sony will not be the last to say goodbye to PC hardware," says Ben Bajarin, an analyst with Creative Strategies, in California. "Those who survive will reap the rewards."Ironically, it is Apple, once the black sheep of the personal computer industry, which is now reaping those rewards. Despite its comparatively small share of the market, its machines  are reckoned to collect the lion's share of the profits. Although Apple doesn't specify its PC profits, Horace Dediu, of the Asymco consultancy, believes the company maintains an operating profit of over 18%. On PCs selling at an average price of $1,230, that is $232 – more than 10 times that achieved by any other PC vendor.
Struggling electronics group Sony admitted it will make another huge loss this year and revealed tough new measures to help put it back into the black, spinning off its loss-making Bravia television business and selling its Vaio laptop computer division.The company – which will have recorded losses for six out of the last seven years – was forced to scrap forecasts for a £180m profit it made only last October and said instead it would hurtle more than £600m into the red as it absorbs the costs of making 5,000 more staff redundant.In April 2012, chief executive Kazuo Hirai slashed 10,000 jobs, but a failed attempt to return its TV business to profitability has now prompted more drastic measures.Sony's long-term credit rating was cut to junk last month by Moody's, over concerns at the losses in computers and television sets. It was already rated junk by Fitch.The shake-up, announced on Thursday, is Hirai's second big attack on costs since taking office two years ago.After 17 years in the personal computing business, the Japanese multinational has decided to walk away from laptops and focus its engineering talent on smartphones, games consoles, and its movie and music studios.Sales of desktop computers are in decline across the industry as consumers switch their activity to laptops and phones.The television business has not made a profit since 2004, with losses totalling £4.6bn in nine years, and Hirai said he hoped greater independence from the mother company would make the division more agile.Sony is an increasingly distant third to Samsung and LG in televisions, with its share of global sales falling from 8.1% to 7.5% in the last quarter ."I think we are heading in the right direction, and by making it a separate company we will speed decision-making up," Hirai told reporters in Tokyo. "As for the future, there are many possibilities, and not just for our TV business."Sony retained its October forecast for sales of 14m LCD sets, but said the division would incur a 10th consecutive annual loss, costing the group £150m this year.The smartphone business is also loss-making, but the group's Xperia phones are selling well and Sony has reached third position in the global smartphone rankings, according to Bloomberg. However, the forecast was cut from 42m to 40m units for the year ahead.Some analysts, however, said Sony's moves were too little, too late: "The reform announced today comes far too late," said Masahiko Ishino, of Advanced Research Japan Co. "Sony cannot take measures ahead of changes in market deterioration. There isn't much hope to revive the electronics business overall."Sony has had more success with gaming. Its PlayStation 4, released head to head against the Xbox One before Christmas, has sold more than 4.2m units – trumping the 3m-plus shipments for Microsoft's machine.Box office success for American Hustle and Captain Phillips, and hopes for the latest in the Spider-Man franchise, have helped Hirai resist calls from the American hedge fund boss Daniel Loeb, who has been lobbying Sony to spin off its movie and distribution units.Loeb wanted a separate stock listing for the studios, with 20% of the equity to be traded publicly. Instead, Sony has hired management consultants Bain &amp; Co to advise on a restructuring."There's no prospect of its TV business being profitable," said Makoto Kikuchi, the Tokyo-based chief executive officer for Myojo Asset Management Co. "Sony's strengths are content such as games and movies. It cannot increase profit without moving its focus from TV production to content."The Vaio division will be sold to private equity group Japan Industrial Partners, for an estimated £300m. A separate company will be set up to manage the business, in which Sony will retain a 5% stake. The company will retain control of television making for now, but Hirai has not ruled out a sale."My responsibility is to turn around the electronics operation," he said. "I'd like to say this time's reform is final but amid intensifying competition, reform may be needed going forward."
I have a Mac and an external hard drive that includes some important family files. I bought a 4TB hard drive for my dad, and thought it would be easy to copy the files over so he could use them on his PC. However, my Mac doesn’t recognise his hard drive, and his PC won’t recognise my hard drive. Any suggestions?CarlaThe hard drives should not be a problem, unless your computers are very old. Macs and Windows machines do have their own preferred file formats for internal hard drives, but external hard drives don’t always ship with these pre-installed. They tend to use a version of Microsoft’s FAT file format, which dates back to the MS DOS (or IBM PC DOS) operating system used by the IBM PC in 1981. Most operating systems can read files in these old formats.When DOS was born, popular hard drives only had 5MB or 10MB of storage space, which you could fill today with a single animated GIF. In 1996, Microsoft introduced FAT32 to handle much larger hard drives, and FAT32 is still in common use. However, hard drives keep getting bigger -- now they are typically 500GB to 4TB -- and in 2006, Microsoft released a new extended version, exFAT. In theory, this can handle drives up to 64 zettabytes, though 512TB is the recommended maximum.Hard drives will have to double in size another seven times to reach that.If your dad’s new 4TB EHD (external hard drive) has been formatted in FAT32 or exFAT, then both his PC and your Mac should be able to read it. All updated versions of Windows XP and later versions of Windows support both FAT32 and exFAT. Apple already supported FAT32 and it added support for exFAT in Mac OS X 10.6.5 (Snow Leopard) and later versions of OS X.Mac to PC file transfer using an ethernet cableEven if the 4TB drive has been formatted in Windows’ NTFS (New Technology File System) format, then your Mac should still be able to read it, though it won’t be able to write to it. Apple added read-only support for NTFS in 2003 with Mac OS X 10.3 (Panther) and many Mac users need it for running Windows under Boot Camp.Your dad can check the format of his 4TB EHD by running Windows Explorer and selecting Computer in the left-hand pane. All the PC’s drives will be shown in the right-hand pane. If he right-clicks on the 4TB drive and selects Properties from the drop-down menu, the Properties sheet will have an entry for “File System” that will usually be NTFS or FAT32. Either should be fine. However, if both of you want to read and write to this particular EHD, I suggest reformatting it in exFAT while it’s still empty. You should then be able to copy files to it with your Mac. If your Mac still refuses to recognise it, you can tell it to initialise the drive as an MS-DOS disk (ie FAT32).Meanwhile, your external hard drive is probably formatted in a version of Apple’s Hierarchical File System (HFS). Windows PCs won’t normally read that without an additional software driver, such as Erik Larsson’sHFSExploreror theDiskInternalsLinux Reader. (It’s a Windows program that reads Linux and Mac disks.) Both are free.So, you could use your Mac to copy the files to your dad’s 4TB FAT32/exFAT drive, or your dad could install a free HFS+ driver and use his PC to read them from your Mac drive. I don’t know which would be simpler, but if the first one doesn’t work, you can try the second.Finally, although an external hard drive is a good way to move files from a Mac to a PC, there are other ways to do it. The most obvious solution is to use a USB Flash drive. This can get tedious, depending on how much data you need to move. However, SanDisk sells thumb drives with capacities up to128GB, so it’s just a case of deciding how big a drive you need. Some of the Amazon reviews complain that the transfer speed of the 128GB version is very slow, but trying to do it via a cloud storage system would be even slower.A less obvious solution is to use a standard ethernet cable to connect the two machines together, as shown in thisYouTube video. This should also work quickly.Playing ALAC files in WindowsI have some Apple Lossless files on my Mac and also want to play them on my Windows PC. Is there a simple way to do this?AnonThe problem with ALAC is that it’s not widely supported outside the Apple world, where FLAC is the de facto lossless standard. The answer depends on whether you want to convert your &lt;A href=“https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alac“&gt;ALAC (Apple Lossless Audio Codec)&lt;/A&gt; music files to another format that’s more popular on Windows, and if so, which.The options include FLAC (Free Lossless Audio Codec) and compressed “lossy” formats such as MP3 or AAC. If you don’t need the full fidelity of lossless playback, then Lame MP3 or AAC will save a lot of space. Apple lossless files take up about 5MB per minute whereas MP3 might be 1MB per minute.One lossless format can be converted into another lossless format without any loss of sound quality, so that’s not a problem. However, people often convert lossless files into a compressed format for use on a PC, phone or MP3 player. This does cause some loss in sound quality, though you may not be able to hear the difference.You should be able to play your ALAC files in Windows by using either theVLCmedia player orfoobar2000, but that may not fit well with whatever you use at the moment. However, if you have an iPhone and/or an iPad or iPod, then these support Apple Lossless. Also, you will already be using iTunes for Windows, QuickTime etc. In this scenario, converting your ALAC files to FLAC would be a bad idea, though you should still consider AAC.However, if you use an Android phone or tablet, then it may be worth converting them, as FLAC is now supported as standard on Android. On your PC, you can download a set of open codecs fromXiph.org. The package also includes support for Ogg Vorbis, Speex, Theora, and WebM. These are directshow filters and should work normally with Windows Media Player and hundreds of other standard Windows programs.For people who do want to do file conversions,XLD(X Lossless Decoder) is a good option for Mac users. It’s also much better at ripping audio CDs than iTunes, more likeEAC(Exact Audio Copy) for Windows.Windows users who want to convert ALAC files to FLAC and other formats often likedbPowerAmp, but it costs £24 to register after the free trial period. People who can’t or won’t pay can usexrecode, or the foobar2000 media player to do file conversions.•How to delete your Facebook account
Swiss athletes at the Sochi Olympics who received gifts of Samsung Galaxy Note smartphones have reportedly been told to cover up Apple logos on iPhones if they use them at the opening ceremony - but both Samsung and the International Olympic Committee deny having told them to.Areport in Bluewin, a Swiss website, said that Swiss athletes received beer tankards, toiletries, and Galaxy Note 3 smartphones - but added that “the gifts came with linked demands”. As an Olympic sponsor, it said, Samsung had said that there should be no rivals’ brands in TV pictures - and so those who attended the Opening Ceremony should cover logos on iPhones.Olympic sponsors are notoriously sensitive about rival brands gaining exposure at their expense. The2012 Olympics saw “branding police”responsible for ensuring that sponsors’ brands were protected, as well as policing inside event locations to prevent “guerilla advertising” by non-sponsor brands.But asked by the Guardian about the claims of an enforced coverup, a Samsung spokesperson said: “Samsung did not request any action of this nature from athletes attending the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics. All commercial marketing around the games is overseen by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and Samsung has not been involved in any decisions relating to branding of products used by athletes at the games.” Samsung suggested asking the IOC.When asked by the Guardian whether it had instigated the move, the IOC’s press office said: “it is not true. Athletes can use any device they wish during the Opening Ceremony. The normal rules apply just as per previous games. The Samsung Note 3 that were distributed are a gift to the athletes, so they can capture and share their experiences at the games, and the phones also contain important competition and logistical information for competing athletes.“The IOC named the Galaxy Note 3 the “official Olympic phone” on Tuesday and said it would provide one to all of the athletes “to enjoy, capture and share” their experience at the games - although athletes are also told that any video or audio that they collect of events, competitions or “other activities which occur at Olympic venues (including the Olympic villages)“ must not be “uploaded and/or shared to a posting, blog or tweet on any social media platforms, or to a website”.Samsung and Apple are fierce competitors in the smartphone and tablet sectors, and have clashed repeatedly in the courts - with Apple winning a huge damages case in California after alleging that Samsung copied elements of its earlier iPhone designs. Samsung, in response, has produced adverts mocking people queueing for new phones outside Apple-style stores, while also pouring billions of dollars into advertising and marketing efforts - including its sponsorship of the Olympics.•Mario and Sonic at the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympic Games - review
Twitter has called for greater freedom to report government security requests as part of its latest transparency report.The report discloses only those national security requests that are permitted by the US Department of Justice (DoJ), which Twitter says hampers &quot;meaningful or sufficient transparency for the public&quot;.&quot;Allowing Twitter, or any other similarly situated company, to only disclose national security requests within an overly broad range seriously undermines the objective of transparency,&quot; said Jeremy Kessel, Twitter&apos;s global legal policy managerin a blogpost.Twitter&apos;slatest transparency reportcontains two years of data covering government requests for account information as well as copyright associated requests including takedown notices.Over the last two years requests for account information have increased 66% impacting over 6,400 accounts out of Twitter&apos;s 230m active users, and coming from more than 45 different countries. The US government accounted for 59% of the requests.&apos;Violates our First Amendment right&apos;The US DoJ recently reached an agreement with various communications companies, including Twitter, to allow the disclosure of national security requests of user data in very large ranges. The disclosure of certain types of requests is still prohibited.&quot;We think the government’s restriction on our speech not only unfairly impacts our users’ privacy, but also violates our First Amendment right to free expression and open discussion of government affairs,&quot; said Kessel.Twitter believes that transparency on the usage of data and government requests is essential for building and maintaining user trust, as well as defending free speech.&quot;We have pressed the US Department of Justice to allow greater transparency, and proposed future disclosures concerning national security requests that would be more meaningful to Twitter’s users,&quot; said Kessel. &quot;We are also considering legal options we may have to seek to defend our First Amendment rights.&quot;Twitter joins a long line of technology companies railing against government restrictions on the disclosure reports, including Google and Yahoo. Microsoft, Facebook, Google and Yahoo allreleased transparency reportshighlighting US surveillance requests on Monday.• It was revealed in November 2013 that theUS government topped Apple&apos;s list of global user data requests
Twitter’s share price dropped more than 20% Thursday morning as investors reacted to news of slowing growth.On Wednesday, after the stock markets closed, Twitter published its first quarterly earnings report since going public. The company made more money in the last three months of 2013 than analysts expected. However, the social network also announced it had 241m users at the end of 2013, just 9m higher than the previous quarter.Chief executive Dick Costolo also disclosed that, in the last quarter of 2013, the number of “timeline views” – Twitter’s equivalent of page views, and a key measure for advertisers – dropped for the first time in the company’s history.The shares crashed during after-hours trading and continued to fall as the stock markets opened Thursday.Sam Hamadeh, founder of financial analyst PrivCo, said it was clear the healthy increase in Twitter’s share price, which the company has enjoyed since its initial public offering last November, had outstripped its actual performance.“At this stage in its growth, Facebook was growing users at nearly triple the rate Twitter just reported growing them,” he said. “Twitter added just 9 million users, or less than 4% sequential growth. This company is being valued at sixty times its revenues – a nosebleed valuation – on the expectation it will grow revenue 100% annually for the next 5 years or more,” he said.Hamadeh said Twitter could not possibly grow its ad revenue by 100% if its audience is growing at this rate. “It would be like expecting American Idol to double revenue next year when its ratings show its audience grew just 15%. It’s not happening,” he said.The slowing user growth and fall in timeline views came as Twitter made a number or major changes, redesigning its mobile apps and websites and adding image and video previews to Tweets. The moves were designed to improve “engagement” – a key measure for advertisers who want to see their content favourited, retweeted and commented upon.According to the earnings report issued on Wednesday, in the three months ending 31 December, the company had revenues of $242.7m, an increase of 116% compared to $112m in the same period last year. It made a net loss of $511m for the fourth quarter of 2013, compared to a net loss of $9m in the same period last year.Twitter said it expected first-quarter revenue to be in the range of $230m to $240m, with revenue for the year of between $1.15bn and $1.2bn, nearly double the $665m it posted in 2013.“Twitter finished a great year with our strongest financial quarter to date,“ said Costolo. “We are the only platform that is public, real-time, conversational and widely distributed, and I’m excited by the number of initiatives we have under way to further build upon the Twitter experience.“In a conference call with analysts, Costolo was quizzed about his company’s slowing user growth numbers. He said the company was “doubling down on accelerating growth in our core user base” in 2014. Twitter has “massive global awareness”, he said, but needs to make it easier for new people to “get it”.Costolo said changes to Twitter’s products had already made significant differences, increasing the numbers of retweets and favourites. “We believe combined changes over the course of the year will start to change the slope of the user growth curve,” he said, and asserted that the company had a clear “roadmap” for growing user numbers. “I’m delighted with the early results,” he said.Twitter has attracted some unusually negative coverage from analysts since it went public last year. Shares sold at $26 a share during the initial public offering and have traded as high as $74.73.Before the results were issued, 30% of the analysts following Twitter had posted sell ratings on the company’s stock, while 27% listed it as buys and 43% were neutral, according to analyst FactSet. By comparison, 89% of analysts following Facebook are recommending a buy and none are posting sell ratings. Sell notes account for just 6% of all the analyst recommendations covering the S&amp;P 500 list of the top US companies.Analysts are not only concerned with Twitter’s growth, but also with the fact that while Twitter’s revenue is more than doubling each quarter, it has yet to make a profit. Shyam Patil, analyst at Wedbush Securities, said for many analysts, the company’s share price had risen “too far too fast”.Patil, who has a neutral rating on the company, said no new information had come out on the company before the quarterly results, and the share price had been driven up by expectations rather than facts. “I think it’s a good business. It is clearly differentiated from the competition,” he said. He noted that Twitter had yet to figure out how it was going to make money, and that at the moment the sky-high valuation was based on bets that it would hit on a lucrative plan.“You could see an incredible house and think it’s worth half a million only to find out it’s being sold for $2m. It’s still a great house,” he said.Twitter is still expanding quickly – the disappointing quarterly user growth figures still represent a 30% rise year-on-year. But it has captured a very small portion of the overall digital ad market. Twitter accounted for 0.5% of global digital ad revenues in 2013, according to eMarketer, up compared to 0.3% in 2012. Facebook, by comparison, accounts for 5.7% of global digital ad spending, and Google for 32.4%.
Apple has removed the bitcoin app Blockchain from its iOS App Store, underscoring the belief that the company has an unstated policy against such services.The Blockchain app has been on the app store for two years, and hooks in with popular online wallet serviceBlockchain.infoto enable users to use their iPhones and iPads to make bitcoin transactions.On Wednesday, Apple pulled the app. Blockchain cites official communication saying that the removal was due to an &quot;unresolved issue&quot;, and argues that this is &quot;a claim that cannot even be disputed and boils down to &apos;because we said so&apos;&quot;.&quot;There was no communication prior to removal of this popular app,&quot;the company continued in a written statement, &quot;no indication of any problems and no opportunity to redress any issues, making a mockery of the claim that there was an &apos;unresolved issue&apos;.&quot;Apple has a record of clamping down on apps that can be used to send or receive bitcoin. In December,it forced secure messaging app Gliph to remove bitcoin functionality, while BitPak, Bitcoin Express and Coinbase have also entered the graveyard of bitcoin apps.While the company seems to have a consistent stance against Bitcoin apps, it does not provide consistent reasons to the developers themselves about why their apps are being removed.BitPak&apos;s developerwas told&quot;that Bitcoin thing is not legal in all jurisdictions for which BitPak is for sale&quot;, while Bitcoin Express was told the app violated rule 22.1 of the company&apos;s guidelines, which state that &quot;apps must comply with all legal requirements in any location where they are made available to users. It is the developer&apos;s obligation to understand and conform to all local laws&quot;.In April 2012, Blockchain itself wasrejected by Apple&apos;s moderators in Korea, whotold the developersthat &quot;the facilitation of trading of virtual currency is not appropriate for the App Store&quot;.Bitcoin developer Mike Hearn argues that Apple&apos;s attacks are &quot;obfuscation&quot;.&quot;If Bitcoin wallets were illegal then I wouldn&apos;t be working on them, would I?&quot;It&apos;s widely known that Apple wouldlike to get into mobile payments, and banning competing apps from the App Store is classic Apple behaviour that they have engaged in many times before. When the App Store was new, they even had an explicit rule saying you couldn&apos;t &quot;duplicate the behaviour&quot; of Apple&apos;s own apps!&quot;If they had a more dominant market position their actions would trigger anti-trust investigations, but because iPhone users can switch to Android, Apple are under less pressure to play fair.&quot;Hearn points toCoinPunkas an option for Bitcoin users who have an iOS device, but says that iPhone usage may be hindering take-up of the currency. &quot;If you look at Berlin, where there are a huge number of local businesses accepting Bitcoin by now, low iPhone usage is one big reason they&apos;ve been successful. I&apos;m hoping over time the UK and USA will go the same way.&quot;Apple had not responded to requests for comment at the time of publication.•Will porn turn out to be bitcoin&apos;s killer app?
It's Thursday.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSamsung said demanding iPhone logos covered at Olympics opening ceremony &gt;&gt; SlashGearOlympics sponsor Samsung is reportedly dropping Galaxy Note 3 smartphones in athletes' goodie-bags, though the gift comes with a catch: a supposed ban on any other device branding, iPhone or otherwise, during the opening ceremony. Details of the clamp-down, which is said to require the Apple logo on an iPhone be physically covered so that it's not caught on camera during the televised ceremony in Sochi, were spilled by the Swiss Olympic team.They were pleased to discover the Note 3 in among the other promotional kit sponsors have been offering, Bluewin reports, but the phone came with guidelines on what Samsung is said to be requiring in return for its financial support. The rule only appears to apply to athletes, rather than anybody else attending the opening ceremony.Facebook or Microsoft: whose dominance will last longer? &gt;&gt; The New YorkerJohn Cassidy:The tech industry, on the other hand, is defined by successive waves of innovation, and it operates more like a long-running lottery, with the prize for each drawing being a temporary monopoly. Microsoft is Microsoft because, back in the eighties, it won the lottery for the operating-system market. Facebook is Facebook because it won the lottery for the social-networking market.In the technology world, market leaders, generally speaking, don't get dislodged by competitors who build a better or cheaper version of their product. Eventually, though, they do tend to get displaced by companies that create, or popularise, a new technology that shifts the entire industry in a different direction.Antitrust: Commission obtains from Google comparable display of specialised search rivals- Frequently asked questions &gt;&gt; European CommissionThe Commission's objective is to address the four competition concerns it has identified during its investigation. The aim is to restore quickly the conditions for competition on the merits in the areas of specialised search and search advertising to the benefit of consumers. In the field of specialised search, the Commission's aim is not to artificially send traffic to sites that compete with Google, but to ensure that users are well informed of the existence of these competing sites and of their relevance to the user's queries, and are given the possibility to access them.CVE-2014-0497 – a 0-day vulnerability &gt;&gt; SecurelistYes, it's Flash again.All of the exploits exploit the same vulnerability and all are unpacked SWF files. All have identical actionscript code, which performs an operating system version check. The exploits only work under the following Windows versions: XP, Vista, 2003 R2, 2003, 7, 7x64, 2008 R2, 2008, 8, 8x64. Some of the samples also have a check in place which makes the exploits terminate under Windows 8.1 and 8.1 x64.A Belgian hacking team has disclaimed responsibility.Browser, operating system and screen resolution data for GOV.UK &gt;&gt; Government Digital ServiceTom Loosemore:Earlier this month I dug into the analytics data to better understand what devices people are using when visiting GOV.UK.  I thought I'd also quickly share headline data on what browsers, operating systems and screen resolutions we've seen over the past month across the whole site. I hope it's useful.The fall in Windows share - even as Gov.uk must have had a greater total number of visits - is quite remarkable: 10% in a year. Though IE6 is still going - just. (Gov.uk trafficisn't small, either.)Google continues to be a prude and bars porn from Chromecast apps &gt;&gt; The Daily DotA few weeks ago, we reported that Playboy TV was developing an app for Google's Chromecast that would stream explicit content to your TV. But due to Google's history of restricting adult content on their devices, we were skeptical that the Playboy.tv (NSFW) app would ever come to fruition.And our skepticism was justified: along with the release of Chromecast SDK to developers, Google has issued a list of terms and conditions for companies that want to make their apps Chromecast-compatible. One of these conditions? No content that "contains nudity, graphic sex acts, or sexually explicit materials." In other words, no dirty, filthy, nasty, naughty pornz.Samsung Galaxy Gear price drop comes to India &gt;&gt; PhandroidThere have been many reports suggesting the Samsung Galaxy Gear, Samsung's smart watch, hasn't done well in sales since it's been made available. Samsung's own lack of noise about sales seem to indicate that as well, as the company loves to boast big numbers whenever they've achieved them.Another indication that the smart watch might not be doing well is a recent price drop in India (and this isn't some $20 discount that you'd be likely to overlook). Reports indicate the device has been discounted by $120, and that this is a permanent price adjustment.So now we're left wondering: will Samsung be doing the same for other regions? Many folks already believed $300 was far too steep of a price to pay for the Galaxy Gear, especially considering the limited functionality this first release had.Global Sea Level Rise Map &gt;&gt; Geology.comThe map below can be used to show which areas would be under water if sea level rises a specific amount. You can select a value of sea level rise using the drop down box in the upper left corner of the map. Although this map is not a carefully surveyed and extremely accurate presentation, it does provide a visually striking view of what geographic areas might be flooded if global climate change continues unabated.For some readers, the slider has already moved. (Via @kentindell on Twitter.)A tale of two stores &gt;&gt; counternotions'Kontra' visited a Samsung store in New York. Inter alia, he found:• Plenty of staff walking around.• No merchandise is sold in the store.• There is 'complimentary' food in the center island and a mini cafe lounge in the back.• The white counters where the Galaxy product line is displayed reminded me of another store, but decidedly cheesier looking.Wonder how the Carphone Warehouse ones will look.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Video games no longer launch within a meritocracy – if indeed they ever did. The sheer volume of new titles released via Steam and smartphone app stores mean that many interesting, unusual or well-crafted projects fail to reach the audience that they perhaps deserve. Flash-in-the-pan success stories such as the Vietnamese-made Flappy Bird, the iOS phenomenon-du-jour, can seem capricious; these are unpredictable outliers from whose success few meaningful lessons can truly be drawn.From Software’s Dark Souls series (which debuted with the Sony-funded Demon’s Souls on PlayStation 3) is an exception to the rule. Its success has been slow, steady and entirely fuelled by the joyous admiration and grassroots support of players around the world. Demon’s Soul was originally overlooked when it was revealed at the Tokyo Game Show in 2008. This dark fantasy-themed action game demands that players learn, understand and master its systems, or else face severe punishment. The precise nature of its combat is at odds with insta-thrills of popular button-mashing contemporaries while the dingy aesthetic and ephemeral storyline make the game ill-suited to a ten-minute burst of play on a noisy show floor. Some players even put the controller down before they made it past the character creation screen, the game’s creator Hidetaki Miyazaki has said.xxAs such, Sony launched Demon’s Souls in Japan with little fanfare. The game sold fewer than 30,000 copies in its first week. But then word of mouth spread and a tail of sales began to extend and rise. Another publisher picked Demon’s Souls up for a Western launch and, when this was met with profitable success, From Software began work on a sequel, Dark Souls, which would became one of the best-regarded video games of the past decade. Unlike Flappy Bird, Dark Souls’ success is easier to quantify, even if it boldly eschews current fashions in style and design.About as far from the churning mainstream of gung-ho action games as one can trek, in Dark Souls you skitter through narrow sewers and dense forests while cowering behind a shield. Your only hope is to come across one of the bonfires that punctuate this unforgiving world, a rare point of safety to which you will return if your character is killed in battle. It’s tense, taut and the sense of achievement when you overcome one of the game’s many and varied pitfalls is unusually potent. Dark Souls’ subsequent success was not founded on marketing spend, then, but on the grim, evangelical affection of its players.xxIt’s this same affection that landed the British actor and comedian Peter Serafinowicz a key role in Dark Souls II, which launches next month. He was so enamoured with its predecessor that he approached Namco-Bandai with an offer to lend his voice to one of the forthcoming game’s characters. The publisher agreed and Serafinowicz has provided not only the voice of Pate, one of the game’s typically inscrutably and weird inhabitants, but also the grunts of exertion and screams of terror that make up the main player character’s vocal repertoire. Even the game’s contributing actors appear to have come for love, not money.As well as the kindness of talented fans, Dark Souls II has clearly benefitted from the kind of additional investment that success affords. Its world, a shadowy island that seems to be in equal parts based on the crags and froth of the Cornish coastline and the granite-faced castles and conifers of Romania has been built upon an all new graphical engine. It renders the island’s nooks and contours with exquisite grace. The game’s opening section takes place within a deserted clearing where small mammals scuttle and cringe in the tall grass, and where you are lead toward your goal by an enticing use of lighting. Each scene has been composed with greater care than was seen in the earlier games; the sense of aesthetic wonder when you finally emerge from a network of stone corridors onto a yellow-grassed coastline is unforgettable.xx Photograph: /PRThis sequel’s style and rhythm is entirely in keeping with the previous titles in the series. This is a haunting and haunted netherworld of chinked cobblestones, crumbling clock towers and beleaguered knights. You meet other travellers slumped against walls or tree stumps, and they offer barely sensical encouragement or admonishment – all of which adds to the mystique. The world appears to be open for exploration: there are multiple routes that can be taken right from the start, each with its own awaiting snares and terrors. The series’ wonderfully esoteric and ambient multiplayer aspects remain: you can see ghost-like animations that reveal where other players died (perhaps offering a clue as to a hidden danger) while its possible to invade or be invaded by other players for co-operative or combative play at any moment.The tweaks to gameplay are subtle. The game now allows for regional matching, so you can play alongside players from your nation should you prefer. There are now two ways to jump in the game both of which are more easily executed than in the past. Melee damage is determined by your distance to a target, increasing as you close in, a development that adds further subtlety and nuance to what is already the finest combat system in video games. Your character, chosen from a clutch of classes, can equip four status-affecting rings instead of two. This is a game without a pause button, but while you’re delving about in menu screens your character is now shown on screen, so it’s easier to notice if you’re being attacked while changing your equipment, for example. The inventory has been overhauled for simpler management, and a ‘Soul Vessel’ item allows you to reset your character’s parameters (where before you were forced to begin the game afresh with a new character).xxNew items allow you to alter the game’s difficulty. One, when burned at a bonfire, will increase enemies’ power in the vicinity. Another item increases the capacity of your Estus Flask, the item that replenishes your character’s health. There are improved ways to ward off other players who would invade your game and wreak havoc (including punitive measures for those who continually murder other players: it’s possible for these spoilsports to see their health capped as low as ten per cent of its capacity).These small amends may have tremendous knock-on effects. But they are also minutiae in a game where the broad sweep experience is arguably more important than the nitty-gritty detail. Dark Souls found its audience through attention to detail, but more importantly, its ambiance, idiosyncratic character, mysterious, foggy storyline and, of course, those unforgettable set-piece battles. That all of these factors make a return for this sequel is one of the few mysteries that can be solved ahead of the game’s release.• Dark Souls II is out on 11 March (US), 14 March (Europe), on Xbox 360 and PS3. A PC version is due later.
Twitter’s share price dropped sharply on Wednesday after its first results as a public company prompted concerns among investors that its rapid growth was running out of steam.In its first quarterly earnings report since going public, Twitter revealed that it had more money than in the last three months of 2013 than analysts expected. But shares fell sharply as the company announced it had 241m users at the end of 2013, just 9m higher than the previous quarter.Twitter also disclosed that the number of “timeline views” – its equivalent of page views, and a key measure for advertisers – dropped for the first time in the last quarter of 2013 to 148bn from 159bn.Twitter Engagement: Q4’13 Timeline Views 148 billion, up 26% y/y.#TWTRearningspic.twitter.com/JMwcymsmZx&mdash; TwitterIR (@TwitterIR)February 5, 2014The fall came even as Twitter made a number or major changes, redesigning its mobile apps and websites and adding image and video previews to Tweets. The moves were designed to improve “engagement” – a key measure for advertisers who want to see their content favourited, retweeted and commented upon.According to the earnings report issued on Wednesday, in the three months to 31 December, the company had revenues of $242.7m, an increase of 116% compared to $112m in the same period last year. It made a net loss of $511m for the fourth quarter of 2013, compared to a net loss of $9m in the same period last year.Twitter said it expected first-quarter revenue to be in the range of $230m to $240m, with revenue for the year of between $1.15bn and $1.2bn, nearly double the $665m it posted in 2013.&quot;Twitter finished a great year with our strongest financial quarter to date,&quot; said Dick Costolo, Twitter&apos;s CEO. &quot;We are the only platform that is public, real-time, conversational and widely distributed, and I&apos;m excited by the number of initiatives we have underway to further build upon the Twitter experience.&quot;In a conference call with analysts Costolo was quizzed about its slowing user numbers. He said the company was “doubling down on accelerating growth in our core user base” in 2014. Twitter has “massive global awareness” he said but needed to make it easier for new people to “get it”.Costolo said changes to Twitter’s products had already made significant differences, increasing the numbers of retweets and favourites. “We believe combined changes over the course of the year will start to change the slope of the user growth curve,” he said. He said the company had a clear “roadmap” for growing user numbers. “I’m delighted with the early results,” he said.Twitter went public last November and while its share price has soared, it has attracted some unusually negative coverage. Shares sold at $26 a share during the initial public offering and have traded as high as $74.73. They closed Wednesday at $66.21, before the earnings report was published. In after-hours trading, the stock fell by as much as 17%,Before the results were issued, 30% of the analysts following Twitter had posted sell ratings on the company’s stock, while 27% listed it as buys and 43% were neutral, according to analyst FactSet. By comparison, 89% of analysts following Facebook are recommending a buy and none are posting sell ratings. Sell notes account for just 6% of all the analyst recommendations covering the S&amp;P 500 list of the top US companies.Analysts are concerned that Twitter’s growth is slowing and that while Twitter’s revenue is more than doubling each quarter, it has yet to make a profit. Shyam Patil, analyst at Wedbush Securities, said for many analysts the company’s share price had risen “too far too fast”.Patil, who has a neutral rating on the company, said no new information had come out on the company before the quarterly results, and the share price had been driven up by expectations rather than facts. “I think it’s a good business. It is clearly differentiated from the competition,” he said. He said Twitter had yet to figure out how it was going to make money, and that at the moment the sky-high valuation was based on bets that it would hit on a lucrative plan.“You could see an incredible house and think it’s worth half a million only to find out it’s being sold for $2m. It’s still a great house,” he said.Twitter is still growing quickly. The disappointing quarterly figures still represents a 30% rise year on year. But it accounts for a very small portion of the overall digital ad market. Twitter accounted for 0.5% of global digital ad revenues in 2013, according to eMarketer, up compared to 0.3% in 2012. Facebook, by comparison, accounts for 5.7% of global digital ad spending. Google accounts for 32.4%.
The European commission has signalled a peace deal after a three-year dispute with Google, accepting a third offer from the search company that would give rivals and advertisers greater screen prominence for their products and services.Joaquín Almunia, the European commissioner for competition, said thelatest offer from Googlewas acceptable, though the final decision to ditch legal action against the firm would take months more. The agreement will cover both desktop and mobile use, and last for five years.But rivals and complainants in the case,launched in November 2010, strongly criticised the proposed settlement, arguing the EU regulator had been outwitted by the world's biggest internet search firm."The new proposal from Google after long and difficult talks can now address the commission's concerns," Almunia said. "It provides users with real choice between competing services presented in a comparable way."He said he expected objections from the complainants but did not expect to change his mind.Under the deal thrashed out in January, Google search results will continue to show other Google services and products such as its paid-for shopping links prominently, but alternative suppliers will also be highlighted prominently on screen. That means if a Google advertising link has a picture then so will the alternatives, which will have to pay Google for their position.Almunia said he was so satisfied with the Google offer that there was no need for the outcome to be market-tested by rivals and complainants for its effects on users, as previously happened. The latest decision drew protests from rivals. Google's first two sets of proposals were subjected to market-testing and found wanting."Hard data from market tests proved the previous settlement would not work. We need time and opportunity to ensure full technical assessment of how effective the proposed remedies would be," said David Wood, legal counsel for Icomp, a lobby supported by Microsoft."Without a third-party review, Almunia risks having the wool pulled over his eyes by Google … we do not believe Google has any intention of holding itself to account on these proposals."The Allegro Group, a Poland-based e-commerce company, said: "We are very disappointed as the solution proposed does not address the fundamental issue of ensuring a level playing field for the European internet economy."They fix Google's market share in a new segment at no cost to its business and require rivals to pay for access of a far smaller share of the market."Almunia dismissed demands that service and product suppliers should not have to pay to be carried by Google, and described the latter's proposals – which now need to be legally binding and placed under independent monitoring – as "far-reaching with the clear potential to re-establish a level playing field". He added: "We believe Google's final offer can address the competition issues."Google was previously investigated on antitrust grounds over its search results by the US federal trade commission, whichconcludedin January 2013 that "the introduction of universal search, as well as additional changes made to Google's search algorithms – even those that may have had the effect of harming individual competitors – could be plausibly justified as innovations that improved Google's product and the experience of its users." The FTC did not sanction the firm.
This week on Tech Weekly withAleks Krotoskiwe look back over Facebook's ten years since launch.  Aleks is joined by Observer colleagueJohn Naughtonwho is professor of public understanding of technology at the Open University and author of From Gutenberg to Zuckerberg: What You Really Need to Know About the Internet.  John discusses his fear thatFacebook is in danger of swallowing the web.Also Aleks is joined by the full Guardian tech team,Charles Arthur,Jemima Kiss,Samuel GibbsandAlex Hernto explore the digital ecology that gave rise to Mark Zuckerbergs platform, the hard numbers behind it's success, the first 10 users on the network and why some of us choose to escape the Facebook's clutches.
Look around. See anyone using a smartphone? Is their face contorted into an ugly mask of fury? Have their teeth been ground down so violently you can see their exposed nerve endings rubbing together? Are they muttering swearwords with a ferocity that's coated everything around them in foamy spittle? Do they scream abuse at anything with wings? If the answer to any two of those is yes, there's a pretty good chance they are playing Flappy Bird.Flappy Bird is theNo 1 free appin the Google Play app store. Since its launch on the site last week, it has become such a phenomenon that people are already calling it the new Angry Birds. In it, you control a pudgy green bird. Tap the screen once and the bird soars into the air. Leave the screen untapped and it plummets to the ground. The bird lives in a world full of pipes, and you have to guide it through the gaps between them. If the bird misses one gap – just one, no matter how glancingly – it dies, and you have to start again.My high score is four. I've got the poxy bird through four poxy gaps. I've only played it for a maximum of 20 seconds before the stupid bird cracks its useless skull against the sodding pipe again and I have to start from the beginning. I hate it. I hate Flappy Bird. And all birds now. I don't even know why it needs to go through all those pipes anyway. There's probably nothing at the end of it, anyway. Just more pipes. That bird is an idiot.It has been suggested that the sudden and unexpected success of Flappy Bird is because its creator, Vietnam-based Dong Nguyen, hassomehow spammed the app store with false ratings and accountsfrom cloaked IP addresses. Nguyen claims that it's merely down to luck. However, from my experience it seems more likely that Flappy Bird has been downloaded so often because it's so incomprehensibly frustrating that you feel compelled to condemn it in public the moment you play it.People have tweeted about how much they hate Flappy Bird:I want to kill the flappy bird in the face&mdash; Patrick Flynn (@HiddenPooh)February 5, 2014Reading this on mobile? Please click hereWho ruined more lives- Hitler or the guy who created flappy bird?&mdash; Olisaurus-Rex (@rest0ring_f0rce)February 4, 2014Reading this on mobile? Please click hereI genuinely think there will be murders due to flappy bird rage&mdash; Francis Donaghy (@frandonaghy123)February 5, 2014Reading this on mobile? Please click hereThey've madevideos. They've madewebsites. They've made memes.When I die on flappy birdpic.twitter.com/W1HhLD0mhk&mdash; perY (@larryscreams)February 5, 2014They've written angry screeds in national newspapers because they've only got a high score of four.All this does is encourage more naive young morons, desperate to see what all the fuss is about, to download Flappy Bird for themselves. And it goes on and on. It's the Pay It Forward of annoying games about stupid birds who I want to punch into a fine feathery paste.Is Flappy Birds the new Angry Birds? No, it is not. Angry Birds was fun to play. Flappy Bird just makes you want to climb up a tree and kick over a nest.
I've been writing about "digital rights management" (DRM) for years in this column, but here I am, about to write about it again. That's because DRM – sometimes called "copy protection software" or "digital restrictions management" – is one of the most salient, and least understood, facts about technology in the contemporary world.When you get into a discussion about DRM, you often find yourself arguing about whether and when copying and sharing should be allowed. Forget that for now. It's beside the point, for reasons that will shortly be clear. Instead, let's talk about the cold, hard legal, technical, marketplace and normative realities of DRM. Let's talk about what happens with DRM in the real world.In the real world, "bare" DRM doesn't really do much. Before governments enacted laws making compromising DRM illegal (even if no copyright infringement took place), DRM didn't survive contact with the market for long. That's because technologically, DRM doesn't make any sense. For DRM to work, you have to send a scrambled message (say, a movie) to your customer, then give your customer a program to unscramble it. Anyone who wants to can become your customer simply by downloading your player or buying your device – "anyone" in this case includes the most skilled technical people in the world. From there, your adversary's job is to figure out where in the player you've hidden the key that is used to unscramble the message (the movie, the ebook, song, etc). Once she does that, she can make her own player that unscrambles your files. And unless it's illegal to do this, she can sell her app or device, which will be better than yours, because it will do a bunch of things you don't want it to do: allow your customers to use the media they buy on whatever devices they own, allow them to share the media with friends, to play it in other countries, to sell it on as a used good, and so on.The only reason to use DRM is because your customers want to do something and you don't want them to do it. If someone else can offer your customers a player that does the stuff you hate and they love, they'll buy it. So your DRM vanishes.A good analogue to this is inkjet cartridges. Printer companies make a lot more money when you buy your ink from them, because they can mark it up like crazy (millilitre for millilitre, HP ink costs more than vintage Champagne). So they do a bunch of stuff to stop you from refilling your cartridges and putting them in your printer. Nevertheless, you can easily and legally buy cheap, refilled and third-party cartridges for your printer. Same for phone unlocking: obviously phone companies keep you as a customer longer and make more money if you have to throw away your phone when you change carriers, so they try to lock the phone you buy with your plan to their networks. But phone unlocking is legal in the UK, so practically every newsagent and dry cleaner in my neighbourhood will unlock your phone for a fiver (you can also download free programs from the net to do this if you are willing to trade hassle for money).The technical and commercial forces that gave us phone unlocking and cartridge refilling are the same forces that would make DRM a total non-starter, except for a pesky law.Enter the DMCABack in 1995, Bill Clinton's copyright tsar Bruce Lehman – a copyright lawyer, late of Microsoft – wrote a white paper proposing a new regulatory framework for the internet. It was bonkers. Under Lehman's plan, every copy of every work would have to be explicitly permitted and a license fee collected. That means that your computer would have to check for permission and pay a tiny royalty when it copied a file from the modem's buffer into memory, and from memory into the graphics card.Lehman submitted his paper to then-Vice President Al Gore, who was holding hearings on the demilitarisation of the internet – the National Information Infrastructure (NII) or "information superhighway" hearings. To his credit, Al Gore rejected the Lehman plan and sent him packing.Lehman's next stop was Geneva, where he convinced the UN's World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO) to enact key measures from his plan in international treaties (the WIPO Copyright Treaty and WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty). Then he got the US Congress to pass a law to comply with the treaty – the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) – that snuck much of the stuff that Gore had rejected into US law.The DMCA is a long and complex instrument, but what I'm talking about here is section 1201: the notorious "anti-circumvention" provisions. They make it illegal to circumvent an "effective means of access control" that restricts a copyrighted work. The companies that make DRM and the courts have interpreted this very broadly, enjoining people from publishing information about vulnerabilities in DRM, from publishing the secret keys hidden in the DRM, from publishing instructions for getting around the DRM – basically, anything that could conceivably give aid and comfort to someone who wanted to do something that the manufacturer or the copyright holder forbade.Significantly, in 2000, a US appeals court found (in Universal City Studios, Inc v Reimerdes) that breaking DRM was illegal, even if you were trying to do something that would otherwise be legal. In other words, if your ebook has a restriction that stops you reading it on Wednesdays, you can't break that restriction, even if it would be otherwise legal to read the book on Wednesdays.In the USA, the First Amendment of the Constitution gives broad protection to free expression, and prohibits government from making laws that abridge Americans' free speech rights. Here, the Reimerdes case set another bad precedent: it moved computer code from the realm of protected expression into a kind of grey-zone where it may or may not be protected.In 1997's Bernstein v United States, another US appeals court found that code was protected expression. Bernstein was a turning point in the history of computers and the law: it concerned itself with a UC Berkeley mathematician named Daniel Bernstein who challenged the American prohibition on producing cryptographic tools that could scramble messages with such efficiency that the police could not unscramble them. The US National Security Agency (NSA) called such programs "munitions" and severely restricted their use and publication. Bernstein published his encryption programs on the internet, and successfully defended his right to do so by citing the First Amendment. When the appellate court agreed, the NSA's ability to control civilian use of strong cryptography was destroyed. Ever since, our computers have had the power to keep secrets that none may extract except with our permission – that's why the NSA and GCHQ's secret anti-security initiatives, Bullrun and Edgehill, targetted vulnerabilities in operating systems, programs, and hardware. They couldn't defeat the maths (they also tried to subvert the maths, getting the US National Institute for Standards in Technology to adopt a weak algorithm for producing random numbers).Ever since Reimerdes, it's been clear that DRM isn't the right to prevent piracy: it's the right to make up your own copyright laws. The right to invent things that people aren't allowed to do – even though the law permits it -- and to embed these prohibitions in code that is illegal to violate.Reimerdesalso showed us that DRM is the right to suppress speech: the right to stop people from uttering code or keys or other expressions if there is some chance that these utterances will interfere with your made-up copyright laws.Understanding securityThe entertainment industry calls DRM "security" software, because it makes them secure from their customers. Security is not a matter of abstract absolutes, it requires a context. You can't be "secure," generally -- you can only be secure from some risk. For example, having food makes you secure from hunger, but puts you at risk from obesity-related illness.DRM is designed on the presumption that users don't want it, and if they could turn it off, they would. You only need DRM to stop users from doing things they're trying to do and want to do. If the thing the DRM restricts is something no one wants to do anyway, you don't need the DRM. You don't need a lock on a door that no one ever wants to open.DRM assumes that the computer's owner is its adversary. For DRM to work, there has to be no obvious way to remove, interrupt or fool it. For DRM to work, it has to reside in a computer whose operating system is designed to obfuscate some of its files and processes: to deliberately hoodwink the computer's owner about what the computer is doing. If you ask your computer to list all the running programs, it has to hide the DRM program from you. If you ask it to show you the files, it has to hide the DRM files from you. Anything less and you, as the computer's owner, would kill the program and delete its associated files at the first sign of trouble.An increase in the security of the companies you buy your media from means a decrease in your own security. When your computer is designed to treat you as an untrusted party, you are at serious risk: anyone who can put malicious software on your computer has only to take advantage of your computer's intentional capacity to disguise its operation from you in order to make it much harder for you to know when and how you've been compromised.DRM in the era of mass surveillanceHere's another thing about security: it's a process, not a product (hat tip to Bruce Schneier!). There's no test to know whether a system is secure or not; by definition, all you can do to test a system's security is tell people how it works and ask them to tell you what's wrong with it. Designing a security system without public review is a fool's errand, ensuring that you've designed a system that is secure against people stupider than you, and no one else.Every security system relies on reports of newly discovered vulnerabilities as a means of continuously improving. The forces that work against security systems – scripts that automate attacks, theoretical advances, easy-to-follow guides that can be readily googled – are always improving so any system that does not benefit from its own continuous improvement becomes less effective over time. That is, the pool of adversaries capable of defeating the system goes up over time, and the energy they must expend to do so goes down over time, unless vulnerabilities are continuously reported and repaired.Here is where DRM and your security work at cross-purposes. The DMCA's injunction against publishing weaknesses in DRM means that its vulnerabilities remain unpatched for longer than in comparable systems that are not covered by the DMCA. That means that any system with DRM will on average be more dangerous for its users than one without DRM.The DMCA has spread to other territories, thanks to those WIPO treaties. In the UK, we got DMCA-like laws through the EUCD. Canada got them through Bill C-11. Pretty much any place that's industrialized and wants to trade with the rest of the world has a prohibition on weakening DRM. Many of these laws – including the DMCA – have provisions that supposedly protect legitimate security research, but in practice, these are so narrow and the penalties for DMCA violations are so terrible that no one tries to avail themselves of them.For example, in 2005, Sony-BMG music shipped a DRM called the "Sony Rootkit" on 51m audio CDs. When one of these CDs was inserted into a PC, it automatically and undetectably changed the operating system so that it could no longer see files or programs that started with "$SYS$." The rootkit infected millions of computers, including over 200,000 US military and government networks, before its existence became public. However, various large and respected security organisations say they knew about the Sony Rootkit months before the disclosure, but did not publish because they feared punishment under the DMCA. Meanwhile, virus-writers immediately began renaming their programs to begin with $SYS$, because these files would be invisible to virus-checkers if they landed on a computer that had been compromised by Sony.Snowden, DMCA and the Future of SecurityThe revelations of the NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden have changed the global conversation about privacy and security. According to aPew studyfrom last autumn, most American Internet users are now attempting to take measures to make their computers more secure and keep their private information more private.It's hard to overstate how remarkable this is (Idevoted an entire column to itin December). For the entire history of the technology industry, there was no appreciable consumer demand for security and privacy. There was no reason to believe that spending money making a product more secure would translate into enough new users to pay for the extra engineering work it entailed.With the shift in consciousness redounding from the Snowden files, we have, for the first time ever, the potential for commercial success based on claims of security. That's good news indeed – because computer security is never a matter of individual action. It doesn't matter how carefully you handle your email if the people you correspond with are sloppy with their copies of your messages. It's a bit like public health: it's important to make sure you have clean drinking water, but if your neighbours don't pay attention to their water and all get cholera, your own water supply's purity won't keep you safe.But there can be no real security in a world where it is illegal to tell people when the computers in their lives are putting them in danger. In other words, there can be no real security in a world where the DMCA and its global cousins are still intact.Party like it's 1997Which brings us back toBernstein. in 1997, a panel of American federal appeals court judges in the Ninth Circuit decided that code was expressive speech and that laws prohibiting its publication were unconstitutional. In 2000, theReimerdescourt found that this protection did not extend to code that violated the DMCA.It's been a long time since anyone asked a judge to reconsider the questions raised inReimerdes. In 2000, a judge decided that the issue wasn't about free speech, but rather a fight between companies who "invested huge sums" in movies and people who believed that "information should be available without charge to anyone clever enough to break into the computer systems." The judge was wrong then, and the wrongness has only become more glaring since.No court case is ever a sure thing, but I believe that there's a good chance that a judge in 2014 might answer the DMCA/free speech question very differently. In 14 years, the case for code as expressive speech has only strengthened, and the dangers of censoring code have only become more apparent.If I was a canny entrepreneur with a high appetite for risk -- and a reasonable war-chest for litigation – I would be thinking very seriously about how to build a technology that adds legal features to a DRM-enfeebled system (say, Itunes/Netflix/Amazon video), features that all my competitors are too cowardly to contemplate. The potential market for devices that do legal things that people want to do is titanic, and a judgment that went the right way on this would eliminate a serious existential threat to computer security, which, these days, is a synonym for security itself.And once anti-circumvention is a dead letter in America, it can't survive long in the rest of the world. For one thing, a product like a notional Itunes/Amazon/Netflix video unlocker would leak across national borders very easily, making non-US bans demonstrably pointless. For another, most countries that have anti-circumvention on the books got there due to pressure from the US Trade Representative; if the US drops anti-circumvention, the trading partners it armed-twisted into the same position won't be far behind.I've talked to some lawyers who are intimate with all the relevant cases and none of them told me it was a lost cause (on the other hand, none of them said it was a sure thing, either). It's a risky proposition, but something must be done. You see, contrary to what the judge in Reimerdes said in 2000, this has nothing to do with whether information is free or not – it's all about whether people are free.
Valentine&apos;s Day is rapidly approaching, which can mean only one thing: all manner of companies launching corny assaults on susceptible people. The latest is Lidl, which thinks that the way to customers’ hearts is a “love X-ray”.The app and site – available forAndroid,iPhone,Facebookand theLidl website– uses your camera to capture smooches and pits users the challenge of kissing someone else on camera for the chance to win £50 in Lidl vouchers.Whether you kiss a significant other or some random person on the street, the app “verifies” your kiss with a “hyper-advanced kiss sensor technology” before the app enters you into the voucher competition. Neither Lidl nor the app developer provided any further information on quite how the hyper-advanced kiss sensor technology works (though we weren&apos;t able to fool the website by kissing our hand, a coffee cup, or a coffee cup wearing a hat: &quot;we didn&apos;t detect any evidence of kissing taking place&quot; it said sternly.)“We are connecting romanticism with tech and retail. The app we are launching today will detect love in 24 European countries. I must say that this app was the best tested and most documented one. Actually, we&apos;re still testing it…” said Nir Refuah, general manager and chief creative officer at MRM Romania, which developed the app for Lidl,talking to AdHugger.Obviously nothing quite says “I love you” than a staged kiss on camera to try and win one of eight £50 vouchers for a budget supermarket chain. In retrospect, it&apos;s remarkable that no one has thought of this before.• A new iPhone app lets yourap like Tinie Tempah, which might be slightly more impressive to your prospective Valentine than a forced kiss on camera
Sharing photos on Instagram is quick and easy, using the smartphone in your pocket, but what would it have been like in the 1980s when pocket computers, let alone smartphones, were just a twinkle in inventors&apos; eyes?Cameras with real film, a desktop PC and a paper form? Picking a filter would have never been such fun.And what choice: sepia, monochrome, ocean or blurry – the options would have been almost endless, and you would have been able to view them instantly (after they&apos;d been shipped to you) thanks to the modern wonder of the data cassette.The anticipation of seeing your wondrous creations arrive would be all the more palpable given the lack of any digital previews, although I suspect the results would have been slightly disappointing most of the time.Instagram direct would be more like sending a postcard, which would probably have made it mean more to recipients than the firing off a quick snap as it is now.Or of course you could have held a coloured gel over the lens of a Polaroid camera and just used that. Maybe if the company had thought of that it wouldn&apos;t have gone bankrupt in 2001 (and exited the instant camera business in 2007).• The BBC has started targeting Instagram users withsmall snippets of video news
British rap star Tinie Tempah has launched a new mobile app for fans to lip-sync along with tracks from his new album – using his lips.The app –Rap Demonstration– identifies songs from the album (and a few of his older hits) being played in the real world, for example on the radio, in clubs or on a nearby TV or hi-fi.It then synchronises with the exact point in the track, and plays video of Tempah’s lips rapping in time to the song. The idea being that fans hold their iPhone up to their mouth with the screen facing outwards. They will also soon be able to visit a companion website to record animated Gifs of themselves using the app.British agencyWe Make Awesome Sh.developed the app, working with Tempah and his label Parlophone. The company, which works with various brands and music industry clients, previously made an app for Calvin Harris that got fans to dance in order to stream his latest album.Co-founder Syd Lawrence told the Guardian that the Tinie Tempah project shows how official artist apps can be much more creative than simply pushing news, download links, videos and social networking updates to fans, as many do.A fan-shot video of the new Tinie Tempah app.We Make Awesome Sh. also developed its own music identification technology for the app. While apps like Shazam can identify a track playing in the real world, this app only works if it can identify the exact point a song is at, in order to synchronise its video footage.Video for one track, Lover Not a Fighter, is included, with the others downloaded on the fly when they’re needed. The app is free, but points fans to Apple’s iTunes Store to buy the album, with the carrot that they’ll be able to play the individual videos on demand if the songs are stored on their device.Music labels increasingly see apps as an important part of the marketing campaigns around new albums.Lady Gaga released a companion app for her recent ARTPOP album, whileOne Direction also recently launched an official appas another way to keep their fans connected.•Pacemaker launches iPad DJ app using Spotify as its music source•How Shazam uses big data to predict music&apos;s next big artists
With its alien appearance and cumbersome exterior, the EYEsect looks more like an outfit from Star Wars than headgear for viewing city streets. But this futuristic helmet is more than an accessory: it lets you see the world through the eyes of a chameleon, or any other animal that takes your fancy.Built by Berlin-based art collectiveThe Constitute, the EYEsect uses two video cameras connected to afirst-generation Oculus Rift headsetto let the wearer experience mind-melting perspectives. The cameras act as detachable eyes that can be magnetically attached anywhere on the helmet's exterior or held in your hands, allowing you to create your own field of vision. "It allows users to take the perspective of a horse, chameleon or a totally out of body point of view," says Christian Zöllner, one half of the Constitute.People try out the Eyesect. Photograph: EyesectOne camera feeds into the left side of the helmet display, providing the visuals for your left eye, the other into the right. It's then up to your brain to make sense of what it is sees. But while some can happily wear it for long periods, others give up after seconds, overwhelmed by the intensity of the experience. For while the brain is accustomed to taking two sets of visual information and combining them, the EYEsect pushes this ability: "Our visual cortex isn't used to this kind of seeing," says Zöllner.Exhibited in Liverpool late last year, the device may be returning to the UK this year, however, Zöllner says anyone passing by Berlin is welcome to drop them a line to try it out. It may not help you get perspective but the EYEsect will certainly let you see the world with new eyes.
Switching the shade of blue used on advertising links in Gmail and Google search earned the company an extra $200m a year in revenue, a Google executive has said.Google&apos;s commitment to data-driven decisions is well reported, and the company has been ridiculed for the &quot;50 shades of blue&quot; episode, when then Google executive Marissa Meyer led a project testing the impact of using different coloured links in ads.But a new insight proves that the company significantly benefitted from the experiment, to the tune of $200m.The figure comes from Google UK&apos;s managing director Dan Cobley, speaking on Tuesday at an event organised by law firm DLA Piper, who positioned the company&apos;s approach to data against the traditional route of the &quot;highest paid person&apos;s opinion&quot;.&quot;About six or seven years ago, Google launched ads on Gmail,&quot; Cobley explained. &quot;In our search we have ads on the side, little blue links that go to other websites: we had the same thing on gmail. But we recognised that the shades of blue in those two different products were slightly different when they linked to ads.&quot;In the world of the hippo, you ask the chief designer or the marketing director to pick a blue and that&apos;s the solution. In the world of data you can run experiments to find the right answer.&quot;We ran &apos;1%&apos; experiments, showing 1% of users one blue, and another experiment showing 1% another blue. And actually, to make sure we covered all our bases, we ran forty other experiments showing all the shades of blue you could possibly imagine.&quot;And we saw which shades of blue people liked the most, demonstrated by how much they clicked on them. As a result we learned that a slightly purpler shade of blue was more conducive to clicking than a slightly greener shade of blue, and gee whizz, we made a decision.&quot;But the implications of that for us, given the scale of our business, was that we made an extra $200m a year in ad revenue.&quot;The form of testing Google undertook is known as A/B testing (offering users two different versions of a site and picking the most effective one); this particular battle was widely seen as a turning point for the company, the moment it sided with engineers against designers. In 2009, Doug Bowman, then the company&apos;s top designer, cited it as part of the reason for his departure.&quot;It&apos;s true that a team at Google couldn&apos;t decide between two blues,&quot;he wrote in his goodbye post, &quot;so they&apos;re testing 41 shades between each blue to see which one performs better. I had a recent debate over whether a border should be 3, 4 or 5 pixels wide, and was asked to prove my case. I can&apos;t operate in an environment like that. I&apos;ve grown tired of debating such miniscule design decisions. There are more exciting design problems in this world to tackle.&quot;•Yahoo&apos;s Marissa Mayer was in charge of the blue A/B testing when she was Google&apos;s head of productThis piece was updated February 7 to fix a mistaken reference to the initiative earning £200m
Thousands of PCs used by Britain's biggest public-sector bodies will become vulnerable to attacks from computer viruses and hackers in April, Labour has said.Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs and the NHS in England and Scotland will still be running thousands of systems using the operating system Windows XP after Microsoft turns off the support lifeline that helps to stop government systems from becoming vulnerable to cyber-attacks.Microsoft will stop offering free support for Windows XP on 8 April. The following day,  Microsoft will no longer provide any protection to block malicious code and viruses written to infect PCs and networks and steal users' data. Customers who wish to continue receiving protection must pay Microsoft for dedicated support, at inflated prices: $200 (£122) per desktop for year one, $400 (£244) for year two and $800 (£490) for a third year.Neither HMRC nor NHS Scotland will pay for protection, according to Freedom of Information Act (FOI) requests, yet users will continue to be allowed to access the internet from their vulnerable Windows XP machines and using Internet Explorer 6.The information came to light following a series of  FOI requests lodgedby The Register websitewith UK government organisations.Jonathan Ashworth, shadow Cabinet Office minister, said: "Ministers have dropped the ball and this could lead to a hackers' free-for-all with people's personal data. Millions of families will be fearful that their private health and tax information could be stolen as a result of the government's failing computer protection programs."Ministers must urgently disclose how many people could be at risk and what action is being taken to protect people's personal details. The country will expect nothing less than clear answers and concerted action."An HMRC spokesperson said: "HMRC takes security extremely seriously and has many controls in place to guard against online threats. HMRC is already upgrading our IT software and our systems will remain secure whilst this is happening."
Sony Corp is in talks to sell its poorly performing personal computer business to investment fund Japan Industrial Partners for up to 50 billion yen ($490m), according to reports in Japan.The move comes as PC manufacturers have seen increasing problems making profits from the business in the face of shrinking consumer demand and thinning revenues and profit margins.Under the plan being discussed, Sony would sell its PC business to a new company to be established by the fund and have a small stake in the new firm, the Nikkeireported.The move would see the Vaio PC brand being taken over by the new company along with after-sales service. The sale of the PC business would result in disposal losses that would push Sony into a net loss for the first time in two years for the year ending March 31, the Nikkei said.Sony has been struggling with broad challenges to its profitability as the TV, console and smartphone market see increased competition. The PC business, which it moved into in 1996, has shifted from being a source of profits to one which is reckoned to be loss-making.Sony&apos;s annual PC shipments peaked at 8.7m units but are forecast to be just 5.8m units this fiscal year, the Nikkei reported. The research company IDC says that Sony was the ninth-largest PC supplier in the first three quarters of 2013, with a 1.9% share after shipping about 4.4m units. In the third quarter its worldwide shipments were just 1.5m units, down from 2m a year earlier.Falling sales can drive a division from profit to loss if revenues do not offset fixed costs, meaning that a PC business which was profitable in a growing or buoyant market suddenly shifts to loss as the market contracts.The PC business has seen shrinking overall sales for the past two years. It is dominated by the five largest manufacturers, Lenovo, HP, Acer, Asus and Dell, which provide more than 60% of all Windows-based PCs (excluding Apple&apos;s Mac business). But they haveall seen profitability erodedto an average of less than $15 of operating profit per PC, with Acer making losses over the past three quarters.Korea&apos;s LG is also believed to bescaling back its PC business, and Samsung has reportedly been considering a shift towards Google&apos;s Chromebooks and away from PCs using Microsoft&apos;s Windows.But the analyst Richard Windsor, who runs the RadioFreeMobile consultancy, suggested that abandoning the PC business would be a bad move by Sony as it tries to tie peoples&apos; experiences together through its PlayStation console, smartphones and smart TV systems.&quot;The PC remains an important part of the ecosystem and ditching the business will leave Sony with a hole in its proposition,&quot; Windsor noted. &quot;Hence, what it should actually be doing is investing in its PC proposition with to gain market share while everyone else is distracted and looking for the exit. The best of both worlds will be an arrangement where someone else manufactures the devices but where Sony maintains control over hardware design and the user experience… A straight sale of PCs and focusing just on smartphones and tablets is a recipe for failure.&quot;Japanese broadcaster NHK reported on Saturday that Chinese technology company Lenovo Group was in talks about a possible joint venture to take over Sony&apos;s loss-making Vaio PC business overseas.Sonysaidthe NHK report was inaccurate but acknowledged that it was looking at various possibilities for Vaio. &quot;Sony has made no announcement in this regard,&quot; the company said in a statement posted on its website. &quot;As Sony has announced previously, Sony continues to address various options for the PC business, but Sony has no further comments.&quot;Lenovo declined to comment.•The &quot;value trap&quot;: how PC manufacturers are making less and less money selling PCs
Jean Michel Jarre has called on music artists to work with the world&apos;s most powerful technology companies, urging them to explore new ways of making money for their work.“We are the people creating the future – not manufacturers of computers or cables. We are the extraordinary,&quot; Jarre told the Guardian. &quot;[The lack of enforcement of] intellectual property is not just a problem for artists from Europe and America – it’s a global problem . It’s one of the strongest elements of what democracy is all about.”In 2013, the French electronic music pioneer was elected president of CISAC, the global body for authors’ societies, succeeding the late Robin Gibb. Speaking to the Guardian ahead of his keynote speech at the Midem music industry conference, Jarre said artists need to &quot;stop whining&quot; and engage with powerful tech companies.Jarre, whose ground-breaking 1976 album Oxygene brought him international acclaim, joked that “Being a postman is the future – because, apparently, these days it’s much better to carry content than to create it”.&apos;Google and Facebook are not the enemy&apos;Jarre said that creators should stop thinking that Google, Facebook and other players in the digital sphere are the enemy. “These people were just kids 15-20 years ago, geeks creating something great – but they created a monster without even having the time to think about the collateral damage they were creating.”Instead, he continued, creators needed to sit down with phone companies, computer companies selling hardware, as well as the distributors of all kinds of art forms, and create the right business model for creators. He doesn’t, however, think that consumers should have to pay. “Music, photography, media, film – it’s all going to be free on the internet. We have to accept it,” he said.But that doesn’t mean that creators can’t get paid. “Think about when you listen to a song on the radio,” he explained. “You are not paying for it, it’s not illegal to do it, because the rights have been paid for on top, beforehand, by the radio station, by the network. We have to find exactly the same kind of system with the internet.”“We should never forget that in the smartphone, the smart part is us creators. If you get rid of music, images, videos, words and literature from the smartphone, you just have a simple phone that would be worth $50. Okay, let’s accept that there’s a lot of innovation in the smartphone, so let’s add $100 for this innovation – the remaining $300-$400 of the price should go to [the creators].”Paying artists is not a tax or cultural levy, he said, adding that artists were here before electricity and will be here long after the internet. “We need each other, so at the end of the day we have to find the right partnership. We are talking about a business partnership, not a tax, and this shouldn’t affect the consumer.”Questioning financing of creative industry &apos;absurd&apos;After spending time in China recently, Jarre was struck by how China had finally come around to realising the value of copyright. CISAC even opened an office in Beijing recently. “The Chinese government has realised that it’s the best way to promote Chinese culture and Chinese artists,” he said. &quot;It realises that IP is part of the country’s identity – so that people don’t just think of it as a manufacturer of clothing, but that it has a soul.“Paradoxically at a time when people around the world – especially the BRIC nations – are inspired by Europe’s tradition of valuing art through authors’ rights, Europe is trying to leave the boat by questioning if creation needs to be financed at all. That question is absurd! An artist has to live just like any other citizen in the world.”Jarre does concede that the music industry has made many mistakes: “We invented pirate radio – and 25 years later we want to put pirates in jail. The people that are making the most money from what we are creating are not the consumers – it’s the people carrying our content. They are not paying what they have to pay. It’s akin to a company not paying some of its shareholders. We, the creators, are shareholders of the internet. So it’s not a tax – it’s what we’re owed.”The reason so few artists have spoken out in public about their predicament is due to lack of confidence, Jarre concluded. “This is why our sector is so vulnerable. Artists are full of doubts and uncertainty, and shy when it comes to evaluating their work. If everybody else around them says it’s worth nothing, the artist will be... very sad. It takes a lot of courage to stand up and say stop.“Our creators are the identity we are going to leave for future generations. If we don’t solve this we’ll end up with just white noise.”•Thom Yorke calls Spotify &apos;the last desperate fart of a dying corpse&apos;
YouTube visitors watch more than six billion hours of video every month, but not all of those eyeballs are real. Google has announced a crackdown on &quot;fraudulent views&quot; on YouTube, from channels seeking to artificially inflate their view counts.&quot;When some bad actors try to game the system by artificially inflating view counts, they’re not just misleading fans about the popularity of a video, they’re undermining one of YouTube’s most important and unique qualities,&quot;wrote YouTube software engineer Philipp Pfeiffenbergerin a blog post announcing the news.YouTube has always audited videos in an effort to try to spot inflated counts, but the company is now stepping up its efforts according to Pfeiffenberger:﻿&quot;While in the past we would scan views for spam immediately after they occurred, starting today we will periodically validate the video’s view count, removing fraudulent views as new evidence comes to light. We don’t expect this approach to affect more than a minuscule fraction of videos on YouTube, but we believe it’s crucial to improving the accuracy of view counts and maintaining the trust of our fans and creators.&quot;The move follows awarning delivered by YouTube to its network of channel ownersin November 2013, with another blog post warning against paying one of the number of companies offering to bump up view counts artificially.&quot;If you&apos;re considering paying someone to increase your view count, you may want to think again. You probably won&apos;t get what you paid for,&quot; explained that post. &quot;Views generated by some third-party businesses and services will not be counted on YouTube, and can lead to disciplinary action against your account, including removing your video or suspending your account.&quot;It&apos;s a quirk of the system that YouTube&apos;s parent company is driving traffic to those third-party businesses. Type &apos;buy YouTube views&apos; into Google&apos;s search engine, and hundreds of companies touting their wares appear, including some paying Google to advertise their services using its AdWords system.YouTube&apos;s motivation for cracking down on fake view counts is partly about making its service more appealing to advertisers, so they can be sure their ads are being seen by real people. It&apos;s also likely related to the company&apos;s desire for channel-owners to build their audiences by paying to use its TrueView ads system.YouTube is far from the only social media service attracting companies promising to artificially inflate metrics. Twitter followers and Facebook Likes are all buyable by the thousand online, for example.In April 2013, two Italian researchers claimedthere may be as many as 20m fake Twitter accountscreated by companies selling their follows to brands. Later that year, Channel 4&apos;s Dispatches programme investigatedthe growing market for &quot;click farms&quot; generating fake Facebook Likes and Twitter followers.YouTube is warning its community that buying views will be counter-productive. &quot;Remember that ultimately, you are responsible for your video traffic. If you contract a company that gives you spam instead of views, you pay the penalty, not the company,&quot; explained its November blog post.•YouTube reveals $1bn music payouts, but some labels unhappy
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team2013 Smart TV Shipments grew 55% &gt;&gt; Strategy AnalyticsSmart TV shipments hit 76m units in 2013, about a third of flat panel TV shipments for the year:Analyst Eric Smith added, "While Smart TV adoption is certainly gaining momentum, a true measure of its success is whether consumers are actually using the Smart functionality. Our consumer survey data show that around 50% of Smart TV owners across the USA and major European markets are currently using their TV's Internet capabilities, so vendors must continue to add compelling applications and services to entice consumers to utilize their platforms."50% seems encouragingly high. Are those used for apps, though, or catchup, or YouTube, or what?The challenge for new mobile operating systems &gt;&gt; Beyond DevicesJan Dawson looking at the latest ComScore data on US smartphone installed base:First, the share of smartphones running either Android or iOS has skyrocketed over the last few years, and has now reached passed 93%. But secondly, the actual number of users with smartphones not running one of these two operating systems has dropped, not just the share. There were around 30 million users of other OSs at the peak in 2010, but there are now just over 10 million, a number which has stayed fairly stable in the last three months. As BlackBerry has dwindled, Windows Phone has barely offset the declines in recent months, so that the total number has stayed roughly the same.The challenge for any new operating system is to answer the fundamental question Windows Phone has struggled to answer: why does anyone need a third option?There are still 83m people in the US using a featurephone. But they're clearly not eager to have a smartphone yet.Computing redefined: a smart connected devices forecast &gt;&gt; Tech.pinions - Perspective, Insight, AnalysisBob O'Donnell:This year, my firm TECHnalysis Research predicts that the 2014 shipments of large smartphones (those with screens 5" and larger—commonly called "phablets" but perhaps better coined "mobile connected devices") will far outsell both small tablets (those with under 8" screens) and even notebook PCs. Specifically, we are forecasting that worldwide phablet unit shipments will reach approximately 240m in 2014 versus 173m notebooks and 158m small tablets. That's a seismic shift that will have profound implications on branded device vendors, component suppliers, ecosystems, applications and app development, and even regional influence. We're going to see an increasing influence on mobile operating systems, developing markets and computing devices that fit into your pants pocket or small purse.In the US, the story isn't quite as dramatic, as large smartphones have been a little bit slower to reach mass appeal, but even by 2015 we expect large smartphones to outship notebooks in the US by a margin of 37.5m to 35.9m and by 2017 we expect them these mobile connected devices to outsell small tablets in the US (41.9m versus 41.5m).Set the date in your smartwatches to look back on this one.Satya Nadella email to employees on first day as CEO &gt;&gt; MicrosoftI am here for the same reason I think most people join Microsoft — to change the world through technology that empowers people to do amazing things. I know it can sound hyperbolic — and yet it's true. We have done it, we're doing it today, and we are the team that will do it again.I believe over the next decade computing will become even more ubiquitous and intelligence will become ambient. The coevolution of software and new hardware form factors will intermediate and digitize — many of the things we do and experience in business, life and our world. This will be made possible by an ever-growing network of connected devices, incredible computing capacity from the cloud, insights from big data, and intelligence from machine learning.This is a software-powered world.By invitation: Mariana Mazzucato: Startup myths and obsessions &gt;&gt; The EconomistMazzucato is professor in science policy at the University of Sussex:Research at the University of Sussex shows that median sales of a six-year-old firm is less than £23,000 (Storey, 2006). These firms also tend to be the least productive and least innovative (R&amp;D spending—the best measure we have for inputs in the innovation process—in Tech City is not higher than in other parts of London or Britain). Indeed, the few high growth innovative firms (about 6% of the total SME group, Nesta, 2011)—those that really should be supported—do not directly benefit from the hype that surrounds SMEs and startups: once they get the funds these are too diluted to make a difference.The focus on entrepreneurial ecosystems is symptomatic of the misplaced obsession with SMEs and startups in terms of their ability to generate innovation and growth.Motorola status report: 53.1% of North American Motorola smartphone web traffic from Droid Razr devices &gt;&gt; ChitikaChitika is an online ad network:Looking at the larger picture, Motorola devices generate about 3.5% of North American smartphone Web traffic overall, meaning that the 53.1% share equates to about 1.9% of total continental usage being driven by Droid Razr users.While the data point to the Droid Razr lineup having been well received as a whole, the upcoming challenges for the company are exemplified when comparing the usage tallies of two of Motorola's most recent flagship product lines – the Moto X and Droid Ultra/Maxx.The Moto X was the first phone from Motorola with Google's proverbial "fingerprints," including better language processing, changing notification behaviour based on location context, along with more co-branded marketing activities. But despite having been available on all major carriers for some time now, Moto X users generate about the same level of traffic (5.6% of all Motorola smartphone traffic) as Droid Ultra/Maxx devices (5.9% of all Motorola smartphone traffic) – two Verizon-only phones that came out around the same time.So the Moto X wasn't a big hit. Maybe the problem is more with Motorola's brand. Would a Lenovo-branded phone do better?Chromebooks have a 1% market share - and a tough road to the enterprise &gt;&gt; TechworldThe Chromebook, introduced in 2011, is still an outlier for most businesses, even as it becomes an alternative for consumers and schools. By 2017, IDC expects the Chromebook to reach about 6m shipments, or more than 2% of the PC market.But how much progress has the Chromebook made into the enterprise? "Beyond education, it's probably virtually zero," said IDC analyst Loren Loverde.There were 314.6m PCs shipped in 2013.Despite this outlook, there are ample anecdotal examples of Chromebook adopters, particularly among small and mid-size firms that do most of their work in the cloud and through SaaS services.Although the Chromebook has attracted fervent users, there are many reasons why it will have trouble in enterprises. One is Microsoft Office, which has over 90% of the productivity market, according to IDC. Another: Enterprises with an installed base of potentially hundreds of Windows applications would find such a move daunting.Smart phones, India, units by vendor, Q4 2013 &gt;&gt; CanalysSamsung is top (3.6m of 11.3m units total), but have you heard of the third-placed company? Together, two Indian manufacturers sold as many as Samsung. A sign of the coming times.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
From energy drinks to sachets of nuts condescendingly branded "gamer food", there are plenty of products out there to entice gamers with the promise of enhanced performance – though most of them seem to be aimed squarely at the bedroom-bound teenager demographic rather than adult players who would prefer to nourish themselves with actual food. But it's hard to find something to improve your video game skills that doesn't come in a can and smell weird.Thefoc.us headsetclaims to boost your gaming prowess by  running an electric current through your brain – and at £179 it's squarely aimed at adults (in fact, people under 18 shouldn't use it, according to the manual). It sounds a bit scary, but the headset looks unintimidating enough – no wires and bits of metal, just a nicely designed four-pronged plastic headband. It uses the principles of tDCS – transcranial direct current stimulation – sending a small current of between 0.8 and 2.0mA through the prefrontal cortex through  electrodes positioned on your forehead.Various forms of tDCS have been proved to improveworking memory,response timeandlearning speedin lab conditions but there is no reliable research into whether or not it can have a brain-enhancing effect on people in everyday life. Another thing to bear in mind is that many scientists researching tDCS are not enormous fans of its application outside a controlled environment; in aletter toNatureentitled "Transcranial Devices Are Not Playthings", Dr Sven Bestmann of UCL's Neuroscience department said that "painstaking efforts by researchers to understand the risks and benefits of tDCS should never be interpreted as encouraging such practices".For gaming, though, I'm willing to give it a go. I like to think I don't need performance enhancers in my gaming life, but I have to admit, my kill:death ratio isn't what it used to be. In pretty much any online shooter I am regularly blasted to pieces by shrill American teenagers with altogether too much time on their hands. I'm up for trying anything that might put me on a level playing field.I read the selection of warnings in the foc.us manual – beware of nausea, headaches and white flashes in your vision, make sure there's no chance of current flowing through the brain stem, only use it once every 48 hours – and select the default low-current setting. I giveGrand Theft Auto Onlinea go first, because it's got a bit of everything: driving, shooting, accidentally flying jets into skyscrapers. By the time I'm in my first match my forehead is feeling hot-and-cold tingly where it meets the electrodes. After 10 minutes, it's feeling really quite uncomfortable, but I'm not experiencing any white flashes or headaches.Unfortunately it is not magically making me better atGrand Theft Autoeither. I'm not feeling more focused, and I'm not any further up the leader board than usual after an hour of play. Next session, I go with something faster-paced:Battlefield 4. Again, apart from making my forehead feel weird, the main thing it appears to have achieved is eliminating my desire to check Twitter in between games – is it channelling my brainpower into this one task, like a mild Ritalin? Or am I just trying to concentrate more than usual?Even if I had experienced noticeable changes in my gaming performance, though, I'm not sure if I would be comfortable with brain-zapping on a regular basis.Even in lab tests, tDCS doesn't have the same effect on everyone, so foc.us is the first relatively low-cost opportunity for gamers to try the science out themselves, but as with anything, excelling at a game really comes down to practice.
Ross William Ulbricht has been indicted on charges he was the mastermind behind Silk Road, a website alleged by US prosecutors to have brokered more than $US1bn in transactions for illegal drugs and services.An indictment unsealed in New York on Tuesday charges Ulbricht, 29, with drug trafficking, computer hacking, money laundering and other counts.A lawyer for Ulbricht, Joshua Dratel, said his client would plead not guilty on Friday. &quot;The indictment was expected and does not contain any new factual allegations,&quot; Dratel said in a statement.Ulbricht was arrested late last year. Authorities say he operated the Silk Road website under the name Dread Pirate Roberts. The website allowed users to anonymously browse nearly 13,000 listings.Authorities say the categories included cannabis, psychedelics and stimulants. Purchases were made using the virtual currency Bitcoin.Ulbricht was arrested on 1 October in a public library in San Francisco, shortly after authorities shut down Silk Road, which vendors and customers accessed using an encryption program that strips internet users&apos; identifying information to allow them to communicate anonymously with each other.Ulbricht has maintained his innocence through statements by his lawyer.The indictment by a grand jury marks the end of an initial period during which Ulbricht could have talked with prosecutors and made a deal to soften any sentence rendered against him by pleading guilty and co-operating.
As only Microsoft's third chief executive, Satya Nadella – who has come over from the company's cloud and enterprise businesses – has an impressive 22-year record at the company. However, while Microsoft recently reported impressive results, the strength lies with big business customers, not consumers. Nadella has an in-tray piled high with problems.1 ValueAct Holdings, an activist shareholder group, gets a seat on the board in March. It successfully pressed for Steve Ballmer, the now ex-chief executive, to quit because of an underperforming share price. It may push for money-losers such as the Bing search engine and low-return ones such as the Xbox games console to be sold off. Can Nadella resist?2 Bill Gates will work more at the company as "technology adviser". While a visionary, he can also be an abrasive manager. Having more chiefs risks more dithering, which Microsoft doesn't need.3 Microsoft has struggled in the fast-growing mobile business despite years of trying. There are an estimated 50 million users of Windows Phone, its smartphone software, compared with more than a billion for Google Android and at least 500 million iPhone users.4 The Bing search engine loses huge amounts of money. Can Nadella turn that around?Nadella has some time – Microsoft has billions in the bank. But the pressure from ValueAct and other shareholders could be unforgiving.5 The smartphone strategy relies on the incoming Nokia handset division. Will it be run by Stephen Elop, thought to have been passed over for the CEO job? Who else would have the skills to run the handset business?6  Steve Ballmer is staying on the board. He was re-appointed for a year in November, having already set in train a series of changes to make Microsoft into a "devices and services" business rather than just a software business. What if Nadella disagrees with the changes?7  Should Microsoft release a version of Office for the iPad to boost sales by millions, as a services business would? Or should it keep it for the Surface tablet, as a devices business would?8 Should the slow-selling Surface tablets be folded into Nokia, or just killed off?
Satya Nadella,Microsoft's new CEO, looks like everything his predecessors Steve Ballmer and Bill Gates were not. For one thing, as Microsoft's lovingly crafted, iOS7-inspired,nearly devotional website to himshows, Nadella's techie cool look is in marked contrast to the crumpled oxford shirts and dad jeans favored by both Ballmer and Gates. In well-fitting hoodie, finely crafted t-shirt and suit jackets over chic jeans, Nadella's image as presented by Microsoft shows him to be the Esquire-styled love child of Mark Zuckerberg and Steve Jobs, with a touch of the finely tailored panache and shiny suits of JP Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon.He inhabits a variety of modes: the lecturer, the thinker, the math geek in a hoodie in front of a chalkboard of formulas, the leader with a lightly clenched fist to show decisiveness and determination. In a world where his overenthusiastic, bear-like predecessor Ballmer might have been described as Comic Sans, Nadella is a slim, cool, minimal Helvetica.Nadella's comments are pitch-perfect in light of that image:Our industry does not respect tradition. It only respects innovation.Nadella's quirkiest aspect – quirky, at least, for the number-and-code-loving tech world – is his love of literature and, especially, poetry. In his first memo, heparaphrases Oscar Wildeon the improbable and impossible. He tries to help techies get a handle on poetry by comparing it to code:You're trying to take something that can be described in many, many sentences and pages of prose, but you can convert it into a couple lines of poetry and you still get the essence, so it's that compression.Indeed, he says, the best code is poetry.This, at least on the polished surface, is theman of innovationthat Microsoft needs.There's only one problem: there's nothing new about Nadella, and that may be a problem for his tenure. He's a 22-year veteran of Microsoft, and has been watching along as the company was put on probation by analysts and shareholders, particularly one influential firm named ValueActthat has been bird-dogging Microsoft for months. It's safe to say it was ValueAct's exasperation with Microsoft's slipping competitive rank that pressured Ballmer to step aside.Nadella pleases ValueAct – seethis enthusiastic statement today– which has been until now Microsoft's biggest critic. Analysts, too, say that  Nadella is a fine and capable leader with technical knowledge of the company's workings, and his chief financial officer, Amy Hood, is bright and can manage costs. Employes, too, are likely to be grateful to avoid the upheaval an outsider would have brought, as MKM Partners analyst Israel Hernandez said last month when Nadella's name was floated: "We believe the hiring of an insider is also likely to have a positive impact on employee morale as an external hire would likely have contributed to a significant change in the corporate culture."That pressure is why, to the harsh eye of Wall Street analysts and shareholders, Nadella will need to do more than look or even talk the part of the innovative maverick.There is tension, however, for Nadella here. Now at the helm of Microsoft's new leadership, his job is to disrupt Microsoft's old leadership, whom Wall Street sees as the people who brought the company to its current competitive lows.Unfortunately, those are the same people – Bill Gates, Steve Ballmer and likely new chairman John Thompson – who put Nadella in his job.Nadella isn't quite doing that yet. He said in his first memo he expects to be working particularly closely with both Thompson and Gates: "I've asked Bill to devote additional time to the company, focused on technology and products. I'm also looking forward to working with John Thompson as our new Chairman of the Board."This is not what Wall Street wants to hear, and it's Wall Street – and its powerful pressure of the dollar – that has been the audience for Microsoft's narrative so far.Analysts won't be convinced that Nadella means change at Microsoft until he bites the hands that fed him the executive suite. They want Nadella to get distance from his predecessors, not pull them closer. Hernandez, of MKM, noted that Nadella will be judged on "his ability to truly exercise change," including this question: "will he break with Gates/Ballmer strategy"?This pressure for a clean break with the old Microsoft strategy is a consistent theme among analysts and shareholders. "We do not want to see a continuation of the existing direction for the business, so it will be important that Mr Nadella be free to make changes," said Nomura analyst Rick Sherlund last week, calling for Nadella to "effect change independent of the influence [and] constraints of previous management".Sherlund specifically wanted Ballmer and Gates – or at least one of them – out of the picture. "We do not think having two previous CEOs on the Board to report to as he redirects the business is a good idea."The story is the same for Thompson, in Sherlund's eyes. Shareholders such as ValueAct have a very specific prescription that would put Microsoft back in their good graces. As Sherlund wrote last week:In our conversations with Mr Thompson, he has not appeared receptive to taking steps to enhance shareholder value through accelerated share repurchase, cost cutting and better focusing the business. This could be disappointing for investors, and it could take time for ValueAct to change the dynamics on the Board to effect a change in thinking with regard to shareholder value.Where does that leave Nadella? Possibly, at sea. He has to come up with a new strategy while remaining embedded in the company's old power structure. Nadella's to-do list, from Wall Street, is clear. One is to cut operating costs by at least 10%. Another is to revitalize the limping consumer and hardware businesses that include Nokia, the Bing search engine and the XBox video game player; as Deutsche Bank analyst Karl Keirstead pointed out last month, Microsoft will count on a whopping 12% of its revenues from two underperforming pieces of hardware: the Surface tablet and recently acquired Nokia. The focus on those two products, Kierstead argues, has been keeping Microsoft's growth lower than it might be.Microsoft has hardly felt the wrath of Wall Street yet; even with all the doom and pressure, the company's stock rose an impressive 40% in 2013. That rise, however, is largely because Microsoft became a spectacle as investors bought the stock in hopes that the entire company might change its direction.That is Nadella's job. Microsoft's loss of its competitive position under Ballmer may have been misfortune; if the company loses its grip even further under a second CEO it would – to paraphrase Nadella's admired author Oscar Wilde – look like carelessness.
In his new role as technology adviser, Bill Gates will still be crucial to Microsoft, which is floundering in the age of smartphones and tablets.Gates is expected to spend a day a week helping the company develop products to compete with Apple's gadgets and the services of Google and Facebook."Bill's product reviews were legendary and Microsoft's products would benefit from his input," says Todd Warren, a former Microsoft executive. "My concern would be the tech landscape has shifted away from the PC in recent years."Asthe world's richest man, with a fortune of $78.5 bn (£48bn), Gates doesn't need to work. Since giving up oversight of Microsoft's daily operations in 2008 he has devoted himself to charitable work through the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, whose aims include the eradication of polio by 2018.Gates predicted last month that poverty would be virtually wiped out by 2035, while child mortality would drop sharply.In his sixth annual letter from the Foundation, he attacked the "myth" that foreign aid was a waste of money. Along with fellow American billionaire Warren Buffett, Gates has also been trying to persuade the superrich to join his Giving Pledge - a commitment to give away more than half their fortune.
Microsoftsettled on a veteran insider as its replacement for long-time CEO Steve Ballmer on Tuesday, ending a five-month search with a choice some analysts called a “safe pick” for the software behemoth.India-born Satya Nadella, 46, head of the company&apos;s cloudcomputingdivision and enterprise business, was appointed after a team of headhunters concluded a five-month search that included some of the most world’s most famous executives.Nadella is only the third person to lead Microsoft; since the company was founded 39 years ago, only co-founder Bill Gates and Ballmer have headed it. But in recent years the company has looked flat-footed as rivals Apple, Google and Facebook have dominated and innovated in hardware, online services and social media.In a nod to Nadella&apos;s low profile outside the company, Microsoft introduced him with asleek web pagethat was heavy on biographical details including the revelation that he relaxes by reading poetry.Ballmer said he would step down last August amid mounting criticism of the company’s dependence on its Windows, Microsoft Office and workplace software, products that have generated massive profits for the company for decades but are being increasingly challenged by online alternatives. In a statement, Ballmer said Nadella was “the right leader at the right time” for Microsoft.Some were less sure. In a note to investors, analysts at FBR Capital Markets said the appointment of Nadella was a &quot;safe pick&quot; compared to choosing an outsider. Microsoft was among the first to innovate in areas like smartphones, tablets and cloud services. But it has seen those ideas better executed by rivals including Apple and Amazon, the note said.As part of the announcement, Gates said he would step down as chairman to assume a new role on the board as founder and technology adviser. John Thompson, the Microsoft board member who oversaw its search for a new chief executive, becomes chairman. “During this time of transformation, there is no better person to lead Microsoft than Satya Nadella,” Gates said..“Satya is a proven leader with hardcore engineering skills, business vision and the ability to bring people together. His vision for how technology will be used and experienced around the world is exactly what Microsoft needs as the company enters its next chapter of expanded product innovation and growth,” Gates said in his statement.Nadella may be little known outside of Microsoft’s sprawling Redmond campus, but inside it he is a star. Before being named as CEO he ran one of Microsoft&apos;s fastest growing divisions, cloud services. Revenue at the division soared 107% compared to a year ago, the company said when it reported its fiscal second-quarter results on 23 January. Most of his experience is in serving corporate customers – the source of two-thirds of Microsoft profits.He has also been unafraid to speak his mind on sensitive issues. In December,speaking at the Le Webconference in Paris, Nadella addressed the revelations of the NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden, saying they demonstrated that “the surveillance system has to be reformed”.&quot;Businesses and users are going to use technology only if they can trust it,&quot; said Nadella. &quot;Clearly now it&apos;s the responsibility, I think, of governments – the US government included – to restore that trust. The only mechanisms that I think we have learned is that the respect for the liberties of people and the rule of law is the one way to have societies thrive.&quot;Microsoft&apos;s decision to retain Gates worried some observers. Sydney Finkelstein, a leadership professor at Dartmouth&apos;s Tuck School of Business, said there were huge challenges ahead for Nadella. Finkelstein said making changes within a company as large as Microsoft was difficult for any CEO, and more so when the senior figures being replaced were, as in the case of Gates, still playing a part.“The next CEO needs to instil a level of risk-taking and innovation,” said Finkelstein. He pointed to examples of insiders shaking up big companies after the resignation of a famous CEO – Bob Iger, for example, took over at Disney after Hollywood legend Michael Eisner was forced out amid criticism that the the media firm was losing its way to younger rivals. Iger went on to revitalise Disney, buying Pixar and Marvel.“But that’s much harder to do if the people who used to run it are still breathing over your shoulder,” said Finkelstein.Finkelstein also noted that before Nadella’s appointment, the top job at Microsoft had been linked to a number of leading executives outside the company, including Ford CEO Alan Mulally. “The fact that he is relatively unknown outside Microsoft is interesting, especially in the light of the big names that were associated with the job. It makes you wonder if he was the first choice,” Finkelstein said.James Staten, an analyst with Forrester Research, was more positive. &quot;Satya Nadella is a tough, number-driven leader. [His appointment] will be a great thing for the overall direction of the company,&quot; Staten said.&quot;Nadella is a visionary, is making it happen, and knows what it takes to drive change in the unique Microsoft culture. An outsider would have a hard time accomplishing this coming in fresh. And time is of the essence.&quot;In a statement about his hiring, Nadella called Microsoft “one of those rare companies to have truly revolutionized the world through technology,” and said, “I couldn’t be more honoured to have been chosen to lead the company.&quot;The opportunity ahead for Microsoft is vast, but to seize it, we must focus clearly, move faster and continue to transform. A big part of my job is to accelerate our ability to bring innovative products to our customers more quickly.”Nadella joined the company in 1992 and as well as heading cloud services, he also held leadership roles in server software, internet search and business applications. Born in Hyderabad, he holds a master&apos;s degree in computer science from the University of Wisconsin, and a master&apos;s in business administration from the University of Chicago.Married for 22 years and with three children, he counts cricket and poetry among his hobbies. In an email to Microsoft employees on Tuesday morning, he wrote that he is “defined by my curiosity and thirst for learning.”On the web page constructed for his announcement, Microsoft said:﻿Microsoft’s new CEO finds relaxation by reading poetry, in all forms and by poets who are both Indian and American. “It’s like code,” he says. “You’re trying to take something that can be described in many, many sentences and pages of prose, but you can convert it into a couple lines of poetry and you still get the essence, so it’s that compression.” Indeed, he says, the best codeispoetry.In a video interview, Nadella said he was “honoured, humbled, excited,” by his appointment. “We have tremendous opportunity and that’s exciting. And I’m also grounded on our challenges. In fact that is the adventure and the constraint that also creates, I think, the competitive zeal in me to be able to do great work,” he said.
When it comes to keeping up to date on the latest Microsoft chief executive, Bing has the edge on slow-to-update Google.Having announced India-born Satya Nadella, 46,was taking over as chief executive of Microsoftfrom Steve Ballmer, Bing immediately led with a news story on the change while a search for “Microsoft CEO” left Google stuck serving outdated information.Google's search left out of date by Satyna Nadella's appointment as Microsoft's chief executive.Google’s news search served an updated story on the chief executive switch, of course, but the first visible result was provided by Google’sKnowledge Graph– a built-in a database containing encyclopaedia entries on about 570m concepts, relationships, facts and figures made out of date by the Microsoft move.Google recently gave Knowledge Graph greater prominence in an update that saw the encyclopedia-style facts and figuresinjected directly into its results pagein an effort to speed up information gathering.At the time of writing Wikipedia, on which Google’s Knowledge Graph leans heavily, had been updated listingSteve Ballmer’s retirement on 4 February.It is unknown how long Google’s Knowledge Graph will take to update.Microsoft's Bing search updated with a news story on the chief executive appointment.• In September 2013, Google&apos;s introduced itsbiggest search algorithm change in three years, that made its core search better at answering longer, more complex and spoken queries
Facebook may have heralded a modern communication revolution, but for some it can get all a bit too much. Here&apos;s how to navigate all those complex settings on notifications and privacy to make Facebook work for you. Even if that means deleting your account completely.It is possible to completely delete your Facebook profile – photos, messages, videos and friends – but before you burn your Facebook bridge and leave the world&apos;s largest social network, there are a few tricks worth trying.Turn off notificationsThere are 57 separate notification settings allowing granular control of what constitutes an event worthy of sending you an emailFacebook can be at its most irritating when bombarding you with notifications. By default, almost any action creates a notification and most of those automatically fire off an email to let you know something just happened.It can be overwhelming, but simply changing a few options in the notification settings menu can bring it back under control. There are 57 individual actions you can chose to whether to be emailed about giving you granular control over what constitutes something that is worthy of filling up your inbox.‘Friend cull’If turning down the number of notifications doesn&apos;t fix the issue, one of the most effective ways of stopping Facebook from being arat race competition for approvalis a friend cull.Reducing your bulging “friends” list down to only those people who you genuinely consider to be your friend is a good way to get your Facebook experience back under control.It can feel like a betrayal deleting people, but if you set yourself a steadfast rule – for instance, only remain friends with people you’ve had direct contact with in three months or those that you see in person – then it can be a lot easier.A similar experience can be obtained with lists, but it is a lot more fiddly, categorising your Facebook contacts into lists and excluding some from your posts while whitelisting others.Deactivate your profileDeactivation still allows friends to invite you to events and contact you through FacebookThere are two stages to removing yourself from Facebook. The first – Facebook’s preferred method – is simply a deactivation of your profile rather than a full deletion.Deactivation is a bit of misnomer. Technically your Facebook profile is deactivated, but as the deactivation confirmation page (where Facebook insists you give a reason for leaving) handily notes:“Even after you deactivate, your friends can still invite you to events, tag you in photos or ask you to join groups. If you opt out [of emails from Facebook], you will NOT receive these email invitations and notifications from your friends.”Which is an indelicate way of reminding you that by deactivating your account, you might miss on things.Kill it with fireIf you&apos;ve tried deactivating account and still want to end your Facebook existence once and for all, there are a couple of steps you need to perform first to make sure it is fully deleted.Download all the information Facebook keeps on you, including photos, videos, messages and postsFirst, it is probably advisable to download all the data Facebook keeps on you. From the general account settings menu, a small link will allow you to package up your data and download it as one archive, including all your photos, messages and profile information.The second step is one of the most important if you truly want to delete your account. When you hit the final delete button, Facebook gives you a 14-day grace period to cancel the termination.If you log in to Facebook either on the site or through any connected app, it will automatically cancel the account deletion.Facebook provides a 14-day window when any sort of login, including activation of an app that links to Facebook, will cancel the deletion request and reactivate your accountYou must log out of anything connected with Facebook. That includes any app or service that you’ve connected or logged into through Facebook, including Spotify, Instagram, and the calendar app on your smartphone.The easiest way to do that on the desktop is to clear your browser’s cache and cookies, but you will still have to manually log out of any apps you have installed and connected to your Facebook account, such as the Spotify desktop app for example.Remember to do the same on your smartphone and tablet, otherwise simply opening a Facebook-connected app on your mobile device will trigger account reactivation.The delete account option is hidden in the help menuOnce you have cleared all your apps and are ready to actually go through with it, the next task is to find thedelete account link. It is hidden within Facebook’s help pages under “delete account”.Once there, hit the delete account button for the final time, plug in your password and fill in the security captcha. Once you click the OK button the deed is done. You will have to wait 14 days before all your data is deleted, of course, but you will immediately disappear from the social network so that your friends will not be able to contact you in any way through Facebook.The final step is to plug in your password, enter the Captcha and hit the OK button to commence the 14-day countdown.Rather drastic actionDeleting your Facebook account permanently is a rather drastic action. There are ways to tailor the social network to your needs, as we&apos;ve already explained; withdrawing fully from Facebook unfortunately means missing out on a chunk of modern, social media-connected life.Event invites, birthday reminders, instant messaging and chat, as well as photo and video sharing are not easily replaced by one service. The ambient maintenance of friendship, especially for those separated by distance, is not something to be overlooked either, as Facebook has replaced things like the annual Christmas and birthday card.Various other services offer similar tools to Facebook, but the social network&apos;s biggest strength is the sheer number of users it has - 1.23 billion at last count. When one single place is frequented by your mum, your best friend, your work colleagues and your favourite personalities, it is very hard to replace.• Why ditching Facebookfeels like opting out of modern life
Social gaming. The mere utterance of that phrase is enough to send a shiver down the spines of &quot;hardcore&quot; console players. For many, what Facebook brings to mind as a games platform is a plague of aimless farming sims, designed to draw hapless web users into endless Skinner boxes. And up there, looming over it all is Zynga, social gaming&apos;s Ming the Merciless.But is it really like that? Has the first 10 years of Facebook gaming brought us nothing but the ability to share cows with our friends? No, of course that&apos;s not true. Not entirely. Here are the 10 things Facebook gaming has done for us.The idea of appointment gamingTraditional video games are all about immersion – they&apos;re about long sessions of dedicated playing, which makes them unsuitable for time-poor players. Facebook, however, popularised a form of game design in which participants can keep nipping back in throughout the day, perhaps to check on the progress of a new ride construction in Rollercoaster Tycoon or to stop crops from spoiling in Farmville. This structure not only allowed people to use games as a quick diversion amid other tasks, it also cleverly turned the games themselves into &quot;to do&quot; lists, so they resembled work, and therefore provided similar levels of satisfaction. But in a fun way.The rise of free-to-playOf course, the ability to play a game for nothing and then pay money for extra content or in-game items has been around for many years, but it was turned into something of an artform by Facebook publishers like Zynga. The key games thrived on two important game mechanics: the concept of &quot;energy&quot; which limited play time and required players to pay real money to get past barriers; and the prevalence of virtual currencies, such as gems or gold coins, which deviously introduces ambiguity into cash purchases. But while F2P is all too easily written off as intrinsically evil, it has massively expanded the gaming audience by lowering that pay-upfront barrier that traditional boxed games erect. &quot;Free-to-play changed the whole mindset of design,&quot; says Mark Robinson, chief operating officer of data technology firm,DeltaDNA. &quot;Developers went from releasing boxed products to creating and managing a service, and suddenly there was an opportunity to develop very strong relationships with their customers.&quot; Now both the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One are experimenting with free-to-play mechanics, no doubt hoping to learn from the rather exploitative practices of old.The death of challengeThe standard criticism core gamers throw at titles like Farmville is that they&apos;re not really games; they are virtual cyclical activities with no genuine sense of competition. And yet at its peak, Farmville attracted 85 million people who didn&apos;t seem to care. &quot;Games don&apos;t have to punish players,&quot; says Oscar Clark, a gaming evangelist atEveryPlay. &quot;A lot of the games we grew up with were about how devious the designers could be and how much they could punish failure. But Facebook players don&apos;t put up with that bullshit.&quot; Mark Robinson concurs: &quot;Facebook allowed us to collect data on players and then optimise and personalise the experience – if you&apos;re not that confident a player, you get the easier version of the game so you don&apos;t feel like you&apos;re banging your head against a brick wall.&quot; Robinson refers to good social game design as the Goldilocks approach: make it not too easy but never too hard. This approach has now spread to console games, with most titles now providing &apos;easy&apos; modes for complete novices, as well as lots of in-game hints and tutorials.Frontloading the funIn traditional video games, playerspay up front for the experience so they&apos;re already investedand designers can afford to build slowly toward the most exciting enemies and best set-piece battles. Alongside free-to-play mobile titles, Facebook games have had to develop a new approach to design in which players are immediately engaged – as there&apos;s no cost, the &quot;churn rate&quot; is huge. &quot;The first 60 seconds has got to be incredibly engaging,&quot; says Robinson. &quot;The players haven&apos;t committed any money but you need them to commit time - you need to build your retention rates. In the game environment you need to be able to quickly calculate how competent a player is and adjust the environment accordingly.&quot;Asynchronous multiplayer gamingAgain, Facebook developers didn&apos;t invent the concept of turn-based head-to-head games, but they made the most of a platform that allowed friends to play against each other over the course of hours or days – without ever having to be online at the same time. The key early example was Scrabulous, the Scrabble-like word game that drew in five million users a month through 2007; this has been superceded by Words With Friends by NewToy,Inc, a studio later bought by Zynga. Asynchronous multiplayer is important in our connected era, because it acknowledges that we love to play with other people, but we&apos;re not always available at the same time – and it makes a feature out of that. Console games have now adopted and adapted the model, so you get titles like Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit which tells you the best lap times of your friends so you can compete against them even when they&apos;re not around.The compulsion loop is everythingGames have always had feedback loops – repetitive actions that reward the player. You achieve something, you get access to new content, the new content requires you to achieve something, and so on. But social games have turned this into an absolute science. The most successful titles – the ones that monetise the most players – are usually entirely open-ended, supplying the player with a constantly evolving set of activities that are never really completed. So Farmville is essentially a series of interlocking systems based around planting crops, harvesting them and getting in-game cash to spend on new items – which can then be fed back into the agricultural process. &quot;Facebook games have allowed us to understand that there are these processes going on in our brains,&quot; says Clark. &quot;There are rewards that we get from repetitive actions, and designers can utilise these to make a more satisfying experience. Of course this can be abused, but the inherent idea isn&apos;t bad, it just means we have to realise that in order to make better games we have to understand human behaviour.&quot;Mass gaming&apos;s first majority female audienceTraditional console gaming is dominated by the young male demographic and this was always the target audience of the major publishers. But Facebook changed that. Titles like Farmville, Bejeweled and Cafe World, quickly drew in a vast user-base of female gamers, and even more elusively, older female gamers.A survey commissioned by game developer Popcap in 2010found that the average social gamer was a 43-year-old woman; three years earlier, major Facebook publisher Wooga found that 70 percent of its audience was female. &quot;I did some research back in 2002 on how to attract female gamers,&quot; says Oscar Clark, who has also written a book – Games As A Service: How Free To Play Design Can Make Better Games – on the science of social gaming. &quot;We asked women why they didn&apos;t play. A lot said that they needed to give themselves permission to play and they needed a social context. Facebook games provided both of those – you can play for a minute here and a minute there, so it&apos;s easier to give yourself permission, and the social element makes it easier as well. But it wasn&apos;t just women, Facebook opened up games to a whole range of demographics who wanted usually have played games.&quot;Caring and sharingFacebook games have always relied on virality. In 2007 it was all about Blake Commagere and AJ Olson&apos;s vampire, zombie and werewolf biting games, which required players to recruit Facebook friends into their monster covens. Then, agricultural sims like Farm Town and Farmville started rewarding players for helping others and sharing items. Brilliantly, it meant that the marketing was built into the game mechanic, spreading the brand through social circles. Facebook started cracking down on viral content in 2010, reducing the amount that developers could &apos;spam&apos; the Facebook walls of its players, but the concept of being able to share in-game achievements with friends has spread out to every sector of gaming.No wait, iteration is everythingIn the past, the games industry was built around a simple business model: fire and forget. Developers made a game, released it then moved on to something else. The arrival of digital distribution changed that, allowing publishers to release add-on packs for current console games, but Facebook developers took it a step further. Here, the standard model quickly became, release a game, study how people play it (where they get stuck, what items they like, where they &apos;convert&apos; to paying customers) and then tweak the structure accordingly. At its height, Zynga had a huge data analysis division dedicated to studying player behaviours and changing the flow of its games accordingly. While he was head of the developer&apos;s analysis team, Ken Rudin famously declared, &quot;We’re an analytics company masquerading as a games company.&quot; The whole games industry now uses player analysis and iteration to alter games post-release. And now Rubin is head of analytics at Facebook, which is effectively an analytics company masquerading as a social network.The social network as lobby systemIncreasingly, developers are moving their games off Facebook as user habits change. &quot;The closing of the viral channels was essentially the end of the gold rush,&quot; says game designer Will Luton. &quot;Since then, Facebook gaming has been on the decline as everyone shifts focus to smartphones. Facebook is now more of a facilitator of social connections for mobile games than a platform in itself.&quot; What we&apos;re now seeing is mobile, console and PC games using Facebook as a convenient way to add social connectivity into their titles. Players don&apos;t have to join a dedicated social system for every title they play, they can just sign into Facebook and have access to all their friends. This is why PlayStation 4 now gives owners the opportunity to log-in via a Facebook account – it immediately perosnalises and broadens the possibilities of multiplayer gaming. People might not be going on to Facebook to play games as much anymore – instead, Facebook is going on to their games.In many ways, then, Facebook opened up some of the mechanics of games to a whole new audience, and in doing so, sent shock waves through the whole industry. Its conventions of accessibility and compulsion have infuriated many critics. As veteran game designer Martin Hollis says, &quot;Dual currency systems, relentlessly pestering dialogs nagging you to post the game to your friends, and the premeditated wearing down of players by the three-step process: giving them a little quick progress, showing them a lighthouse or mountain top to yearn for, and then delivering the absolute choice between glacial free progress or fast progress by inserting real money. At the darkest end there is a roster of abusive and manipulative techniques not unlike those used by pick up artists and casinos.&quot;But then Facebook also democratised gaming in ways that were truly valuable. &quot;The legacy of Facebook in games is an important one,&quot; says Luton. &quot;It was the first platform that snuck in to almost everyone&apos;s lives and delivered games for free, right there. Before that you had to make some conscious decision to buy hardware and a game to play.&quot;Before Facebook you had to say, &apos;I&apos;m a gamer, I play games, I buy games&apos; and because of that the games industry was in fan service to its loyal, albeit small, market who demanded skill challenges and traditionally masculine pursuits like football, cars and guns. I was at SEGA as a junior just before Facebook gaming happened and pitched this idea about running a farm. I was told &quot;don&apos;t be stupid, people don&apos;t want to farm, they want to feel cool&quot;. Then FarmVille happened and everyone was totally perplexed – the most successful game in the world wasn&apos;t a big graphical extravaganza in space, but a game where you waited for crops to grow. And your mum was playing it.&quot;• This article was amended on 14 March 2014 because the original referred to the data technology firm GamesAnalytics. This company is now called DeltaDNA.
The government has launched the “Year of Code” with a £500,000 fund to train teachers in software coding.The scheme aims to equip schools with the skills needed to teach a new computing curriculum that will be introduced this September, which was drawn up with input from the British Computer Society (BCS), the Royal Academy of Engineering, and technology companies including Google and Microsoft.“I want IT firms, university computing departments and software developers to use this fund to share their knowledge with the next generation,” said education secretary Michael Gove.Money from the £500,000 fund will be offered to businesses, hoping to attract industry experts who are willing to match the funding and train teachers to help them to teach children in primary and secondary education how to code.The government has launched the Year of Code campaign to kickstart a new computing curriculum and teach children how computers work and how to code.The 2014Year of Codeaims to get schools teaching every pupil at least one hour of coding during a week-long programme in March, as well as a series of campaign events to inspire the next generation of tech entrepreneurs.&quot;The UK has a proud computing history but with more and more industries wanting computer scientists, coding has never been in more demand,” said Mike Warriner, engineering director at Google UK.The incoming computing curriculum will replace the old ICT programme of study, which focused on teaching computer literacy rather than understanding how a computer works and how to code.“I am confident that through this combination of funding, materials and activities, teachers will be hitting the ground running come September,” said Michel Van der Bel, Microsoft’s UK vice president.The new fund and campaign joins previous investment that saw the BCS given more than £2m to set up a network of 400 “Master Teachers” to train classroom teachers, as well as £1.1m given to theComputing at School Working Groupto help train primary teachers.• In January,Google announced a partnership with the Raspberry Pi Foundationto see 15,000 of the credit card-sized computers given to UK school children
Take Two interactive has revealed just how successful Grand Theft Auto V was last year. In a conference call accompanying the publisher&apos;sthird-quarter earnings, it was announced that the gangland adventure sold an incredible 32.5m copies between its launch in September and 31 December. Downloadable content for the game, which will take the form of extra story missions, was also confirmed on Monday evening, although CEO Strauss Zelnickwould not confirm when the first pack would be available.It has been a good year for the veteran games firm. Take Two had several other successful titles on release in the run up to Christmas including basketball sim NBA 2K14 and wrestling title WWE 2k14. However, the latest GTA instalment is the key reason why the firm announced a net revenue increase to $1.86 bn, compared to $415.8m for fiscal third quarter 2013. Net income from continuing operations was reported at $578.4m, up from $70.9m in the previous year.There was good news, too, for Grand Theft Auto&apos;s online multiplayer mode, GTA Online. Although the service suffereda number of technical hitchesduring its launch window, Take Two said during the investor call that 70 percent of GTA owners had tried the mode, and that microtransactions made within the online game accounted for nearly half of the company&apos;s $132.8 m digital revenues. However,according to Bloomberg, analyst Michael Olson commented that GTA Online was not, &quot;monetizing at as high a rate as some expected.&quot; Indeed, investors on the company&apos;s conference call asked about plans for catching up on earnings lost during the online mode&apos;s tricky opening month.The challenge for Take Two will be getting anywhere near that figure in 2014. The company has a new shooter, Evolve, out in autumn, which is already interesting the specialist games press, as well as annual updates to its NBA and WWE brands. What we don&apos;t know is if its subsidiary label, Rockstar Games, has anything planned. There arerumours of a sequel to western adventure, Red Dead Redemptionand GTA studio Rockstar North has its overdue seventies conspiracy thriller, Agent, bubbling under. No mention of either was made during the investor call.Grand Theft Auto 5 is now one of the best selling video games of all time, ranking alongside hugely successful titles like Mario Kart Wii and Super Mario Bros. A PC conversion of the game isexpected early this year, and speculation persists that an enhanced version for PS4 and Xbox One could follow.• GTA 5 review: a dazzling but monstrous parody of modern life• Grand Theft Auto only gives the illusion of freedom. It&apos;s someone else&apos;s rules
Ten years ago this week, Mark Zuckerburg changed the way we socialise by connecting us with hundreds of &apos;friends&apos; and giving us a constant stream of information.A report by Princeton researchers likened Facebook to an infectious disease and suggested thatwe are slowly becoming immune to it&apos;s attractions. They noted a 25% drop in the number of younger users, but an 80% surge in users with an age of 55 and above.People use Facebook to share the birth of their first child and give daily updates of their child&apos;s every move. Weddings, confessions, thanks, praise and just about everything is posted on the site. But people have also posted updates that have cost them their job, relationships and friendships.Tell us how Facebook has changed your life. Do you feel more connected or more lonely? Do you have closer or more distant friendships? What&apos;s the strangest thing that&apos;s ever happened to you on Facebook? Have you posted something you now regret?Share your comments in the thread and we&apos;ll post a selection here.Here are a selection of your comments so far:busydoingnothing04 February 2014 10:44amThis comment has been chosen by Guardian staff because it contributes to the debateFacebook connected me with my wife. We had been friends in our teens, living on the same housing development, but we lost touch as our families moved away and us with them. I'd not even intended to even get involved on Facebook but shortly after setting up my account, I'd found long lost friends and even made new acquaintances.I am very happily married and without Facebook that would not now be the case, I'm sureChas Brickland04 February 2014 10:46amThis comment has been chosen by Guardian staff because it contributes to the debateThe thing I love most about Facebook is that it has given me the opportunity to get to know people in a way that I would never have done without it and keep in contact with people I should have made more effort to see.Like my Aunties and cousins or the people I went to school with who were likely the most influential and important part of my formative years, who through Facebook I get to speak to, catch up with, see them build homes and families and live their lives, again in a way I never would have without it - and without having to wait 40 years to run into them in Tesco!Or the people I studied with and worked with over the last 10 years, the people that keep me intellectually and otherwise stimulated, who inspire my future and march (or stagger) onward towards it with me.My point being - Facebook has become a ubiquitous part of mine and many others' lives. I for one am extremely grateful for this.sjpenwarden04 February 2014 12:01pmFacebook is like a pub.Go to one that is not suited to you and/or with people that you don't likem, then you will not enjoy the experience. Go to a pub with people who share your values and enrich your life to some level or another and you'll enjoy your night. With good copmpany you can even enjoy pubs that you might not expect to on occasion.People who moan as to the content of their facebook confuse me. The content is created by your friends, these are people you have chosen to associate with. Of course we don't all share the same views all the time and nor would that be an ideal, but in the most part facebook is improved by getting better friends/associates and/or hiding those that a delete may be problematic with. Then your facebook will be shaped to be like the pub you want to visit with your friends you do.MartianR04 February 2014 12:51pmI only joined it for a while. Before I joined it, I was just me. Then when I joined it, I became curator in the museum of me. After a while I decided I didn't want to be a museum curator, so left. Now I'm me again, and I don't pray at the glowing rectangular altar quite as much now.BennyMc04 February 2014 1:06pmThis comment has been chosen by Guardian staff because it contributes to the debateWithout Facebook, I wouldn't have met my wife.When I joined Facebook I was an exchange student in Canada. I had been a part of a number of social networks before (MySpace, Hi5, OkCupid, Profilenation, and many more I've long forgotten!), but I remember being struck by the simplicity of Facebook and at that time, the exclusivity.By the time it opened up to the world, I was already an active user and had become involved with some of the 'Groups' on the site that had started to go global. One such group was for Manchester United fans, it was just a place to discuss the soap opera that is football at first, but quickly developed in to more of a community as these things do. I was asked to be an administrator for the group and the rise in popularity of our little corner of Facebook seemed to mirror the growth of the site itself. We went from less than 10,000 members when I joined to 300,000 within a year and what started out as a hobby had developed into something of an obsession.The community continued to grow, we began to call ourselves the MUG (Manchester United Group) and to refer to ourselves affectionately as MUGers. Far from being just a Man Utd fan site, we were able to discuss politics and religion, music and drugs, anything and everything (as long as there was mutual respect, of course). Our &quot;late night MUG&quot; and match day posts were something to behold and contain some very fond memories.We peaked in around 2007-08 (arguably, as Man Utd did) and it was around January 2008 that I 'met' the woman who was to become my wife. I'd seen her post a few tidbits in the discussion threads before and she'd become more active in the late night chats, but I felt compelled to send her a message to get to know her better. It wasn't long before we were smitten, despite having never met in person, in some ways, looking back on it, it feels reminiscent of the old fashioned courtship your grandparents used to tell you about, only through the medium of Facebook, rather than letter writing.By June she was on a plane to the UK to meet up with me and we've only been apart for 2 nights since then. We married in June last year, 5 years to the day since we first met in person.How has Facebook changed my life? Well it's given me access to kindred spirits from all over the world, friendships that I treasure and consider every bit as real as the friendships I've had with people I've known all my life. But most importantly, it's allowed me to meet the woman of my dreams and for all its ills, I can always think about that and smile.
What does the future look like? According to Facebook, exactly 10 years after the social network was created, the future is called Paper. But it's not quite as nostalgic as it sounds. This is the future where we write, film and share our stories via our mobile phones. A sleek cut-down version of the Facebook site, Paper replaces buttons with touchscreen swipes, and uses full-screen to play video on the handheld devices, where the future of the internet will be fought.But Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's 29-year-old founder, also wants to hire human editors to promote the most interesting content, harking back to newspapers themselves. In this case, the retro nomenclature represents something more: a desire to find new ways to make Facebook more relevant to the human desire for communication, by enlisting people themselves.It is a sign that Facebook is looking to secure its place in the firmament by branching out into new forms of communication. By the end of 2013, Facebook was being used by 1.23 billion users worldwide, adding 170 million in just one year.Yet the scale of the ambition is a far cry from when Zuckerberg was an ambitious and competitive freshman at Harvard. Immortalised in The Social Network, Zuckerberg launched the site from his dorm room on 4 February 2004 – a technological replacement for a college directory and messages left on student doors.It was a hit almost immediately, although in today's terms the early progress sounds modest. In 2006, Facebook already had 12 million users across US colleges, 60% of whom logged in every day. But by then it was already valued at $100m (£61m).Meanwhile, Zuckerberg himself may come to be known as the most underestimated man of his generation, steering Facebook from an idea to link students to the default communication platform for the online western world.The site is now worth $135bn with revenues of $7.87bn in 2013, including $1.5bn in profit. Globally, 556&nbsp;million people now access the site every day on their smartphone or tablet and at the end of 2013, for the first time, Facebook made more than $1bn in revenue from mobile advertising in just one quarter.Part of Facebook's success has been timing, says Dr Bernie Hogan, research fellow at the Oxford internet institute, because the world was ready for a shared list of connections that works like a supercharged, definitive phone book for the digital age. "Before Facebook, we had to cover up our identities online and there was uncertainty over who to trust. Facebook gave us the notion that it was safe, and useful."Facebook's neutrality is partly why younger users are attracted to new and more edgy platforms such as the messaging app Snapchat, says Hogan, though they will a retain a presence on Facebook to show a safe, public face.From its earliest days, Facebook has navigated – even pioneered – the territory around privacy, and how we express our personal identities online. This has been a precarious journey, and in September 2006 – before the site was open beyond the US college network – it was dealing with concern over the introduction of the newsfeed and over-sharing users' personal information.In most cases, Facebook has adapted in response to feedback. Even the most controversial features it has eventually killed off – such as Beacon, which published users' purchases and related advertiser information in feeds – have still informed the site's development.But as Facebook advanced it also helped create a world in which people live with dual identities –online and in real life. "People have really gotten comfortable not only sharing more information and different kinds, but more openly and with more people," said Zuckerberg in 2010 during an intense few months as controversy raged over the complexity of Facebook's privacy settings. "That social norm is just something that has evolved over time."Mark Zuckerberg, right, and one of the other co-founders of Facebook, Dustin Moskovitz, at Harvard University in 2004. Photograph: Getty Images/Boston GlobeBut Zuckerberg's own attitude to real identities has shifted. Facebook's currency of real-world identities, both for users and advertisers, has been replaced with a recognition that for some exchanges – like those of rival messaging app Snapchat – anonymity and a different, less committed style of engagement are attractive."I don't know if the balance has swung too far, but I definitely think we're at the point where we don't need to keep on only doing real identity things," he told BusinessWeek recently. "If you're always under the pressure of real identity, I think that is somewhat of a burden."Facebook has been aggressively exploring mobile since its IPO, when investors expressed concern that its strategy was too focused on desktop. Its repositioning as a mobile-first business has been nothing short of remarkable; Zuckerberg himself even removed his desktop screen from his desk and viewed the site purely on his smartphone. Becoming a mobile company was Facebook's most urgent priority, he told staff. In April 2012 he stunned the tech industry by paying $1bn for Instagram, a photo-sharing app with 100 million users."Facebook is a bad investment," squealed a Forbes headline from 2012, cautioning that this looked like a defensive move to buy a mobile-ready rival. "Facebook will have to fend off more and more young companies gnawing at its core. The odds are that Zuckerberg will one day face an opponent that can't be bought."Criticised for being overvalued at the time of its 2012 flotation, Facebook got off to an uncertain start as a publicly traded company, but has since found its feet: floated at $38 a share, the stock now changes hands at $61.76.Christopher Poole, founder of irreverent cult bulletin board 4chan, is critical of Facebook's concept of being a mirror to human identity. "Relationships are not reducable to the things we do," Hogan says. "Relationships are built on time spent together. On Facebook, you aren't saying: 'This is special because you did it with me.' You're saying: 'This is special because I did it.'"It's very healthy that we don't take Facebook too seriously, that we don't conflate selective moments with real, lived experience. We need to distinguish our exhibited selves from our real selves."However, the Edward Snowden files, which revealed the extent of US and UK government surveillance of web users, brought with them a crisis of confidence. Many web businesses, like Facebook, have battled to convince users to trust them with their data, offering powerful, useful services for free in return for selling targeted ads.Zuckerberg was one of those to speak out unambiguously after the first revelations. "The government response was: 'Oh don't worry, we're not spying on any Americans.' Oh, wonderful: that's really helpful to companies trying to serve people around the world, and that's really going to inspire confidence in American internet companies. I thought that was really bad," he said.Advertisers, however, do not appear to have been put off. Facebook accounted for 5.7% of all global digital advertising revenues in 2013, and 18.4% of mobile ad spend, according to eMarketer.Venture capitalist Saul Klein, who worked with Facebook when with Skype, feels Zuckerberg has been hugely underestimated. "What Facebook is doing with a site used by 1 billion people a day is an order of magnitude greater than anything – it's a remarkable feat of engineering," he said, pointing to the fact that London is still the only English-speaking city in Facebook's top 10. "It's not just about the US anymore – tech is now a global phenomenon. I'm not sure even Facebook quite understands that – they are the canary in that coalmine."Meanwhile, while many computer scientists have built successful companies, not least his idol Bill Gates, Facebook has arguably not just given engineers power but structured its very businesses processes in "the hacker way". An oft-repeated slogan on Facebook's office reads "move fast and break things", a strategy that means working in a continual state of developmentIts founder's self belief has been noticeable from the start. "Zuckerberg always felt Facebook could be much bigger than anyone could see," said Klein. That belief also inspired a remarkable confidence to say no. Aged 22, Zuckerberg turned down a $1bn acquisition offer from Yahoo."There is no CEO in the world that could walk in and do that job. There is no preparation for it – it is completely unprecedented. He has lots of self confidence, lacks ego and is very mature."And as for the next 10 years? In 2024, Zuckerberg will not even be 40.Likes and spikesJanuary 2004Mark Zuckerberg starts work on thefacebook.comFebruary 2004Site launched by Zuckerberg in his Harvard dorm room with co-founders Dustin Moskovitz, Chris Hughes, Andrew McCollum and Eduardo Saverin. They email 300 fellow students and the site takes offFebruary 2004Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss and Divya Narendra accuse Zuckerberg of stealing their HarvardConnection idea of a social network, but eventually settle in 2011June 2004Facebook expands to Stanford, Columbia and YaleOctober 2005Napster founder Sean Parker invests in&nbsp;Facebook and encourages Zuckerberg to change the web address to facebook.comSeptember 2006Membership opened to allFebruary 2009Like button introducedAugust 2010Places feature allows users to plot their locationApril 2012Facebook buys Instagram for $1bnMay 2012Facebook's initial public offering on the NasdaqOctober 2013Facebook reaches 1 billion usersFebruary 2014Facebook's 10th birthday – and milestone of 1.23 billion users•Facebook's mobile journey has only just begun, but already makes money
In the last 10 years, Facebookhas changed the way we interact with one another online.But everything has to start somewhere. We&apos;d like to see what you posted when you first joined the site. Perhaps your status wondered what all the fuss was about or maybe you were keen to post your first set of embarrassing pictures from a university night out. Whatever your first post was, we&apos;d like to see them.You can share the screenshots of your first Facebook post by clicking on one of the blue &apos;Contribute&apos; buttons. Don&apos;t forget to let us know the story behind your first post using the description box. We will feature the most interesting posts on the Guardian site.GuardianWitnessis the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.
An Apple iWatch has been rumoured for the best part of three years, but Apple’s recent activity points to the release of a smartwatch sooner rather than later.There are many things we&apos;d like to see in an Apple iWatch, hopefully a smart wrist-borne device that finally justifies the existence of smartwatches as a piece of useful wearable technology.One of the most important items on our wish list for a smartwatch is the ability to offer something that a smartphone cannot. Given smartphones are already capable of combining voice control, predictive assistants and cameras capable of taking stunning photos, one of the areas where smartwatches could really add value is in the health arena.A smartwatch packed with sensors designed to provide body monitoring information could enable many fascinating new data-driven applications, from fitness tracking to mood-linked musiccommanded by your heartbeat.‘Yes. Absolutely. No Change’Apple’s smartwatch has been rumoured to be under development for years, and it is highly likely Apple has been at least investigating the possibility of a wearable device like a smartwatch for at least that long. The iPad, for instance, was developed to the prototype stage well before the original iPhone was released in 2007, but only made its appearance in 2010.In July last year, Appleapplied for an “iWatch” trademark in Japan and Russia, but not in Europe where the trademark is held by an Italian company.Apple's Tim Cook has promised new "product categories" for over a year, and confirmed new things were still on track in January. Photograph: Chip Somodevilla/Getty ImagesStoking rumours, Apple’s chief executive Tim Cook recently confirmed that promised future “product categories” were still on track saying, “Yes. Absolutely. No Change” when askedduring an earnings call last month.“We’re working on things you can’t see today. We have zero issue coming up with things that we want to do that we think we can disrupt in a major way,” Cook said. “The challenge is always to focus to the very few that deserve all of our energy.”Probing the waters of the regulatory landscapeA wearable device to capture the potential of health and fitness apps would suit the smartwatch form factor.Interestingly, in December 2013 Applereportedly metwith the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the regulatory body charged with overseeing food safety, sales of medication and the approval of medical devices in the US.At the meeting were a team of senior Apple executives, including senior vice president of operations Jeff Williams, vice president of software technology, Bud Tribble, and vice president of worldwide government affairs, Cathy Novelli. Michael O&apos;Reilly, previously the chief medical officer of a medical sensor company called Masimo who joined Apple last year, and Tim Powderly from Apple’s government affairs department also attended the meeting.Sitting on the other side of the table were senior policy and regulatory FDA officers including Jeff Shuren, director of the Centre for Devices and Radiological Health, and Bakul Patel, a senior policy advisor who drafted the FDA’s mobile medical app guidance and plays a role in medical gadget approval.The seniority of the meeting indicates that either Apple is probing the waters of the regulatory landscape regarding medical devices and apps, or is specifically trying to push through something stuck in regulatory approval.‘The whole sensor field is going to explode’It is clear that Apple is looking at medical applications for its apps and hardware at the very least. Apple’s integration of the M7 co-processor into the iPhone 5S shows that the company has experience building technology for low-power sensor usage, something that would be crucial to a sensor-packed smartwatch.The iPhone 5S came equipped with a low-power motion co-processor called the M7, which collects information from the smartphone's various sensors without powering up the main processor. Photograph: Marcio Jose Sanchez/APThe M7 chip is able to collect data from the smartphone’s various built-in sensors, including the GPS and accelerometer without relying on a power-hungry main processor.“The whole sensor field is going to explode,” Tim Cooksaid in interview in 2013. “It’s a little all over the place right now. With the arc of time, it will become clearer.”A ‘Healthbook’ appHealth and fitness trackingcould be integrated into Apple&apos;s next mobile software update, claimed Apple news site 9to5Mac. Describing an app called &quot;Healthbook&quot;, the source said it could collect and store data on fitness activities, including steps taken, calories burned, and distance walked.The Healthbook app is also said to target medical and health data, tracking a person’s heart rate and blood pressure, as well as other blood-related statistics like glucose levels.Those features are unlikely to be built into a smartphone - which leaves the door open for integration with a sensor-packed device worn on the body, of which a smartwatch is a logical choice. iWatch could provide the sensor data required for the health-tracking elements of Healthbook.Apple holds patents for sensory information collection, includingblood-pressure monitoring, but it is unclear whether that technology is mature enough to build into a smartwatch device.Simply becomes a second screen for the smartphoneOne of the areas smartwatch efforts have failed from the likes of Samsung, Sony and Pebble is in the area of autonomy. Most smartwatches available to date have relied on a persistent Bluetooth connection to a smartphone or tablet, something Apple’s iWatch is expected to be hampered with.Equipped with an e-ink screen, the Pebble smartwatch was one of the first smartphone-connected smartwatches available.The watch itself simply becomes a second screen for the smartphone, displaying notifications and allowing very limited interaction, such as music controls. Costing upwards of £100 - with some costing as much as a smartphone - smartwatches have lacked a “killer feature” to convince consumers to strap the often bulky accessories to their wrists.The advantage Apple has over other smartwatch manufacturers is that it controls the entirety of both the software on the iPhone and iPad as well as any iWatch, which could mean better integration and interactivity between the two devices than could be achieved by third-party manufacturers.Samsung is in a similar position with the Galaxy Gear, although it does not write the Android software used on its smartphones and tablets but merely customises it with its notorious “TouchWiz” interface.Tied to iOS 8Apple could leverage Siri on the wrist for voice control and personal assistant duties, while relying on the swiping gestures common to Apple’s iPhone and iPad to navigate full screen apps.Apple has already had some experience with this style of small-screen touch interface. First introduced in September 2010, Apple produced an iPod nano with an integrated a touchscreen allowing touch control of music playback. At the time wrist strap accessories were sold that turned the clip-like nano into a watch using the iPod&apos;s integrated clock face feature.It is likely that any iWatch announcements, if made this year, would be tied to the unveiling of the next iteration of Apple’s iPhone and iPad software, iOS 8, which is anticipated to be announced in June and released in September.• In January, Apple admitted that thedemand for its iPhone 5C was lower than expected
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSuper Bowl ad results: 2014 &gt;&gt; Building Strong BrandsMicrosoft finished at the top of the Kellogg Super Bowl Advertising Review with an ad that celebrated the power of technology. The ad was emotional; it showed a former NFL player, now battling with ALS [Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, aka motor neurone disease] who communicated with Microsoft software.The ad was particularly notable because it differentiated Microsoft from Apple in a meaningful way. It suggested that while Apple is a cute brand that is good for music and design, Microsoft technology is serious and important.Leading notebook PC brands reducing 2014 shipment targets &gt;&gt; DisplaySearch"The declines in notebook PC shipments will have many effects on the notebook PC value chain in the coming year," said Jeff Lin, value chain analyst for NPD DisplaySearch. "We expect panel makers to shift Gen 5 and 6 capacity from TFT LCD for notebook panels to oxide, LTPS, and other technologies. OEM and ODM businesses will face new challenges in the allocation of product development resources for Windows OS and Android OS. Also, as Samsung reduces notebook PC shipments, HP, Lenovo, and Asus will fill the gap in the European market."Quite dramatic cuts: top nine doing 168m in 2012, est 148m in 2013, forecast 134m in 2014. And touchscreens not expected to hit the 15% previously forecast.How in-app purchase is not really destroying the games industry &gt;&gt; Sealed AbstractDrew Crawford reckons that what's happening is just rationality in the face of gigantic choice that has never existed before:Getting people to play your game in a market of 150,000 alternatives requires a different kind of marketing. For example, if the user can choose to pay $0.99 for your app, or pay zero for another app that's probably just as fun, they'll pick the free one. The result follows:90% of apps are free in 2013 when weighted by monthly average users. And when you look only at those apps that use an experiment/test/data-driven approach for their pricing, you see a strong upward trend in more free apps. So the pricing experiments that these developers are running (you know, actual flipping research, not just speculating baselessly in an HN comment) are telling them it's better to go free.Evan Spiegel of Snapchat, 2014 AXS Partner Summit Keynote &gt;&gt; ScribdSpiegel explains:The selfie makes sense as the fundamental unit of communication on Snapchat because it marks the transition between digital media as self-expression and digital media as communication.  And this brings us to the importance of ephemerality at the core of conversation. Snapchat discards content to focus on the feeling that content brings to you, not the way that content looks.Fascinating speech; when did we ever think that empemerality was important before?Chart: Windows 8 performance remains weak &gt;&gt; StatistaIn December 2013, the combined market share of Windows 8 and 8.1 reached the 10% mark, 15 months after the operating system was released. In comparison, Windows 7 reached the same level after a mere six months. According to data from Net Applications, an acceleration of Windows 8's market share is not on the cards for early 2014. In January, it increased by just 0.09 percentage points.No, Google is not going 'horizontal' by selling Motorola &gt;&gt; VisionMobileMichael Vakulenko with possibly the only post you ever need to read to understand Google's strategy:Smartphones, tablets and PC are mere complements to Google's core business. Cheaper and more capable smartphones, tablets and PC mean better business for Google. It's no different from car makers that will have their business boosted by cheaper fuel available at gas stations on every corner.The Android ecosystem was purposefully designed to drive commoditisation of smartphones and tablets by reducing barriers to entry for low-cost OEM and ensuring "race to the bottom" in a horizontal value-chain configuration. (Chrome OS does the same for the PC.)To sum up, Google is vertically integrated around its core business and at the same time drives shifts to horizontal configuration of the value chain around the complements.Thailand's One Tablet Per Child faces another dead end &gt;&gt; Tech In AsiaAccording toThai Post, Shenzhen Yitoa Intelligent Control Co Ltd, which won a bid to become the tablet manufacturer for the schools in the Central, South, North, and Northeastern zones, hasshut downits business in Thailand after refusing to pay a penalty fee of 2.2m Baht ($67,000) per day due to the company's inability to deliver the tablets on time. The company sent its representative to cancel the contract with the Thai government.Breaking Madden: The Super Bowl, in which the machine bleeds to death &gt;&gt; SBNation.comYou may have heard that the Americans had a big game of sort-of rugby league last weekend. Jon Bois set out to make the videogame version so one-sided that he set a new record by scoring 1,000 points for the winning side:Over the course of the season, I've discovered lots of different ways to hack Madden NFL 25 into a thing that no longer resembles football as we know it. I've played around with rules, injury settings, all manner of player ratings, player dimensions, and anything else the game's developers have made available to us.This time is special, though, because I'm pulling out every single one of the stops at the same time. No other scenario I've built in Madden has been so abjectly cruel or unfair; no other scenario has even been close.You will never, ever, guess how it turns out. You just have to read it.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Samsung Electronics seems to be preparing to unveil a new version of its flagship Galaxy S smartphone this month, but expectations are low that features such as a bigger screen will lead to a sharp jump in sales given intensifying competition.Samsung sent out invitations on Tuesday for &quot;Samsung unPacked 5&quot; event on 24 February at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. The launch has been brought forward by around three weeks after sales of Samsung&apos;s S4 came in weaker than expected, analysts said.The world&apos;s biggest smartphone maker is bracing for its weakest mobile annual profit growth in seven years amid fierce competition from Apple and Chinese vendors, and as growth for high-end smartphones eases due to near saturation in many markets.The S5 is widelyexpected to feature a bigger screen, at 5.25in, than its predecessor S4 last year, and come in two versions - one with metal and one with plastic casing. It is also rumoured to sport an improved rear camera with 16 megapixels compared to the 13MP of the S4, and biometric functions such as iris recognition or a fingerprint scanner. It may also come with an improved Galaxy Gear smartwatch. Other rumours suggest the screen will have an AMOLED display with a 2560x1400 resolution.The launch at the annual industry gathering would reflect a new emphasis on costs, marking a departure from the glitzy marketing Samsung has deployed in the past, including the use of actors and a full live orchestra tolaunch the S4 at New York&apos;s Radio City Music Halllast year. Samsung saw profits slow during the fourth quarter, apparently due to downward pressure on pricing for its smartphones, where its share of those priced over $400 fell from 40% to 21%.The S4 did not drive sales as Samsung appeared to expect, especially compared to the successes of the S2 and S3 before it. Sales only kept pace with the S3&apos;s, hitting around 40m by late October, six months after its launch in March.The move comes against a smartphone market which is still expanding, but where the top-end segment at which the iPhone and flagship Galaxy phones compete has looked saturated, with Apple only recording 7% growth in iPhone sales during the fourth quarter after the September launch of its iPhone 5S and 5C models - in metal and plastic.A bigger screen for the S5 may not become much of a selling point as Apple is widely expected to introduce large-screen smartphones - Samsung&apos;s mainstay products - later this year. Apple is also expected to gain ground in China after it began selling iPhones through China Mobile, the world&apos;s biggest mobile carrier by subscribers, last month.More challenges may come from China&apos;s PC maker Lenovo Group which announced last week it would buy Google&apos;s Motorola Mobility handset unit for $2.9bn. Lenovo has ambitions to expand its global footprint, especially in smartphones, where it is already in the top five handset
People often make the mistake of thinking that video games are a relentlessly forward-looking medium. It&apos;s all about the next big release, the next console generation, the next PC graphics card technology. Except it isn&apos;t really. Games are, like most other artforms these days, obsessively self-referential. They are constantly mining the past for successful ideas, merging old genres to create strange new ones, or simply borrowing the aesthetics of past generations. If modern games have one fault (they probably have more, but let&apos;s not go there), it&apos;s that they can seem intimidating to newcomers because they rely so much on age-old conventions and traditions.Also, old consoles are nice. They look weird and thrilling, with their chunky plastic bodies and their gigantic cartridge ports. They are relics of fun, nostalgic artifacts that remind us of childhoods spent waiting patiently for games to load from cassettes, or blowing the dust out of old carts. Obviously, there are hundreds of online emulators that let you experience classic titles from the comfort of your PC, but that&apos;s sort of missing the point – much like listening to the MP3 of an old 78 record. Part of the pleasure is in the ritual of the vintage hardware: plugging in a cartridge, sliding in a diskette, or hitting the button that sends a CD lid flipping up like an old ghetto blaster. It&apos;s faintly fetishistic, of course, but you know, fetish is about pleasure, and old games machines certainly provide that.Anyway, for those interested in trying old consoles first-hand, here are six classics that I&apos;d recommend starting with. I deliberately chose machines that are easy to get hold of on eBay or at car boot sales and that won&apos;t break the bank. They all have very large gaming libraries and again, the games are easily available. These are all relatively reliable too so even if you buy one that looks like it has been driven over by a Ford Mondeo, it should still function.As ever, feel free to add your own suggestions!A rare sighting of a Commodore Amiga 500 doing something other than playing Cannon FodderCommodore Amiga, 1985Okay, this isn&apos;t strictly a console, it&apos;s a home computer, but if you owned an Amiga in the late-eighties or early nineties you owned one of the best games machines on the planet. This was the glory era of Britsoft, when idiosyncratic UK studios like Bitmap Brothers (Speedball 2, Chaos Engine), Team 17 (Worms), Bullfrog (Syndicate) and Sensible Software (Cannon Fodder, Sensible Soccer) were in their pomp. It&apos;s also where a lot of technically gifted European studios like Guerrilla and Housemarque originated, courtesy of the &apos;demo scene&apos;, where coders, artists and musicians competed to wring the absolute most out of the Amiga hardware.Buying guide: you can get a basic functional Amiga 500 for about £35 on eBay, but look for people offering bundles of the computer and games. Subsequent models, including the Amiga 600 and Amiga 1200, offer more processing power and design refinements, as well as compatibility with later titles, but most of the best games will run on a 500 or the slightly improved 500+ just fine. &quot;I&apos;d go for the Amiga 500+,&quot; says journalist and vintage games collector Will Freeman. &quot;It plays a few more late era games than the 500, and with an easily available, super simple to use bit of software – I use ‘Relokick’ – you can trick your Amiga 500+ into booting up as an Amiga 500, thus letting you play all the additional games.&quot;The original Japanese Sega Mega Drive Photograph: Evan Amos/public domainSega Mega Drive, 1988As the first major 16bit console, the Mega Drive was a massive success in the US and Europe, thanks to its combination of fantastic arcade conversions and authentic (for the time) sports simulations. It was the golden age of the scrolling action game, with titles like Streets of Rage, Altered Beast and Mickey Mouse: Castle of Illusion typifying the genre, while EA came into its own producing the Fifa, NHL and NBA simulations. There were also wonderful RPGs like Phantasy Star and Shining Force, as well as compelling blasters such as Gunstar Heroes, Truxton and Contra: Hard Corps, all filled with colour and energy. And of course, there was Sonic the Hedgehog, his first three adventures still as astonishingly fast and vibrant as they were 20 years ago.Buying guide:There were two basic versions of the Mega Drive in Pal territories, the original and the updated Mega Drive 2. Both are fine, though the latter is smaller and feels cheaper, and the &apos;reset&apos; switch is prone to breaking. The original Mega Drive also has better sound quality, even though it doesn&apos;t run true stereo through the A/V port. You can pick up a Mega Drive on eBay for £20-100 depending on condition and the number of games bundled with it, but you&apos;ll also find them at car boot sales for a fiver. Make sure you get all the cables and at least two joypads so you can play great two-player titles like Micro Machines. Oh and if you&apos;re thinking of building on to your system with one of the two later Mega Drive add-ons, go for the Mega CD rather than the later 32X. The latter had very few decent games, while the Mega CD boasted the decent Sonic CD and luscious Lunar: The Silver Star, and you can experience the era&apos;s most controversial title, NightTrap – which is awful, by the way, but was debated in the US Senate during a &apos;ban this sick filth&apos; frenzy so it has &apos;historical interest&apos;.An original SNES or Super Nintendo Entertainment System, also known as the Super FamicomSuper Nintendo Entertainment System, 1990Some call Nintendo&apos;s 16bit machine the greatest games console of all time, and it&apos;s difficult to disagree. It was technically superior to the Mega Drive with more colours and clever sprite rotation/scaling hardware and it has a trulyvastsoftware catalogue. Indeed, from 1990 to 1996, the system saw some of the most iconic series&apos; of all time, from Final Fantasy to Street Fighter, with Nintendo wringing the most out of its exclusivity deals with Japanese developers. And of course, there were homegrown classics like Super Mario Kart, Super Metroid and F-Zero, as well as the wonderful Donkey Kong Country titles from first-party studio, Rare. And basically, if you want to understand the history of the JRPG genre, this is where to come and gorge yourself: Chrono Trigger, Zelda, Secret of Mana, Final Fantasy III... the list is endless.Buying guide:As with the Mega Drive, a basic unit with all the leads will cost you upwards of £20, but it&apos;s worth checking eBay for decent bundles of hardware and games. The pal machines can get quite discoloured so this isn&apos;t going to look pretty, but the hardware is sturdy.The Sony PlayStation in its initial form Photograph: Evan Amos/public domainSony PlayStation, 1994It was tough to decide between Sony&apos;s original 32bit console and its spectacularly successful successor, but for greater retro appeal, we went for the former. This was the machine that totally disrupted the home console market, shoving Sega and Nintendo out of the way and bringing Sony into the industry in a big way. The sleek hardware architecture is built for 3D graphics, and unlike its rival, the Sega Saturn, developers got to grips with it fast, relishing a new piece of kit to fiddle with. Games-wise, this is where a lot of the key current franchises came into their own, including Resident Evil, Metal Gear Solid, Tekken and Tomb Raider, and where developers discovered the twenty-something, post-pub gaming generation through offbeat music-powered classics such as WipEout and Pa Rappa the Rappa. It&apos;s also worth tracking down gems like Konami&apos;s strategy RPG Vandal Hearts and Reflections&apos; early open-world gangster adventure, Driver.Buyers guide:There were several iterations of the PlayStation One and you should do some research before buying, even if that just means readingthe Wikipedia entry on PlayStation Models. Earlier version had more inputs on the back as well as a Parallel I/O connector, which was only ever really used for cheat cartridges. However, these first models also had some problems playing FMV (full-motion video), so unless you really want Audio In/Out connections, go for a later iterations. The budget PSone machines are okay, but they&apos;re teeny and look like toys – they don&apos;t have the slightly chunky bold looks of the originals. The PSone also omits the serial port, so if you fancied connecting two PlayStations together for local multiplayer WipEout face-offs, avoid it. As for pricing, you can get a machine for a tenner on eBay, and often that will include a few games. Remember to search locally, though, to save on postage with those massive bundle deals. Oh and you&apos;ll need some memory cards to save your games, too!The GameCube being shown off at a Nintendo games event in Tokyo, 2000 Photograph: YOSHIKAZU TSUNO/EPANintendo Game Cube, 2001Another Nintendo machine, but this one takes us to the periphery of the modern era. Launched against the mighty PlayStation 2 and the original Xbox, it is often erroneously thought of as a failure, even though it sold over 22m units and Nintendo made a tidy profit on each one. Well-known for its distinctive box-like design and proprietary mini-disc games format, it looked childish compared to its super-masculinised rivals, and never got the third-party publisher support it deserved. Still, there were some amazing games, with the likes of Super Smash Bros, Super Mario Sunshine and Animal Crossing all holding up to modern scrutiny. And it wasn&apos;t all family-friendly cuteness: GameCube had arguably the best ever survival horror title, Resident Evil 4, as well as the bizarre Killer7 and the dark-as-hell Eternal Darkness: Sanity&apos;s Requiem – every one of those will shock and amaze even today.Buying guide:you&apos;ll get a standard blue or black machine for around £15-30, but may have to pay more for one of the limited edition platinum models. If you&apos;re really into colours, there&apos;s a lovely orange version but that was only available in Japan so you&apos;d have to stick with buying NTSC games. Again, go for bundles where possible and if you can get more than one joypad even better – youwillwant to play Super Smash Bros. with friends.The Sega Dreamcast in all its idiosyncratic glory Photograph: Evan Amos/public domainSega Dreamcast, 1999The machine that took on the might of the Playstation 2 – and nobly failed – is one of the most interesting mainstream consoles in recent history. It was the first entrant in the 128bit generation, the first to include a built-in modem for online multiplayer action, and the first to include a personal screen in its controller, capable of playing its own games – an idea later borrowed by Nintendo for the Wii U. It was also home to some truly wonderful games, from Sega&apos;s own Jet Set Radio, Crazy Taxi and Shenmue, to brilliant third-party titles like Soul Calibur and Metropolis Street Racer. There was the prototype console MMORPG, Phantasy Star Online, and the utterly weird Seaman, a game about a talking fish, with a narration from Leonard Nimoy. There was the musical fun of Space Channel 5 and Samba de Amigo; there was a fishing game – Sega Bass Fishing – that came with a fishing rod controller; there was a train simulation – Densha De Go – that came with a train driving dashboard controller. The visuals were luscious, the sound gorgeous, the ideas plentiful. A beautiful loser.Buying guide:If you want a Pal machine (one that will play UK-bought games) you&apos;re stuck with the basic model. It&apos;ll set you back between £30-40 on eBay, but be careful with controllers, the trigger buttons are prone to snapping, so if you&apos;re buying online, check with the seller that this hasn&apos;t happened. Also, make sure you get a couple of controllers and visual memory units (i.e. the little memory cards/mini-consoles) and I&apos;d thoroughly recommend a VGA adaptor, which will make the games look lovely on your HDTV. If you suddenly get really into Dreamcast and want some collectible hardware, you&apos;re looking at Japanese or American imports –Sega Retro has a list of all available models, but these will be super expensive. Finally, if you&apos;re buying games that came with dedicated peripherals (Sega Bass Fishing, Samba de Amigo, House of the Dead, etc), make sure you get the accessories too. I&apos;d also snag an Agetec arcade stick for serious Soul Calibur and Capcom vs SNK bouts.AccessoriesIf you find yourself succumbing to the retro gaming bug, here are some other things you may need1. A CRT monitor.If you&apos;re buying a console from before 2000, the chances are, the visuals will look better on a traditional CRT television rather than a new flatscreen display. You could just buy a basic old telly from a car boot sale or local newspaper ad, but there are better options. We&apos;d recommend a decent TV monitor, like a Sony PVM – these were produced for the television industry, but they&apos;re relatively cheap to pick up on eBay and give a great picture quality to classic games. Hantarex also used to make amazing &apos;quadristandard&apos; CRT montors with a vast array of inputs and the ability to play both Pal and NTSC games – you can occasionally track these down on eBay. Alternatively, you can buy something calleda scanline processorthat will give you a great picture from vintage games on a modern flatscreen TV. They cost around £100, but they make a huge difference. Check out thisguide to scanline processingfor more info.2. The right cables.Viewing your old retro games through a standard RF cable (the one that plugs into the aerial socket on the back of the TV) is rarely the best way to experience them. At the very least you should invest in a set of composite or component cables, or even better a true RGB SCART cable, which provides a superbly crisp image. Basic cables can usually be found on Amazon or eBay, but if you&apos;re looking for something to connect, say, a Sony PVM to your Mega Drive, look for a specialist supplier. I useRetro Gaming Cableswho have a vast array of obscure accessories and are really friendly and knowledgeable.3. Online help.There are dozens of websites, forums and online communities dedicated to retro gaming, most are only too pleased to help newcomers with technical issues. TryRacketBoy,HardcoreGaming101orSega-16. Also the monthlyRetro Gamermagazine is very good, written by knowledgeable staff and filled with interesting features and interviews.
It's Tuesday.
DJ apps for tablets aren’t a new idea. Apple’s iPad has already played host to two djay apps from developer Algoriddim, as well asNative Instruments’ Traktor DJ, which ditched the two-decks metaphor in favour of waveforms.These apps all relied on their users’ own files for the music, though. One app,edjing, took a different tack: it draws on streaming services SoundCloud and Deezer as audio sources. Now there’s another –Pacemaker– released today as the first DJ app to use Spotify as its source.Strictly speaking it’s the second app. Developer Musicsoft Artsreleased DJ Mixer for Spotify last October, but it was swiftly removed from the App Store after Spotify notified the developer that its ability to record mixes and upload them to SoundCloud was breaching the terms of Spotify’s API.Pacemaker is different: developed by the Swedish company of the same name working closely with Spotify, as a follow-up from a portable DJ device released in 2008. The new app enables you to crossfade, sync, loop and preview tracks (via a splitter adapter) from Spotify’s 20m-strong catalogue.It also sports a slick, neon-heavy design – it feels very iOS 7 – with intuitive controls that see you triggering effects by tapping on buttons on its deck-like circles and then sliding your finger around.Pacemaker CEO Jonas Norberg says the company released a version of the app firstfor BlackBerry’s PlayBook tablet, using people’s own music files rather than Spotify, before working on the new version for iPad. Rather than aim it squarely at professional DJs, it’s also targeted at enthusiastic amateurs.“We hope it’s accessible: we believe that there is a big bunch of people out there who want to do a little bit more than just passively consume the music. They want to mess around with it. That’s the kind of need we are targeting,” he says.“But we also want to give professional quality to our users, so they can grow with the app. You see this trend of self-publication: things being democratised all over the place like photography and video, but this is something that hasn’t really been democratised yet.”I can see how this might be a sensitive topic for some DJs who’ve worked hard to develop their skills over the years, only to see apps come along promising to let anyone have a bash, complete with that sync feature – a whole other touchy topic in itself – to make the actual mixing less of a challenge.I’m not so sure this should be seen as a threat. Instagram has helped me shoot and share images that I’m proud of, but if anything, it’s increased my awareness that I’m not a professional photographer, and boosted my respect for people who are. DJ apps have felt similar: it’s been wonderful playing with them, but it’s only enhanced my regard for DJs who can actually mix tracks and construct sets.Norberg says Pacemaker saw “plenty of emotions” around its physical DJ device when it came out. “You could see in the comments on its YouTube videos: very positive or super-negative, with nothing in between. People were with us or against us: many people loved what it represented, and many people were scared of it,” he says.“You will always have conservative people who feel like people are entering their kingdom who don’t belong there. My feeling is that the top dogs, they’re never scared. Someone like Richie Hawtin is very secure: he loved it. They’ve never been scared of technology – they’re pushing for it. But maybe it’s the middle layer lower down who feel invaded.”Norberg also hopes that musicians won’t feel threatened by an app that lets people DJ using Spotify tracks rather than their own files. Many DJs are still prolific buyers of music – whether vinyl or downloads from stores like Beatport – which could spark worries about the income this generates for dance artists being replaced by smaller per-stream payments.“We cater to another set of users: this is more about the mass market and the consumer. Those people [DJs] will still keep on buying from Beatport forever, I think. It’s great content on there: they want WAV files and whatnot. I don’t see any problem,” he says.Norberg suggests that using a streaming music service like Spotify as the audio source – although Pacemaker can also use people’s iTunes files – is a “game changer” in its removal of the barrier of ownership when people are deciding what tracks they want to add to their sets. They have to be premium subscribers to Spotify, although the app includes a two-day free trial.Also interesting is Pacemaker’s price: free. Or rather freemium: the app is a free download, but some of its effects – Hi-Lo, Echo, Roll, Loop, BeatSkip and Reverb – are sold as in-app purchases for £1.49 each, or £6.99 for all six.“With this business model, we can develop this app infinitely, adding more and more effects, so there’s no limits to the creativity,” says Norberg. “We were very inspired by the Paper app, which doesn’t invade the user – it lets them grow, and then buy better pens when they are ready.”Mixes can be recorded if they are using people’s own iTunes files, but for now there is no ability to record mixes of Spotify tracks, let alone share them. Rights issues are the reason, although Norberg says Pacemaker “have some ideas for how to solve this going forwards”.
