Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom Pain(PS4, PS3, Xbox One, Xbox 360, PC; TBC 2015)Few games can get away with a £20 glorified demo, but then few series generate as much excitement asMetal Gear Solid.Ground Zeroeswas just a prologue to the fullPhantom Painexperience, which sees the stealth-focused action translated to an open-world environment. Players will have more freedom in how they tackle missions, with weather, real time and AI companions all affecting director Hideo Kojima’s outstanding world.Halo 5: Guardians(Xbox One, Q3/Q4 2015)Halois a veritable phenomenon, and the fervour surrounding any new entry in the core series can’t be underestimated, even when little is known about the game itself. One-man army Master Chief remains the focus, struggling to find purpose after the emotional finale ofHalo 4, but an entirely new game engine has been developed, and players who own theHalo: Master Chief Collectioncan get a taste ofGuardians’ multiplayer offerings through the now-live beta.Halo 5: Guardians.Final Fantasy XV(PS4, Xbox One; TBC 2015)This has been in development so long that it started out as an entirely different game. While that would normally bode ill, the formerFinal Fantasy Versus XIIIis actually shaping up to be a huge leap forward for the series. An infusion of real-time action gameplay and a realistic setting may detract from the “fantasy” of it all, but could also be a necessary shot in the arm.Final Fantasy XV.The Legend of Zelda(Wii U; TBC 2015)The Wii U started coming into its own in 2014, as Nintendo’s bigger titles began appearing, and 2015 could be the year it explodes, with the arrival of the most ambitiousLegend of Zeldatitle ever made. Series hero Link returns, and players will have a vast living world to explore. Nintendo is tight-lipped on story details, but this Zelda’s smooth combat, lush visuals and sheer majesty demand attention.The Legend of Zelda: ‘sheer majesty’.Bloodborne(PS4; 24 March)The challengingDark Soulsseries has built up such a pedigree that anything from director Hidetaka Miyazaki is worthy of attention.Bloodbornepromises an evolution of the grim experience found inSouls, with faster, more intricate battles and randomly generated dungeons. Set in a pseudo-Victorian city afflicted by a disease that changes its inhabitants into monsters, this is one of the most stylish and exciting new properties for the year ahead.The stylish Bloodborne.Evolve(PS4, Xbox One, PC; 10 February)Evolveexcels at asymmetric combat, and while that may sound ill-defined, early playtests already point to it as being one of 2015’s best competitive games. Suited for five players, four control human hunters on the alien planet Shear while the fifth plays a ferocious native monster. Shifting power balances of monster abilities versus tech and teamwork ensue, with multiple game modes; there’s even a branching storyline to keep your attention.‘One of 2015’s best competitive games’: Evolve.Splatoon(Wii U; Q2 2015)ImagineTeam Fortressmade by Nintendo – that’sSplatoon. A delight at the E3 expo thanks to its frenetic, colourful take on the arena shooter model, teams battle not for the number of kills but for the total area splattered with ink. Once covered, you can dive through your team’s ink, creating new ways to think about space and navigation. It’s incredibly fun and has the potential to appeal to players outside of Nintendo’s usual reach.The delightful Splatoon.The Witcher III: Wild Hunt(PS4, Xbox One, PC; 19 May)TheWitcherseries stands distinct from its RPG brethren by virtue of its deliberately difficult combat, necessitating preparation before even basic encounters.Wild Huntconcludes the dark fantasy opus based on Andrzej Sapkowski’s novels, with antihero Geralt of Rivia faced with an invading, spectral evil. For the first time in the series, players will have an open world to explore – 2015’s theme, it appears – and freedom to follow story missions in any order they like.The Witcher III: Wild Hunt: ‘for the first time in the series, players will have an open world to explore – 2015’s theme, it appears’.No Man’s Sky(PS4, PC; TBC 2015)If open worlds are too small for you,No Man’s Skyoffers an entire universe. Each gloriously realised planet is procedurally generated, and while space battles between them are set to be part of the game, the emphasis is really on the joy of exploration. With 18 quintillion possible worlds to visit, it promises hugely personal jaunts – no two people will have the same experience. Staggering in its potential.‘Staggering in its potential’: No Man’s Sky.Pillars of Eternity(PC; Q1/Q2 2015)One of the biggest Kickstarter successes, this promises a return to the glory days of PC RPGs, with a development team previously responsible for classics such asBaldur’s GateandPlanescape. Aimed at a hardcore audience and offering a wealth of customisation options, this sees you guiding a party of warriors through beautiful worlds, with a narrative that promises mature, unflinching looks at everything from sex to drugs through an epic fantasy lens. Unmissable.The ‘hardcore’ Pillars of Eternity.
Price £26,199MPG 36.2mphTop speed 112mph“In wun hoondred yards, gerrof on the fookin’ left!” When it comes to the voice on my satnav, I’ve always been a fan of Birmingham’s most famous son,Ozzy Osbourne. I did take instruction from Sean Connery for a few years – “Follow thissshh road for shix milesshh!” – but found myself spending too much time imitating him, to the frustration of my passengers. Next, I think I might go for Julian Clary, or maybe Kim Cattrall. Or Mr T. Or Morgan Freeman… Yes, Morgan!The giving (and taking) of directions (in cars, and elsewhere) is an area fraught with difficulty. A simple “I saidleft!” can trigger a full domestic meltdown. A few weeks ago, for instance, my wife was driving and I told her to leave the roundabout at 2 o’clock. After a pause of total incomprehension, she said: “And what time is it now?”I suspect the true reason those old road atlases that live on our backseats are always so ripped and torn is that clueless map readers have had to use them as shields against drivers enraged by poor navigational prompts. The likes of TomTom and Garmin should be given a medal by Relate for services towards ending road rows between couples.Which brings me to the satnav voice in thisMitsubishi Shogun– it’s the squeakiest, ugliest, most grating voice I’ve ever heard. It’s so irritating you’d rather be lost than listen to her listless drawl. It’s a missed chance to imbue the 4x4 with an appropriately deep and gravelly persona.Inside story: the interior of the Shogun.Photograph: PRThe Shogun is one of the big boys of the road. It’s a tough, no-nonsense, authentic SUV. It may not be pretty but it certainly gets the job done. It’s been with us since 1982 and was one of the first large 4x4s to couple on-road pampering with off-road performance.This is now the fourth generation of the enduring SUV and thanks to advances in technology it is stronger, quieter, safer and smarter than before. Yet somehow a part of it still seems to be stuck back in the 1980s. Clamber in and the sheer scale of it hails from another time. The massive doors slam shut like trapdoors and the side-hinged tailgate almost needs two hands to haul it open.Despite its terrifying presence, the Shogun is a friendly Gruffalo of a vehicle. It’s easy to drive and boasts a quick-thinking automatic which emulates your own driving style (that may not be a good thing). Power steering can be done with a fingertip it’s so light, while the hydro-boost braking system is mercifully efficient. In theory, parking should be impossible, but thanks to a raft of reversing sensors, cameras and an amazingly tight turning circle you’ll marvel at the spaces you squeeze into.The 1980s vibe isn’t helped by the hopeless driver interface. Buttons are tiny, the display is an unreadable dot-matrix, and the controls are fiddly and don’t seem to do what you ask. Just like they were 30 years ago. But these are trifling concerns when you give in to the Shogun’s considerable charms. It’s genuinely loved by its owners: 70% of sales are repeat purchases.The Shogun is a dyed-in-the-wool, no-holds-barred workhorse built for those who actually need to load, lug and pull heavy objects. It’s made to slither, climb, wade, plough and clamber over the toughest terrains. It feels unstoppable. The drivetrain, four-wheel independent suspension and traction-control systems mean it could keep going long after your courage has failed you.The 3.2-litre four-cylinder diesel has been revised and primped. It’s still a chugger on the open road but it will pull a trailer though a bog with relish. And you can now switch from two- to four-wheel-drive to coax a few more miles from your tank.It’s all great stuff, except for that voice: Arnie Schwarzenegger would have been perfect.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
The Witcher 3: Wild HuntXbox One, PS4 &amp; PCIt may not have had a cash-intensive PR blitzkrieg, but The Witcher 2 – with its story quietly moulding itself around your actions and The Witcher himself refusing to conform to genre stereotype – generated endless word of mouth. This outing will be larger, prettier and even more open-ended.The Order: 1886PS4A steampunk vision of Victorian London where monsters roam, ready to be hacked to pieces by a shadowy organisation called The Order. It might involve a lot of coal-fired super-technology, but its setting and devotion to storytelling already stand out.Metal Gear Solid V: The Phantom PainXbox One, Xbox 360, PS3, PS4 &amp; PCLike last year’s Ground Zeroes, this will put grizzled antihero Snake into an open world, letting you approach objectives however you like. Snake now smokes E-cigarettes and is once again voiced by Kiefer Sutherland to no great effect, but judging by Ground Zeroes, this should be dazzling.SplatoonWii UNintendo turns its hand to multiplayer shooters with Splatoon, in which you fire volleys of brightly coloured paint at other players and also at the environment, with the team managing to paint-spatter the biggest floor area winning.Everybody’s Gone to the RapturePS4Set in pastoral England in the mid-1980s, this is an alternative take on the apocalypse, which for once doesn’t appear to feature either guns or zombies. As you might expect from the makers of Amnesia: A Machine for Pigs and Dear Esther, it looks thought-provoking and eerily atmospheric.Uncharted 4: A Thief’s EndPS4More deliciously wry story-driven adventures for Nathan Drake, the (naturally) American descendant of Sir Francis. The subtitle’s grim implication that this might be his swansong is about as likely as someone with a money-printing machine deciding to destroy it in a controlled explosion.InsideXbox OneBy the same developer as the exquisite Limbo, Inside looks as though it could be even more spine-chilling and emotionally affecting. Taking place after a cataclysm turns almost everyone into shuffling automaton-like zombies, you have to blend in with the mindless horde as well as avoiding faster-moving beasts.Mario MakerWii UBuild your own Mario levels using a tool set that makes good use of the Wii U’s touch screen. Originally intended for use by Nintendo’s level designers, the richness and flexibility of this offering gives you access to enemies, obstacles and level furniture to create your own side-scrolling platform games.Tom Clancy’s The DivisionXbox One, PS4 &amp; PCMore end-of-civilisation hijinks, as you team up with other players to patrol a decaying city in search of baddies to end. Ubisoft has had a few hiccups recently, so this will no doubt receive the full benefit of obsessive web forum-based scrutiny.Quantum BreakXbox OneQuantum Break’s tale of a time travel experiment that goes tragically awry is being jointly made as an episodic video game and TV series. The last attempt at this, Defiance, wasn’t a total bust, but wasn’t great; could this one be the breakthrough?
The Infiniti Q50 looks like a car you’d find in an official motorcade, carrying the second-least important person: heavy but not bullet-proof, elegant but not wallet-busting. It’s a Japanese marque, a couple of decades old but available in Europe only since 2008. It has an isolated feel, as if it were developed away from all the other cars, which can make it seem yesteryear-y. The curvy front and determined heft belong to a pre-agile driving era. Even creating a name by misspelling a perfectly good word seems a 1990s thing to do. And yet sometimes the little idiosyncratic touches play in its favour: everything’s automatic – headlights, wipers, overhead parking camera, the slightly patronising way the seat hums towards and away from the steering wheel, in anticipation of my next move. It got to the point that, when Magic FM came on, I assumed the Q50 knew I was in the mood forTracy Chapman.It has show-off economy features – a stop-start engine for when you’re stationary – but is not structurally economical: some pointy-head has calculated that it’s 24p dearer per mile than an equivalent Bimmer, a sum so painful that, once you knew it, you’d visualise on every journey [see footnote]. So, on that basis alone, it fails its own challenge, which is to lure people from cars they know better with some magic combination of instant dependability and enticing newness. There’s going to be no brand exodus away from similar motors in the 40k bracket.Having established that I’ll never be called upon to buy one, I started to enjoy it. At low speeds, it can feel a bit dieselly and reluctant, but it cuts up from 30 to 70 with so much enthusiasm, it felt like g-force. Something about that power, and the driving position, gave me a zen-like sense that I was inhabiting the spirit of the car, driving it forwards by force of mind. What’s 24p to a person who has reached a state of telepathy with a car? It also has an indefinable road presence, partly because it is unfamiliar, so it takes more than an instant for people to figure out how expensive it must be; and partly because, being rather broad, it’s zippier than it looks. People spin round as you pass, with a look as if they’ve just been overtaken by a fat cyclist.There are some classy dashboard features, too: a touchscreen large enough to watch a film on (variously occupied by the satnav and the stereo), and a stop-start button instead of a key insert. I found this counter-intuitive, like changing a cashpoint so the money comes out before the card. Naturally, people will adapt, but a lot of people will forget their cards in the meantime, and I forgot to turn off the engine (but only once). I was not expecting that I’d sink into the seat and it would smell like James Bond, all high-quality fibres and Acqua di Parma, but it did feel a bit plasticky. That said, I was impressed by how well it all stacked together, the way it was one step ahead of me at every turn, clocking light drizzle, ready with an ambient temperature, full of seven-gear automatic confidence. I watched it leave with some regret, largely because I can’t see myself meeting one again.Infiniti Q50 2.0T Sport AutomaticPriceFrom £34,125Top speed152mphCombined fuel consumption43.5mpgAcceleration0-62mph in 7.2 secondsCO2emissions151g/kmEco rating7/10Cool rating2/10Follow Zoe onTwitter.• This footnote was added on 1 March 2015. The running costs given in this article relate to a previous model of the Infiniti Q50, not the one tested. This model’s performance is on a par with similar models in the same class from other manufacturers.
If you wonder what the person next to you on the bus or train wearing headphones and looking at their mobile screen is listening to, it is probably the new radio – a streaming service.According to the music business body the British Phonographic Industry (BPI), Britons streamed 14.8bn tracks last year, almost double the 7.5bn of 2013, as internet connectivity improves and becomes pervasive.Compared to buying music downloads, streaming services have a number of advantages. Listeners can range over millions of tracks – the “universal jukebox”, create and share playlists socially, discover new artists effortlessly through “artist radio”, and listen anywhere (even downloading temporarily for times when their smartphone gets no signal).This year Apple is expected to muscle in on the scene using the Beats brand it bought for $3bn (£2bn) in May 2014, as is Google’s YouTube, which last November launched a paid-for, ad-free music and video streaming service, YouTube Music Key.Snapchat, best known for its self-destructing photos and videos that are a hit with teenagers, is alsoplanning a music feature, according to emails leaked as part of the hack of Sony Pictures. A partnership with the music video service Vevo could be incorporated into future versions – which surely helped the Silicon Valley darlingraise another $485m, valuing it at more than $10bn, in the past few weeks.Sometimes it seems as if everyone is planning a music streaming service, just as a decade ago everyone down to HMV and Walmart offered music downloads.But unlike downloads, musicians do not universally love streaming.At the start of November,Taylor Swift removed her new album and back catalogue from Spotifyand the other streaming services, having complained in aWall Street Journal columnin July: “Valuable things should be paid for. It’s my opinion that music should not be free.”Ed Sheeran, Beyoncé and Coldplay have used similar tactics, offering CDs and digital downloads for sale before putting them on streaming services – the opposite of the way radio has been used for promotion for decades.Yet streaming revenues are rising fast, according to the BPI’s figures: they have zoomed from zero in 2007 to £76.7m in 2013. Data released by the Entertainment Retailers Association and BPI this week suggested wholesale streaming revenues were £125m for 2014. (The ERA reported streaming revenues of £175m, but typically its values show a 40% retail markup over the BPI’s wholesale figures.) The problem with streaming services, though, is that they seem remarkably ineffective at persuading people to hand over their money. If they are the new radio, well, who pays to listen to the radio? And unlike radio, advertising cannot cover the cost of the service.Spotify, for example, is available to nearly 1.1 billion internet users around the world, yet it can claim only 12.5 million paying users and 50m ad-supported accounts. So only 1% of potential subscribers actually pay. Another service, Deezer, claims to be in 182 countries, giving it about as many potential users (and payers) as Spotify; in mid-2013 it reported 16 million monthly active users, and 5 million subscribers.The US-only Pandora claims 250 million users, but only 3.3 million paying its $5 a month subscription.Mark Mulligan of Midia Consulting who has a long track record watching the music business, reckons there are only about 35 million paying subscribers worldwide for all streaming services, out of more than a billion potential users.Mulligan thinks the problem is the price. Even before the digital revolution, the average person spent less than £5 a month on music, with most spending accounted for by a small number of big buyers. Cutting subscription prices would entice many more to pay, he thinks, easily making up for lost revenues. “I’ve been banging the pricing drum for so long the stick has broken,”he said recently. “Unfortunately there was pitifully little progress in 2014, with label fears of cannibalising 9.99” – the price of a standard album, in dollars or euros, on iTunes – “dominating thoughts”. Something needs to change. The figures suggest streaming is eating into digital downloads rather than CD sales: its revenue growth is almost exactly matched by a fall in digital download revenues, now at their lowest level since 2011. In the US, Nielsen SoundScanhas confirmed the same pattern&lt;/a&gt;, with paid song downloads down 12% in 2014, from 1.26bn to 1.1bn, while song streaming rocketed from 106bn to 164bn.There’s another difficulty: streaming services tend to lose money.Pandora, the market-listed US streaming service, hasn’t made an annual profit since it floated in 2011. Spotify still records losses – even though it is expected to seek a flotation this year.The main problem is that for each song streamed, the service has to pay a set amount to the record labels; the more songs streamed, the greater the payment, creating a cost barrier that never shrinks. Spotify says it pays out 70% of its revenues to artists.That could be about to change with the arrival of Apple. Its acquisition of Dr Dre’s Beats was seen as a defensive move after a dramatic fall in iTunes music downloads and revenues. “Apple had to address streaming,” Syd Schwartz, a former EMI Music executive,told Rolling Stone in May.When Apple introduces Beats Music outside the US, it could galvanise the market. Music industry figures are eager to see what effect it could have because data suggests iPhone owners are typically higher spenders (and so easier to convert to paying subscribers) than the average smartphone buyer. “We’ve reached a very interesting point where there are important changes to come,” a BPI spokesman said. “It seems that we’re moving towards a time of people understanding that streaming is the future.”Apple is understood to be seeking lower per-song payments from the music labels, so it can offer lower subscription rates.Google’s paid-for YouTube Music Key service launched in Novemberwith a six-month free trial and a discounted £7.99-a-month cost (down from £9.99). Mulligan expects that discount to continue, and pricing tiers to fall in line.Yet YouTube itself might be a key obstacle to boosting subscriptions, because it is unofficially the world’s largest ad-supported music streaming service. Teenagers use it to find songs and related artists exactly as they do the normal streaming services. (Snapchat’s user demographic is a perfect match for that sort of service – which Vevo may seek to capitalise on.) When Swift removed her content from streaming services, it created a media uproar – but all her songs, including new album 1989, could still be found on YouTube.Mulligan thinks artists and labels will have to swallow their pride and accept the world of change – and lower payments.“The whole ‘changing download dollars into streaming cents’ issue continues to haunt streaming though,” he said. “With streaming services struggling to see a route to operational profitability the perennial issue of sustainability remains a festering wound. The emerging generation of artists such as Avicii andEd Sheeranwho have never known a life of platinum album sales will learn how to prosper in the streaming era. The rest will have to learn to reinvent themselves, fast – really fast.”• This article was amended on Friday 2 January 2015 to correct the numbers of streamed tracks as stated in the second paragraph.
Chicken sandwich chain Chick-fil-A is investigating a possible data breach at some of its restaurants, the company announced Friday, saying it was working with cybersecurity firms and federal law enforcement to determine whether its payment system was hacked.In aterse statement, the fast food company said “payment industry contacts”, likely meaning credit card companies and banks, had reported suspicious activity on 19 December. After those initial reports, Chick-fil-A contacted authorities and cybersecurity companies to help investigate the activity, which it described only as “involving payment cards at a few restaurants”.A spokesperson for the company declined to comment; the company’s statement declares it “premature for us to comment further given the pending investigation”.Cybersecurity journalist and expert Brian Krebsfirst reported a possible breachin mid-December, saying that several financial institutions had traced the common point-of-purchase on cards with suspicious activity to Chick-fil-A locations. An anonymous source told Krebs that most of the restaurant locations affected were in a handful of states, including Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, Georgia and Texas.Krebs believes a breach of Chick-fil-A’s locations would likely have affected only a fraction of the company’s nearly 2,000 restaurants. He compared the breach to those of other medium-sized chains, such as Dairy Queen, that use third-party companies to manage their purchase systems. In those cases, hackers installed malware in the third party’s point-of-sale (POS) software — the technology in a credit card terminal — allowing the thieves to steal data encoded on the back of cards.If confirmed, the December breach would add to a year of similar attacks on major US corporations. In November,hackers installed malware on Home Depot’s self-checkout systems, netting them 53m emails and compromising 56m credit and debit card numbers. In December 2013, Krebs revealed adata breach of Target’s system; the company discovered that criminals had compromised personal information ofabout 110 million customers, and alsolikely used POS infiltration.In the digital arms race between authorities and hackers, corporations and security firms are struggling to keep pace. In September, the Ponemon Institute, a data protection research group,found that 43% of US firms had experienced a data breachin the past year. In October, a majority of expertstold Pew Researchthey expected major cyber attacks to cause widespread harm in the next 10 years. And nearly two years ago, Symantec, the world’s largest antivirus software company, admitted that its technologycould no longer defendagainst the most sophisticated cyber attacks.With a wealth of credit card data and personal information, hackers can either create counterfeit cards or sell the information to others. Chick-fil-A said that if investigation confirms a data breach, customers will not be held liable for relevant charges, adding that it would arrange identity protection services for affected customers.Krebs knocked down that offer “as a means of placating nervous customers”, and both he and Chick-fil-A encouraged customers keep a close eye on bank and card statements to look out for suspicious activity and possible identity theft.
Following complaints about the large amount of storage that Apple’s latest software iOS 8 takes up on its iPhones and iPads, the US tech firm is being sued for the alleged misrepresentation of the storage capacity of the devices.The plaintiffs claim Apple’s advertising does not fully represent the total amount of storage available to the users and that iOS 8 made it worse, taking up a larger amount of space without informing those upgrading.“The defendant fails to disclose to consumers that as much as 23.1% of the advertised storage capacity of the devices will be consumed by iOS 8 and unavailable for consumers when consumers purchase devices that have iOS 8 installed,” wrote Jonas P Mann of US law firm Audet &amp; Partners in a complaint filed in the northern district of California.The suit is being brought on behalf of two Miami residents, Paul Orshan and Christopher Endara, who claim to have bought iPhones and iPads in the last year advertised with 16GB of storage but providing less to the user. The pair, who hope to turn the complaint into a class action, are seeking $5m (£3.3m) in damages and a trial by jury.Mann said: “In reality, nothing close to the advertised capacity of the devices is available to end users. Indeed, the discrepancy between advertised and available capacity is substantial and beyond any possible reasonable expectation. For the devices, the shortfall ranges from 18.1-23.1%.“Each gigabyte of storage Apple shortchanges its customers amounts to approximately 400-500 high-resolution photographs.”It is standard practice for consumer electronics manufacturers to advertise the total storage capacity of their devices without disclosing the amount taken up by the pre-loaded software.But the plaintiffs claim Apple goes further by preventing customers from adding additional memory via microSD cards and by advertising a pay-for cloud storage service when storage on the device is full. Many rival manufacturers do allow additional memory via microSD.When the internal hard drive of an iPhone or iPad approaches “full”, a popup advert opens offering the purchaser the opportunity to purchase iCloud cloud storage, said Mann. “Using these sharp business tactics, the defendant gives less storage capacity than advertised, only to offer to sell that capacity in a desperate moment, eg, when a consumer is trying to record or take photos at a child or grandchild’s recital, basketball game or wedding.”Apple’s latest operating system update, touted as the “biggest iOS release ever” on its release, was beset with issues in September that forced the company to pull its health app and service. The iOS 8 update also caused connectivity issues for some devices, and was removed before being reissued twice with bug fixes.The biggest problem for most users was the size of the update, however, which meant that some wishing to install it on their iPhones and iPads without a computer were forced to delete large amounts of data from their devices before the update would download.The update then reduced the total amount of space available to the users compared with the previous version of the operating system, iOS 7, the plaintiffs claim.Apple has faced and defeated similar suits in the past, including one from 2012 in Canada that alleged the company misrepresented the amount of storage available to users on the iPod.Microsoft was also sued and defeated a case in California in 2012 over a similar issue with its Surface tablets.Apple has yet to respond to requests for comment on the latest lawsuit.
Montblanc is the latest traditional watch manufacturer to enter the smartwatch market, which is for now led by Google, Samsung and Pebble.Its new e-Strap attaches to a traditional analogue watch, turning it into a smartwatch with a screen that sits on the underside of the wrist to display alerts and notifications.The 22mm-wide touchscreen connects to an iPhone or Android smartphone via Bluetooth and vibrates like any other smartwatch when alerts come in. It will also count streps, present music controls and is expected to last around five days on a single charge.Announced before the Salon International de la Haute Horlogerie (SIHH) 2015 watch trade show in Geneva, the €350 (£273) accessory is not Montblanc’s first foray into the world of technology, previously producing stylus accessories for Samsung’s Galaxy Note 4 phablet.‘Smartwatches as the evolution of the digital watch’But along with similar moves from Swatch, Timex and Fossil, it shows that smartwatches are no longer just the domain of technology companies.“We’ve seen interest in smartwatches from traditional watch manufacturers such as Fossil and Casio, which has G Shock models already available with Bluetooth connectivity,” Gartner research director Angela McIntyre explained to the Guardian.The reason for that interest in connected watches is clear – the potential market for smartwatches is large.“We could think of smartwatches as the evolution of the digital watch – they’ve been around for decades with a digital display, but now they have the capability to be connected,” explained McIntyre. “According to Statistics Brain, there are 1.2bn traditional watches sold every year and 23% of those are digital watches.”“Even if just a small percentage of digital watches become connected, that’s a lot of smartwatches.”‘Unsure of the benefits and relevance’Technology companies, including Apple, which is set to join Google with a smartwatch in the spring, are already battling for a slice of the market. That riled traditional watch makers, who saw their watch faces easily replicated in the digital form.Omega, Fossil, Armani, Michael Kors, Tissot, Swatch and Mondaine among others sent cease and desist notices to sites and developers offering faces thought to infringe on their copyright without permissionin November.Some watch manufacturers, including Timex and Fossil, have partnered with technology companies Qualcomm and Intel. Others including the world’s biggest watch manufacturer Swatch are going it alone, leaning on their existing expertise.Expectations for smartwatches from both technology companies and traditional watch manufacturers are high around the world’s biggest electronics trade showCES in Las Vegas next weekand SIHH 2015 in Geneva in the middle of January.Whether watchmakers will finally be able to turn what is widely considered to be simply a gadget on the wrist into something more akin to current watches and jewellery remains to be seen. As it stands awareness of smartwatches is good, but ownership is low, with just 1% of Britons owning one,according to research by Ipsos Mori.“Consumers are unsure of the benefits and relevance of the product, with nearly half (47%) saying that they didn’t see a need for them to have one, and 18% citing them as ‘gimmicks’,” Andrew Maguire, associate director at Ipsos Mori. “Just under a quarter - 24% - also mentioned the expense as a reason why they haven’t yet purchased one.”•Click tock: which is the best smartwatch this Christmas?•Forget smartwatches - smartclothes are the future, analysts say
Sony has apologised to PlayStation owners for disruption to its online gaming service the PlayStation Network (PSN) caused by the Lizard Squad hacking group for four days over Christmas.The hackerstook the gaming service offlineon Christmas Eve, preventing new users from connecting and registering their new PlayStation consoles, as well as blocking existing users access to online games and on-demand video streaming services.The PSN, which has 110 million users, was not restoreduntil 28 December. Microsoft’s Xbox Live online gaming service was also targeted by the Lizard Squad’s attack but service wasrestored by Boxing Day.“Since access to PlayStation Network was impacted during the holidays, we wanted to show our appreciation for your patience by offering all PlayStation Plus members that had an active membership or free trial on December 25th a membership extension of five days,” said Eric Lempel, vice president of Sony Network Entertainmentin a blog post. “In addition, sometime this month we will announce that for a limited time, we will be offering a 10% discount code good for a one-time discount off a total cart purchase in the PlayStation Store as a thank you to all PSN members.”Mixed reactionsThe news was met with mixed reactions from commenters on the PlayStation blog.“Have you no shame?? Disgraceful but it’s funny how the masses will praise this useless gesture, one can receive a bigger discount by searching the internet for coupon codes 10%, you are a joke Sony. You deserve what you got,”saida commenter known as Crniilabud.Others were more positive, while Sony was urged to “raise your security” and prevent it happening again.“This is exactly the right move. Essentially prorating our subscriptions for the lost time. Thank you!”saidThunder_Hokie.While Ponyoheartssaid: “Appreciate the offer. Hacks happen … what can you do? Thanks for acknowledging it.”Man arrestedA 22-year-old man from Twickenham, linked with the Lizard Squad,was arrested in a raid on his homeby the South East Regional Organised Crime Unit (SEROCU) before being released on bail over cyber-fraud offences in 2013-14.The Lizard Squad has been linked with a series of high-profile distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks. These attacks prevent legitimate users of services such as the PSN from connecting to them by bombarding them with bogus connections, overloading the service and taking it offline often until the attack ceases.The group recentlylaunched a DDoS toolthat could allow anyone to conduct similar attacks on targets of their choosing, costing between $6 (£3.85) and $500 per attack paid via the bitcoin cryptocurrency.•Sony hackers may still have access to computer systems
It’s that time of year again, when technology companies from around the world descend on Las Vegas for International CES, arms full of everything they hope will spark customer interest and set the world alight in 2015.Trudging into a cold, dark January after the bright, buoyant excesses of the Christmas blowout, the shiny new products have to work harder than ever to stoke consumer enthusiasm once again and revitalise demand.But what exactly will be on display at the world’s biggest electronics trade show? What will Las Vegas offer to set the course for another year in technology?Cars, cars, carsA glance at the keynote speaker line up shows more car manufacturers than ever. From Ford to Mercedes Benz, car technology is likely to continue its long march to try to keep up with the rapid pace of technology development driven by the smartphone world.Last year saw electric and hybrid cars. This year promises more self-driving prototypes, all technically capable of ferrying passengers around without interaction but held back by laws and concerns about who pays when something goes wrong.While Google, the UK and others attempt to smooth out those issues, CES 2015 promises to be the year that ordinary consumers will be able to get their hands on a smartcar, packed with Google’s Android Auto or Apple’s CarPlay, banishing the ancient systems most will be used to.Their smarts will be limited to entertainment and navigation, rather than self-driving or anything related to actually piloting the vehicle. One step at a time.Android on the TVAndroid isn’t only going to invade cars this year. CES 2015 promises to herald in the rise of Android TV, Google’s second attempt at creating a smart TV platform after the failure of the confusing and poorly implemented Google TV devices from 2010.Android TV builds on the success of Google’s Chromecast streaming device, attempting to bring a smartphone-like experience to the TV rather than attempting to recreate a PC in the living room. A raft of manufacturers are expected to release new TVs with Android TV built in.Google has a chance to unify the befuddled mess of smart TV platforms that currently exists and make apps on a television something consumers might actually want to use rather than simply ignore.WearablesThis year is set to be the year whenwearable technology finally hits the mainstream. While CES is undoubtedly going to be stuffed to the rafters with smartwatches, the innovation that will make or break wearable technology is price.The sensors and technology needed to make the gadgets work is coming down in price, meaning devices capable of tracking movement, activity, heart rate and even sleep are now within impulse-buying territory and well under £50.“The biggest challenge manufacturers must solve is how to make wearable devices more appealing to the average consumer,” said Ben Wood, head of research at CCS Insight. “We need to move beyond ugly black plastic devices designed by middle-aged male engineers. Wearables should be comfortable and fashionable, and I’m expecting some high-profile partnerships between technology companies and fashion brands to come out of CES.”More than 40m smartwatches and fitness bands expected to ship in 2015, according to CCS Insight’s data. CES will give us a steer as to where wearables go next, whether it’s the wrist, smartglasses, fitness trackers or beyond gadgets into smartclothing.Shorts, shirts, underpants and socksThe most exciting products to come out of CES are likely to be hidden inside innocuous-looking clothes. This year is predicted to bethe year that smartclothing bursts outof the realm of elite athletes and becomes something available on the high street for mere mortals.Clothing brands such as Adidas, Asics, Under Armour and Ralph Lauren have already started showing off clothing for monitoring every little bit of an enthusiasts blood, sweat and tears.From tennis and football to cycling and climbing, smartshirts, smartshorts, smartsocks and underpants will be pressing their electronic sensors against bodies and syncing it all to smartphones, ready to tell people what they already know: they must try harder. And that’s all before the sensor on the end of their racket or back of their golf glove has critiqued their swing.Everything connectedBeyond such exciting things, the inevitable march of curved TVs and 4K high definition is likely to continue – one a gimmick, the other still lacking content – and that’s not to mention the platoon-full of tablets, smartphones, computers, cameras, bluetooth speakers and drones for both toys and photography.And that’s not to mention the “internet of things” (IoT) – a buzzword that has long promised to turn all our dumb appliances about the home, work and environment into an internet-connected mesh of devices all capable of talking to each other, and the people occupying their space.“The whole arena continues to expand, but a grand vision remains elusive,” said Martin Garner, connected devices and internet researcher with CCS Insight. “The market’s being held back by immature products, fragmented standards and ill-defined ideas about how we should be using connected things.”Will CES 2015 finally herald something tangible from the years of hype?The lights will certainly be bright in Vegas as CES rolls into town. But while every CES has promised to be bigger than the last, 2015 might just be the year when the technology industry wakes up to the fact that the excesses of the gambling capital of the world don’t quite fit with reality any more. Or perhaps not.•Our most anticipated video games of 2015•Driverless cars to be tested in UK
A West Australian man has successfully sued his estranged wife for defamation over a Facebook post that suggested she was the victim of domestic violence, after a Perth court found she could not prove the statement was true.Bunbury teacher Miro Dabrowski was awarded $12,500 in damages at the West Australian district court in December by Justice Michael Bowden.The offending post, which was posted on his estranged wife Robyn Greeuw’s public Facebook profile in December 2012, read: “Separated from Miro Dabrowski after 18 years of suffering domestic violence and abuse. Now fighting the system to keep my children safe.”Greeuw removed the post from her page in February 2013, after she received a letter from Dabrowski’s lawyer.But in his decision, Bowden writes thatGreewu told the court she had written part of that statement into Facebook but not published it, and suggested her computer had been hacked to create the screenshot of the post that was used in the trial.She also argued that the statement was not defamatory or, if it was, that it was covered under the justification defence which allows the publication of defamatory material if it can be proved to be “substantially true”.Greewu, who represented herself, described a long history of emotional and occasionally physical abuse to the court, which she said began soon after the pair married in 1992. The relationship ended on 2 March 2012, when police served Dabrowski with an interim violence restraining order from Greewu at their house. Dabrowski denied he was ever abusive.In his decision, Bowden said some of Dabrowski’s comments about the nature of the relationship were “incredulous”. But he said Greewu’s “implausible” claims about how the Facebook post came to be undermined her credibility, and meant he could not find she had been the victim of domestic violence and abuse on her word alone.“Domestic violence and abuse by its very nature usually occur in the matrimonial home and in the absence of independent witnesses. I accept that defamation findings can be made solely on the evidence of one partner against the other,” Bowden said.“However, Ms Greeuw’s credibility is so badly affected by the matters to which I have referred that it leads to the conclusion that she is prepared to say or write whatever she thinks will suit her case and I would not be prepared to accept her evidence unless it is supported by independent evidence or documents contemporaneously made with the events she now complains of.”Three witnesses, including Dabrowski’s girlfriend, who split up with him for 10 months after reading the post, and his brother, who took the screenshots used in the case, told the court the post caused them to doubt his character.Dabrowski told the court he was concerned the post would affect his teaching career.In finding the case in his favour, Bowden said Dabrowski was “an experienced educator and is entitled to public vindication”.In March 2014, a former Orange high School Studentwas ordered to pay $105,000 in damages to music teacher Christine Mickle after the New South Wales district court foundhe had defamed her on Twitter and Facebook.
It's Friday.
The future of motoring will accelerate into view this year in Bristol, Coventry, Milton Keynes and the London borough of Greenwich.Driverless cars are to be tested in all those locations in trials that will put the UK at the forefront of automated vehicle technology.Government funding of £19m will allow three separate trials to take place: one in Bristol, one in Greenwich and one split between Coventry and Milton Keynes. The trials, lasting from 18 to 36 months, will test different aspects of self-driving technology. All will take place away from public roads, though each is aimed at making automated vehicles on Britain’s roads a reality.The trials will use semi-autonomous cars that can drive themselves for periods of the time with a human driver behind the wheel, as well as lightweight self-driving pods designed for low-speed shuttle services. The three projects will be linked by an external monitor who will coordinate all the data.A Google prototype driverless car.Photograph: Google“We’re looking to start our first trial with automated shuttles with members of the public in May,” said Dr Nick Reed from the Transport Research Lab (TRL), leader of the consortium running the Greenwich trials.He added: “You’ve got the cream of UK transport organisations distilled into these three projects and each with its own twist on what should be tested.”The Greenwich trials – named the Gateway project – will involve self-driving shuttles being tested on closed roads and in simulation facilities. The project is led by the TRL with contributions from the Royal College of Art, Imperial College London and the University of Greenwich along with General Motors, the AA and RAC.“These shuttles are a relatively mature technology, so our trials will be more about how to manage participants and the vehicles, to get us towards these vehicles being a real proposition for public roads,” Reed said.Gateway will also test cars that can drop off passengers then park themselves. The vehicles will then return on command, similar to concepts shown off by Audi and other carmakers.The Bristol trials – named the Venturer project – will involve tests investigating legal and insurance issues, as well as public reaction to self-driving cars.The Venturer project will be led by project management group Atkins Highways &amp; Transportation. Also involved will be the Bristol robotics lab at the University of Bristol and insurance company Axa.Driverless vehicles could change the way we move around cities.Photograph: AlamyThe question of who pays in the event of a crash involving a driverless car is seen as one of the major barriers to letting self-driving cars loose on highways.“This programme will help keep the UK at the forefront of this transformational technology, helping to deepen our understanding of the impact on road users and wider society and open up new opportunities for our economy and society,” said Lee Woodcock of Atkins.The trials in Milton Keynes and Coventry will be run by a consortium named UK Autodrive. Arup is to lead this project with Jaguar Land Rover and Ford contributing. The project will focus on car-to-car and car-to-road communication and the infrastructure required.“Our plan with the practical demonstration phases is to start testing with single vehicles on closed roads, and to build up to a point where all road users, as well as legislators, the police and insurance companies, are confident about how driverless pods and fully and partially autonomous cars can operate safely on UK roads,” said Tim Armitage, UK Autodrive project director for Arup.The government has made clear its support of the automated vehicle industry. “The UK is a world leader in the development of driverless technology,” said business secretary Vince Cable. “This not only puts us at the forefront of this transformational technology but also opens up new opportunities for our economy and society.”Cable said the Department for Transport (DfT) would look at the legislation needed to conduct trials on public roads, like those taking place in California and Nevada by Google and others.Funding fordriverless car development was announced last July, when Cable promised to invest £10m. A further £9m in funding was announced in George Osborne’s autumn statement.Transport minister Claire Perry said at the time of Cable’s announcement: “Driverless cars have huge potential to transform the UK’s transport network – they could improve safety, reduce congestion and lower emissions, particularly CO2. We’re determined to ensure driverless cars can fulfil this potential which is why we’re actively reviewing regulatory obstacles to create the right framework for trialling these vehicles on UK roads.”But others have warned of the need for caution. “Automated electric vehicles have the potential to change driving patterns because drivers won’t have to slavishly devote their time to controlling a vehicle,” said Dr Gregory Offer from the department of mechanical engineering at Imperial College London. “However, unless governments plan effectively, the potential positive impact of automated vehicles could turn into a negative.”
Thomas Gruner didn’t know Timbuktu was a real town when it was drawn to his attention by the hacker community. They had seen a campaign on the crowdfunding site Indiegogo calledT160Kto raise money to protect several hundred thousand historic manuscripts that had been evacuated from the al-Qaida-occupied north of Mali but were now at risk of rotting in the humid climate of the capital, Bamako.Gruner, a young programmer from Olympia, Washington state, wanted to do his bit to help. So, naturally, he wrote a game. If visitors to the T160K web page played it, they could hold umbrellas over photographs of the rescued texts, many of which date to the time of the European middle ages. It was trivial but diverting.“I thought if I could make something that was fun, people would start sharing it, and we could get T160K more active on social media,” says the unabashedly geeky Gruner now, sitting in the shared office space in Seattle where he sometimes works. The game – and the Indiegogo campaign – delivered: tens of thousands of dollars given by more than 1,000 donors bought dehumidifying agents to save Mali’s manuscripts anew. It was an innovative use of a very modern phenomenon, crowdfunding via the internet, to protect something very old.Now the woman behind T160K is relaunching it with a bigger team and expanded remit: to find money for other cultural projects in Africa. Stephanie Diakité, a 56-year-old cultural development specialist who helped her friend, the Timbuktu librarian Abdel Kader Haidara, evacuate the manuscripts, wants to revolutionise the funding of culture in Africa by connecting communities, often in different parts of the world.“It was amazing how many hackers got interested in the Timbuktu manuscripts,” says Diakité. “They were fascinated by it. There was one – her handle was hackerbabe – who said something like, ‘Hey, guys, these people are like doing sthg withrealwords, so let’s help em!’ Then we got this huge whoosh of contributions.”Commercial operations such as Indiegogo and Kickstarter have been around for at least five years – but a growing number of organisations are experimenting with crowdsourcing as a philanthropic tool. The San Francisco-basednot-for-profit website Watsifinds donors who help fund healthcare around the world, the principal criterion being that the medical intervention will be life-changing. Community Sourced Capital, also based in Seattle, is attempting to solve the problem of banks’ unwillingness to lend money to entrepreneurs by crowdsourcing small business loans. “It’s an amazing model,” says Tony Dowler, T160K’s CEO.The first wave of T160K projects include raising money for Ethiopia’s first professional circus, Debre Berhan, abid to save the endangered Fendika music club in Addis Ababa, and financing for Instruments4Africa films documenting Africa’s disappearingmusical traditions. There is also a bid to raise $100,000 to catalogue the Timbuktu manuscripts, which are now in exile. The team hopes to build a community of interested donors around each project, who will inform each other and T160K of any progress.“When we launched the Indiegogo campaign, not much happened at first,” says Dowler. “We had to build that community. We have to build communities round those other projects. Building a community of people know something about dance in Ethiopia, who will participate not just as funders, but people who will spread the word and tell us things about them.” The main tool is social media. “We spent some money on a PR campaign when we did the Indiegogo campaign,” says Dowler. “But the value of the hour a day we spent on social media outstripped that so drastically that we just learned our lesson that social media is the way to go.”It is a chance to rewrite the sluggish, top-down approach to grant-giving: instead of jumping through major donors’ hoops, T160K seeks to provide quick, grassroots support. “We are not competing against the large institutions in terms of culture and development,” says Diakité. “That system is not going to go away till the X and Z generation become the principal consumers in all our economies. But the whole paradigm is changing. These large cultural institutions are funded by profit-based institutions and so they operate like that. They operate in controlling ways – I’m the funder and these are our criteria and this is how we work – but we don’t want to operate that way.”If the new iteration of T160K is a success, the team plans to roll it out beyond Africa. “If it works, five years from now, Unesco will launch a crowdfunding site, the Gates Foundation will launch a crowdfunding site,” says Dowler. “You heard me predict this!”
Twitter has begun rolling out a new “while you were away” feature, which presents a recap of important tweets users may have missed since their last login.The feature pins what Twitter considers to be the best tweets to the top of a user’s timeline the next time they open their Twitter app or browse the website.It works in a similar manner to Facebook’s news feed, which presents status updates and posts in a ranked manner, not necessarily in chronological order. It is the first major Twitter feature beyond promoted tweets and adverts to sort tweets in a non-chronological fashion.“Every time you open the Twitter app, you’ll see something great,” Twitter said when itannounced the new featureas part of its “Timeline Highlights” improvements.The “while you were away” feature is designed to preserve important tweets that could get drowned out by the rapid flow of tweets on a daily basis. More than 500m tweets are sent a day, with many users following hundreds of accounts, making Twitter timelines a torrent of rolling thoughts.User reactions range fromdelightand demands to get the feature sooner to confusion and frustration. A gradual rollout to more users is expected.&quot;while you were away...&quot;&#10;AW TWITTER I LOVE YOU ALOTpic.twitter.com/9MWUGTSTLB&mdash; julia (@chesterwoah)December 24, 2014That twitter &#39;while you were away&#39; thing just means I tweet people three days in delay!?! What is it&#39;s purpose!?!??&mdash; and_ (@and_armstrong)December 30, 2014Why does twitter show me tweets from last night &quot;while you were away&quot; .. Wack&mdash; Tyler Dvorak (@tylerdv0rak)December 24, 2014The new feature is part of Twitter’s plan to rein in Facebook’s lead. Facebook has 1.3 billion users to Twitter’s 284 million.Twitter is also exploring ways to make it easier for new users to engage with the service with its “instant timeline”, which will offer content without needing users to search for accounts to follow.The number of Twitter users could be roughly doubled to more than 550 million in the “intermediate term”, with a longer-term goal of 1-billion-plus, executivessaid during the company’s analyst day.•From #BringBackOurGirls to #AlexfromTarget: 2014 in hashtags
A 22-year-old man arrested by police investigating cyber-fraud offences in 2013-14 has been linked to the Lizard Squad hacking group thought to be behind the attacks on Sony’s PlayStation Network and Microsoft’s Xbox Live gaming services over Christmas.The unnamed man from Twickenham was arrested in a raid on his home by the South East Regional Organised Crime Unit (SEROCU) before being released on bail.“The arrest is in connection with an ongoing investigation into cyber-fraud offences which took place between 2013 and August 2014 during which victims reported funds being stolen from their PayPal accounts,” Thames Valley policesaid in a statementon behalf of SEROCU.Independent security researcher Brian Krebs claimed the arrested man was Vinnie Omari, posting what appeared to be a copy ofOmari’s bail noticeafter having alleged that the 22-year-old waspart of the Lizard Squad hacking group.“Sources tell KrebsOnSecurity that Vinnie is one of many individuals associated with this sad little club who are being rounded up and questioned,” said Krebsin a blog post.“They took everything, Xbox One, phones, laptops, computer USBs, etc,” Omari allegedlytold the Daily Dotin an email revealing the search warrant issued by Reading magistrates court but failing to elaborate on the charges and alleged crimes in 2013.The Lizard Squad, described as “a band of young hooligans” by Krebs, has been linked with a series of high-profile distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks. These attacks prevent legitimate users of services such as Sony’s PlayStation Network from connecting to them by bombarding them with bogus connections, overloading the service and effectively taking it offline often until the attack ceases.The group recentlylaunched a DDoStool that could allow anyone to conduct similar attacks on targets of their choosing, costing between $6 (£3.85) and $500 per attack paid via the bitcoin cryptocurrency.•PlayStation Network back online, while Lizard hacker group basks in limelight
YouTubers, vloggers and Vine celebrities came above ground in a big way in 2014. However, in the same way that Taylor Swift already seemed pretty successful last January, so last year’s online video action will seem pathetically insignificant by the end of next year.Think of the past 12 months as a feasibility study. For instance, Australian YouTuberTroye Sivanreleased his first major pop single, which was a worldwide hit, ahead of a full album in 2015. In September, the likes of Zoella, Alfie Deyes and Joe Sugg tookAmity Feston a small tour, explaining that it was simply a test for a much larger event, also due in 2015. In August, Radio 1 – whose job it is to throw itself in the path of any passing youth trend – announced that more YouTubers would join existing crossover starsDan and Philon the station’s airwaves, their rotating slot being an ideal testing ground for the station’s future stars.There was housekeeping, too, and using 2014 as a proof of concept allowed boundaries to be established ahead of the takeover that is to begin in earnest. On YouTube, the likes ofSam Pepperwere outed as deeply unpleasant people, while established media entities hoping to tap into online video LOLs for some quick and easy #content were given a stark warning when ITV2’s support of Vine-based dipstick Dapper Laughscame to a grizzly endthat nobody (except anyone with half a brain) could have seen coming.But as 2014 drew to a close it was the furore surrounding Zoella’s debut novel that most effectively drew the battle lines for 2015. When it emerged that the popular – and unassumingly powerful – YouTuber hadworked with a ghostwriter, the traditional media were up in arms. Her 6.8mYouTube subscribers, whose purchases ensured that the novel broke sales records, simply did not care.Zoe and her pals might represent the least diverse group of individuals this side of Stereo Kicks, but they’ve achieved huge success with little support or acknowledgement from the media establishment.During 2015, treatment of the young stars’ endeavours will fall into three camps. First, there are those in the media who will be confused or threatened by what is happening – they will choose to ignore impending YouTuber apocalypse with the same foresight one might employ when ignoring a chip-pan fire.Second, there will be those who are confused or threatened by what is happening, and who will opt to drag the scene through the dirt. That Zoella was pilloried while nobody seemed bothered about whether Joey Essex wroteBeing Reemgives some indication of the disdain with which some commentators view YouTube stars, but then Joey Essex is not coming after anyone’s job.Finally, there will be those in the media who follow Radio 1’s lead and attempt to harness the phenomenon. But YouTubers don’t necessarily want to be harnessed. Nor, with audiences bigger than most terrestrial TV broadcasts and brands happy to throw thousands of pounds their way in an attempt to connect with teenage audiences, do they need to be.You might not read much about 2015’s biggest media trend, but what the over-20s do encounter will be the tip of an extremely fast-moving iceberg. Everything else will be happening in secret, to an audience of tens of millions.
It's 2015! Have you got a hangover? It's okay, stay in bed all day and play VIDEO GAMES!
Messaging app Snapchat has raised its latest round of funding, $485.6m, which may value the US-based company at more than $10bn.The funding was revealed ina filing with the US Securities and Exchange Commission(SEC), with 23 investors taking part in the round, which takes Snapchat’s total funding so far to just under $648m.The filing leaves those investors unidentified, but reports fromBloombergandTechCrunchboth suggest technology company Yahoo and venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers were involved in the round.Both reports also suggest that the round values Snapchat at $10bn, little over a year after the companyrejected a $3bn acquisition offer from Facebook.The details of the funding round were revealed at the end of a year that has seen rapid growth for Snapchat, which is thought to now have 200 million active users sending photos and videos to one another – up from100 million earlier in 2014.Snapchat has also made its first steps towards making money, launching its first advertisement –a 20-second trailer for horror film Ouija, paid for by studio Universal Pictures – in October.2014 was a challenging year for Snapchat in other ways, however. The company eventuallysettled a lawsuit from ousted co-founder Reggie Brown, and faced scrutiny in October after explicit images sent by users were leaked ina breach nicknamed “The Snappening”.That turned out to be due to people using an external site called SnapSaved, which promised the ability for Snapchat users to save the pictures sent to them by friends, rather than have them self-deleted.Snapchat warned users not to log in to its service through third-party apps and sitesas a result, although 2014 also saw US regulator the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) reprimanding the company over its claims that users’ messages wereguaranteed to “disappear forever”.The FTC recently reached a settlement with Snapchatthat requires the company to put in place a “comprehensive privacy program” to protect its users, to be monitored by an external privacy and data protection expert for the next 20 years.Still, investors haven’t been put off the company, leaving it flush with cash to continue its growth in 2015. Besides growing its advertising business, Snapchat has ambitions to become more than just a messaging app for its predominantly young users.In November 2014, a report by Digiday claimed thatSnapchat was in talks with companies including BuzzFeed, Spotify, Vice and MailOnlineto add music, news and videos to a new section of its app called “Discover”.In December, leaked emails from Hollywood studio Sony Pictures – whose chief executive Michael Lynton is a board member at Snapchat – hinted atambitions to turn Snapchat into a fully-fledged digital music service.The leaks also revealed Snapchat’s acquisition of QR code-scanning startup Scan.me and eyeglass video camera firm Vergence Labs. Snapchat chief executive Evan Spiegel subsequently revealedhe was “devastated” by the leaks of the company’s plans.•Messaging apps’ next threads: encryption, payments, media, ads•Ten things you need to know about Snapchat
Controversial filmThe Interview has earned $18m so farfrom online sales and cinema viewings in the US, but some people in South Korea trying to download a pirated version are catching a nasty dose of mobile malware instead.The comedy, which satirises the North Korean regime of Kim Jong-un and sparked the recent cyberattack on studio Sony Pictures, is understandably eliciting plenty of interest in South Korea.An Android smartphone app in circulation there promises access to a pirated download of the film, but according to security researchers at McAfee, the Technische Universität Darmstadt and the Centre for Advanced Security Research Darmstadt, it’s actually stealing people’s banking details.“It contains an Android Trojan detected by McAfee products as Android/Badaccents. Android/Badaccents claims to download a copy of The Interview but instead installs a two-stage banking Trojan onto victims’ devices,”wrote security expert Graham Cluley on his blog.“The banking Trojan, which was hosted on Amazon Web Services, targets customers of a number of Korean banks, as well as one international bank (Citi Bank).”This Android app promises a download of The Interview, but is actually a banking trojan. Image: Graham CluleyAccording to Cluley, the app transmits banking data from infected devices back to a Chinese mail server, with around 20,000 devices having downloaded it so far. While he claimed that the Trojan was hosted on the Amazon Web Services [AWS] cloud service, Amazon has denied that.“We have a clear acceptable use policy and whenever we have received a complaint of misuse of the services, we have moved swiftly to strictly enforce it,” a spokesperson told the Guardian. “The activity being reported is not running on AWS.”The Interview’s initially US-only distribution has led people elsewhere in the world to turn to piracy to watch it.According to filesharing-news site TorrentFreak, 200,000 people downloaded the film from torrent sites in the first day after it was released on YouTube, Google Play and Xbox Live in the US.The Android Trojan is just the latest example of a big news story being used by malware developers as cover to install their software on devices, with the political furore around The Interview fuelling interest – and thus risks – further.•How you could become a victim of cybercrime in 2015•It’s been a great year! Thanks to these Facebook scams...This article was amended on 31 December 2014 to add Amazon’s denial that its cloud service was hosting the Trojan.
Could 2015 be the year thatIFTTTgoes mainstream? IFTTT, or If This Then That, has become part of the internet furniture for many in the tech community, becoming the default way to connect one internet service to another.If you’d like to get a text reminder totake an umbrella if rain is forecast, or automatically save yourInstagram pictures to Dropbox, or post a scheduled message toTwitter on New Years Eve- then IFTTT is for you. Or, if you prefer, there’s a recipe that will automatically phone youwhen you arrive in New York and play Jay Z’s Empire State of Mind.There are already more than 140 services plugged in to IFTTT, fromFacebook,TwitterandGmailthrough toYo,SlackandWeMo, and two new channels are added every week. And there are, it is estimated, more than 16m combinations - excluding the record collection, with location itself also added recently.‘Giving people more control over every day devices’But beyond connecting web services, IFTTT has far bigger ambitions, explains founder and CEO Linden Tibbets. Its future, he believes, is in connecting theinternet of things- everyday devices and objects increasingly being given internet capability to be monitored, controlled and connected online.“It’s about giving people control over services and devices they use every day,” he says. “In the physical world we have a kind of intuitive understanding of objects around us and are constantly modifying those for our needs, so there’s an intuitive control we’re after in the digital age, and that’s especially important as those two are on a collision course to merge.”Still in its infancy, the internet of things seems focused on connecting seemingly “dumb” objects for novelty, he says. “But the second phase of the internet of things is in building up the ecosystem around gaming consoles, phones and devices like [home monitoring technology]Nest. We’re starting to see some valuable in that kind of hub,” he says, pointing to reduced utility bills and the convenience of being able to control the temperature of your home or be warned about safety issues - a fire, or gas leak - from afar.“The real value happens in phase three when we can aggregate across all these platforms - an intelligence layer across the internet of things.”IFTTT is on a push to add physical device controls to its hub, which currently includes the smart garden sprinklerRachio Iro, theParrot Flower Powersensor which monitors the health of plants andAros, a smart air conditioning controller that can automatically adjust according to the weather forecast, your holiday schedule or even your budget. WeMo’s range of app-connectedlightswitches,motion detectorsandsocketsare also included and have a wide range of applications.‘Using pictures signifies something much bigger’Founded by Tibbets and his brother in 2011, IFTTT has had $38.5m investment, with the latest round of $30m, from Norwest Venture Partners and Andreessen Horowitz in August 2014, focused on building its offering as a control hub for the internet of things. Tibbets won’t say how many users IFTTT has, but it’s in the millions with recipes being run more than 18m times per day.Though a staple among developers, Tibetts says the site is constantly trying to refine examples that explain the site for new users because it is hard to visualise so many potential combinations. IFTTT, he says, has a very distinct visual language, with overlarge fonts designed to echo the language of children’s books and imply simplicity.He refers to Edward Tufte’s design work on sparklines. “These are little graphs that can be embedded in sentences. It’s an idea that goes back to Leonardo and Archimedes - using pictures to represent something much bigger - and that was a big inspiration. Take something like programming, that is syntax based, and you can use pictures and logos that people have such a deep association with. The Twitter bird - you know what that means, that logo represents your relatisonship and so is a catalyst for so much more.”The process of creating a recipe (a combination of services) is a heavily simplified and visual, with as few clicks as possible, and the logos are a key part of that.‘Would you like IFTTT to save that Instagram picture to Dropbox?’As part of the ambition to make IFTTT “a foundational layer” for the internet of things, a next step is to make recipes a fixed part of third party apps. So where Instagram users are offered the choice of posting to Facebook and Twitter, they might be offered an IFTTT recipe too.“If we recognise that you’re manually posting to Instagram, could we automate that for you?” says Tibbets. “Over the next 10 to 20 years, we will be building for inputs that are as much social signals as mechanical inputs, so thinking about touch points like getting into an Uber car as a way of interacting with the service.”Some of the “abstract challenges” of IFTTT are to read the inferred intent within an action as a trigger for another task. Maybe your weight reaching 70kg would switch to your lower calorie Ocado order, or clicking your fingers on the doorstep after your jog would set the bath running. Or maybe no emails, texts of Facebook posts from a friend would automatically notify you to call them.There isn’t enough discussion about ethics at business schoolAnd with so much potential for so many different uses, how does IFTTT protect itself from any unethical use of the service? Alack of ethical oversighthas played a part in many recent technology stories, fromSnowdentoWhisperto theRight to be Forgotten.“There’s a healthiness in scepticism, so if you’re a consumer and feel your privacy is not respected then just don’t use that service,” says Tibetts. “The general mistrust the media has been able to spotlight is good, because it has made us have a dialogue about it.“When you invent something the moral framework does come second. But there isn’t enough discussion at business school about ethics, because if you can build trusty and maintain it that is incredibly powerful - it becomes not just a product but a movement that people want to believe in.“Our thing at IFTTT is ‘creative control’, so the user has intuitive control to create a recipe using companies they trust.”•IFTTT launches iPhone app: ‘mobile has always been in our plans’
Love them or hate them, hashtags are part and parcel of our digital lives.And in 2014, there were plenty of notable ones attached to news events, campaigns or sometimes just jokes. Here are some of the hashtags which ended up trending this year.#EuromaidanAt the beginning of the year, violence erupted in Kiev as pro-European protestors clashed with police in Ukraine.The protest was documented in detail across social media, many people using the hashtag #евромайдан and later, in English, #Euromaidan. On Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and Russian network VKontakte, people outside of Ukraine had a rolling insight into what was happening in Kiev’s Independence Square on an almost minute by minute basis.In November, one year on from the start of the protests, we ran a piece speaking to those who experienced the protest that transformed Ukraine.#BringBackOurGirlsIn April, more than 200 Nigerian schoolgirls were kidnapped by terrorist organisation Boko Haram – but it wasn’t until May that the rest of the world took notice. As BBC Trending reported at the time, #BringBackOurGirls was tweeted by thousands of Nigerians,putting pressure on authorities to rescue the girls.By May, the cause had global attention as people all over the world, including celebrities and politicians, tweeted their support for the campaign. Among those getting involved were Malala Yousafzai and US first lady Michelle Obama.Our prayers are with the missing Nigerian girls and their families. It&#39;s time to#BringBackOurGirls. -mopic.twitter.com/glDKDotJRt&mdash; The First Lady (@FLOTUS)May 7, 2014While the hashtag has now slipped from the trending bar,you can read more about the campaigners still fighting for Kochi’s schoolgirls here.#WhyImVotingUkipUkip members wanted to know why people wanted to vote for their party in the European elections.“Let’s get it trending!” @UkipHarrogate tweeted optimistically.Except things didn’t quite go to plan.#WhyImVotingUkip: because, like the leader@Nigel_Farage, I get a bit racist when I&#39;m tired too.&mdash; Shoaib M Khan (@ShoaibMKhan)May 20, 2014#WhyImVotingUkipBecause the weather&#39;s really starting to pick up, and I don&#39;t want it ruined by gays.&mdash; Vikki Stone (@vikkistone)May 21, 2014#AlexFromTargetpls rt bc everyone needs alex from target on their tlpic.twitter.com/31udOj9Fxd&mdash; c (@chntxl)November 2, 2014Internet fame can come when you least expect it. Such was the case for 16-year-old Alex Lee,who unexpectedly became internet-famous after someone posted a sneak snapshot of him as he worked the tills at American retailer Target. This one photo led to thousands of tweets, an appearance on Ellen Degeneres’ show and a bizarre claim, proved to have no basis, that the whole thing was a marketing stunt.#PatronisingBTLadyIt was a campaign video meant to convince undecided female voters in Scotland to reject independence. Unfortunately, the Better Together advert ended upaccidentally becoming the inspiration for a memeandeven convincing some people to vote yes.Comedy gold from@UK_Together&#39;s#patronisingBTlady!pic.twitter.com/6Lwc653uKA&mdash; Declan B (@YesWithDex)August 26, 2014#BlackLivesMatter&quot;Die-in&quot; at historic Las Vegas Fremont StreetA peaceful protest marched through downtown Las Vegas on December 5th in the wake of the decision not to indict a police officer responsible for the chokehold death of Eric Garner. The crowd was made up by three groups united by similar causes, among them the disappearance of 43 students in Mexico and overall support to end police brutality in all cities of the US. LVMPD and the protestors cooperated with one another during the march as they closed off streets while staging &quot;die-ins&quot; at busy intersections. The notion of community was made evident among the three crowds that found it best to unite their voices taking turns chanting messages like &quot;Hands up, don&#39;t shoot&quot; &quot;Vivos se los llevaron, vivos los queremos&quot; and &quot;I can&#39;t breathe.&quot; Although this demonstration wasn&#39;t to the caliber of protests in New York or Los Angeles, the efforts of these Las Vegas residents were enough to strike a chord with many tourists visiting the sights of sin city.Sent viaGuardianWitnessBylilianatv9 December 2014, 17:10Towards the end of 2014 protests sprang up across the US and around the world after the high-profile killings of 18-year-old Michael Brown, 43-year-old Eric Garner and a number of other young black men, all of whom died at the hands of white police officers in the US.In truth, no one hashtag encompasses the movement, which has thrust racial profiling and racial relations to the headlines. From #ICantBreathe, Garner’s last words as he was placed in a chokehold, to #HandsupDontShoot, social media has been used in many different ways to document frustrations with institutional racism in policing.#GamergateIn August, game developer Zoe Quinn’s ex-boyfriend posted a blog post alleging that she had had a relationship with a games journalist. The result? A movement its supporters claimed was about ethics in games journalism,but which also involved harassment and death threats aimed at a number of female targets, including Quinn and media critic Anita Sarkeesian.Later that month, Sarkeesian was forced to cancel a talk at Utah State University after an anonymous threat to perform a “Montreal Massacre style attack”. It was then that #StopGamerGate2014 rose to the top of the trending charts as the movement reachedthe front of the New York Times for all the wrong reasons.#CameronMustGoBecause a society where the wealth of the top 1,000 can double while workers’ pay packets fall year after year is bankrupt#CameronMustGo&mdash; Owen Jones (@OwenJones84)November 22, 2014When it started, it was about Twitter decrying David Cameron’s record in government.With more than 180,000 tweets sent over a weekend in Novemberincluding some from high-profile columnists, commentators and politicians, the topic was soon trending in the UK on Twitter. Unusually, the hashtag stuck around for a number of weeks before Twitter’s algorithmcaused it to disappear from the trending bar.Some people using the hashtag were criticisedfor inaccurate or misleading tweets.#DirenKahkahaIn an Eid al-Fitr speech,Turkey’s deputy prime minister Bülent Arinc said women should not laugh out loud.“She should not laugh loudly in front of all the world and should preserve her decency at all times,” he said.İnadına kahkaha#heryerkahkahaheryerdireniş#direnkahkahapic.twitter.com/wqs8JViHCY&mdash; pelin can (@plncn68)July 28, 2014Reacting to his comments,Turkish women posted pictureswith the hashtag #direnkahkah, which translates to “resist laughter”. Soon enough, more women joined in,including actor Emma Watson.#thingsthatarenotmosquesUkip South Thanet’s tweetPhotograph: GuimIt’s no wonder Ukip has warned its members not to go on Twitter.Whoever was at the helm of Ukip’s South Thanet Twitter account caused much mirth on Twitter whenthey mistook Westminster Cathedral for a mosque, sparking #thingsthatarenotmosques: an educational hashtag for anyone confused about what is and isn’t a mosque.#ThingsThatAreNotMosques@Nigel_Faragepic.twitter.com/KfvCL4rkcv&mdash; Alex Andreou (@sturdyAlex)November 26, 2014Mosque-ow. &#10;#thingsthatarenotmosquespic.twitter.com/mBNXtZ5sTO&mdash; Tart of Darkness (@soapachu)November 26, 2014Any we’ve missed? Let us know in the comments below.
YouTube’s three most popular channels generated just under a billion views in November alone, as online viewers flocked to the videos of DC Toys Collector, PewDiePie and Taylor Swift.Thelatest monthly chartfrom industry site Tubefilter and analytics firm OpenSlate reveals that toy-unboxing channelDC Toys Collector– formerly Disney Collector – was watched 384.4m times in November.That put it ahead of gamerPewDiePie’s 321.2m views and musicianTaylor Swift’s 294.3m views, neatly encapsulating the three biggest video genres for YouTube in 2014: children, games and music.The chart’s top 10 is rounded out by a mixture of American TV brands (The Ellen Show and The Tonight Show); children’s channels (Little Baby Bum and Stampy) and music (One Direction, Katy Perry and dance music channel Spinnin’ Records).Taylor Swift’s YouTube growth – her views were up 98% month-on-month in November – is particularly interesting in the light of her dispute with streaming music service Spotify, which sheremoved her music from early that month.Aseparate chart published by Tubefilter and OpenSlateearlier in December revealed that Swift added the most new subscribers of any YouTube channel in November – more than 819,000 – taking her to 9.8m in total.That still pales next to PewDiePie, who ended November with 32.5m YouTube subscribers, and is likely to be the biggest channel in terms of overall views for 2014, having only recently been overtaken by DC Toys Collector.The latter channel is the biggest YouTube success story of the year, and one almost entirely under the radar of anyone who’s not either a parent of young children, or following the online video industry.This, despite the identity of its star – a woman whose face is never seen on screen as she unboxes and talks about toys based on popular children’s brands – being a mystery for much of the year. She’s nowthought to be 21 year-old US-based Brazilian Melissa Lima.The latest monthly views chart also reveals YouTube’s growth in 2014. In January, its top 100 channels generated just over 7bn views, but by November that figure had risen to 11.5bn.•YouTube’s biggest hits of 2014: spider dog, singing nuns and sexism
Europe is oddly hampered when it comes to payment technology. In sensibly upgrading to chip-and-pin payments, and then contactless cards, we freed ourselves from the low-tech, easily hackable swipe-and-sign cards still widely used in the US. But we also made it harder for innovative startups, by raising the cost of building something compatible with the secure payment terminals.This is why Britain is in the odd situation where it sometimes seems as if the biggest innovation to hit our wallets in 2014 was Barclaycard’s bizarre “PayTag”. Advertised as a “handy little sticker that can turn any mobile phone into a new way to make contactless payments in seconds”, it’s little more than the circuitry of a contactless payment card attached to a bit of sticky-backed plastic.Enter Apple.The company’s Apple Pay technology launched in the US last autumn, and with the company advertising for a London-based “Apply Pay intern”, you can be sure a European launch isn’t far off. In America, it immediately sparked a proxy war between the credit card companies and retailers, with almost as many big-name retailers swearing blind they would never accept the technology as there were signed up on launch (perhaps speaking to Apple’s demographics, the former camp included Wal-Mart, while the latter was led by WholeFoods).But the technology does represent a step change in how we will be paying in 2015, albeit an evolution rather than revolution. Mobile wallets have been around for years, but have failed to take off due to a combination of network intransigence, handset fragmentation and simple lack of awareness of what is possible. Apple, in its trademark manner, simply steamrollered through those problems. If you have an iPhone 6 or 6 Plus, you’ll be able to use Apple Pay from the day it’s turned on in the UK, your phone network can’t say a word against it, and you can be sure that Apple won’t let you forget it. After all, it gets a cut every time you buy something.The tech has already sparked an arms race, with Samsung rumoured to be developing a response to Apple Pay, and a Walmart-led coalition leading its own mobile-led payments service. Whether any of them can take on Tim Cook’s charge remains to be seen, but whoever wins, 2015 could be the year we change the way we buy things.
Spending time on the internet can sometimes feel like navigating a treacherous sea full of shipwrecks and jagged rocks. For many of us, the online world is real life, just as much as our 3D interactions are, but that doesn’t mean navigating web culture is simple. Offline norms have taken millennia to develop, but we’ve had just a few decades to get used to living with the internet. So, if you truly want to “get” online culture in 2015, here are the five concepts you need to know.Anti-virality and the Kool-Aid PointYou could have set your watch by it: as soon as articles praising theSerial podcast(“the most ambitious narrative non-fiction ever”) began to appear, a vacuum was created. This vacuum was swiftly filled by articles decrying the podcast (“a very popular version of cultural tourism and white privilege”).Welcome to anti-virality. This is the idea that everything that goes viral will also create a backlash, as the popularity of the original phenomenon also creates a market for those who wish to debunk or demur from the tide of prevailing opinion. (In extreme cases, this can lead to Kneejerk Contrarianism, also known asBrendan O’Neill’s Disease. Please give generously, because more than a dozen Spiked contributors succumb to this tragic illness every year.)For women on the internet, anti-virality can manifest asThe Kool-Aid Point, a phrase popularised by blogger Kathy Sierra, who was driven off the internet by death threats. If a woman reaches the Kool-Aid Point, it means she has become so popular that some people become obsessed with “exposing” her as the charlatan she surely is – they want to stop others “drinking the Kool-Aid”. Alongside Sierra, another classic example is video games commentatorAnita Sarkeesian, whose decision to crowdfund a feminist video series still causes burst blood vessels among angry basement-dwellers to this day.Women – beware of the Kool-Aid Point.Photograph: Robert Caplin/Bloomberg NewsCivil inattentionIn the 1950s, sociologist Erving Goffman described what happened to humans who live in cities. “When in a public place, one is supposed to keep one’s nose out of other people’s activity and go about one’s own business,” he wrote inThe Presentation of Self in Everyday Life. “It is only when a woman drops a package, or when a fellow motorist gets stalled in the middle of the road, or when a baby left alone in a carriage begins to scream, that middle-class people feel it is all right to break down momentarily the walls which effectively insulate them.” Dara Ó Briain picked up this ideain a standup routinein which he dared people to get into a lift last, and then, instead of facing the door, turn and face the other occupants. It would be truly chilling.Civil inattention happens all the time in everyday life, unless you’re the kind of a weirdo who joins in other people’s conversations on the train. But we haven’t got the grip of it in the “public squares” of the internet, like social media platforms and comment sections. No one knows who is really talking to whom, and – surprise! – a conversation between anything from two to 2,000 people can feel disorienting and cacophonous. There have been various attempts to combat it – Twitter’s “at sign”, Facebook’s name-tagging, threaded comments – but nothing has yet replicated the streamlined simplicity of real life, where we all just know there is NO TALKING AT THE URINAL.Is it any business of yours?Photograph: AlamyConservative neutralityWe live in a world ruled by algorithms: that’s how Netflix knows what you want to watch, how Amazon knows what you want to read and how the Waitrose website knowswhat biscuits to put in the “before you go” Gauntlet of Treatsbefore you’re allowed to check out. The suggestion is that these algorithms are apolitical and objective, unlike humans, with their petty biases and ingrained prejudices. Unfortunately, as the early computer proverb had it, “garbage in, garbage out”. Any algorithm created in a society where many people are sexist, racist or homophobic won’t magically be free of those things.Google’s autocomplete is a classic example: try typing “Women are ...” or “Asians are ...” and recoil from the glimpse into our collective subconscious.Christian Rudder’s book Dataclysmdiscusses how autocomplete might reaffirm prejudices, not merely reflect them: “It’s the site acting not as Big Brother, but as Older Brother, giving you mental cigarettes.” Remember this the next time a tech company plaintively insists that it doesn’t want to take a political stance: on the net, “neutral” often means “reinforces the status quo”.Context collapseThe problem of communicating online is that, no matter what your intended audience is, your actual audience is everyone. The researchersDanah BoydandAlice Marwickput it like this: “We may understand that the Twitter or Facebook audience is potentially limitless, but we often act as if it were bounded.”So, that tasteless joke your best Facebook friend will definitely get? Not so funny when it ends up on a BuzzFeed round-up of The Year’s Biggest Bigots and you get fired. That dating profile where you described yourself as “like Casanova, only with a degree in computing”? Not so winsome when it lands you on Shit I’ve Seen On Tinder and no one believes that you were being sarcastic. On a more serious level, context collapse is behind some “trolling” prosecutions: is it really the role of the state to prosecute people for saying offensive, unpleasant things about news stories in front of other people who have freely chosen to be their friends on Facebook? I don’t think so.What is happening here is that we are turning everyone into politicians (the horror). We are demanding that everyone should speak the same way, present the same face, in all situations, on pain of being called a hypocrite. But real life doesn’t work like this: you don’t talk the same way to your boss as you do to your boyfriend. (Unless your boss is your boyfriend, in which case I probably don’t need to give you any stern talks on the difficulties of negotiating tricky social situations.) To boil this down, 2015 needs to be the year we reclaim “being two-faced” and “talking behind people’s backs”. These are good things.Performative pietyWhat’s Kony up to these days?Did anyonebring back our girls? Yes, surprisingly enough, the crimes of guerrilla groups in Uganda and Nigeria have not been avenged byhashtag activism. The internet is great for what feminists once called “consciousness raising” – after all, it’s a medium in which attention is a currency – but it is largely useless when it comes to the hard, unglamorous work of Actually Sorting Shit Out.The internet encourages us all into performative piety. People spend time online not just chatting or arguing, but also playing the part of the person they want others to see them as. Anyone who has run a news organisation will tell you that some stories are shared like crazy on social media, but barely read. Leader columns in newspapers used to show the same pattern: research showed that people liked to read a paper with a leader column in it – they just didn’t actually want to read the column.So, next time you’re online and everyone else seems to be acting like a cross between Mother Teresa and Angelina Jolie, relax. They might leave comments saying “WHAT ABOUT SYRIA?” but they have, in fact, clicked on a piece abouta milk carton that looks like a penis. As ever, actions speak louder than words.• This article was amended on 1 January 2015 to correct the spelling of Mother Teresa’s name.
It’s surprising how media stories about children running up huge bills on in-app purchases for mobile games almost always turn out to involve games that aren’t actually children’s games.Kids blowing their parents’ bank accounts in Clash of Clans orZombies vs Ninjais still worrying, of course, and it has sparked pointed questions (and regulatory scrutiny) for companies including Apple, Google and Amazon.Even so, any perception of an industry of children’s apps developers trying to rip off children is unfair: companies making apps for kids rather than freemium games for adults have been working hard to win the trust of parents.Moms With Appsis a good example. It was founded in 2009 by a group of developers who were also mothers, initially to figure out best practices for marketing their apps.It has since expanded considerably into a community of children’s app makers – “from dads, grandparents, aunts and uncles to teachers and psychologists,” says director Sara Kloek – while revamping its website as an apps directory for parents, and even taking a role in drafting new privacy guidelines for the industry.“Privacy is a whole level of other complication beyond things like marketing and how to use social media to promote your apps. It’s confusing and complicated for independent developers who don’t have the legal teams that companies like Disney and Nickelodeon have,” says Kloek.“In 2013, we formalised some best practices as the ‘Know What’s Inside’ program, which has developers agree to a set of best practices including disclosing what their app does and what’s inside, similar to an ingredient list on your kids’ yoghurt, so they really know what they’re getting before they download.”Moms With Apps now has more than 330 developers from around the world signed up to that program, which was also the springboard for the September revamp of the organisation’s website.There,parents can search for appsby age range; device; subjects from animals and maths to reading and special needs; and requirements including no in-app purchases, no links to social networks, no advertising and the ability to work without an internet connection.“Developers are taking steps beyond what’s required by the law. They’re being very transparent and upfront, but we needed to find a way to make that searchable for parents,” says Kloek.“Developers put in all the information: we don’t editorialise, and we aren’t reviewing apps, although in the future we’d like to add a section where developers can add links to reviews, so parents can use it as a starting point to find apps.”The Moms With Apps discovery website.Moms With Apps has also been carrying out market research for its members, includinga survey published in Novemberwhich asked 457 parents about how they choose apps for their children.Its key finding: 61.4% of respondents said privacy protection is extremely important for them, while another 29% said it was very important. Meanwhile, 59.2% said age appropriateness is an extremely important factor in their choices, with 34.7% seeing it as very important.96% of respondents said they felt their children had benefited from using apps, with longform responses citing improved hand-eye coordination, and the ability to make maths and spelling fun as among the reasons.“We’re pleased that we were right: parents do want apps that protect their kids’ privacy, and that are engaging and age-appropriate,” says Kloek. “We’re trying to make it much easier for them to understand which apps meet those needs.”One frequent criticism of the children’s apps industry is the concern that these products are encouraging kids to spend even more screen-time playing games, and possibly less time on activities like reading and physical play. And also that they may be functioning as “digital babysitters” to replace traditional parenting.Kloek is keen not to get sucked in to arguments of that nature – “we leave it to parents, it’s not up to us to tell them how long their kids should be using apps for” – but points to an ebook calledFamily Time with Appspublished by the Joan Ganz Cooney Center in December as a possible riposte.“It’s beautiful, fun, interactive and silly, and it comes from the people behind Sesame Street, talking about how apps can be used in the family space,” she says. “It hits at the point that apps can be helpful in spending time with your kids. They aren’t a replacement.”Moms With Apps plans to continue its efforts around privacy and responsible practices from the developers of these apps in 2015.“I’m hopeful that there will be more recognition for the companies that are doing this. It’s so hard to compete with Candy Crush and the others. They are making lots of money, but our developers are doing things that are helping kids talk, and learn about fractions, and read new things,” she says.“I think we’re in a place right now where there’s a lot of attention on making sure that kids are learning, and succeeding in schools. And apps can give kids a chance to find the individual help or challenges that they need, through experimentation and figuring out the different ways children learn.”•It’s time more parents started paying for children’s apps
More than 80% of so-called “dark net” internet traffic is generated by visits to websites offering child-abuse material, according to a study of Tor “hidden services” websites conducted at the University of Portsmouth.Researcher Dr Gareth Owen analysed traffic to sites using Tor’s technology to hide their addresses from search engines over a six-month period, in an attempt to understand what kind of sites were most popular.He presented his findings at the Chaos Computer Congress in Germany, withWired reporting on the research’s conclusionthat while sites with paedophile material represent just 2% of the estimated 45,000 hidden services websites online at any one time, they account for 83% of visits to these sites once automated “botnet” traffic is removed from calculations.The study focuses on websites using Tor’s technology to hide themselves, rather than the surfing habits of individual internet users using Tor’s anonymising features. The latter arenotspending 84% of their time visiting child-abuse websites.“Before we did this study, it was certainly my view that the dark net is a good thing, but it’s hampering the rights of children and creating a place where paedophiles can act with impunity,” Owen told Wired, while describing the scale of traffic to these sites as “a huge shock”.The study found that less than a sixth of hidden services sites that were online in March when the research started were still online in September when it concluded, suggesting a short average lifetime for these websites.Owen also claimed that drug-related sites like Silk Road and Agora accounted for 24% of hidden service sites but 5% of overall traffic, while whistleblower sites like SecureDrop and Globaleaks are 5% of websites but “less than a tenth of a percent” of site visits.Tor has responded to the research by questioning its accuracy, suggesting that the figures may include visits to paedophilia websites from law enforcement and anti-abuse groups, as well as denial of service attacks from hackers trying to take these websites down.Tor’s executive director Roger Dingledine also stressed that hidden services websites only account for 2% of total traffic using Tor’s anonymising technology: a warning not to confuse websites hiding themselves with individual internet users using Tor to surf the web anonymously.Dingledine added that hidden services do have less worrying applications. “There are important uses for hidden services, such as when human rights activists use them to access Facebook or to blog anonymously,” he told Wired.Colleague Nick Mathewson haspublished a blog postwith some more reaction to the study, suggesting that the habits of people searching for child-abuse materials online may also be a factor.“Obsessive users who visit many sites in a session account for many more of the requests that this study measures than users who visit a smaller number of sites with equal frequency,” he wrote, while warning that “unreliable” hidden services sites will generate a disproportionately large number of requests on Tor’s network.“The greater the number of distinct hidden services a person visits, and the less reliable those sites are, the more hidden service directory requests they will trigger.Suppose 10 people use hidden services to look at conspiracy theories, 100 people use hidden services to buy Cuban cigars, and 1000 people use it for online chat.But suppose that the average cigar purchaser visits only one or two sites to make purchases, and the average chat user joins one or two networks, whereas the average conspiracy theorist needs to visit several dozen forums and wikis.Suppose also that the average Cuban cigar purchaser makes about two purchases a month, the average chat user logs in once a day, and the average conspiracy theorist spends 3 hours a day crawling the hidden web.And suppose that conspiracy theory websites come and go frequently, whereas cigar sites and chat networks are more stable.”For his part, Owen also expressed caution about the findings of his research. “We do not know the cause of the high hit count and cannot say with any certainty that it corresponds with humans,” he said.Even so, the study throws up new questions for Tor about how or whether it could help efforts to shut down paedophilia websites and identify their owners. Owen’s presentation at the Chaos Computer Congress included an examination of whether Tor might be able to block access to such sites.•What is Tor? A beginner’s guide to the privacy tool
There are already high hopes for 2015 as a major video game year. From ambitious indie experiments like No Mans Sky to giant blockbuster instalments like Uncharted 4 and Rise of the Tomb Raider, the stars are certainly aligning.But what do game makers themselves think? After interrogating a group of designers and developerson their favourite titles of 2014, we asked what they’re most looking forward to in the coming year.Charles CecilCo-founder, Revolution SoftwareI am hugely looking forward toNo Man’s Sky. Hello Games has a great pedigree, and this looks like being one of the most innovative titles of 2015. It’s a hugely ambitious game written by a small team. I do have high hopes.Ed FearWriter and designer, MediatonicOh gosh. So many! I can’t wait to play the demo ofFinal Fantasy XVthat comes bundled with Final Fantasy Type-0 HD. I mean, that game has so much to live up to, and by the looks of things it might actually have a chance of meeting some of that expectation. What we’ve seen in trailers looks great, but how will it actually come together? How is it beyond the set pieces? I can’t wait to find out.Beyond that... I’ve never been able to get into the Witcher series, but I’m hoping TheWitcher 3will be my gateway just as Dragon Age: Inquisition was for Bioware. I’m cautiously optimistic about Resident Evil Revelations 2, especially the episodic structure – it will be interesting to see if that’s deployed well, or if it’s just there because it’s zeitgeisty. I’m terrible at games but I quite enjoy the Souls series, so I’m excited aboutBloodborne.IsXenoblade Chronicles Xout next year? Tetsuya Takahashi is my Miyamoto. His incredible stories were the reason I wanted to get into games. He taught me that you can use games to tell stories about the human condition; that just because games weren’t realistic didn’t mean they couldn’t be real. His games are responsible for turning me from an atheist into someone with a hungry fascination of religion. If you cut me, I bleed the Xeno series. To see him return to his strength – metaphysical sci-fi – has me hugely excited.Liselore GoedhartIndependent illustrator and game designer, co-creator ofSimAnticsThere are many games I’m looking forward to in 2015, but there are a few that make me very excited and giddy by just thinking about them. Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker (I live in Europe, so I have to wait a few days still) looks unbelievably adorable and Mario is one of my favorite game universes to gallivant around in.Another cute game I can’t wait to play is Yoshi’s Woolly World. The amount of cuddliness and fluffiness is almost unbearable.The ideas and atmosphere surroundingNight in the Woodsintrigue me. It’s going to be like Wes Anderson and David O’Reilly had a love child.No Man’s Sky makes me want to buy a PS4. This game seems like it will give me environments that are imaginative, colorful and dream-like, exactly the thing I’d expect from a explorative sci-fi game.Plus:Below, Rime, Abzu, Everybody’s Gone to the Rapture, The Witness and That Dragon, Cancer.Rami IsmailCo-founder of Dutch games studio, VlambeerI just want to play No Man’s Sky.Dan MarshallFounder of Size Five Games, currently working onThe SwindleI’m really looking forward to Elite Dangerous – I realise it’s out already but I need to find a couple of weeks to really sink into it. Spaceships are always amazing.I’m also hopingSatellite Reigncomes out in 2015, its looking really strong and like a total contender for Syndicate’s crown. Hopefully it kickstarts a resurgence in that kind of game.Rob FearonIndependent game designer, creator of Death Ray Manta and War TwatWhatever Matt James ofHermit Gamesis making for the PS4. Somebody letting him do proper grown up console work is long overdue and I’m genuinely excited to see what he comes up with – whilst still being annoyed that it’s taken this long for Valve to greenlight the amazingQrth-Phylfor release on Steam, natch.Gemma ThomsonIndependent game designer, currently working onMimicAny other anticipation I have is dwarfed by my eagerness forNo Man’s Sky. I respect Hello Games a great deal for bringing wonder back into games previews –my hunger to know more even had me buying printed games magazines again. I’ve enjoyed the teasing so far, and I adore any game I can just “be” in, with surprises borne either of player actions, or arising from the procedural game universe – not from stilted FMVs, or scripted events which end up revealed in trailers and previews anyway.I’m similarly excited for Mike Bithell’sVolume, ever since playing the early demo at Radius Festival. I appreciate its visual style, and the stealth mechanics feel challenging without being punishing, something which personally puts me off many other games in the genre. Mostly though, I’m intrigued by its storyline and tantalising characters, which again are being kept teasingly under wraps.Adam SaltsmanIndependent game designer, creator of Canabalt, Hundreds and OverlandHmm... there’s stuff likeCibeleand someunannounced Zach Gage projectsthat I’m really excited about. There’sAlto’s Adventure, andSamurai Gunnfinally coming to console.Lunaand Wattam fromFunomena,Firewatch, moreInvisible Incupdates.Belowfrom Capy! and thePS4 version of Tearaway... and whatever comes next fromKentucky Route Zero.Dino DiniGame designer and lecturer, creator of the Kick Off seriesThe continuation of Elite: Dangerous, so I can perhaps witness the evolution of the video game industry that was not to be, and perhaps might have an opportunity to be yet. It’s answering the question, what would have happened to video games if the creativity that was present in the late 80s and early 90s had been allowed to continue to express itself freely?Gary PennGame designer and author, DenkiI’m liking the possibilities of Oculus Rift. Virtual reality at this quality is actually quite literally a game changer. Curiously, of all my many VR experiences so far, it’s Jeff Minter’sMinotaur Rescue VRthat’s been the most compelling. He’s done a remarkable job of refactoring his original iOS game to make it possible to play an immersive and satisfying inertial Asteroids-style shooter with just your head movements. At times the connectivity is creepy. I’m yet to try VR TxK but from what I hear it’s quite the trip.Bennet FoddyIndependent game designer, creator of Qwop, Girp and Get On TopI’ve been playing early builds ofStephen Lavelle’s new gameSausage Roll, about rolling sausages around, and it’s already, unreservedly, the best game I’ve ever played. Imagine a puzzle game where each successive puzzle forces you to make deep new realisations about the game’s systems, and ultimately, about the nature of the real world.Other than that, I’m looking forward toMillion Onion Hotel, the new game by Chulip-creator Yoshirō Kimura that you could describe as “cute, deep Whack-a-Mole”, and of course I’ll also play the new one by Dark Souls creator Hidetaka Miyazaki. There, that’s an indie game, a mobile game and a AAA game.Byron Atkinson JonesIndependent game designerStar Wars Armada, because I’m a Star Wars fan and the models look fantastic. I have it pre-ordered on Amazon. Oh, you meantvideogames? Hmm, nothing has really grabbed my attention yet but my games will be out in 2015 so I’m looking forward to seeing them – Caretaker and A touch of Magic!Nina FreemanIndependent game developer, designer ofHow Do You Do ItI played Naomi Clark’s gameConsentacleat No Quarter this year. It’s a card game about sex and consent between a human and a tentacled alien. Each player is trying to become as satisfied as possible. You can gaze, lick or envelop each other, for example, but only if consent is granted. It’s a very interesting and fun experience in exploring the erotic comfort zones, negotiation and sexuality in general. The game is still in development, and I’m really excited to see where Naomi goes with it!Zeke Virant’sSoft Bodyis an abstract twin-stick schmup about painting and dodging. I played an early version of it this year and was really struck by the elegance of the game – you roam each level freely, dodging bullets as you maneuver your two bodies through a minimalist landscape of shapes that you paint with your touch. I am a huge fan of decadent schmups by companies like Cave, and I am so excited to see a game that strips down that kind of game into a minimalist style.Finally, the game that I’m working on now is calledCibele, which is being made by with myself and our team called Star Maid Games. Cibele is about a girl and boy that met in an online game. They are trying to meet up in real life for the first time to have sex. It’s also, like many of the other games I’ve worked on, a vignette game about my personal experience with an online relationship. You can read a little more about it in Cara Ellison’s piece aboutmy work in her Embed With series. This game will be released in 2015. (There’s a mailing list for it atcibelegame.com)Our most anticipated games of 2015Destiny, Threes and Hohokum - game developers on the best of 2014
Hacking group Lizard Squadspoiled Christmas for tens of millions of gamerswith distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks on Sony’s PlayStation Network and Microsoft’s Xbox Live. Now it’s helping others follow in its footsteps – for a price.The group has launched a “booter” service called LizardStresser, which charges between $6 and $500 – paid for using the bitcoin cryptocurrency – to help people launch DDoS attacks on any website or internet service they choose.“This booter is famous for taking down some of the world’s largest gaming networks such as Xbox Live, PlayStation Network, Jagex, BattleNet, League of Legends and many more!”explains its website.“With this stresser, you wield the power to launch some of the world’s largest denial of service attacks.”Announced on 30 December by the group’s official Twitter account, LizardStresser’s highest level of attack promises 30,000 seconds – just over eight hours – for $129.99 a month or $500 for “lifetime” usage.In aninterview with Daily Dot, a representative of Lizard Squad claimed that the Christmas attacks on Sony and Microsoft had been “a huge marketing scheme” for the DDoS service.“Playing games on a Twitter is fun, but it comes down to the money. The objective here, for me at least – can’t speak for others – is money.” He added that 25 people had paid to use LizardStresser within hours of its launch.That contradictsinterviews given by two members of the group over Christmas, during which they claimed that their motivations were amusement as well as highlighting the security weaknesses of the games networks.After filesharing mogul Kim Dotcom offered the group free vouchers for his Mega service to call off the attacks,the same Twitter account promisedthat “we are no longer attacking PSN or XBL, nor are any members. We will not be attacking them in the future”.Instead, the group is launching a DDoS service that could be used by other people to launch such attacks.Seeking commercial gain is a risky move for Lizard Squad, however, withthe FBI investigating its Christmas attacks, and security researcher Brian Krebsclaiming to have identified two of its membersalready.•PlayStation Network back online as Lizard hacker group basks in limelight
Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg sets himself a “personal challenge” every year, from wearing a tie every day in 2009 and learning to speak Mandarin in 2010 to only eating meat in 2011 if he killed the animal himself.Now Zuckerberg is turning to Facebook’s 1.35 billion users for ideas for his challenge in 2015.“I’m crowdsourcing ideas for my next year’s personal challenge. For background, every year I take on a challenge to broaden my perspective and learn something about the world beyond my work at Facebook,” heexplained in a public post on the social network.“I have an idea of what my next challenge might be, but I’m open to more ideas before the new year officially begins.”Other challenges undertaken by Zuckerberg in recent years include “meeting one new person who doesn’t work at Facebook every day” and “writing a thank you note each day to someone who made the world better” according to his post.Within four hours of the post being published, more than 26,000 people had submitted comments, with several suggestions receiving replies from Zuckerberg giving his opinion.Run one mile every day, rain or shine? “Interesting idea!”. Learn an instrument? “Great idea. I learned how to play guitar a while back but I could definitely improve.” Learn how to dance? “This would certainly be a challenge for me.” Read a new book every month chosen by someone else? “I really like this idea.”A request for Facebook do more to celebrate Muslim holidays elicited the response that “We should definitely do more to celebrate Muslim holidays on Facebook”, but Zuckerberg stressed that his annual challenge is personal, rather than Facebook-related.At the time of writing, suggestions that Zuckerberg read the Bible cover to cover, “make a baby”, record a hip-hop album or “delete users who send Candy Crush invites” have yet to receive replies from the CEO.•Facebook apologises over ‘cruel’ Year in Review clips
It's New Year's Eve!
European users of Apple’s iTunes stores can now “return” goods without giving a reason for up to 14 days after purchase, bringing the company in line with European regulations and offering the prospect of de facto “trial periods” on the app store for the first time.The feature, launched without fanfare, appears to be Apple’s attempt to comply with EU guidelines from June mandating online sellers to offer a “right of withdrawal” from distance sales.Those regulationsstipulate that customers may withdraw from an off-premises contract with 14 days of purchase without giving any reason.Accordingly, the iTunes terms and conditions have now been updated to include a “Right of cancellation”. The company tells users that “if you choose to cancel your order, you may do so within 14 days from when you received your receipt without giving any reason, except iTunes Gifts which cannot be refunded once you have redeemed the code.”Previously, users were able to request a refund for content which had failed to download, but even those were granted on a case-by-case basis. For any content which had actually downloaded, Apple reserved the right to reject refund applications – as it still does outside the EU.Request a refund?Photograph: screenshotApple appears to have gone further than European regulations demand, however. The regulations allow companies to refuse the right of withdrawal once the “performance” of digital content has begun – in other words, once a user has listened to a song or used an App. Apple, on the other hand, appears to be honouring refund requests, even for software which has been used within the 14 day period.That has led many developers, particularly those who make single-use or short-term apps, to worry that they may see an increase in returns, as people “rent” their applications for no cost.For example,ReadWrite’s Adriana Lee suggeststhat “you can keep your visiting brother out of your hair with Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, and then ask for the $6.99 back after he leaves in a week. No questions asked. It would be the equivalent of buying a DVD, watching the movie, and then returning it—something most retail stores don’t allow.”What’s more, while apps on the app store are protected by “digital rights management” (DRM), letting Apple potentially revoke any download which it refunds, music sales are entirely DRM-free, meaning that unscrupulous fans could download the song, request a refund, and keep hold of the song anyway.Even if fans are honest,music magazine PopJusticehas questioned whether the practice might open up new ways to manipulate the charts.“iTunes’ new rule means Union J – and it probably would be Union J – could put an album on sale on Monday morning,” the mag explains. “Union J’s more ambivalent fans (which seems to be most of them) could buy that album during its first week on sale, knowing that they’ll be able to get their money back. The album would go to Number One on the Sunday.“The following Monday, Union J’s fans could each get a full refund. What are the Official Charts Company going to do? Recall the previous week’s chart? Union J have a Number One album.”•Apple’s ‘unwritten rules’ spark discontent for some app developers
It’s an old cliché of security researchers: fingerprints might appear more secure than passwords. But if your password gets stolen, you can change it to a new one; what happens when your fingerprint gets copied?That’s no longer an abstract fear: a speaker at the Chaos Communication Congress, an annual meeting of hackers in Germany, demonstrated his method for faking fingerprints using only a few high-definition photographs of his target, German defence minister Ursula von der Leyen.German Defence Minister Ursula von der LeyenPhotograph: Hannibal Hanschke/ReutersJan Krissler, known in hacker circles as Starbug, used commercial software calledVeriFingerand several close-range photos of von der Leyen, including one gleaned from a press release issued by her own office and another he took himself from three meters away, to reverse-engineer the fingerprint.“After this talk, politicians will presumably wear gloves when talking in public,” he joked.Also reported at the conference was another security hole seemingly straight out of science-fiction: a so-called “corneal keylogger”. The idea behind the attack is simple. A hacker may have access to a user’s phone camera, but not anything else. How to go from there to stealing all their passwords?One way, demonstrated on stage, is to read what they’re typing by analysing photographs of the reflections in their eyes. Smartphone cameras, even front-facing ones, are now high-resolution enough that such an attack is possible.Starbug is no stranger to taking on biometric security. In a high profile stunt in 2013,he spoofed Apple’s TouchID sensorswithin 24 hours of the release of the iPhone 5S. Using a smudge on the screen of an iPhone, he printed a dummy finger using wood glue and sprayable graphene, which successfully unlocked a phone registered to someone else’s thumb.For that hack, he had to have physical access to the phone he stole the fingerprint from, in order to get a high resolution scan of the print. His latest demonstration suggests that it may be possible to unlock a phone using a fingerprint stolen without ever touching a person or their property – although actually getting hold of the phone is still needed for the last stage, of actually unlocking it.The increasing number of successful attacks against biometric identification has led to some security researchers advising that people change the way they think about security measures such as fingerprints and photo ID. Rather than treating them as a replacement for passwords, they should instead be used as a second factor of authentication, or even as something similar to a username: a publicly known piece of information which must be linked to a password before a user can log in.As the ACLU’sJay Stanley told the Washington Post, “Biometrics are not secrets… Ideally, they’re unique to each individual, but that’s not the same thing as being a secret.”And Starbug agrees,telling Zeit in 2013 that“I consider my password safer than my fingerprint… My password is in my head, and if I’m careful when typing, I remain the only one who knows it.”iPhone 5S fingerprint sensor hacked by Germany’s Chaos Computer Club
We’ve already providedour favourite games of 2014, as have dozens of video game news sites. But what do game designers themselves think?We asked a selection of game makers about the titles that grabbed them this year, and why they worked.Charles CecilCo-founder, Revolution SoftwareI am going to choose Monument Valley because it is so utterly charming. It plays with perspective in such a novel way, and the game’s ghostly characters remind me of Ico and Journey.Ed FearWriter and designer, MediatonicDragon Age: Inquisition is exquisite, offering Skyrim-levels of content but coupled with a main quest that’s actually interesting. Bioware has finally converted me into a believer - I want to play this game forever.But my game of the year is Drakengard 3 – a game that does its very best to defy any kind of description. It’s a technical mess, often dropping to a single-digit frame rate. Its story and world are slightly under-baked. The teenage obsession with sex is just... odd. But I can’t say I’ve ever played a game so strong in tone and yet so dissonant. When 99% of games fail to even register on the tonal oscilloscope, this game ping-pongs between positive and negative infinity in the blink of an eye.One minute you’ll be laughing at a perfectly-judged piece of slapstick, the next moment you’ll be covering your mouth at a display of violence so grotesque it actually made me feel slightly ill. It breaks the fourth-wall with utter glee. It knows its own faults and actually apologises for them. It’s a game that I find extremely hard to recommend, and yet, I really wish everyone in the world would play it; it deserves to scrawl “I was here! I existed! I was me!” on the collective unconscious of gamekind.Liselore GoedhartIndependent illustrator and game designer, co-creator ofSimAntics2014 was the year that I created more games than I played, but there are two that stood out right away. The first is the co-op puzzle game,ibb &amp; obb. What drew me in was its charm and endearing characters. What made me keep playing was the rewarding, fun and clever level design. You can just play around by jumping on each other and through portals, drawing weird things with the coloured lines while at the same time searching for the boundaries of the game. This reminded me of discovering secrets in Mario games.The other game is Hohokum, because it made me feel at ease and relaxed when I needed it. I found it refreshing that creativity, playfulness and imagination were the main focus.Oh man I almost forgot aboutOquonie! It is one of the most confusing, haunting but ultimately most satisfying puzzle games I ever played. There is no helping hand or tutorial, you find it all out by yourself, by just walking around and making sense of the gorgeous world. When I was not playing I was unraveling its mysteries and logic. The game is what it is - consistent and alive.Rami IsmailCo-founder of Dutch games studio, VlambeerMy choice would be Destiny. I’m not sure why, to be honest, but it just feels really nice. I find it extremely telling that my favorite game of 2014 has feelings of doubt attached to it. It just wasn’t a really exciting year in games - a lot were rather good instead of exceptional. It’s been a pretty solid year for handhelds and mobile phones, though: Tomodachi Life and Threes were major timesinks for me.Dan MarshallFounder of Size Five Games, currently working onThe SwindleThree games really stand out for me as thoroughly enjoyable experiences from start to finish. As someone who has had his fill of adventure games (making two of them killed off any enjoyment I have for the genre), coupled with my general distaste of one-click adventures, I was worried about Broken Age. But it’s a joy the whole way through. The tree being a particular highlight.SuperTimeForce makes my brain hurt. I still don’t really ‘get’ how it works, but it’s such hilariously good fun, if a little mind bending. And Desert Golfing is perfect. I love the absolute lack of fanfare for any achievement. Hole 100? Move on, no different. Hole in one! Zero fanfare. I love it.Yann SeznecCo-founder of Lucky FrameThrees, because I usually hate number games but it totally isn’t a number game. Desert Golfing, because it had such wonderfully subversive game design. Sports Friends because Pole Riders.Rob FearonIndependent game designer, creator of Death Ray Manta and War TwatTxK. No question, no competition. Look, I don’t make any bones about being a Jeff Minter fan and up until Space Giraffe I’d have said that T2k was his crowning glory. But TxK is everything T2k could have been. It’s modern, it’s got an intimate sense of what Tempest needs to be, youcanplay it like Tempest. But it’s also slick, it’s the game that has Minter saying, “if you give me the time, the space and the freedom, I can make stuff like this in my sleep” and it shows and I’m so insanely jealous of that ability.Adam SaltsmanIndependent game designer, creator of Canabalt, Hundreds and OverlandI really loved the sense of place and atmosphere inKentucky Route ZeroAct III and Monument Valley and Hohokum. Alcazar is confoundingly brilliant. I still think Desert Golfing is maybe the punkest game ever made.80 Daysdid some really smart things, and Hitman GO was a lovely little surprise. Pair Solitaire is very clever, Threes! was quite good, andFramedis just too great. ALONE was exciting andSailor’s Dreamwas lovely. Fantasy Life is under-rated, and Shovel Knight was really fun. The game I played the most was Ascension again though...Dino DiniGame designer and lecturer, creator of the Kick Off seriesElite: Dangerous - because it’s a beautifully-crafted traditional video game that puts the art of gameplay design front and centre. Very few games survive for more than a few hours for me; I play E:D with an enthusiasm I have not felt for a long, long time.Bennet FoddyIndependent game designer, creator of Qwop, Girp and Get On TopOne of the most significant things that happened this year was the resurgence of interesting mobile games. I played a lot of Helix byMichael Brough, a shooter without bullets. I played Hoplite, an ultra-elegant tactics game, and Crossy Road, the first infinite-Frogger game.But the most significant release for me was Desert Golfing, a one-finger golf game that is a radical, almost shocking departure from the culture of conceptual and aesthetic detailing in indie games. Desert Golfing marks the return of the game-as-appliance, something that just switches on and is played, with no ceremony, no menus, no button prompts or tutorials. This is something I’ve been pursuing in my own work for some time, and it was inspiring to see that when you really get it right, it will resonate with people.Gemma ThomsonIndependent game designer, currently working onMimicMy husband and I derived considerable enjoyment fromSpace Engineers. Although we sometimes fell foul of early access bugs, we spent many a happy hour building up a space station together, and taking it in turns to hijack passing freight and military craft. Between that and welding buckled hulls into perfectly straight lines again, Space Engineers allowed us to be most orderly criminal couple the galaxy has yet seen.I’d also have to tip my hat to Dinosaur Polo Club’sMini Metro- a game I desperately wish I’d thought of. It’s an expression of commuter transit across a variety of international cities - a subject I’m already fascinated by - and it’s so pure in its mechanics and aesthetic that I’d wind up simply entranced, for hours on end.Byron Atkinson JonesIndependent game designerThere were two standout games this year. Alien Isolation is the closest anybody has ever got to reproducing the atmosphere and feeling of Alien. I’ve never been so scared playing a video game before. In fact, I’ve spent most of the game hiding in lockers. I just love it.Monument Valley is a work of art - fantastic in every way and a benchmark for mobile games going forward. I would have loved to work on this game. I just love the artwork, the puzzles and audio, it’s just simply stunning.Gary PennGame designer and author, DenkiMy favourite games of 2014 were... unexpected. Anything I was hoping would be worthwhile turned out to be a disappointment for one reason or another - GTA V, Destiny, Shadow of Mordor and Sunset Overdrive in particular.My only phone and browser highlight was 2048, which is much tighter and more joyful than Threes (which is far too clever for its own good). I also love the way 2048 was made accessible to all and remixed beyond belief for a deeper community involvement.As for the more traditional gaming platforms, two extremes emphasise the value of post-production and editing. Alien: Isolation was 51% remarkable, which was enough to keep me engaged to the bitter end, but it was far too long and jarringly patronising in play at times. It doesn’t rely on darkness and jump shocks for its thrills; it had me doing things I haven’t ever done in 40 years of playing computer and video games, like freezing in panic, hiding in (virtual) corners looking at the floor and hoping not to be seen, and generally giving into the joy of being scared; partly because of an appreciation for the source material, but not least because the use of music is particularly effective.I haven’t enjoyed Mario Kart since its original SNES outing but then along came Mario Kart 8, which has been so beautifully and considerately nipped, tucked and buffed to near-perfection. The vehicle handling’s a tactile triumph; the tracks are aesthetically and functionally exceptional - and it all runs at a silky-smooth 60 frames per second. The result is racing experience way ahead of any other.Nina FreemanIndependent game developer, designer ofHow Do You Do ItKentucky Route Zero Act III was one of the most beautiful and interesting games this year. It’s a subtle experience that feels almost like a T. S. Eliot poem with its layers of influences drawn from other mediums like theatre, poetry and music. It’s a game that, with each act, grows more and more mature as the gaps in the story and characters are filled. It’s almost like looking into a crystal – each facet is brilliant on its own, but the full experience is unforgettable. I was especially struck by the concert scene in the run-down bar. I cannot wait to see what comes next for the upcoming acts of this game.It’s also impossible to ignore a game as successful as Kim Kardashian: Hollywood. I didn’t actually start playing it myself until I saw on the screen of every teenage girls phone walking down the street. The game struck a nerve amongst young girls that I haven’t yet seen in mobile games, and I think it bodes well for the future of games in general. Successful games can be about all different kinds of things, and marketed towards people in diverse walks of life. I recommend readingthis articleabout Kardashian, and why we should be paying attention to her game and her brand: she’s a good example of the way in which the internet is rapidly changing how we understand and achieve fame and success.Tomorrow: the game designers choose their most anticipated games of 2015The best games of 2014
It's Tuesday.
If you’re worried about how your New Year’s Eve will go, don’t. It’s not even 2015 yet, and Twitter’s already had a worse one than you.The service was down for many users over five and a half hours on Monday morning UK time, between midnight and 5am (7pm to midnight ET, and 4pm to 9pm PT), after a bug in a line of code caused the service to think that it was 29 December, 2015.I MITMed Twitter for Android&#39;s login to see why it was failing.&#10;&#10;The Twitter servers think it&#39;s 2015. Amazing.pic.twitter.com/iEu4rEUub9&mdash; Ninji the [REDACTED] (@_Ninji)December 29, 2014That bug caused users of the network’s Android app and mobile website to be logged out, without any ability to log back in until it was fixed at 5.25am. It also led a number of visual flaws, such as showing TweetDeck users that tweets were posted 365 days ago.a single character G instead of Y took down twitter&#39;s api because the ISO year starts today — thursday is in january. welcome to computers.&mdash; tef (@tef)December 29, 2014How did it happen? Well, while today may be in the dying days of 2014, according to international standards, this week is the first of 2015. When a piece of software asks which year it is, the developer has to specify what they actually mean: do they mean the year that we are in today, or the year that this week is in?The difference one letter makes…Photograph: screenshotEach of those is represented by just one character in many coding languages, and the wrong one comes first alphabetically. Assuming that this is the error that brought Twitter down overnight, it’s easy to see how it happened.If the outage was caused by the date bug, it will also put fears to rest that Twitter had followed a long list of other companies in being hacked this holiday season. At least one Twitter user, @KingEbola, was claiming credit for the outage while it was ongoing:The Twitter account claiming to be responsible for the outage, “KingEbola,&quot; has tweeted another demand.pic.twitter.com/GyjbAGPjK6&mdash; Ryan Gorman (@GormoJourno)December 29, 2014But the screenshot posted by @KingEbola seems to be dated to May 2012, and now that the service is back up, their account has been wiped of all but a single tweet.Hopefully the real New Year’s Eve will be more pain-free for Twitter, especially considering it’s usually one of the biggest nights of the year worldwide. In Japan in particular, where users tend to race to send “Happy New Year” tweets on the dot of midnight, the tweets per second reach dizzying highs –so high, in fact, that in 2012, the service was brought down by the volume.
Facebook has apologised after learning, yet again, that not everything can be done algorithmically. Some things, it seems, need the human touch.The company’s latest blunder stems from a seemingly innocuous feature it rolls out to its users shortly before Christmas every year, called the Year in Review.It lets users automatically select photos, wall posts and other content from a user’s past year, offering those which gained the most responses in likes or comments as “highlights”. Facebook users can then piece together a scrapbook of the past year, and experience instant nostalgia.This year, to go one step further, Facebook automatically picked one particularly well-engaged photo to present to users, under the banner: “Here’s what your year looked like!” For many users, that will have been a happy memory, such as a graduation, wedding, or the birth of a child.But for some users, the algorithm forced painful memories back to the surface.Web designer Eric Meyer wrote on his blog that Facebook had shown him a picture of his daughter, Rebecca, who died in 2014.“Yes, my year looked like that. True enough. My year looked like the now-absent face of my little girl. It was still unkind to remind me so forcefully,”he wrotein a post titled “Inadvertent Algorithmic Cruelty”.“And I know, of course, that this is not a deliberate assault. This inadvertent algorithmic cruelty is the result of code that works in the overwhelming majority of cases, reminding people of the awesomeness of their years, showing them selfies at a party or whale spouts from sailing boats or the marina outside their vacation house.”In a follow-up post, Meyer said the product manager for Year in Review, Jonathan Gheller, had personally apologised to him for the blunder.The Washington Post saidGheller described the app as “awesome for a lot of people, but clearly in this case we brought him [Meyer] grief rather than joy … We can do better — I’m very grateful he took the time in his grief to write the blog post.”The feature has already been tweaked following feedback: it initially ended the slideshow with the words “It’s been a great year! Thanks for being a part of it.” It now uses the more neutral language “See you next year!”Writer Julieanne Smolinskishared another story: her ex-boyfriend’s year in review, which framed a picture of his house on fire.So my (beloved!) ex-boyfriend&#39;s apartment caught fire this year, which was very sad, but Facebook made it worth it.pic.twitter.com/AvU8ifazXa&mdash; Julieanne Smolinski (@BoobsRadley)December 29, 2014And many other users had similar experiences:I&#39;m so glad that Facebook made my &#39;Year in Review&#39; image a picture of my now dead dog. I totally wanted to sob uncontrollably this Xmas Eve.&mdash; Sarah-Jane (@isloveSJ)December 24, 2014This is the photo Facebook picked out—my dead father&#39;s ashes—just to confirm my previous &quot;year in review&quot; tweet.pic.twitter.com/7wmx7SCUUz&mdash; Mark Duffy (@copyranter)December 24, 2014Facebook &quot;year in review&quot; thing is kind of awful as it chose 2 pictures of my dogs that died this year &amp; uses poor graphic design elements.&mdash; Travis Louie (@travislouie)December 27, 2014Won&#39;t be sharing my Facebook Year in Review, which &quot;highlights&quot; a post on a friend&#39;s death in May despite words like &quot;killed&quot; and &quot;sad day&quot;&mdash; Andrew Katz (@katz)December 29, 2014As for Meyer, he suggests two things Facebook, and firms like it, can do to avoid this sort of inadvertent cruelty. “First, don’t pre-fill a picture until you’re sure the user actually wants to see pictures from their year. And second, instead of pushing the app at people, maybe ask them if they’d like to try a preview—just a simple yes or no. If they say no, ask if they want to be asked again later, or never again. And then, of course, honour their choices.“It may not be possible to reliably pre-detect whether a person wants to see their year in review, but it’s not at all hard to ask politely—empathetically—if it’s something they want. That’s an easily-solvable problem. Had the app been designed with worst-case scenarios in mind, it probably would have been.”
Taxi app Uber has updated its safety regulations in New Delhi in an attempt to persuade the local authorities to left a ban handed down after a woman was reportedly raped by an Uber driver in early December.The company says it will reverify all its Indian drivers with the police, and carry out independent verification of their documents and independent background checks. It is also introducing a dedicated incident response team, and a new safety feature called “ShareMyETA” for its app. The button lets users send their complete trip details to a contact, including live GPS tracking and the driver’s name and photo.“The safety of our riders and drivers is the highest priority for us,”says Uber Dehli’s head of marketing Saad Ahmed, “not only for the rides we enable in New Delhi and across India, but also for the 1+ million trips we are facilitating around the world every day.“Features such as the Enhanced ShareMyETA and safety specialist teams like Incident Response Team are being rolled out first in India,” Ahmed continued. “We are working on many more technology enhancements and partnerships and continue to innovate and focus on safety.”The company touts its new background checks as “going above and beyond required government verification”. It will be paying “local and global experts to evaluate the most effective background screening solution across India”, and says that “pilot programmes are already running in select cities, including Delhi”.Writing shortly after Uber suspended its services in Delhi, Facebook engineer Sriram Krishnan argued that the problems the company faced in the country were harder to solve than they seem.“This has been happening for a long time now and India has been grappling with some hard social/cultural questions on why it has been unable to stop this,”Krishnan said. “This is why a lot of us tell women travelling to India to be much more aware of their surroundings — the social calculus you employ when you do something as trivial as jumping into a cab or asking a stranger for a favour isn’t the same in every part of the world.”As for Uber’s initial safety measures, “anyone who has spent any amount of time in India would know that background checks just don’t work and a certificate from the cops is just paperwork. How do you actually protect your riders in these parts of the world by going above and beyond what law enforcement can do?“Someone suggested that Uber adopt a ‘more Indian way’ of background checking by asking a few neighbours of each driver — as silly as it sounds, a crazy, unscaleable, localised approach like this might yield way better results.”Uber is now petitioning the Delhi local government to lift the ban it imposed inthe wake of the attack in early December. The company has complied with the ban on its services, a somewhat different tack from the attitude it has taken in cities such asMadridandFrankfurtwhere the company breezed through regulatory difficulties without stopping its service.Improved safety procedures may not be the end of the company’s troubles in India, however. The company now faces separate claims of unlawful behaviour from the head of the country’s central bank, the Reserve Bank of India.Raghuram Rajan, the bank’s governor, told Indian news channel NDTV that Uber was “using a way of bypassing our regulations to conduct transactions overseas which were in violation” of the country’s currency controls. India will not tolerate such violations, “no matter who you are”, he added.“If we are a country that is going to turn a blind eye to a violation of regulation,” Rajan said, “then we don’t have rule of law.” But the bank is “willing to work” with Uber “to try and solve” its problems.“We want to encourage” e-commerce, he concluded. “We certainly have to recognise new technologies as they come and make adjustments to the fact they operate in a different fashion,” said Rajan. “We have some solutions coming.”
The PlayStation Network is back online ... for now.The global gaming service used by 110m people was brought down on Christmas Eve, seemingly by a hacking group calling itself Lizard Squad. On Sunday however, Sony assured customers viaits PlayStation blogthat the system was now functioning.The company also admitted for the first time that the disruption was caused by hackers who used a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack to flood the PlayStation servers with traffic, bringing access to a halt.“As you probably know, PlayStation Network and some other gaming services were attacked over the holidays with artificially high levels of traffic designed to disrupt connectivity and online gameplay,” read the post. “This may have prevented your access to the network and its services over the last few days.”Microsoft’s Xbox Live infrastructure was also attacked, reportedly by the same group, which revelled in its achievement via a series of tweets throughout Christmas day. However, the Xbox online infrastructure was functioning again by Boxing Day.Formed in mid-2013, Lizard Squad has been stepping up its media profile in the wake of the Christmas attacks. In a series of interviews, two self-declared founding members have claimed that their motivations are amusement, and to highlight the security weaknesses of the systems.“If I was working [at Microsoft or Sony] and had a big enough budget, I could totally stop these attacks,” “Ryan Cleary” (a pseudonym borrowed from an infamous LulzSec hacker) claimed to tech news site Daily Dot. “I’d buy more bandwidth, some specific equipment, and configure it correctly. It’s just about programming skill. With an attack of this scale, it could go up to the millions. But that’s really no problem for Sony and Microsoft.”Speakingto Sky News, “Cleary” added, “These companies make tens of millions every month from subscriber fees and that doesn’t even include purchases made by their customers.“They should have more than enough funding to be able to protect against these attacks.”Lizard Squad has claimed that its actions against Sony and Microsoft were more sophisticated than standard DDoS attacks, which don’t usually require hackers to gain access to the target’s online infrastructure.“There’s plenty of people saying we’re not hackers and DDoS isn’t hacking. For attacks of this scale, you can’t really do them without either having access to insane amounts of funding or being able to gain access to the computers via hacking,” “Cleary” said to Daily Dot. “You can’t just do DDoS attacks from your home computer. It doesn’t work.”The group has even suggested that it has access to undersea cables that facilitate internet connections between the US and Europe.But its appetite for fame may prove to be Lizard Squad’s undoing, after security journalist Brian Krebs claims to have uncovered the possible true identities of at least two members, both of whom have conducted TV interviews in the wake of the attacks.“Ryan Cleary”, Krebs claims, is in fact a Finnish teenager. Krebs claims the other founding member is a 22-year-old Briton. Krebs says that he has found one of these men enquiring on the site Hackforums about how to dispose of Mega vouchers; Krebs claims this was a reference to the $300,000 bribe in vouchers the group allegedly received from Kim Dotcom for stopping the attacks.“Both of these individuals may in fact be guilty of nothing more than taking credit for other peoples’ crimes,”Krebs writes. “But I hope it’s clear to the media that the Lizard Squad is not some sophisticated hacker group. The Lizard Squad’s monocle-wearing mascot shows them to be little more than a group of fame-seeking kids who desperately aspire to be likeLulzSec, a similarly minded gangwhose core members are all now in jail. With any luck, these kids will get their wish soon enough.”Lizard Squad first came to public attention in August, when it claimed responsibility fora previous DDoS attack on the PlayStation Network. It was even implicated in a hoax bomb warning, delivered to an American Airlines flight which had a senior Sony executive onboard. The size and location of the group is unknown, although it claims to be just a handful of programmers. In an interview with YouTube news channel Drama Alert, representatives of the group claimed to be coordinating their attacks via a data centre in Moldova.Often formed by young men from the gaming communities, hacking collectives have been targeting gaming brands and services for a number of years. PlayStation Network has been hit several times, as have the online services of game publishers Activision, Electronic Arts and Ubisoft. The motives are usually peer recognition and fun. Inter-group rivalries are common; when Lizard Squad launched its DDoS attack against PSN and XBL on Christmas eve, another hacking collective named Finest Squad claimed to have intervened, ending the cyber assault.“We prevented the attack on Christmas Eve. If we didn’t knock their main botnet offline, it would’ve been two days of straight maintenance,” the group wrote on Twitter.On Boxing day, a group claiming affiliation with hacktivist collective Anonymous released what it said were credit card details, user names and passwords drawn from an array of services including Xbox Live, PlayStation Network, Amazon and Walmart. 13,000 user accounts werereportedto have been compromised. “We did it for the lulz,” the group tweeted.The Christmas attacks have proved substantially less fun, however, for the millions of gamers who found themselves unable to access the online services of their consoles, ruling out multiplayer gaming, and video on demand applications.It is also a serious problem for games companies. Sony, already reeling from the high-profile hacking of its movie division, will need to show that it is committing significant resources to overhauling its online security. In the meantime, there is speculation around the industry that the company will offer compensation to PlayStation owners, possibly in the form of free downloadable games or credits for the PlayStation Store.Given the publicity it has garnered so far, it’s unlikely Lizard Squad will cease its efforts – especially as they are also proving profitable. Kim Dotcom’s apparently successful offer of 3,000 lifetime access vouchers for his Mega file-sharing service, providing 500gb of encrypted data storage per voucher and worth $300,000, if they stopped the hack – has opened an intriguing new door for hackers everywhere.Xbox live and Playstation attack: Christmas ruined for millions of gamersKim Dotcom’s bribe really does seem to have worked, then. Kim: “Leave Xbox and PSN alone”. Lizard Squad: “Yes sir”.pic.twitter.com/tvQwPHqKG3&mdash; Alex Hern (@alexhern)December 29, 2014
The last time I had to give an answer as to what the Guardian’s “tech stack” is was forSilicon Milkroundabout. It turns out that for the event’s booklet, “it depends” is not the right answer.The most common answer I give when pressed is the following:AWSScalaPlayJavaScriptAngularJSormicro-librariesPostgresElasticsearchObjective C,Swiftand Java for native device appsAll these things are on the Guardian’s “whitelist” of technologies where no-one would question why you would use them and there are plenty of existing projects and code to provide examples and support if needed.It is also a drastic simplification of the situation.In terms of historic projects we have codebases written in Java and Python. Python on Google App Engine is also whitelisted so it is a really handy platform for serving out static content or single-page apps that are really written in JavaScript.The less critical an application is, the less concern there is about the technology used. Monitoring displays, tools for journalists and command-line utilities can be a good place to play around with different technologies.We have decided that in future we should not be trying to run our own datastores. We have historically runMongoinstances and the bulk of our archived content lives in an Oracle database. We have already built things on top ofDynamoDBbut it also seems that MySQL compatibility is the lingua-franca of cloud stores with both Amazon and Google offering CloudSQL services. So even our storage story is complicated!A lot of organisations standardise technologies to help them move faster. Our whitelist attempts to do this for us. If you believe in autonomy, though, then you have to let teams choose the technology that solves their problems most effectively.If you want to do simple asynchronous processing you might also choose to make the case for usingNoderather than something likeAkka. As cloud services mature then you may want to use services from bothGoogleas well as Amazon.The consequence is that whenever someone asks what the Guardian’s tech stack is the answer really is “it depends” and it depends on the problem the team is trying to solve. A lot of people look to a company’s tech stack as a proxy for progressiveness and innovation. I hope that our lack of a fixed tech stack shows our genuine commitment to innovation and letting teams deliver value, rather than following rules.
If 2014 was the games industry’s transitional year, 2015 could see the major developers and publishers finally getting into their groove with the current consoles. Both PlayStation 4 and Xbox One have hugely promising titles on their slates, while Nintendo is about to pummel its patient Wii U owners with major in-house productions. And of course, it’s set to be another ridiculously busy year for the PC and its dominant digital gaming platform, Steam.To get you in the mood, here are our most anticipated titles of the coming twelve months.The familiar namesThis is the games industry, so naturally there will be gang of aging Goliaths chucking massive piles of cash around in order to dominate the charts. At the forefront, London’s Rocksteady Studios has its last Batman title,Arkham Knightlined up, pitching the caped crusader – and his car – against an anonymous super villain in a vast open Gotham. There’s alsoMetal Gear Solid V: Phantom Pain, in which Venom Snake sneaks around a series of detailed environments battling the Soviets, andStar Wars: Battlefront, in which Battlefield developer EA Dice promises to bring its visceral shooter action to the Star Wars universe. (Dice is also working on the return of its cult sci-fi parkour-fest Mirror’s Edge, but maybe don’t hold your breath for that one.)Sexy treasure hunters will figure highly this year. WhileUncharted 4: A Thief’s Endis set to document the twilight of Nathan Drake’s adventuring career,Rise of the Tomb Raider(atimed Xbox One exclusiveon console, let’s not forget) is all about the beginning of Lara Croft’s. Both should set new benchmarks for the cinematic action adventure genre. Talking about sexy things, adult-orientated role-playing epicWitcher 3could well be this year’s Grand Theft Auto, filled as it is with crunching violence, psychopathic characters and... let’s say “loving relationships”. We mean sex.On a lighter note, Nintendo is set to continue its strong run with thenew Legend of Zeldatitle, which promises a major shake-up to the formula, including a true open-world environment, and more mature art style. We also love the look ofYoshi’s Woolly World, a gorgeous handicrafty platformer in the style of Kirby’s Epic Yarn, andMario Maker, a creative tool for Wii U that lets you construct your own Super Mario levels. And don’t forgetSplatoon, Nintendo’s unlikely answer to Counter-Strike.The big newcomersAmid a flirtatious gaggle of mainstream debutantes, we’re especially exited aboutEvolve, the asymmetrical multiplayer sci-fi shooter, in which four players are hunters and one is a rapidly evolving space monster. Left 4 Dead creator Turtle Rock Studios may just have the online hit of the year on its blood-stained hands.Although there is likely to be stiff competition fromTom Clancy’s The Division, a co-operative squad-based strategy shooter set in a near-future America devastated by a modern plague. It’s all set in a persistent environment, complete with dynamic events, where survival elements and trading augment the tactical action. Think Ghost Recon meets DayZ.On the subject of DayZ, we can expect Dean Hall’s zombie survival game to go through more iterations this year; it’ll be accompanied by other undead lurkers including brutal Los Angeles-based sequel Dead island 2 and Techland’s open world chiller,Dying Light.From Japan comes a duo of major genre heavyweights. Bayonetta creator Platinum Games has its giant monster slaying combo rompScaleboundcharged and ready to fly. Dark Souls fanatics will also preparing hundreds of hours in their schedule forBloodborne, the latest unforgiving action adventure from sadistic genius Hidetaka Miyazaki, this time set in a goth punk world of Lovecraftian horror.Finally, there are some intriguing console exclusives. Sony has its Victorian-set thriller,The Order: 1886, while Microsoft is set to unleash Remedy Entertainment’s transmedia sci-fi rompQuantum Break.As a showdown, it should at least be more progressive than Sunset Overdrive vs Infamous: Second Son.The indie hopefulsWith all the major console manufacturers desperate to prove their indie credentials (you never know where the next Minecraft is coming from, after all), 2015 is set to be another boom year for small studios.The space exploration simNo Man’s Skyhas turned up on everyone’s must-have list for the year, boasting a vast, freely explorable universe and an emphasis on discovery rather than destruction. Jonathan Blow’s follow-up to seminal indie hit Braid also looks fascinating –The Witnessis a first-person puzzler set on a mysterious island that hints at a modern take on PC classic Myst.Then you’ve got Mike Bithell’sVolume, a stealth adventure set in a sort of cyberpunk version of the Robin Hood myth. And on Xbox One, we have high hopes forBelow, a “roguelike” adventure from Capy Games and mystical platform adventureOri and the Blind Forestby Moon Studios, highlighted by Xbox chief Phil Spencer at E3 as one of his favourite forthcoming titles. For us, though, one of the treasures of that massive conference wasNight in the Woods, a beautifully illustrated adventure following a disillusioned cat as she considers leaving her backward hometown.Away from the console wars, we’re looking forward to plenty more offbeat experiential adventures along the lines of 2014’s The Vanishing of Ethan Carter.Firewatchis an eerie mystery set in the Wyoming wilderness; andSunset, by Belgian art studio, Tale of Tales, has you playing a cleaner who must explore a single apartment while revolution stirs in the unnamed South American city.Dear Esther team The Chinese Room is lining up its Armageddon-themed narrative chiller,Everybody’s Gone to the Rapture, too. Oh and the ultra stylish puzzle shooterSuperHotalso looks amazing, not just for its sparse visual aesthetic, but its unique feature: time, and therefore enemy bullets, only move when you do.There will also be violence. The visceral blast-’em-up sequelHotline Miami 2isn’t going to pull any punches, neither is the ridiculous multiplayer animal brawlerGang Beasts, which was a hit on the festival circuit in 2014 and will be YouTube gold next year.Well, that’s a section of what we have on our must-see list. There will inevitably be a new Call of Duty (probably from Black Ops studio Treyarch); EA Sports will tell us that it’s revolutionalising Fifa; Halo 5 is coming, as is sure-to-be-controversial cop shooter Battlefield: Hardline (the militarisiation of the police force has become quite a topic since the game was announced). Who knows how the Crackdown reboot will uodate its anarchic recipe for the current console generation.Hopefully, though, there will also be plenty of leftfield surprises. No one saw the likes of Papers Please, Papa &amp; Yo or Brothers: A Tale of Two Sons coming, it would be great to see more emotionally challenging fare along similar lines. And hey, there’s always the chance of a Last Guardian announcement at E3. Come on, it’s 2015 now, miracles may happen.What are you looking forward to next year? Let us know in the comments section!
This year was destructive and beautiful in that way only games can be. While its list of releases measured top to bottom make for an unremarkable 12 months, the industry is ageing and awakening in ways that might yet make this a landmark year.First, it’s impossible to write about games in 2014 without mentioningGamergate, the toxic, misogynistic campaign riding under the banner of consumer advocacy that attacked developers and critics associated with progressive approaches to games. It was the violent nihilism and entitled masculinity of mainstream games given form and sent back against itself, a reminder of creative responsibilities and the consequences of failing them.It was also a sign of cultural anxiety, each hashtagged, abusive tweet a hairline crack in the shifting landscape of games. Things are changing. This year we saidgoodbye to Ralph Baer, video game pioneer and inventor of the home console, whilePlayStation turned 20and Naughty Dog, the highly regarded studio behindUnchartedandThe Last of Us, turned 30. Gaming became increasingly aware of its growing legacy: in an industry obsessed with the cutting edge and beyond, there was a greater value attached to the past, and a more sophisticated appreciation of what games can do, aside from big-budget guns and sports, both violent and virtual.As a result, 2014 encompassed vastly contrasting scales of ambition and scope. Among the top-end titles that sought to push the still-new consoles technologically, ambitious geographical settings were an unconscious theme as various games strove to master and contain huge chunks of realistic worlds.GTA Vwas remasteredwith its extraordinary recreation of Los Angeles, espionage thrillerWatch_Dogspulled a similar trick with Chicago, and titanic racerThe Crewsettled for no less than the entire United States, condensed and wrangled into 7,000 miles of in-game road.‘Compelling’: The Vanishing of Ethan Carter.Photograph: PRAt the other end of the scale, smaller teams made brilliant, focused games with altogether less. A dozen people at Supergiant Games brought us the wonderfulTransistor, a watercolour-lush action RPG with music running through its veins. A team of eight at Polish studio the Astronauts gave us our first pick of the year,The Vanishing of Ethan Carter, a compelling detective mystery that’s as much about discovering the game as it is uncovering crimes within it. And just three people at tiny UK startup Roll7 madesidescrolling skaterOlliOlli, our second of the year’s best and a masterclass of moreish simplicity built on timing and expressive 8-bit graphics.OlliOlli: ‘a masterclass of moreish simplicity’.Photograph: PRFor a year marked by divisions and aggression, 2014 was also a year in which we remembered the joy of playing together – physically, rather than virtually, sharing screens, passing controllers and rediscovering parties of play.Mario Kart 8was the finest version of Nintendo’s flagship racer for years, a mix of skill and desperate scrambling for position, and the same crush of characters and frantic action was also applied to the latestSuper Smash Bros. Tiny indie teams made their presence felt here too –NidhoggandTowerfall, two retro-styled and remarkably complex games of combat and strategy, were each made by a single creator. AndSportsfriends, a compendium of invented sports made by Danish indie Die Gute Fabrik and its collaborators, revelled in ideas of play and the value of shared fun. Its games are silly, skilful and often sublime, and together offer a manifesto for the importance of playing together that earns it a spot in the top five.Sportsfriends: ‘silly, skilful and often sublime’.Photograph: PRAs well as playing together, 2014 was also about playing alone. While big-budget games had a quiet year, one happy exception wasAlien: Isolationfrom UK studio Creative Assembly. The game overhauled years of misguided adaptations of the sci-fi series by returning to the clinical interiors and frosty horror of Ridley Scott’s original film – it’s meticulous and practical, a very British take on what was at the beginning a very British production, and its patience and unparalleled atmosphere make it one of the year’s best games.Finally, there seemed general consensus that first-person shooters – the dominant genre of modern times – needed updating.TitanfallandCall of Duty: Advanced Warfarebrought new agility and aerial mobility to the genre, but it wasDestiny, a flawed but innovative mix of shooter and MMO, that seemed to offer a true glimpse of the future. Yes, it’s a huge, heavily marketed monster, but it’s also new and extraordinary, and that makes it game of the year.Top 5: the best games of 2014DestinyMan reclaims the stars in Bungie’s ambitious shooter.Alien: IsolationPrecise adaptation of Ridley Scott’s classic.SportsfriendsIndie Olympics celebrating the value of play.OlliOlliRetro blast of timing and skill.The Vanishing of Ethan CarterDark, original detective thriller.
Who said what?21.“I think we should be very careful about artificial intelligence. If I had to guess at what our biggest existential threat is, it’s probably that.”22.“I feel that what we have right now is just a giant piece of shit. Like, it’s just terrible and we should be humiliated that we offer this to the public.”23.“Every time you go to a party and take a picture and post that picture to Facebook, you’re being a rat. You’re being a narc.”24.“Wherever I am in the world I am always within a few feet of a BlackBerry and an ability to manage things should they need to be managed.”25.“I’m proud to be gay, and I consider being gay among the greatest gifts God has given me.”26.“The US government should be the champion for the internet, not a threat. They need to be much more transparent about what they’re doing, or otherwise people will believe the worst.”27.“I’m not a pirate, I’m an innovator.”28.“Why do we let 2 million children die every year around the world for not having clean water? Because they’re faceless and nameless. So, for me, Facebook looked like it was going to solve the problem of the invisible victim.”29.“I wouldn’t want GCHQ to rummage in my front room and that is how I feel about whatever device I am using.”30.“When you’re doing something for the first time, you don’t know it’s gonna work, you spend seven or eight years working on something, and then it’s copied. I think it is really straightforward. It is theft and it is lazy.”Question time31.An executive from which Silicon Valley company outlined a plan to spend “a million dollars” to dig up dirt on journalists who had written critically of his business?32.Which tech boss said it was good karma for women not to ask for a pay rise?33.The founder of which dating app was asked to step down as boss because of a sexual harassment lawsuit?34.When Christian Bale bailed, who stepped in to the title role in the forthcoming Aaron Sorkin/Danny Boyle Steve Jobs biopic?35.Which US magazine erroneously reported that Dorian Prentice Satoshi Nakamoto was the mysterious creator of Bitcoin?36.Which Hollywood megastar launched his own typewriter app?37.According to Ofcom, which broadband provider had the lowest proportion of subscribers who opted into David Cameron’s much-trumpeted “porn filters”. Virgin, Sky or BT Broadband?38.Condoleezza Rice joined the board of which cloud computing company?39.Which country banned both Twitter and YouTube at some point this year?40.Which singer removed her entire back catalogue from Spotify?41.Which European country passed a copyright law which forces Google and other online news aggregators to pay a royalty to print media?42.Which literary agent described Amazon as an “Isis-like distribution channel”?43.Who tweeted: “I’ve just bought an iPhone!” some days after they had died?44.Which Chinese tech firm’s flotation valued it higher than Amazon or eBay?45.Mojang was sold to Microsoft for $2.5bn. Which game does the company produce?46.Which YouTube star switched off comments, describing them as “mainly spam”?47.Which European country made the most right-to-be-forgotten requests?48.Which tech firm’s logo was Gizmodo talking about when it asked: “Is it balls? Is it a vagina? Is it balls in front of a vagina?”49.What were described as “a new pain in the arse” for riders in the Tour de France?50.Who described the Internet as a “CIA project”?•Click here for the answers to Part 2 and Part 3. If you would rather tackle the questions inPart 3 first, click here
PART 2...Who said what?21. Elon Musk; 22. Stuart Butterfield, boss of Slack; 23. Julian Assange; 24. David Cameron; 25. Tim Cook, boss of Apple; 26. Mark Zuckerberg; 27. Kim Dotcom; 28. Sheryl Sandberg; 29. Martha Lane Fox; 30. Jonathan IveQuestion time:31. Uber; 32. Satyna Nadella of Microsoft; 33. Tinder; 34. Michael Fassbinder; 35. Newsweek; 36. Tom Hanks; 37. Virgin; 38. Dropbox; 39. Turkey; 40. Taylor Swift; 41. Spain; 42. Andrew Wylie; 43. Joan Rivers; 44. Allibaba; 45. Minecraft; 46. PewDiePie; 47. France; 48. Airbnb; 49. Selfies; 50. Vladimir Putin.PART 3...In pictures:51. Bradley Cooper; 52. Talking Angela; 53. Shingy; 54. Manuel Noriega; 55. Google Cardboard; 56. The Queen sends her first tweet; 57. Destiny; 58. Charlotte Bronte; 59. Zoella; 60. No one.
The best we can say about 2014 is that it was the year when we finally began to have a glimmer of what the internet might mean for society. Not the internet that we fantasised about in the early years, but the network as it has evolved from an exotic curiosity into the mundane underpinning of our lives – a general-purpose technology or GPT.And, in a way, the timescale is about right. The internet that we use today was switched on in January 1983, but it didn’t really become a mainstream medium until the web began to explode in 1993. So we’re about 21 years into the revolution. And what we know from the history of other GPTs is that it generally takes at least two decades before they form the unremarked-upon backdrops to everyday life.In 1999, Andy Grove, then the CEO of Intel, the dominant chip-maker of the time, made a famous prediction. In five years’ time, he said, “companies that aren’t internet companies won’t be companies at all”. He was widely ridiculed for this pronouncement at the time. But in fact he was just being prescient. What he was trying to communicate was that the internet would one day become like the telephone or mains electricity – something that we take for granted. Grove’s point was that companies that boasted that they “were now on the internet” in 2004 would already be regarded as ridiculous. And so indeed they were.The novelist Andrew O’Hagan had alovely contrarian piecein theNew York Timeslast month – contrarian because it usefully runs counter to the golden-age, hand-wringing lamentation that ubiquitous networking evokes in many of us. “Yesterday morning,” he writes, I realised I needed to know something about a distant relative for a book I’m writing. I’m old enough to remember when one had to pack a bag and take a train; when one had to stand in queues at libraries, complete an application form, then scroll for hours through hard-to-read microfiche and take notes and repeat. I’m not 104, but I wrote a whole book that way, my first, and it took for ever and it didn’t add much to most of the paragraphs. Yesterday, I had the information from an archive website in about 20 minutes.”And then? “I ordered a car fromUberto take me to King’s College London to teach a class, and I emailed my notes to my office computer from the car and I dealt with a dozen emails and I read a review of a restaurant I was going to that evening and watched part of a video of a ballet I was due to see before dinner.”Even those of us who lead less exotic lives could tell similar stories: of holidays and flights booked from an armchair; of ebooks delivered in less than a minute; of emails received from the other side of the planet; of photographs and movies instantly shared with friends; of Christmas shopping done online; of groceries ordered from Tesco – and delivered to an elderly parent who lives on her own 200 miles away; of seeing family members in Australia via Skype or FaceTime; of being able to find information on Wikipedia or help with calculus from theKhan Academy(motto: “You only have to know one thing: you can learn anything”). And so on, ad infinitum.Could we live without the net? Answer: on an individual level possibly, but on a societal level no – simply because so many of the services on which industrialised societies depend now rely on internet connectivity. In that sense, the network has become the nervous system of the planet. This is why it now makes no more sense to argue about whether the internet is good or bad than to debate whether oxygen or water are desirable. We’ve got it and we’re stuck with it.Which means that we’re also stuck with its downsides. While offline crime has decreased dramatically – car-related theft has reduced by 79% since 1995 and burglary by 67%, for example, what’s happened is that much serious crime has now moved online, whereits scale is staggering, even if the official statistics do not count it. The same goes for industrial espionage (at which the Chinese are currently the world champions) and counter-espionage and counter-terrorism (at which the NSA and GCHQ currently top the international league tables). And we’re just getting started on cyberwarfare.So here we are at the end of 2014, finally wising up to what we’ve got ourselves into: an internet that provides us with much that we love and value and would be hard put to do without. But an internet that is alsodangerous, untrustworthy and comprehensively monitored. The question for 2015 and beyond is whether we can have more of the former and less of the latter. Happy New Year!
According to Jessica Rosenkrantz, “this is just the beginning”. As one half of perhaps the most innovative design duo in the world, Rosenkrantz is still basking in the acclaim for the 4D designer dress that has just been added to the permanent collection of the Museum of Modern Art in New York.“This dress may never be worn,” she told theObserver. “But the project is in part about a web application – Kinematics – that anyone can use to design a product that can be made very efficiently, requires no assembly and perfectly fits the body.”The people behind the dress are Rosenkrantz and Jesse Louis-Rosenberg, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) graduates in biology and architecture, and mathematics respectively. Their design studio, Nervous System, is at the forefront of a movement that uses software to mimic processes and patterns found in nature.The results are breathtakingly intricate designs, taken from the veins in leaves, crystal formations or the delicate radiating gills found on the underside of mushrooms, which are used to make products such as jewellery, lampshades and garden trellises. To create the dress, the designers took a 3D scan of the model’s body. The Kinematics app then rendered the image with tessellated or triangular patterns. According to the size, placement and quantity of triangles – each held with hinges – the garment can be made to move like fabric.By uniting the garment into a single piece and compressing the design for printing – it required 2,279 printed panels interconnected by 3,316 hinges – the designers found that they could reduce the volume for printing by 85%. It has still cost $3,000 in materials and took two days to print on a commercial 3D printer, but the see-through cocktail dress has pushed design, fashion and manufacturing in new directions.The theory of 4D printing describes making something in one shape that unfolds to become another – in essence, 3D printing with an extra layer of computational power. The biggest surprise, Rosenkrantz says, is that it actually works. However, she adds, the garment industry has always been at the forefront of new technology, from the weavers’ loom to the present day.“We’re interested in creating complex objects that are one of a kind and customisable,” says Louis-Rosenberg, “and [we want] to use 3D printing to make products that have never been made before.”The dress (seen in close-up) features intricate designs taken from the veins of leaves and crystal formations.Photograph: Steve Marsel StudioNervous System developed the Kinematics concept as a project for Google to publicise the company’s Android phones. The designers guessed that their technique for printing bracelets on domestic MakerBot 3D printers that folded like origami could be used for larger projects but were still surprised the dress came out as well as it did. “It feels like mechanical lace, somewhere between plastic and fabric,” Rosenkrantz explains. “We’d like to do a little more testing before we say we’re ready to market it.”While technology companies are leaning towards fashion to glamorise wearable technology, or geek wear – Apple is expected to announce design collaborations with luxury brands when it launches the iWatch early next year – it is still relatively rare for that process to be reversed. The Dutch designer Iris van Herpen recently introduced clothes inspired by the Large Hadron Collider, the particle accelerator at the Cern laboratory in Switzerland.Nervous System’s aim, though, is not to endorse fashion’s emphasis on exclusivity, but to return the power to design to the individual wearer. One of their chief influences is Skylar Tibbits, a research professor at MIT’s department of architecture, who focuses on self-assembly and programmable material technologies. That computational power can then be used to mimic designs found in nature – a fern, for instance, or an egg – under the label of biomimetic or organic design. Advances in what Tibbits calls “hyperform” might allow designers to make structures as fine as silk or sturdy as tweed.Rosenkrantz and Louis-Rosenberg are reluctant to describe the dress as fashion. “This is fundamentally about harnessing computational power and new fabrication methods and placing that in the hands of people,” says Louis-Rosenberg.They anticipate a return to artisanal craftsmanship, reached not through reverting to pre-industrial methods of manufacturing but through advanced technology – and a distinct shift away from the idea of mass production and luxury branding.“We’re interested in things that are customised, that you design yourself and are made locally, affordably and ethically as part of your lifestyle,” says Rosenkrantz. “It’s not just about picking something off the shelf.”Customisation and bespoke tailoring once existed only at the luxury end of the market but the MIT graduates argue that it is something mass-market consumers have always wanted but have traded for products that they could afford to buy. “It wasn’t as if we decided we all wanted the same T-shirt or chair because we wanted to look the same,” Rosenkrantz reasons. “It was because of price-point and efficiency.”Now, with a backlash building against the consumer world of “product”, 3D technologies could point the way forward. The machine that built the Kinematics dress at the Shapeways “3D printing factory” in New York costs hundreds of thousands of dollars and is difficult to operate. Machines of this complexity are not going to be in our homes any time soon but the software and computational power is readily available.“The ability to design and print your own products is something we think about,” says Rosenkrantz. “We want to bring back the feeling that what you have is what you actually want – not just the thing you settled for.”New York’s Museum of Modern Art clearly believes the pair are on to something. It is planning to put the dress on display next month as part of a show highlighting advances in design.“We really appreciate when new technology is used well and, we believe, will have an impact on the real world,” says Paola Antonelli, the museum’s senior design curator. “We think it’s an important stepping stone and an elegant manifestation of technology that allows the printing of textiles folded and offers enormous potential for the future of fabrication.”
The countryside is set to overtake towns and cities as the driving force of Britain’s economy – with superfast broadband leading to a boom in business startups in rural areas, the government has claimed.Over the next decade, productivity in rural areas could grow faster than in urban areas for the first time since the industrial revolution, according to a report from the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra).The environment secretary, Liz Truss, told Radio 4’s Today programme on Saturday: “People are more likely to start up a business in a rural area than in an urban area. There’s a myth out there that innovation happens in cities, that it happens in major towns. In fact, we’re seeing lots of innovation, lots of exports, new technology startups, in rural areas.”More people are moving to the countryside from towns, than vice versa, and many of those who do move to the country tend to be wealthier and more likely to start up a business, the Defra study found.Just over a quarter of all businesses – 26% or around 486,000 – are in the countryside and more people start businesses in the country than in major towns, with the exception of cities such as London, according to the report, which notes that current productivity in rural areas is 83% that of urban areas.The government also estimates that as many as 2 million people are working from home in rural areas thanks to the internet.The rural population is expected to increase by 6% in the next 10 years, according to the Office of National Statistics.Truss claimed that more jobs and higher wages in the countryside would reduce the need for people to commute to towns and cities.“Instead they can spend their time in the town or village they’re based in working,” she told the Today programme. “People are much more likely to work at home and do flexible working in rural areas so they’re using that new technology to work in different ways.”The government has set a target to get 95% of the UK superfast broadband by 2017, backed by £780m in funding.
Millions of people were able to use their games consoles again on Boxing Day after Microsoft overcame an apparent cyber-attack and restored its Xbox Live platform. But customers on the Sony PlayStation network continued to have problems with its services following a parallel attack.A group calling itselfLizard Squadclaimed responsibility for bringing down both networks on Christmas Eve, which may have affected nearly 160 million gamers.Even an intervention by eccentric internet entrepreneur Kim Dotcom, who offered the hackers free lifetime use of his file storage service, does not appear to have ended the attack. Known as a distributed denial of service, or DDOS, the attack overloads the systems of both services by generating fake access requests.Such an attack can prevent people from playing games even when they have a physical copy, as newer consoles often require online authentication as an anti-piracy measure.Games consoles have replaced DVD players or cable services as the primary entertainment system in millions of homes, offering apps including Netflix, Hulu and BBC iPlayer. Some of these services have remained accessible, but users have complained of outages where services require a login.More than 110 million people use the PlayStation Network (PSN) and at least 46 million use Xbox Live, both of which connect players to other gamers and services through the internet. It is not yet known how many consoles were sold for Christmas 2014, but since the PlayStation 4 launched in 2013, Sony has sold 13.5m, while 10m Xbox One units have been shipped since it launched in 2013. Both sell for more than £300.Many users, including those who were given games worth at least £30 each for Christmas, have taken to Twitter to vent their frustration. @Swan-City said: “I’m having issues accessing the PSN just unboxed my ps4 downloaded firmware now can’t get log into PSN to download games”, while @nerdrock “Real shocked I’m unable to enjoy my new PS4 on Christmas morning. Good job, PSN.”@schumi500 said: “I am glad to see the Christmas spirit isn’t dead with Hackers taking down #playstationnetwork and #xboxlive to spoil children’s fun.”The motive for the attack is not clear, but Lizard Squad had apparently threatened to target both networks at Christmas, using a now deleted Twitter account to describe itself as the “next-generation Grinch”. A new Twitter account had amassed 150,000 followers by midday on 26 December, seemingly encouraging gamers to follow it on Twitter to prevent further attacks.Sony has not responded to requests for comment. Its official Twitter account repeatedly responded to users’ complaints with the same message, but did not acknowledge an attack: “We are aware that some users are unable to access at the moment. Our technicians are working to fix this issue.” The official PSN status was listed as “offline” at the time of writing, while Xbox Live is “limited”.Microsoft would not comment on the cause of network problems, but a Microsoft website that keeps track of the status of Xbox services listed Xbox Live’s “core services” as up and running on Friday. Several third-party apps on the platform were experiencing limited services on Friday evening, however.The news is damaging for Microsoft, but particularly for Sony, which suffered a high-profile hack in early December by a group called Guardians of Peace. Stolen emails were leaked and published, revealing embarrassing exchanges between executives and celebrities, while stolen files and even film scripts left the company so exposed it has reportedly reverted to using fax machines and paper in its offices.Though a different division from the hacked Sony Pictures, Sony Online Entertainment has been plagued with outage problems previously. PSN also suffered downtime during Christmas 2013 when the PlayStation 4 had its first holiday season, and a confirmed DDOS attack would reinforce the theory that Sony’s networks are still not resilient enough to withstand increased demand.Lizard Squad surfaced in August 2014 when the group claimed responsibility for hacking the PlayStation Network, the servers of games company Blizzard Entertainment and tweeted a bomb threat for an American Airlines flight carrying Sony Online Entertainment president John Smedley, which had to be diverted.It claimed to have brought down the servers of more high-profile games in September, targeting Destiny, Grand Theft Auto Online and Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare, and took PSN and XBox Live down again on 1 December. It then threatened to repeat the attack on Christmas Day.A rival hacking group, Finest Squad, claimed to be attempting to stop them, saying it would dismantle the group and hand their details to police; it claimed a part in the arrest in December of a 17-year old in British Columbia, Canada, who had been making hoax calls to the emergency services.
Millions of people could not use their games consoles for a second day as disruption on the Xbox Live and Sony Playstation networks continued after an apparent cyber-attack.A group calling itselfLizard Squadclaimed responsibility for bringing down both networks on Christmas Eve, which could have affected nearly 160 million gamers.Even an intervention by eccentric internet entrepreneur Kim Dotcom, who offered the hackers free lifetime use of his file storage service, does not appear to have ended the attack. Known as a distributed denial of service, or DDOS, the attack is overloading the systems of both services by generating fake access requests.Such an attack can prevent people from playing games even when they have a physical copy as newer consoles often require online authentication as an anti-piracy measure.Games consoles have replaced DVD players or cable services as the primary entertainment system in millions of homes, offering apps including Netflix, Hulu and BBC iPlayer. Some of these services have remained accessible but users have complained of outages where services require a login.More than110 million peopleuse the PlayStation Network (PSN) and at least46 millionuse Xbox Live, both of which connect players to other gamers and services through the internet. It is not yet known how many consoles were sold for Christmas 2014, but since the PlayStation 4 launched in 2013, Sony has sold 13.5m, while 10m Xbox One units have been shipped since it launched in 2013. Both sell for more than £300 ($460).Many users, including those who were given games worth at least £30 each for Christmas, have taken to Twitter to vent their frustration. @Swan-City said: “I’m having issues accessing the PSN just unboxed my ps4 downloaded firmware now can’t get log into PSN to download games”, while @nerdrock “Real shocked I’m unable to enjoy my new PS4 on Christmas morning. Good job, PSN.”@schumi500 said: “I am glad to see the Christmas spirit isn’t dead with Hackers taking down #playstationnetwork and #xboxlive to spoil children’s fun.”The motive for the attack is not clear, but Lizard Squad had apparently threatened to target both networks at Christmas, using a now deleted Twitter account to describe itself as the “next-generation Grinch”. A new Twitter account had amassed 150,000 followers by midday on 26 December, seemingly encouraging gamers to follow it on Twitter to prevent further attacks.Sony has not responded to requests for comment. Itsofficial Twitter accountrepeatedly responded to users’ complaints with the same message, but did not acknowledge an attack: “We are aware that some users are unable to access at the moment. Our technicians are working to fix this issue.” The official PSN status was listed as “offline” at the time of writing, while Xbox Live is “limited”.Microsoft would not comment on the cause of network problems but a spokesman told the Guardian: “We are aware some users are unable to sign in to Xbox Live. Our teams are working to resolve the issue. Visitxbox.com/supportfor status updates.”The news is damaging for Microsoft but particularly for Sony, which suffered a high profile hack in early December by a group called Guardians of Peace. Stolen emails were leaked and published, revealing embarrassing exchanges between executives and celebrities, while stolen files and even film scripts left the company so exposed it has reportedly reverted to using fax machines and paper in its offices.Though a different division from the hacked Sony Pictures, Sony Online Entertainment has been plagued with outage problems previously. PSN also suffered downtime during Christmas 2013 when the PlayStation 4 had its first holiday season, and a confirmed DDOS attack would reinforce the theory that Sony’s networks are still not resilient enough to withstand increased demand.Lizard Squad surfaced in August 2014 when the group claimed responsibility forhacking the PlayStation Network, the servers of games company Blizzard Entertainment andtweeted a bomb threatfor an American Airlines flight carrying Sony Online Entertainment president John Smedley, which had to be diverted.It claimed to have brought down the servers of more high-profile games in September, targeting Destiny, Grand Theft Auto Online and Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare, and took PSN and XBox Live down again on 1 December. It then threatened to repeat the attack on Christmas Day.A rival hacking group, Finest Squad, claimed to be attempting to stop them, saying it would dismantle the group and hand their details to police; it claimed a part in the arrest in December of a 17-year old in British Columbia, Canada, who had been making hoax calls to the emergency services.
