Jonathan Schwartz of Sun has beentelling the world(video) that Apple will be using the ZFS file system - capable of storing 18 billion billion timesmoredata than a 64-bit system, which most of us don't have anyway - in its forthcoming version of Mac OSX, 10.5, known as Leopard.With the Apple Worldwide Developer Conference due next week, and Apple having cleared some of the hardware decks by announcing new pro notebooks yesterday, it's clear that it must have something important to talk about. As well, that is, as what the iPhone will do.TheWikipedia article on ZFS(which we'll assume for now is sufficiently accurate) notes that "If 1,000 files were created every second, it would take about 9,000 years to reach the limit of the number of files."Among the many advantages of ZFS is that it can create snapshots of your system, and particularly files, at any particular point very easily because it uses a copy-and-write method rather than edit method. (This would be useful in Apple's Time Machine feature.)There are many other features, most of which seem more useful to servers than clients (from a quick scanning) but if correct - and all the signs from Sun are pointing that way; crowing is such fun - then it will mean a very subtle but far-ranging and future-proofing overhaul to Mac OSX. However, the list of "current implementation issues" is rather long. Too long, perhaps, for an OS that needs to be solid.Bonus reading: theNew York Timeson Bertrand Serlet (Apple's king of OS development) vs Steve Sinofsky, Microsoft's head of OS development. "Like jazz compared to martial marching music," in the words of one person who's worked for both.
Ubisoft have announced that Prince of Persia Classic - a graphically reworked version of the1989 original- is launching on Xbox Box Live Arcade on the 13th June. As well as a graphical lick of paint there are new traps, puzzles and - hopefully - a toned down difficulty level. Yes, we were a lot tougher back then, but even by the gaming standards of the late 80s Prince of Persia was sadistically difficult. Despite this it was good fun, primarily because the animation was so special. After a lacklustre few weeks we've finally got something to look forward to on Live Arcade. Now all we need is Sensible Soccer to get a move on.
I'm on my second Palm, a Tungsten T3, which replaced my much loved IIIxe. I think I'm not alone in feeling slightly depressed watching the slow motion wreck that has been the last few years at Palm. Now, they've got $325 million and some fresh (and very sharp) minds on their executive team. But will it be enough to get Palm back on track?technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:Palm,turnaround,Treotechnorati tags endThere are big hopes that former Apple hardware manager (and most notably iPod chief) Jon Rubinstein will work some magic at the once market leader.Edelman's Digital Entertainment, Rights and Technology Teamsummed it up this way:Consumers - expect touchscreens, sweet designs and intuitive operating systems.Priya Ganapati says based on hisreporting for the Street.com:Palm may have just bought its freedom.Thesmartphone company, in selling a 25% stake to private-equity firmElevation Partners on Monday, got the one thing that its coremanagement has fought hard for over the years: the ability to be anindependent player and control its destiny.Rick Georges blogs at Future Lawyer, and he seems to be asking the questions thatall Palm and Treo ownerswant to know:Can Palm re-create the spark that created the IPod at Apple? Will future Treos look like the IPhone?Palm seemed to have such a head start in the market in the 1990s, and they even seemed to stave off the hard charge of Microsoft for several years. They brought Handspring back into the fold, which landed them the Treo and a pretty good smartphone. But splitting the OS company from the hardware now seems a problem. To flip what Priya was saying, it seemed like they lost their own destiny.I loved my Palm IIIxe because because it just made sense. I never read the manual and just got to using it. It was fast. It rarely crashed, as opposed to my T3, which crashes every other day. The Palm OS now feels slow, feels clunky and isn't as stable. It hasn't kept pace. The development of a new Palm OS feels like Apple in the 1990s, with a number of projects for a next-gen OS but no final product.But I want Palm to succeed in part because I'm not all that happy with the alternatives. Windows Mobile drives me to acts of violence. I have never used a Windows Mobile device without wanting to throw it across the room after 10 minutes. Nokia'sS60 is better, but I feel like too many basic functions are too many key clicks away. I've got an old Blackberry and think its OS comes closest to what Palm used to feel like: Fast and intuitive. But after using a Pearl for a few days, I came away thinking that again, it was too hard to do simple things.What do you think? Will $325 million and an Apple exec return Palm to its glory days? What do you want in not only your next Palm but your next smartphone?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Londoner Jamie Cansdale is being threatened for enhancing Microsoft software, and his deadline for compliance is 4pm today (update: extended later), according toWill Wattsin The Register.Cansdale produced a utility, TestDriven.NET, that works in Microsoft Visual Studio Express, which is a free programming tool, as well as in Microsoft Visual Studio, which is the professional version. Microsoft is happy about the Visual Studio bit and gave Cansdale a Most Valuable Professionals (MVP) award, which provides lots of free software. It's not happy about the Express bit, since it wants to encourage people to buy the expensive versions.The story says Cansdale "started getting emails from a Microsoft executive called Jason Weber" in December 2005, and these arepublished on Cansdale's website. From these, it seems that the dispute is less about programming and more about licensing, and Cansdale seems to want to comply. But things come to a head when Weber writes to Jamie on April 17:We just noticed that you recently re-enabled extensions to our Visual Studio Express products:http://weblogs.asp.net/nunitaddin/archive/2007/04/02/express-sku-support.aspxThis is extremely disappointing. We spent a lot of time last year explaining to you, over a period of many months, that our Express products are not designed or intended to be extensible. As we also explained to you many times, our license terms for the Express products do not permit extending them with new functionality or by enabling access to latent Visual Studio functionality that we purposely de-activated for our Express products.So it's not quite the "plucky hacker" story that El Reg would appear to have us believe. In one email, for example, Cansdale writes: "The customers I am most keen to target are enterprises who are currently using VS2003 (or even VS2002) who at some point will make the migration to VS2005. TestDriven.NET is all about making this migration less intimidating."This isn't really a territory inhabited by users of the free VS Express.As Weber commented about the dispute:What makes this especially puzzling is that you are undermining the economic model that you rely on for your own products. Nearly all software vendors offer limited versions of their products for nominal or no cost, often as a marketing or entry-level tool. More sophisticated or feature-rich versions of the same software are then supplied at a higher price. We do this with Visual Studio Express (our free products) and Visual Studio Standard and above (our commercial products). You use this model for your own products, the "Personal," Professional" and "Enterprise" versions of TestDriven.NET. Your actions subvert the model that we all rely on.Cansdale could avoid this sort of problem by writing free software. However, he charges enterprises $135 per copy for TestDriven.NET or you can get a 100 User Pack for only $10,500 (saving $3,000). Lone users can get a copy for only $95.Update: Jamie has added a useful comment and some links below. He points out that: "TestDriven.NET was free software when Microsoft first contacted me. It had been available as free software for 3 years prior to that. Even now there is a fully functional free 'Personal' version."In thelinked blog post, he says: "When TestDriven.Net 1.0 was released I was still [a] hobbyist .NET developer. It was only natural that I use the Express SKU which was being targeted at other hobbyist developers."Express, I think, forbids using the free tool for commercial software development (it's certainly not intended for that purpose) so I'd expect releasing TestDriven.Net as commercial software would have violated the EULA (End User License Agreement).These are murky waters, and I have sympathies with both sides. However, if you're into Visual Studio.net development, Microsoft isn't the shark, it's the pond.
Short, and let's hope sweet: anew study in Norwaydouble-blind tested 17 people who'd said that mobile phones affected them.After 65 pairs of sham and real tests, the researchers concluded thatthe study gave no evidence that RF fields from mobile phones may cause head pain or discomfort or influence physiological variables. The most likely reason for the symptoms is a nocebo effect."Nocebo" being the opposite of placebo: something harmless that you believe is harming you. Nocebo effects are real, as the symptoms of the sufferers are (asBad Science's Ben Goldacrerepeats whenever he deals with this). It's the cause of the symptoms that remains unidentified; this study makes a total of 37 "provocation" studies that have shown no effect apart from nocebo from mobile phones.The study wasn't any quick'n'easy one either: each test took two hours, and participants were asked to note symptoms occurring up to seven hours afterwards.And more fun:The increase in severity [of symptoms] was slightly higher with sham exposure than with RF exposure for pain/discomfort as well as for headache and other symptoms. For no symptom was the difference statistically significant.The present study demonstrates that exposure to RF fields from GSM 900 mobile phones does not cause pain or discomfort in the head or other symptoms, even in individuals carefully selected according to the criterion of a specific sensitivity to mobile phone use.We'd like to think that this would help people ease off the scare stories, but our hopes have been repeatedly dashed on this one...
One of the more memorable aspects of the annual Webby awards is that winners are restricted to five word acceptance speeches. This year's arejust being postedthough the page is incomplete and some entries are evidently in need of correction. For example, I'd assume CNN Money.com's "more popular than udobs" should read "More popular than Lou Dobbs".So far, it doesn't look like a particularly good year. However, I quite liked DealBook's message to Murdoch -- "hey rupert we're available call" -- and Drama winner Itsallinyourhands.com's "Imagine us with a budget." Statler and Waldorf: From the Balcony came up with "Not bad for two geezers".Guardian Unlimited collected its third Webby in a row, but I'm hoping the list gets updated because I still don't have a clue what this year's five words mean: "please free, ala drumsolo now". Anyone got a translation?Update: The Webby site -- which still has many errors -- now has the Guardian speech in full. As smarter people than me worked out, it'sPlease free Alan Johnston now.
Internet repression is eroding freedom of expression online as more governments block sites and arrest bloggers, a human rights group warned today.Amnesty International said the internet could change beyond all recognition unless action is taken and it called on governments and companies to respect people's right to freedom of expression online."The virus of internet repression is spreading. The 'Chinese model' - of an internet that allows economic growth but not free speech or privacy - is growing in popularity, from a handful of countries five years ago to dozens of governments today who block sites and arrest bloggers," said Tim Hancock, UK campaigns director of Amnesty International.State-sponsored censorship of the internet has increased significantly in recent years, according to a recent study of 41 countries conducted during 2006 and 2007 by theOpenNet Initiative, a consortium of researchers from four major universities, including Harvard and Oxford.In a report last month, ONI said at least 25 of the 41 countries it tested were engaged in some form of filtering, where governments block access to specific sites or sites featuring particular words or themes.In its survey of thousands of web sites across 120 internet service providers, ONI found that countries including Burma, China, Iran, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia engaged in filtering."At the moment we turn on our computer and assume we can see all that there is online," Mr Hancock said. "The fear is that we will only be able to access what someone wants us to see."In addition to filtering, politically motivated closure of websites and internet cafes, as well as threats or imprisonment, are reported far more widely, Amnesty said.In February, Abdul Kareem Nabeel Suleiman, a 22-year-old Egyptian blogger, was sentenced to four years imprisonment for "contempt of religion" and defaming the Egyptian president. Amnesty said his imprisonment sent a clear message to Egypt's burgeoning blogging community.Amnesty has criticised companies such as Cisco, Google, Microsoft and Yahoo! for being "complicit" in suppressing freedom of speech in China.In January 2006, Google agreed to offer a censored version of its own search engine to gain state approval and access to China's fast-growing market, although Google also maintained a non-filtered Chinese search engine hosted on US soil.Yahoo! was pilloried for releasing data to the Chinese authorities that led to the imprisonment of dissident Li Zhi for eight years in 2003, and reporter Shi Tao for 10 years in 2005.In August 2006, a UK parliamentary foreign affairs committee issueda reportsaying "collaboration of western internet companies in the censorship and policing of the internet for political purposes is morally unacceptable."Sami Ben Gharbia, a Tunisian blogger and cyber activist, who lives in the Netherlands as a refugee, said: "The internet is a bad thing for two groups: for governments who are realising that they are losing control of information and are trying to restrict the use of the internet; and for the victims of those governments, individuals who are imprisoned for simply using the internet to post and share information."Amnesty's warning comes as it relaunches theirrepressible.infowebsite, featuring a news aggregator that will turn the site into an information hub for anyone interested in the future of internet freedom.
I've finished LocoRoco, the screen's too small for movies and the machine's too cumbersome to browse the web, but the brick on my shelf formerly known as the PSP has received a stave of execution thanks to a clever business marriage between Sony and BT.According to last week's news (oops, we're late), the handheld console is to become a communications device, utilising the telecommunication's giant's Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) and the machine's wireless communications broadband.From thepress release:This partnership intends to integrate PSP with the BT Broadband video and voice 'softphone' products already available in the market today. In the following months, additional features will be launched to enable calls and messages to PCs, fixed lines and mobiles.I guess this answers the question,what do we get that they don't?Expect the handheld's webcam imminently.morehereandhere
A month ago I picked up a story (Asustek's Classmate could challenge MIT's laptop, below) about Asustek's "plans to start manufacturing own-brand notebook PCs with prices starting at $249 or less". The company was planning four Asus-branded notebooks derived from theIntel Classmate PC. And asBobbie Johnson reportedfor a recent Technology cover story, the Classmate effort has upset the people behind the One Laptop Per Child project.Asus duly announced what it calls the Eee PC at this week's Computex show in Taiwan, during a keynote given by Intel's Sean Maloney.According to PC Magazine, "two models were demonstrated: a $199 and $299 model." The horrible name signifies "easy to learn, easy to play, easy to work".The Classmate is part of Intel'sWorld Ahead Program.We don't know the specs of the Asus machines, but Intel has aClassmate PC portal. This says the Classmate can run either Microsoft Windows XP and Microsoft Office or Mandriva Discovery 2007 (Linux) and OpenOffice, so I'd assume the cheapest systems have Mandriva.This isn't a Microsoft project, but the Classmate was sourcing its Microsoft software cheaply under theMicrosoft Partners in Learning Program for Governments. I wouldn't have thought Asus's commercial notebooks qualified, and this could bump up the price of the Windows option.Chip maker Via Technology also has a low-cost subnotebook project calledNanoBook, which has been unveiled at the same show.
Today, HTC launched theHTC Touch smartphone, previously codenamed Elf, in the UK. Yes, the one that some people think is somewhat like an Apple iPhone, though (a) HTC was working on it long before Apple showed off the iPhone and (b) says it's never seen an iPhone anyway. Which is not to say it won't lap up the tons of free publicity that comes from the idea there's some resemblance.The phone has a 2 megapixel camera, 2,8in 64K colour screen, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and the usual features that come with Windows Mobile 6, including a Windows Media Player, Internet Explorer, and Outlook synchronisation. A 1GB microSD storage card is also included.HTC says the Touch "is the first device to feature TouchFLO" touch-screen technology developed by HTC, though I don't know what that means. I assume it's to do with swiping the screen manually to operate it (a finger is detected differently from a stylus). Either way, HTC has been producing touch-sensitive systems for a decade, starting with PocketPC PDAs.The Touch P3450 will be sold by T-Mobile and Orange, with other outlets presumably to follow. The novelty here is that it's an HTC device, instead of being branded SPV or whatever.Obviously it will become a much more important product when it's unveiled in San Francisco....Historical triva: Other touch-screen "iPhone-like" phones shown before the iPhone include the LG Prada and the Linux-based OpenMoko FIC Neo1973 (seebelow), so HTC is by no means alone. It's an old idea, but whether its time has come will be proven when one or more devices starts shipping millions. And the odds there are surely on Apple.....Update: Many thanks todondon677who has posted a link tohttp://htctouch.com/in a comment. This lets you see TouchFLO in action. It looks cute, though you'd have to try it to find out if it's actually usable.
It's been a year since Amnesty International andThe Observerlaunched theIrrepressible.infocampaign to highlight threats to freedom of expression on the internet. To mark the anniversary, Amnesty andThe Observerwill be hosting an event this Wednesday, and we've got some free tickets to give away.There is plenty more informationon the Amnesty website. I'll be talking briefly about the impact of blogs and citizen media on traditional journalism, but there is a great line-up of 'Net activists from around the world:• Martha Lane Fox - lastminute.com• Clark Boyd - BBC• Ron Deibert - Open Net Initiative• Sami Ben Garbia - Tunisian cyber-dissident• Josh Wolf - US cyber-dissident• Morton Sklar -Yahoo! Court case• Shava Nerad - The TOR Project• Yan Sham-Shackleton - glutter.org• Markus Beckedahl - netzpolitik.orgJimmy Wales,Dan Gillmor,Cory Doctorow,Ethan Zuckerman,Richard Stallmanand Yu Ling, wife of a Chinese cyber-dissident will also be contributing. The event is at 1830 this Wednesday 6 June, and it will be at theHuman Rights Action Centre in London. Leave a comment if you want to come. You can get up to two tickets. Please leave your e-mail address when you comment so that Amnesty can send you an e-mail confirmation, or justdrop me an e-mail. First come, first served.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:amnestyinternational,freedomofspeech,irrepressible.infotechnorati tags end
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
With Star Wars celebrating its 30th birthday this year, we're going to be facing a Deathstar-sized onslaught of nostalgic features, analysing the very life out of the series and scraping about for the last few titbits of unmined trivia. Empire Magazine has characterised the coming frenzy, producing 30 different covers for its July edition, each featuring a different character from the six movies. Not quite as grand as Loaded's famous 100 covers stunt, but impressive all the same.As for videogames and their place in the canon, there will be enough 'best Star Wars games EVER' round-ups to satisfy even the most demanding fan of nostalgic list features. But beneath the arguments over whether Knights of the Old Republic is a better game than Battlefront, I feel there's a more important question to be answered - have games ever really captured the essence of the movies? Have they addressed the underlying appeal, the elusive, indefatigable cool of Star Wars? I'm not sure. I'm not even sure anyone has really tried.Because, despite the best efforts of the prequel trilogy, Star Wars is and always has been cool. Birthed in the seventies, the nostalgic epicentre of 21st century style irony, it is cool simply through chronology. It is also sometimes easy to forget that the original film (before it received its Episode IV moniker) was a product of the Hollywood auteur milieu in which upstart youngsters like Spielberg, Paul Schrader and Martin Scorsese attempted to re-mould the mainstream movie business on directorial rather than studio lines. In some ways, Star Wars is more an ideological stablemate of Taxi Driver or French Connection than of 2001 or Star Trek.It was an enormously ambitious, unusual film at the time. Lots of critics credit Alien as the first movie to make sci-fi look grungy and downbeat - but Star Wars beat it by two years. The cantina - a back street bar, a weird twist on Edward Hopper Americana; the Millennium Falcon - a faded, rust bucket of a ship, held together by patched systems and regular droid intervention; Tatooine - a symbol of every outback dead end on our planet.But these elements have eluded LucasArts and other studios charged with tackling the series. The squalor, the unease, the casual violence - it's just not there in the games. Okay, the Forces of Corruption add-on for real-time strategy title, Empires at War, was a step in the right direction, with players taking on the role of a crime lord seeking to usurp Jabba the Hutt's rule, but this was anadd-onto an only slightly above average PC title. Maybe a Deus Ex-era Ion Storm could have done brought us a dirty, sexy Star Wars game, perhaps even Rockstar North (imagine a GTA title in a Star Wars environment). But LucasArts, possibly under contractual obligation, is now busy filling in plot details between the movies, adding unwanted layers upon the sketchy Jedi timeline.There have, of course, been technical and game design reasons for this lack of willingness to engage with the 'human' drama of Star Wars. The early conversions tended to focus on the mechanical aspects of the movies - the space craft battles, the speeder bike chases - because these could be rendered more easily with limited graphics. Later games have stuck mostly to Jedi mythology, not just because this is ostensibly the central concept of the movies, but because the Jedi have a great melee weapon and long-distance attack potential provided by the Force. They're just useful videogame archetypes.In the end, I think the real problem has been an under-use of Han Solo and Boba Fett. Luke and Darth may hold the Star Wars throughline in their grasp, but they weren't cool characters. Luke had precisely one moment of cool in each movie from the original trilogy: staring forlornly into the twin suns in Star Wars, willingly falling to his seeming death at the end of Empire Strikes Back and arriving at the last minute to join Han's Endor mission in Return of the Jedi (and he ruinedthatby regretting it for the next 20 minutes of the movie). Solo, although later emasculated by the syrupy sentimentalism of Return of the Jedi, was always edgy - always likeable, alwaysreal. Or real-ish.Han's battle with Fett is the naturalistic mirror of the Skywalker/Vader arc. These are working men operating in a galaxy filled with monsters and magicians, just trying to make a living. We can relate to them in a basic way, and let's face it we can relate to little else in the movie series. So why have they appeared so little in the games? Is it really down to the fact that gamers just want to be Jedi fighters and starship commanders? Or have videogame designers, many of them massive Star Wars fans, simply failed to get to grips with the gritty underbelly of the films?There have been some wonderful Star Wars games. No fan could have played X-Wing vs TIE Fighter or Knights of the Old Republic or a dozen others and not been moved, not felt like part of the Star Wars universe. But here's the thing - remember when the re-hashed Star Wars release sanitised the Gredo/Han showdown? That's what the videogame industry has done with the whole of the series.
More evidence - if needed - that the Wii has changed everything. And no, not the fact that thebig publishershave belatedly beenploughing resourceinto Wii (and DS) development. It appears that even Bill Gates hasbought into the Wii. Sort of. "Imagine a game machine where you just can pick up the bat and swing it or the tennis racket and swing it," said Gates. Ring any bells? Yes, it's that console you spent all Christmas day on, primarily getting your relatives addicted to the bowling, but have barely looked at since Zelda was completed.Luckily for us - though presumably not Nintendo's lawyers - Gates' vision is more about camera-based video recognition than Wii 360. Sadly there are no real details but if, like me, you've played the atrociousTotem Ballon the 360 - think gesticulating wildly and losing all feeling in your arms as you struggle to accurately control the on-screen action - then you'll know that Microsoft have a long way to go before this vision becomes reality. Call me a bluff old traditionalist but I'm happy with the pad for now.
Taiwan's Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI) has come up with a new memory card format called miCard (Multiple Interface Card), which has just been approved by the MultiMediaCard Association. The standard reaction at this point is to throw up your hands and wonder why oh why oh why do we need another damn card format when we already have MMC, SD, microSD, CompactFlash, Memory Stick and several others.But miCard does have some advantages. One is that it uses fast 16-bit USB protocols where many cards still have 8-bit buses. This should make it easy to design into USB thumb drives. Another is that it uses MMC's electrical specs so it should be possible to produce cards that fit current card readers. A third is that it can handle lots of memory: ultimately up to 2TB (or 2,048GB) on a card, which should be enough for at least a thousand mp4 movies.However, asEE Times Asia points out: "The main motivation was to get out from underneath royalty payments of 6% for SD cards, of which Taiwan is the No 2 assembler, by promoting a spec that might eventually supersede it in popularity."Given the volume of cards produced in China and Taiwan, that 6% represents a mountain of cash.The EE Times reports:Working prototypes were unveiled last week in Taiwan and will be on display at the Computex [trade show]. The spec will be published by the MMCA in June and mass production of the first batch is expected in Q3."When the card is popular enough, so that you see it everywhere in retail, CE vendors have said they will design in a special slot for it," said Liu Chih-yuan, of Taiwan's Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI), which spearheaded the project.There is no guarantee that consumers will go for the idea. However, being able to offer smaller, faster, cheaper Flash cards with bigger memory capacities must give it a chance.
In the second part of our interview with Mark Eyles, the games industry veteran and Principal Lecturer on the games degree courses at University of Portsmouth describes his transition between the two fields and makes a case for the role of academia in games.Why did you move from a hands-on, traditional game designer to PhD candidate?Once I started working at the University of Portsmouth it was a natural move to start a part time PhD. It's the sort of thing that lecturers do! This was also a very natural move for me. Anyone working in the games industry has to keep up to date with the latest technologies and game design ideas. You are constantly learning and constantly working at the cutting edge. Progressing to doing a PhD is very natural thing to do.From your perspective as a successful games designer and current academician, what is the relevance of academic study for games design?There are two answers to this question. Firstly from the perspective of students who wish to become game designers: Any learning is going to help. Completing a BSc or MSc indicates that you are more likely to have the necessary intellectual skills that are required by the games industry and increases your chances of getting an interview for a design job.There are differences in studying games as a researcher and developing the skills required to be a successful game designer. For example, knowing a game in incredible detail and being able to write academic papers about it does not necessarily indicate that you will have the skills to design a successful game. Studying what has gone before and current best practices helps in becoming a game designer, though this is not enough by itself.Game design, like many things, is something that you can improve by practice. So academic studies that include opportunities to both design games and to reflect on the design of games are going to help.There are a number of skills that should be embedded in any academic course that is focussed on game design: project management, communication and team working skills. These form a basis on which to build subject specific (game design) skills.Secondly from the perspective of game design researchers: As I mentioned earlier academics are not under the same financial pressures as commercial game developers. They can look further ahead than the games industry and try out things that have no obvious commercial potential. Research into games and game design can offer important insights into games. This is all pretty new still; the games industry has historically not often been very close to academics.However, the industry has matured and universities have recognised games as an important area for study. You can see the evidence for this in the both the number of game related university courses and the number of researchers investigating different aspects of games.I believe there are some interesting methodological issues around the use of games and game design in research. Some of the techniques and methods that drop out of this are certain to have relevance not only for game design and research but also for the games industry.
Several sourcesreport that the alternate reality gamePerplex City, famed for its gruellingly difficult puzzle cards and its top notchprize(as well as for beingassociatedwith the BBC's recentFrozen Indigo Angelgame), willnotbe going into a second season as initially reported, for reasons unknown.A lengthy explanation can be found on Director of Play Adrian Hon'spersonal blog. A more formal announcement is on thePerplex City homepage.Well that's a shame! I was looking forward to getting my teeth into Series 2. The cards will continue to be supported and the team at Mind Candy hope to have a suitable outlet for future projects in future.Conspiracy theorists may start their infernal questioning now.
Oh dear, a problem for Office 2007. The two leading science journals, Science and Nature, say that they won't accept papers submitted in the new "docx" Word 2007 format.Science magazinesays:Because of changes Microsoft has made in its recent Word release that are incompatible with our internal workflow, which was built around previous versions of the software, Science cannot at present accept any files in the new .docx format produced through Microsoft Word 2007, either for initial submission or for revision.And Nature, the other top-ranking science journal,isn't taking Word 2007 formats either.For Science, though, it gets worse:Users of Word 2007 should also be aware that equations created with the default equation editor included in Microsoft Word 2007 will be unacceptable in revision, even if the file is converted to a format compatible with earlier versions of Word; this is because conversion will render equations as graphics and prevent electronic printing of equations, and because the default equation editor packaged with Word 2007 -- for reasons that, quite frankly, utterly baffle us -- was not designed to be compatible with MathML.(MathMLis the markup language for mathematical equations, widely used in scientific circles. Or at least Science.)Will Microsoft be hurrying round to the AAAS and Elsevier offices with spiffyfreecheaplow-pricedhelpful upgrades to Office for those organisations? Actually, since any upgrade has to be melded into the workflow, it probably won't help. Which is something of a disincentive for academic institutions around the world that want to stay highly ranked on the ISI to upgrade to Office 2007 in a hurry.Never mind - they can keep the money for their next set of experiments.(ViaJohn Naughton, our colleague on the Observer, viaRob Weir.)Jack adds: David Carlisle has programmed a workaround,XHTML and MathML from Office 2007. He says: "Word 2007 has MathML input/output (via an XSL stylesheet installed with the system), and has HTML input/output (via its save as web page file menu), so the plan of action is: save the document as html, clean it up to xhtml, using the stylesheet to convert the mathematics to MathML at the same time."Also, Murray Sargent, a Microsoft programmer who works on the maths in Office, hascommented on his blogon Science and Nature "misunderstanding ... Word's MathML support". He points out that Word handles things like images, footnotes and comments, revision and version tracking etc:The file format needs to be general enough to express such material faithfully. Unfortunately, MathML 2.0 isn't able to handle embedded XML namespaces and as such simply isn't general enough to represent Word 2007 technical documents. Accordingly we had to develop an XML approach that is general enough and we created OMML (Office MathML), which can be embedded in Word's primary XML, WordProcessingML.
Just what the world needs - another middle-aged financial journalist undergoing a 'Wii-piphany'. But Jeffrey O'Brien of Fortune Magazine does at least provide a long and detailed look at Nintendo's business practise in thisexcitable Wii story, which begins with the journalist playing Wii boxing with Miyamoto.To start with it blasts us with the familiar 'Wii is amazing because anyone can play - ha ha it's showing Sony and Microsoft a thing or two' schtick. I'msotired of this. It's like Singstar, Dance Dance Revolution and, for heavens sake, the whole PC casual gaming phenomenon never happened. It seems there are a lot of people who are scared and confused by where games are going - Wii is a comforting reposte. A re-direction along accessible lines.Nowhere does O'Brien address the key issue of software availability. What are we meant to do between the big in-house releases? Of course, that's not a problem to Nintendo, because its business model is built to survive on two or three software sales per year, per customer. Is this the golden future we are all meant to be looking forward too? Wii is an astonishing concept - so clever and so brave of Nintendo. It is so much fun. But it cannot be the only way.
Frustrated by the lack of remixed Commodore 64 music in your clubbing life? Of course you are. So on June 22 you should probably make your way to the Spitz Bistro in Spitalfields Market, Bishopsgate, where Chris Abbott and Jason Mackenzie will be holding another one of their "Back in Time Live" nights where DJs fuse C64 audio gems with modern beats. God, I sounded old in that sentence.Live performers will include Jeroen Tel (composer of C64 soundtracks like Cybernoid and Turbo Outrun), Reyn Ouwehand (Last Ninja 3) and Seth "8-bit Weapon" Sternberger who brings a SIDstation and Gameboy for mashed-up chip tune mayhem. I'm pretty surei-D magazinewill be offering me work after this."In addition, there will be humorous C64 breakdance, air guitar and interpretive dance contests," promises the press release, following this with a reassurance of "minimal nerdity" - surely the former quote more or less utterly contradicts the latter? Oh who cares, any excuse to listen to C64 music is fine by us. And this is, of course, only the latest phase in the retro videogame soundtrack rebirth - regular readers may have spotted my posts onLost LevelsandGuitar Zeros.I'mthatclose to organising a Gamesblog equivalent - perhaps with cocktails based on key retro titles. Mario Bros Martini anyone?Ticket infohere (to the Spitalfields C64 Live event not my imaginary one).
Having suffered the effects of Bubble 1.0, there's an inordinate fear of Bubble 2.0, according toThe New York Timesand Netscape co-founderMarc Andreessen, writing independently. Well, both would have been prompted by the discussion around a Michael Arrington post at TechCrunch:Silicon Valley Could Use A Downturn Right About Now.The Times has a lovely quote from Paul Kedrosky, the executive director of the William J. von Liebig Center for Entrepreneurism and Technology Advancement at the University of California, San Diego:"It's like people in the valley had bombs dropped on their heads six or seven years ago," he said, "and now they're so hyperaware that if they even hear what they think is a lit fuse, they're scurrying for the exits, yelling, 'Bubble, bubble, bubble.' "Andreessen suspects it's a habit ingrained by evolution:If there is a nonzero chance that a giant man-eating saber-tooth tiger is going to come over the nearest hill and chomp you, then it's in your evolutionary best interest to predict doom and gloom more frequently than it actually happens.The cost of hiding from a nonexistent giant man-eating saber-tooth tiger is low, but the cost of not hiding from a real giant man-eating saber-tooth tiger is quite high.But he argues that bubbles are actually rather rare, and that times have changed since Bubble 1.0:My back of the envelope calculation is that it is about 10x cheaper to start an Internet business today than it was in the late 90's -- due to commodity hardware, open source software, modern programming technologies, cheap bandwidth, the rise of third-party ad networks, and other infrastructure factors.And the market size for a new Internet business today is about 10x bigger than it was in the late 90's -- there are about 10x more people online (really!), and they are far more used to doing things on the Internet today than they were in 1999.The clincher in the New York Times is that venture capitalists are not inflating the market to the same extent. It says:Venture capitalists are investing a small fraction of the money they committed during the boom. They collectively invested $62.7 billion in technology start-ups in 2000, according to VentureOne, a financial research firm, compared with $14.3 billion last year and $3.1 billion in the first three months of 2007.That doesn't mean some company values aren't overinflated, and plenty of startups are going out of business. But that's normal, not just on the net but in other areas of business too.
After 23 years working as a designer and producer in the games industry,Mark Eylesleft the rat race for a (supposed) slower-paced life in academia and took on the role of Principal Lecturer of the computer games design courses at Portsmouth University. Inspired by the opportunity to use his creative skills to develop an interactive game unconstrained by release schedules and financial requirement, he's beenworking onAmbient Quest. In the first part of this two-part interview, Mark describes the process he uses to design games, and talks about what ambient gaming can offer the traditional games community. Tomorrow, he argues the case for a relationship between academia and industry.Why game ambiently?My motivation is that it will be fun. I can imagine other people might have other motivations. For example to try and alter their behaviour (perhaps adopt a healthier lifestyle).When does an ambient game cease being ambient?A game would not be ambient if playing it stopped when you moved your attention away from it. An ambient game is both pervasive and persistent, so continues even when you are not thinking about it and also continues to react to particular things you are doing when you are not thinking about it.How is it a game rather than, as one gamesblogger put it, a nice way to display (behavioural) data?The example ambient game simulation Ambient Quest contains many classic role playing game mechanisms, such as character attributes, combat, exploration, experience levels and so on. There is also a feedback loop at the heart of it - the player can see results from their actions and can then respond to these which effects the progression of their avatar in the game. This is not simply recording data and displaying it. The collection and display of data happens alongside playing the game. You could collect and display behavioural data using the ambient game technology. You could also play the game very passively, without paying much attention, so that the game would be doing little more than collecting and displaying behavioural data. However the important difference is that you would be engaged in a process of affecting events in the virtual world according to a set of game rules.I guess you can argue that any game offers a way to display behavioural data. Say I'm playing Dance Dance Revolution, a rhythm action game; isn't the game displaying behavioural data? Though I don't know how interesting a record of my 'dance' steps would be!How might ambient gaming experiments feed into traditional gaming experience?The easy answer to this is that I'm not sure - that's why I'm experimenting with it! Currently I am feeding traditional game experiences into ambient gaming experiments and then just seeing what happens.Perhaps part of what will come out of this is a better understanding of what it is to play a game. Ambient games are a type of pervasive game and I can certainly see that they could feed mechanisms and approaches into that whole area.I'm not sure how they might affect traditional console or PC games. I guess you could imagine a social game in which your next gen console has a camera plugged into it that monitors peoples' movements in an area (uniquely identifying them with recognition software). The behaviour of people in that area (perhaps who they are with?) then affects avatars or other elements in a virtual world displayed on the TV. Hmmm, beginning to sound like a game that is driven by relationships. Would you reward people who had more different partners as they passed through that area? Or reward people with fewer partners? Now if I could set this up at the entrance to the student union...Who else is part of the ambient gaming community?There was a mobile game called Feeding Yoshi, described in a 2006 paper, where a game character on a mobile device responded to wireless networks. This was very close to the kind of ambient games I'm researching, but importantly the game demanded the players' attention at certain times rather than letting the player decide when they wished to focus their attention on the game. The team behind Feeding Yoshi seem to be exploring an area very close to ambient games.What types of knowledge and creativity have you drawn upon to understand ambient gaming and to design Ambient Quest?I worked in the games industry for 23 years as a designer and producer so that has given me a set of tools and skills that I can use to design games. When I became a lecturer in 2003 and started to teach game design to students at the University of Portsmouth I necessarily had to critically reflect on what I had been doing all those years in the industry and identify the knowledge and skills that would be required by my students. This move from a more intuitive approach to design to having to explicitly explain components of the game design process has enabled me to more fully justify and test game design decisions.I picked on ambient gaming as an interesting area to look at for a few reasons: 1) It seemed like it would be interesting and fun, 2) I was very struck by Brian Eno's ambient music when it appeared in the late 70s. It got me thinking, 3) As an academic I was in a privileged position of not having to create a game to sell to earn a living, so I could investigate game ideas and technologies that it might not be possible to produce commercially for another, say, ten years.The game Ambient Quest came directly out of thinking about Brian Eno's ambient 'Music for Airports' album and wondering what it would be like if it was a game. I added role playing games into the mix as they are very well defined and have a wide and interesting range of gameplay mechanisms. I would have preferred to use an ambient intelligent environment to run the game, but came up with the much cheaper pedometer option. It's always useful having constraints when designing a game' this one had a financial constraint.My personal creative process for coming up with a game idea is to consciously think about different ideas and research relevant areas for a few day. Then following this I usually wake up at 3am with an idea that almost seems to be designing itself. An hour or two later I can go back to sleep, then the following day write up a basic outline, listing all the key elements. An important part of this design process, for me, is to (conceptually) move into the game, so that it is as though all the components are arranged around me - I am inside the game.More from Mark tomorrow.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
VOLKSWAGEN CALIFORNIAFROM &pound;35,257TOP GADGET: HYDRAULIC ROOFBERTHS: 4GOOD FOR: AGEING HIPPIESBAD FOR: YOUTHFUL HIPSTERSI was born in the wrong generation, you know; if things had been organised better I'd have been born in San Francisco in about 1950 and come of age just in time to follow the Grateful Dead around in a paisley-painted VW camper van. I've always been obsessed with the romance of this dream of the open road - notwithstanding the fact that I hate everything about camping, and don't especially like the Grateful Dead - and the new VW California promised a degree of comfort never before seen in a camper van. So my four-year-old son and I took it for a road trip down to the Port Eliot Literary Festival in Cornwall to see if we could recreate that Deadhead experience in luxury.Aesthetically, the California lags behind its friendly, snub-nosed Sixties and Seventies grandparents; for all its sleek curves, it has no personality. You wouldn't dream of painting a smiley face on its aerodynamic nose - it would come out as a supercilious sneer. Among the vintage vans at the festival it stood out conspicuously, looking like something that would shuttle IBM employees from airport to conference hall. But I was amazed at the respect it drew when we arrived; a procession of VW aficionados came to pay their respects, have a good look around the deceptively roomy interior and demand repeated awed demonstrations of the hydraulic roof, which at the push of a button turns into a mezzanine bed. I was delighted that our van was the object of so much envy; how friendly everyone is, I thought.It was the next morning that things started to go wrong. We set off across the fields for breakfast and stayed over at the main festival site. Hours later, a woman accosted me with a pointing finger and yelled, 'You! Your alarm has been going all morning!' I raced back to find the thing wailing like a banshee. It turns out that the alarm system is incredibly sensitive; on uneven ground, the slightest puff of wind has it shrieking hysterically. The friendly community of the night before had turned into a scene from The Wicker ManApologising profusely to those who had been listening to it all morning, I set about trying to disable the alarm. But it's not that simple, since the button is positioned almost unreachably beside the driver's seat and you can only tell whether it's on or off by whether the light is on, which is impossible to see in daylight. In the end the only way I could guarantee that my neighbours wouldn't kill me was to leave the van unlocked - fine at Port Eliot, but not ideal all the time.That aside, the California was crazily comfortable to drive; its 2.5-litre engine allows it to sail along effortlessly on motorways, and the six-speed Tiptronic gearbox allows you a choice of automatic or manual for hillier areas. Inside, the beds were sturdy though not especially soft, and the little fridge, sink and two-burner gas cooker gave us all the basics we needed.If I ever decided to embrace the hippy lifestyle, the California would do very nicely. I could always stencil some paisley on later.
At Mashable.com, Adam Ostrow has listedMy Soul, and 10 Other Things that Google Owns. Following the purchase of FeedBurner, Ostrow now reckons Google owns his readers: "how many of them there are, where they come from, and how they access my content."Most of the other things are familiar: Gmail, Google Calendar, YouTube, Blogger etc. The most interesting one is "My paycheck". If you're a blogger or webmaster, you may well get some or even most of your money from Google AdSense.The concerns are real, of course, but not so threatening because there are plenty of alternative products that are superior to Google's offerings. Not many people use Google's Orkut social network instead of MySpace or FaceBook, or use Gtalk instead of messaging products from Yahoo, Microsoft and AOL. Lots of people use Flickr to share photos, and there are plenty of alternatives to Blogger.Of course, this may not matter much. Google can always track people via AdWords, which appear on vast numbers of sites. Also, Google coins cash at a phenomenal rate, so it can always buy out most opposition, if it feels the need. (Because Google is much better at monetizing the Web than anybody else, it canaffordto pay more than rival bidders such as Microsoft and Yahoo.)However, while Google doesn't yet control the whole Web, it's done remarkably well for its first decade. It took Microsoft around 20 years (1975-95) to make a similar impact, and Microsoft benefited from enormous good fortune when IBM, the computer industry's resident monopolist, more or less handed it the IBM PC industry on a plate.It will be interesting to see what Ostrow posts in another 10 years. Maybe it will be My Soul, and 50 Other Things that Google Owns.
Since the main point of the Free Software Foundation's new GPL3 (General Public License 3) is to prevent "TiVo-isation," this surely does not come as a surprise. However, Information Week reports that inan SEC filing, TiVo says: "If the currently proposed version of GPLv3 is widely adopted, we may be unable to incorporate future enhancements to the GNU/Linux operating system into our software, which could adversely affect our business."The crux of the case is that TiVo uses GNU/Linux with added DRM (digital rights management), exploiting a loophole in GPL2. GPL3,according to FSF-founder and GNU-father Richard Stallman, "doesn't forbid DRM, or any kind of feature. It places no limits on the substantive functionality you can add to a program, or remove from it. Rather, it makes sure that you are just as free to remove nasty features as the distributor of your copy was to add them."TiVo could, of course, stick with GPL2, and this might suit Linus Torvalds, who started the development of the Linux kernel used in GNU/Linux. However, as Stallman points out:there is no legal way to combine code under GPLv2 with code under GPLv3 in a single program. This is because both GPLv2 and GPLv3 are copyleft licenses: each of them says, "If you include code under this license in a larger program, the larger program must be under this license too."Plenty of code will be released under GPL3, and this means derivative programs will also come under GPL3, even if large portions derive from GPL2 resources.Companies that want to freeload on free softwaredo have other options. The main one is the Berkeley BSD version of Unix used in Mac OS X, which allows you to hijack the code to develop a proprietary product. How easy it would be for TiVo to switch is another issue.
Users of Gonetoosoon, the popular online memorial site that allows members of the public to post their respects to deceased friends and family, are deleting their tributes after it started carrying 'distasteful' ads.The decision to link the website through Google to online ads for everything from financial services to CDs has caused a furore among regular visitors to the site.They say some of the ads are particularly distasteful. In one case, an online memorial for a boy called Ryan featured an advert for Ryanair. Another, for a woman called Sheila, linked to Sheila's Wheels car insurance. A person called Watts was linked to an ad for light bulbs. A tribute to a boy killed in a motorcycle accident carried an ad for a new motorbike while memorials for babies had promotions for nappies and prams.There is no suggestion the companies involved knew that links to their adverts were being carried on the website.Within hours of the company's decision to carry advertising, hundreds of users started expressing their disgust. 'The last thing I need to see on my site is an advert for Owens conveyor belts,' wrote one site user. 'My darling daughter was cremated. How sick to put that there. I am horrified.'Another wrote: 'Can you really trust a site which posts an advert of Ian Huntley's biography - not only on my beautiful friend Ian's site, but on a website that also has a memorial for Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman?'One woman wrote: 'How sick is it that the site of poor Ellie Lawrenson who was savaged by a dog has an advert saying how to protect your family! I will never ever visit GTS again after this.'In the face of an overwhelming backlash, the site stopped carrying advertising last week.In a statement posted on the site, Terry George Kernachan, a Yorkshire-based entrepreneur, insisted Gonetoosoon was a 'labour of love' which had so far cost him &pound;27,000 to set up and run.But he said he had never expected it to be so popular and that he had to look at ways of bringing in revenue to cover mounting costs. The only fee users pay is a &pound;1 a minute charge for calls to a technical service helpline.'It seemed like a good idea to put sensitive ads on the site to help pay for some of the costs and our users would suffer no financial loss,' Kernachan wrote on the Gonetoosoon website. 'This turned out to be somewhat inappropriate and was quickly removed. A debate was opened up on the site and some positive suggestions arose from it.'However, some users of the site point out that it has made great efforts to build up its online profile. For instance, Gonetoosoon points out to families that they can also share their stories with the media.The site also encourages people to set up memorials for those they don't know. 'Don't think it's not your place to set up a site,' Gonetoosoon says. 'You would not be encroaching on other family members' territory.'The site's popularity has led to claims the site encourages 'car crash' voyeurism in the online world. Celebrity tributes to deceased stars such as snooker player Paul Hunter and footballer Alan Ball, have earned Gonetoosoon hundreds of thousands of hits. Visitors to the site can also send an email to the website that 'lights a candle' icon, showing the deceased is in a person's thoughts.The burgeoning popularity of so-called 'cyber graveyards' has prompted calls for them to be regulated. Jon Davies, creator of Muchloved, a charitable online memorial site, said he would be consulting other sites to ensure grieving families views were respected.'We aim to establish a code of conduct to prevent this sort of thing happening again,' Davies said. 'In this way we hope something positive can come out of this.'Kernachan, a director of eight media companies, is now encouraging users to make a contribution to Gonetoosoon to help keep the site free.But his decision to carry ads means some regular users who have removed their tributes in disgust are unlikely to return. 'Talk about selling out,' wrote one. 'It smacks of selling your granny.'&#183;This article was amended on Wednesday July 18.
For two months he was imprisoned underground. His hands were cuffed behind his back. A leather strap was tied around his head to force his eyes shut. He was told to lie on his stomach and raise his legs in order to be beaten on his feet.Ali Sayed al-Shihabi says he paid the price for expressing his political beliefs on the internet. Now released by the Syrian government, he paid tribute last week to Irrepressible.info, the joint campaign run by Amnesty International and The Observer which calls for an end to the persecution of bloggers by repressive regimes. 'This always made me stronger,' he said. 'I no longer felt that I had been a mere straw in the wind.'Irrepressible.info has just turned one year old. Its impact will be debated on Wednesday when an event, 'Some People Think the Internet is a Bad Thing: The Struggle for Freedom of Expression in Cyberspace', is held at Amnesty's headquarters in Shoreditch, east London, and webcast around the world. Among the speakers will be Martha Lane Fox, the pioneering dotcom entrepreneur.The campaign - launched 45 years after a powerful article in this newspaper led to the founding of Amnesty - recognises the internet as a new frontier in the struggle for human rights. It demands that governments stop censoring websites, blocking emails and imprisoning bloggers, and calls on major corporations such as Google, Microsoft and Yahoo! to stop colluding with them. Nearly 68,000 people have pledged their support so far, including Bob Geldof, Chris Martin and Archbishop Desmond Tutu.It was last August that The Observer reported on the plight of Shihabi, an English-language teacher detained in Syria for activities including posting pro-democracy articles online. Amnesty warned that Shihabi was at risk of torture and, according to his testimony, the fear proved well founded.'I was incarcerated in a cell in a basement for two months,' the 52-year-old said via email. 'The cell was 2x1 metres. I never got out, except to WC [and] for investigation and torture. After that, I was moved to Adra Prison in Damascus. I was put in a collective cell, with about 40 criminals. Fresh air was very fine, but the food was always disgusting.'My eyes were shut with a piece of leather round my head and my hands were cuffed behind my back. Almost every 10 days, when I was in the cell, they got me out, ordered me to lie down on my belly and raised my legs up. They set to hitting me on my feet in an attempt to compel me to co-operate with them, ie to be an informer. Every time they hit me about 25 hits.'Shihabi said the support of the Irrepressible.info campaign had been a source of strength throughout his ordeal, which ended with a presidential amnesty in January. 'The campaign was something else, it was great,' he continued. 'Every time my family came to meet me in prison, my wife or my sister used to tell me that Amnesty International, Reporters without Borders, The Observer and the Guardian are saying so and so, and calling on the Syrian regime to release all of you. I narrated every bit my family told me about this subject to the other prisoners. Though they had never heard of those organisations or papers, they listened with open eyes.'After my release, many intellectuals came to me and talked about the importance of the above campaign, especially your article, as it was published not only on the internet. One of them had a copy and took it out of his pocket. They assured me that campaign had compromised the Syrian junta.'The importance of the internet in defending human rights has inspired Martha Lane Fox to lend her support. The co-founder of Lastminute.com, now a board member at Marks &amp; Spencer and trustee of the anti-death penalty charity Reprieve, said: 'Freedom of expression and freedom of speech are fundamental, and the technology that's enabled it more than any other is the internet, so it's very important to keep fighting to make the internet what it was originally intended to be, which is disruptive and chaotic and about people being empowered to do amazing things.'She added: 'The things that strike me now as so extraordinary about this technology is that it gives an outlet to people in the most extreme situations. Whether they can write their own blogs or communicate by email, it can be a channel through which people have a voice in an otherwise repressive country, and that's fantastic and worth preserving at the highest cost.'The challenge facing Irrepressible.info is spelled out by a new report from the OpenNet Initiative, an international university consortium, which found that online censorship is growing around the world. Of 41 countries surveyed, 25 showed evidence of content filtering by governments: Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Burma, China, Ethiopia, India, Iran, Jordan, Libya, Morocco, Oman, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea, Sudan, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkmenistan, UAE, Uzbekistan, Vietnam and Yemen.Professor Ron Deibert of the OpenNet Initiative said: 'We can't take the internet for granted. Most people think of it as a seamless web, but our research shows it's being carved up and controlled..'A new Irrepressible.info website launches at Wednesday's event, incorporating a news aggregator enabling people to 'tag' items about internet freedom and repression and post them to the site. Kate Allen, UK director of Amnesty International, whose article in The Observer ignited the campaign a year ago, said: 'We think it's been a brilliant success. We'd only set out to get 30,000 people to sign the petition and we've got over 65,000. We presented that to the UN's Internet Governance Forum, and I think all the commentators on that forum were clear that human rights had a central part to bear. One of my colleagues told me that when the Chinese government representatives got to their feet and said there was no internet repression in China, everybody just laughed.'A webcast of the event, which starts at 6.30pm on Wednesday, will be online atwww.amnesty.org.uk/webcast.
Every main street in every major town in the Irish Republic is to become a wireless gateway to the internet. An experiment now under way in Carlow involving wi-fi technology will be rolled out across the country over the next three years, placing the republic at the cutting edge of the wired world.Carlow county council, in partnership with Irish online company E-net, has introduced wireless 24-hour, seven-day-a-week access to the net on its main streets and to upwards of 10,000 households. A further 27 large towns across the country have been selected to join the project.E-net says ultimately it wants to provide a fully free service to the public with backing from the government. It claims that its system, which has been running since the end of April in Carlow, is unique in Europe.Around the corner last Thursday from the plaque commemorating George Bernard Shaw's life and philanthropic legacy to Carlow, Darren Doyle was relaxing in Tullow Street, his feet propped up on a public bench, his wireless-enabled laptop open and logged on to the web. 'I've just started up a web design company while at the institute,' said Doyle, a computer science and new media student at Carlow Institute of Technology. 'This service is great for my business because it means I can take all my web designs directly to potential customers. I don't have to pay the cost of hiring a room... I just put the laptop under the arm and meet them either in their place of business, a local cafe or a pub nearby.'Directly behind, inside Scrags pub, a popular bar with students, Doyle's girlfriend, Sarah Devereaux, was also sampling the new all-encompassing wi-fi service. The 18-year-old student was impressed: 'I have a big computer at home and broadband installed in the house but this is far faster getting you online. I got on to the net in a couple of seconds using it. It's a great idea because there are so many students in Carlow. They will all use this system,' she said. Nearly one in five of Carlow's 23,000 population is a student attending the town's two further education colleges.The network is generated via fibre optic cables that run through the earth under Carlow and 11 double-pronged wi-fi base stations strategically positioned throughout the town.John Forde, head of IT at the county council and one of the two men behind turning Carlow into one of the EU's first fully wireless towns, predicted it would become the template for other large urban centres in Ireland and across Europe wanting to deploy open-air, round-the-clock wi-fi coverage.'It isn't just economic benefits, but social ones too,' he said. 'Using the network, old people with panic or health alarms are now able to leave their homes, as the devices can be tracked via the internet all through the town. They are able to go out safe in the knowledge that, if something happened to them, the system monitoring their alarms could read it anywhere in Carlow.'At present wireless internet access is paid for by buying time online via credit card, but the council soon plans to introduce access vouchers in shops and pubs. 'They will operate like scratchcards with special access codes,' Forde said.However, the entrepreneur whose company provided the network would like the service to be completely free to users. Conal Henry, chief executive officer of E-net, said the Irish government should pay for the system's installation across the state. 'In 10 years' time we will look back and think that having a town fully wi-fi'd is as much a vital public utility as running water, a sewage system and street lighting,' he said. 'It will be an attraction that brings in foreign investment and boosts business. It will be another vital part of Ireland's infrastructure.'
Richard Dawkins is currently giving a lecture about his book The God Delusion on Second Life, the computerised virtual world. I have just watched the lecture, a typically unwavering display of atheism, in the 'Elysian Theatre'. Outside, a little virtual group has formed to discuss his argument. They include Nick Gloucester, who is 'Second Life consultant' for Dawkins's publisher Random House, Janey Humphries who is a Dawkins supporter, and Smiles Tomsen, an evangelical Christian. My 'avatar' Kenny Kesey joins them:Kenny Kesey:Hello Nick, has Dawkins been checking in to see how it's going?Nick Gloucester:I gather he has, but I have not met him here.Janey Humphries:He is a busy man...KK:Are you a fan, Janey?JH:Yep, think he's brill... and brave...Smiles Tomsen:I think this man is wrong, all Creation testifies there is a God.KK:Have you had an equal mix of believers and non-believers?NG:Loads of supporters; probably 90 per cent of visitors...ST:I'm anti... I believe in the Bible.KK:Do you go to church on Second Life, Smiles?ST:Yes, to the Calvary Chapel...[Veesh Hax, dressed in black, arrives]Veesh Hax:When is Dawkins coming?NG:Over the weekend, so I'm told.KK:Will that be the first coming or the second coming?JH:LOL.NG:Only don't expect him to turn up looking like himself with a tag that says 'Richard Dawkins'...JH:So many nutjobs around...VH:How will we know it is him?NG:I'm sure he'll identify himself. He's not a man to hide behind an avatar.ST:God is kind and just...KK:Is there an SL Pope, Smiles?ST:I don't follow a Pope.NG:Someone claiming to be GOD and looking a bit like him did come by a couple of days ago...JH:I have met Jesus here. Mind you, he was drinking and smoking...KK:Do you think heaven will be like Second Life?ST:No, it will be better.KK:No atheists for a start...VH:And higher res...JH:And no bugs!!!!!!ST:Hell is far worse than you can imagine... The real question is whether you will go there...KK:Do you think Dawkins will go, Smiles?ST:Well if he dies in his sins yes, but if he will repent and put his trust in Jesus, then, no.KK:Can't honestly see a deathbed repentance...ST:It can happen.KK:Are the endtimes coming?ST:We are living in them.KK:Will SL carry on without us?JH:LOL... only if someone leaves their computer on...ST:God is good but he is just.ST:He can not have sin with him.ST:He is a Father...[Exit all but ST; repeat to fade]
We get far more letters and blog pingbacks than we have room toprint in our Letters and blogs section. So here's the full text of those from which we chose this week.READ ME FIRST: TK MAXXAccording to my bank (Nationwide) my debit card was rejected yesterday due to a security breach at a retailer that resulted in card details being stolen - Nationwide had around 500 cards affected. Shame they refuse to tell me which retailer. I may still be using that company and risk being ripped off again due to their sloppy security. To give Nationwide credit they did stop the card before any major transactions happened but their information route left a bit to be desired - a harassed cashier with a line of customers behind me at a checkout. John Loader, ElyIt was TJX, not TKX, which suffered the breach. Andy Brown (no post town given)APPLE SCREENSI'm sick to the teeth with the anti-Apple stories in The Guardian, it just goes on and on and on and on. Its very tedious, and my screen on my Mac Book Pro is bloody gorgeous. Rob Baker, LondonI've just read Jack Schofield's article on Apple's use of 6-bit displays. In it he states that such displays are capable of showing a depth of 262,144 individual colours. Now, my perceived wisdom as a 'computer specialist' tells me that 6 bits will allow 2 to the power 6 possible variances, or 64 different colours. That's not 64,000 but 64 (the number between 63 and 65)! A display allowing 262,144 colours should be 18-bit (2 to the power 18). Unless, of course, the definition of a bit has changed since my time at college! Colin MacLean, Glasgow [In a 6-bit display, each of the red, blue and green sub-pixels making each screen point can show 64 different brightnesses, giving 64x64x64 = 262,144 colours - Tech.Ed]TECHNOBILE - OFFICE 2007If you do use Office on Windows, you can get the Microsoft Office Compatibility Pack for Word, Excel, and PowerPoint 2007 file formats:http://office.microsoft.com/en-us/products/HA101686761033.aspxIt gets installed into Office 2000, XP or 2003 and transparently does the conversion. If you're using a Mac though, you're stuffed. (Your article doesn't explicitly state whether this is for a Mac or not.) Chris Leuty (no post town given) [It was for a Mac - Tech.Ed]Charles Arthur's article today was a bit inaccurate. Firstly, Microsoft released a converter months and moths ago. I don't know the exact date, but it was sometime in 2006. I realise that the item on this page:http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?FamilyId=941B3470-3AE9-4AEE-8F43-C6BB74CD1466&amp;displaylang=enhas a date of 20th April 2007, however you will notice that it is version number 2, meaning that there has been a previous version released earlier. And in reference to "it's an application in its own right which demands that you let it install itself" - well of course otherwise how would you install it? I don't really understand what your problem and solution is. You have to trust Microsoft to know where to put it, otherwise it wouldn't work from within Office. And by saying that programs only get on your computer with an "invitation" - I think when you "hit the download button" that would be a pretty clear invitation. Overall your article was simply without merit and just a waste of time. If you obviously feel so superior to the rest of us, why don't you do something useful - you could always support OpenOffice if you want. Alexander Dewar, Stirling [The Microsoft converter for OSX ishereand is version 0.1 beta - Tech.Ed]FREE OUR WATER DATA (MAY 17)I write in response to your article 'Free groundwater information dries up' (17 May 2007).The Environment Agency is a public body charged with protecting and improving the environment, making it a better place for the people of England and Wales. So it is appropriate that we cover the costs for the time we spend away from doing this job to collate, maintain and provide information for the commercial benefit of others. We do make the vast amount of our information freely available. As you've correctly pointed out, ordinary citizens can look up groundwater maps by entering their postcode in the "What's in your backyard?" section of our website (environment-agency.gov.uk). We recognise the vital role that access to information plays in helping us achieve a better environment, and will continue to make sure that up-to-date environmental information is available for the public.Barbara Young, chief executive, Environment AgencyWORKING FROM HOME It would be useful to have an explicit link to the quoted report, or indeed, its proper and full title ... John Galloway, YorkMOBILE DOWNLOADSVictor Keegan seems much exercised by the cost of music downloads to mobile phones. Like most users of public transport I would like to know who first had the bright idea of enabling mobile phones to play music. This genius could then be dragged round the country in chains and placed in stocks at each major bus and train terminus for the populace to hurl abuse. After this penance his ears could be syringed with molten lead. John Illingworth, Bradford&gt;&gt; How come there's still no popular micropayment service on the web? Imagine if a website could smoothly charge a cent, for instance, each time a user clicked through to read the full text of an article, or view a clip. If the cost was low enough, and the transaction sufficiently invisible, internet media could finally escape its dangerous dependence on advertising. And readers could pay for news, on subjects such as politics, for which there's no advertising support. And why is that such a preposterous dream? Well, for one, because entrepreneurial talent and venture capital money is so drawn to increasingly marginal mashups.http://valleywag.com/tech/essay/the-valleys-impoverished-imagination-263400.php&gt;&gt; This lack of micropayment system, frankly, is why subscriptions online never went anywhere, and why video download sales / subscriptions won't either, something we covered here. But the reason why such a thing does not exist, besides from VCs [rightfully] suffering from herd mentality, is that VCs are smart enough to know that the odds of a micropayment system working are slim to none.http://www.watchmojo.com/web/blog/?p=1593&gt;&gt; Mobile internet is always going to be a step or two behind fixed access and it wasn't so long ago that all internet access was effectively on a pay as go pricing scheme. With dialup you paid by the minute – even if the access itself was free. It was only with the introduction of broadband that we got used to the idea of all you can eat access.http://techdigest.tv/2007/05/are_mobile_down.html#moreGOVERNMENT ITMy wife tried renewing her road tax disc online athttp://www.direct.gov.uk/taxdiscbut was greeted by a page of gibberish from which one could detect that the service was unavailable. So she had to drive to a main post office to do it the reliable way. Robin Stott, WarwickDAB REDUXI recently bought a DAB radio, hoping to receive some stations which I couldn't before. Well I could indeed receive more stations, but found both them and the stations I normally listen to on FM to be so poor in audio quality that they were too annoying to listen to. I no longer use the radio, and shall be selling it if my conscience permits me to take money for it. I will be staying with the higher quality FM broadcasts for some years to come. This is despite the fact that I do not think I could be called an audiophile... I have an audio system that I'd describe as "adequate". Only the CD player was bought as new, and I acquired my loudspeakers second hand over 20 years ago In view of this I would say that I'm not a "DAB listener"... If approached by someone asking me if I listened to DAB radio I would say that I don't. Perhaps the "677 DAB listeners" in Ofcom's ICM poll were selected in this way from those who were prepared to listen to it, and simply omitted those who had rejected DAB as being inadequate. Dave Hines (no post town given)
As with audio CDs, so with porn on DVD. According toThe New York Times:After years of essentially steady increases, sales and rentals of pornographic videos were $3.62 billion in 2006, down from $4.28 billion in 2005, according to estimates by AVN, an industry trade publication. If the situation does not change, the overall $13 billion sex-related entertainment market may shrink this year, said Paul Fishbein, president of AVN Media Network, the magazine's publisher. The industry's online revenue is substantial but is not growing quickly enough to make up for the drop in video income.Part of the problem is, it seems, oversupply: "The barrier to get into the industry is so low: you need a video camera and a couple of people who will have sex," says Fishbein. The "the new spate of low-budget filmmakers" is helping to increase the number of X-rated DVD releases to more than 1,000 a month.The NYT doesn't do the maths, but 12,000 movies making $3.62 billion still comes to around $300,000 per movie. On average. Maybe the bulk of that goes to rental stores, but if production costs are minimal, that's probably enough to tempt plenty of people to have a go.Also, is this stuff vetted or rated? Assuming a porn DVD lasts for two hours, you'd need to have 12 people spend 8 hours a day watching it for five days a week, with no holidays or sick days.
From our Better Late Than Never dept: Google has bought FeedBurner, which runs more than 400,000 RSS feeds, and to which Google can now add advertising. This also means Goole bought three companies last week -- GreenBorder Technologies, Panoramio and FeedBurner -- which is more than usual.Google announced the purchase on its blog under the headlineAdding more flare(presumably a pun on flair), saying: "FeedBurner offers a feed advertising platform for advertisers to reach engaged feed readers through targeted in-feed ads and innovative techniques like RSS feed-driven ads."On its own blog, FeedBurner said It'sTrue-gle!and pointed to an FAQ athttp://www.feedburner.com/googleThe purchase is a certainly fantastic way for Google to insert itself between tens of thousands of Web sites (FeedBurner users) and millions of RSS reading consumers and make pots of money. Thanks to the power of AdWords, it should get back the rumoured $100 million purchase price very quickly.
For a whole week's posts on one page, clickhere.Highlights include:Why Facebook is the new AppleFly around a 3-D virtual New YorkWii shall overcome, sings George HarrisonMicrosoft Surface: a touch screen tablePrice cuts may not rescue the PS3, says Bank of AmericaPalm unveils Foleo -- reinvents Compaq AeroApple embeds your account info in DRM-free musicHow much does the internet weigh?I heart spoof web services
PicrossNintendo DSLike a cross between Minesweeper and Sudoku, Picross is a puzzle game whose screen shots make it look like some kind of a diagram from a maths textbook. That's in stark contrast to the experience of playing it, in which Picross emerges as the mild-mannered digital equivalent of crystal meth, keeping you devastatingly immersed, sometimes at the expense of meals. Your job is to fill in blocks on a grid based on the simple numerical clues at the end of each row and column. Using only deductive logic, you complete a series of progressively larger boards until either your DS battery runs out or you finally pass out through fatigue. Featuring a slight brain training effect emphasised by its Daily Picross mode that throws you a set of time trial puzzles where you try and beat yesterday's time, Picross is a magnificently addictive game whose possible "mind-gym" side effect is just an added bonus.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;19.99Driver 76PSPAfter the ignominious debacle of Driv3r and the near-competence of Driver: Parallel Lines, Ubisoft's purchase of the U-bend bound franchise has already yielded spawn. Driver 76's storyline occurs two years prior to the events of Parallel Lines (if anyone's masochistic enough to play these games for the plot and dialogue) and features Ray, a wheelman keen to woo the daughter of Triad boss Zhou by driving as fast as possible. With its impressive-looking New York City, car handling beautifully engineered for a tail-happy 1970s flavour and a soundtrack (featuring David Bowie's Suffragette City, Blondie's One Way Or Another, WAR's Low Rider) to match, this has its roots firmly in the decade that taste forgot. Alas, the AI is frankly dim-witted, and quite a number of the 27 missions will have you publicly gnawing your PSP in frustration. All of which underlines the real problem - Driver 76 really isn't a patch on the Grand Theft Auto series it apes, both PSP instalments of which make this look like the limp piece of wet lettuce it is.&#183;Ubisoft, &pound;29.99
Playstation 3 is very expensive, has a library of games you might call modest at best, plays Blu-ray DVDs (very few of which are currently worth watching), and the UK version is compatible with fewer Playstation 2 games than its global cousins. PS3 owners are well overdue a treat and Sony's recent system update provides a glimmer of joys to come. Along with upscaling DVDs to full 1080p resolution (which makes your old school DVDs look a bit more like their noticeably more glorious HD-DVD and Blu-ray counterparts), your PS3 will also now be available remotely via the internet, so you'll be able to access its media content from your PSP no matter where you are in the world. This also in theory means you can start to use PS3 as the hub for your multi-room home entertainment system, something both Sony and Microsoft are at pains to encourage you to do with their machines.
Where do you stand on cream leather? Preferably, I suppose, you don't - you keep your filthy feet off it. The stains that show up on cream leather are bad enough anyway, without people walking all over it as well.As a general proposition, though, the full-cream interior is a tricky one, liable to induce in even the hardiest of motorists at least a mild level of uncertainty and/or queasiness. That's how it was for me, at any rate, when I excitedly unlocked my brand new BMW 3 Series convertible and found its insides courageously awash with the stuff of 70s dream homes.Did I really want to ride around in Liberace's dressing room? On the whole, my feeling was that I probably didn't - not least because the roof would be open a lot of the time, meaning that not only would I be riding around in Liberace's dressing room, I would also effectively be sharing that dressing room with the world and his wife. Which, I suspect, Liberace would never have agreed to.These misgivings evaporated, though, within seconds of touching the start button, hearing the engine rear up and then settle down into a low, well-bred grumble, selecting first and moving smoothly away from the kerb. The car is so firm and absorbingly powerful to drive and so fastidiously bolted together, from radiator to boot clasp, that it would have been an unselfconscious pleasure to sit in it even if the interior had been tartan with neon trim.In fact, within about three miles, I had even grown to find the creaminess winningly appropriate - bright and accommodating, like the car itself. It wasn't, after all, that cheap shiny leather that causes you eventually to slide under the accelerator, but some quality hide with a nap that seems to hold you like a friend during a time of trouble.You could always spot a 3 Series convertible. The canvas roof was the giveaway. Now the convertible travels incognito, its hard top - and the boot it electronically stows away into - cunningly styled to give no indication of their true articulated selves, which is entirely in keeping with the car's overall message: calm, unshowy, with just a quiet touch of the Batmobiles about it.Naturally, you can't create a roofless version of a vehicle without reinforcing parts of it to compensate, and the result of stiffening up the structure so that it doesn't simply make like an accordion the first time it hits a speed bump is almost bound to be a heavier car.Accordingly, the convertible is carrying 200kg of extra weight over the standard coupe, which is pretty much the equivalent of encouraging a baby hippo to squat in the boot. The fact, then, that it continues to accelerate like a pellet off a rubber band is some cause for admiration.But so is pretty much everything about the car, not least the fact that the two rear seats are, by coupe standards, plausibly adult. The only drawback is BMW's iDrive system, in which the satnav, radio and climate controls are routed to a solitary silver click-and-twist knob whose finger-confounding fiddliness still seems a sizeable price to pay for a dashboard clean of the usual panorama of buttons. Now, if they had only clad the knob in cream leather...
TuesdayHaze talkTime of your life?WednesdayGreat games, shoddy hardware?Lumines Plus winnersStar Wars light sabre game on WiiHuman-action giant BreakoutWoo + Spector + ninjasMicrosoft Surface: any good for games?ThursdayShadowrun impressionsWikigame interview: Dave Perry (Part 1)Xbox 360 failure rateHay feverFridayReturn of LaraWikigame interview: Dave Perry (Part 2)Id's new IP
Sourcey: Chris DiBona. Photograph: Sarah LeeChrisDiBonais Google's open source programme manager and a respected . He was in London for one leg ofGoogle Developer Day, and I grabbed a few minutes to speak with him about Google's approach to open development.How much does Google use open source? And how do you support the community?CDB: Google does use open source a lot - our servers, for example - it gets used in different parts of our tools. That's what our office in the open source group is tasked with. We also run events like theSummer of Code- we'll have 917 students coming to work on projects this year. And then there's just internal code release - over the last year we estimate that we've put out around 1 million lines of code for everyone. The idea is to bring the open source ethos into everything we do.But Google Developer Day is mostly about APIs - which might be open for developers to use, but they're not actually open source.CDB: It's absolutely true that when you create some kind of feed or interface for, say, Google Calendar, you can't say it's open source. But it's about as open possible.So if Google is a big contributor to the OSS world, does that mean that most of the is now from big businesses with a vested interest in these free, widespread products?CDB: Well, the best data I have goes back to 2003 - and that says about 40% of people who contribute to open source work for other companies in an IT capacity, 40% work in academia and the other 20% are enthusiasts. I've always thought that's a really great balance, but over the last 10 years it has got a lot more company participation.Can you name any actual products that have been improved this way at Google?CDB: If you look at howSitemapsevolved, it's a great example. Since we'd chosen proper licensing around the protocol, other people were able to get involved and asked can we work to make it better? Sometimes it makes sense when you're trying to create a standard.But overall, there must be a business case for this: since the flotation, Google has a duty to its shareholders.It certainly improves the bottom line - as the internet gets bigger, so goes Google. Part of what we do is to make sure the internet is as lively as possible. That way we're able to leverage our strengths; for example we're able to bring lots of people to any new service.Also see·Giving Google a licence to code, November 2006·Google catches up on Microsoft with help of new Gears
Mary Kalin-Casey looked at Google's new StreetView and "as she zoomed in, she could see Monty, her cat, sitting on a perch in the living room window of her second-floor apartment," reportsThe New York Times."The issue that I have ultimately is about where you draw the line between taking public photos and zooming in on people's lives," Ms. Kalin-Casey said in an interview Thursday on the front steps of the building. "The next step might be seeing books on my shelf. If the government was doing this, people would be outraged."She agrees there is other information about her on Google, but:"People's jobs are pretty public," she said. "But that doesn't mean they want a shot of their sofa on Google." She has asked Google to remove the image of her building, which was still online as of Thursday evening.She has a point, in that there is a difference between what anybody can see walking down a particular street and making all streets viewable on a global basis.But a collection of theTop 15 Google Street View Sightingsat Mashable suggests there's not a lot to get worried about, even by the standards of people who don't get out much.The same issues have already been raised by CCTV, satellite imagery, YouTube and Google itself. Compared to those, StreetView looks rather less threatening.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Last week our Bad Science columnist Ben Goldacretook on the recent Panorama investigation into Wi-Fi. Some of his accusations focused around the programme's choice of expert - Alasdair Philips, a campaigner who runsPowerwatchandEMFields, a company that sells EMF shielding and monitoring devices.In response toBen's column, Alasdair has posted what he claims is a rebuttal of everything levelled against him and the programme - I'm only going to suggest that youread it yourselfand make your mind up as to whether he's arguing on solid ground.However, I've got one dumb question that you might be able to answer in the meantime. Is measuring "electrosmog" 100m from a phone mast and 50cms from a Wi-Fi enabled laptop comparing like with like? Why wasn't it either, say, measured a distance from the wirelessrouteror with somebodyusinga mobile phone?I'm no scientist but it seems to me that one is a measure of background noise from a distance and one is listening up close to something active. It's like standing on top of a bridge listening to the noise of six lanes of traffic whizz past and then comparing it to the noise when you place your ear against a clockwork mechanism and wind it up. One's going to be louder by design.Anyway, I digress. One of Powerwatch's stated aims is "reporting about the known science: to enable the general public to have access to clear, independent information as to the hazards of power frequency and radio frequency electromagnetic fields". Reckon they've managed it?
FPS fans were rocket-jumping with joy yesterday at the news that Id is working on a new 'franchise' (game), not based on Doom, Quake, Wolfenstein or Commander Keen. "It is a new id brand with an all-new John Carmack engine and I think that when we show it to people, once again they'll see, just like they saw when we first showed Doom 3, that John Carmack still has a lot of magic left," said Id's Todd Hollensheadto Gamesindustry.biz.Of course, we're assuming it's an FPS, but as Carmack has been dabbling in mobile game RPGs recently it could be anything. Although, by 'anything' we mean 'edgy shooter with demonic themes and plentiful use of normal maps and shader effects'.
I've officially declared Friday June 1 spoof day. Not sure why, but I'm off on holiday tomorrow, so that might have something to do with it.First up is a site I meant to write about last week, but didn't. It's calledDawdlrand is from our friendRussell Davies, blogger extraordinaire andcafe connoisseur. It calls itself "a Twitter for the long now", and takes the spirit ofTwitterand the archness ofPostSecretand it's basically a postal-based status updater: very slow, ultimately pointless but a welcome distraction for those who like to arse around a bit.I've tried to make dawdlr way slower than twitter. I reckon most people I know twitter about twice a day, so dawdlr is going to update twice a year. To try and get people to say what they're doing, you know, more generally.A wag would say that Russell will forget to update (he plans the first one in November). But I doubt it.Secondly we've gotSporkk, which I think perfectly skewers (or sporks) the bubble-headed atmosphere that's pervading the dotcom industry at the moment."Where the long tails of life and fast-food cutlery meet" is the slogan, and the most concerning thing is that I think there's a worrying possibility that some venture capitalist somewhere is going to half-consider whether they should pump some cash into it.
Shiny Entertainment's Dave Perry has taken on the challenge to oversee the development of a community-generated online game, Top Secret. In Part 2 of the gamesblog interview, he discusses why he likes the community better than his own employees, and how singer Kelly Clarkson inspired his foray into the WikiGame.Gaming is the most interactive medium, yet it's one of the last entertainment industries to have any kind of truly collaborative project. Top Secret feels like it fits the bill.This is either going to be a crazy experiment and too difficult to manage, or the next project we do will be the biggest one in gaming history. I'll have a million people signing up next time.It's like American Idol when Kelly Clarkson won. She was the first winner in America and no one knew whether she'd be a hit or not, and then boom, she was a hit and now everyone wants to be on American Idol. If that does happen with this, I'm going to kick off a really big project.The amount of content I can have generated versus the amount of content a traditional development team can generate is profoundly different. It would be orders of magnitude different. If I have 100,000 people producing content and only 1% of that content is good, I will still have 1,000 people who make good stuff. The average size of a development team in American is about 35 people. And if I get a million people, that's 100,000 people. 100,000 developers.And the bonus is that you don't have to pay for them.Yeah. It's a huge bonus. And that's part of the whole thing. It would be impossible to do if you paid that many people. But it's not like they're being forced; it's not like we've got whips on them or anything. They're doing it for the love of it.On the other hand, if you feel like you're learning and your career is advancing because of it, it's probably worth it. I think there will be spin-off games as well. You can't really predict how people are going to interact, but you do know that there's going to be a lot of intelligence combined and that's going to be fascinating to see.People say to me that what I want to do is make free content, and that's why you're asking all these people to join you, but they don't understand that I've already got a fully funded team who is going to end up cleaning up the data. All the programming is going to be done by my team. We also have a team who's running the whole thing as well, and we're paying them too. It's not just, hey, free content. It's managing the whole thing, getting everything correct, getting it into an engine and distributing it. It'll cost us money when participants are playing around too 'cause they're using our bandwidth as well.This is an interesting development model, like the studio models people have suggested will come over from Hollywood and other media industries. Do you think this kind of freelance model will become the dominant one in the games industry?I don't think so initially. Many companies are invested in having internal teams with 30-70 guys who are working on big $15-20 million projects. That's just how they function. Turning that on their head would be very difficult for them. Adoption will be extremely slow for the industry. But when you see World of Warcraft coming out and being enormously successful, you do see loads of publishers and companies taking massively multiplayer online games a little more seriously. If we prove that this works, so that everyone goes, 'Wow, there is a lot of talent out there,' we'll see other companies swinging for it.It reflects the idea of LBP, of "Game 3.0", community-generated content.We've decided to use the community whenever possible. For example, we don't have any testing staff anymore. When I launch a game, we have 140,000 people sign up just to help test it. They want to play it right now and give us feedback. The difference between 20 and 140K means that someone in that 140K is going to be an absolute expert in at least one aspect in part of the game, and really passionate about it too. I get these really long letters from gamers saying how, for example, the daggers aren't balanced properly and why. You really don't get that kind of feedback normally. Normally, you get hey, if I'm playing the game this door doesn't work. I won't go back to 20 people. This is the future as far as I can see.We can stand down and say no, involving the community is a crazy idea. Or you put their contributions in knowing that this game is for the consumers, and they're going to have a lot of fun knowing they're part of it. Then they'll tell all their friends. I side with the gamers. That's who we're making the games for.
Tomb Raider Anniversaryis up there with Crackdown as my most pleasant gaming surprise of 2007. Let's face it, did anyone really think that Anniversary - an updated version of the original 1996 Tomb Raider game - would be anything other than a lazy summer cash-in? Oops. Anniversary - released today - is a wonderfully accomplished remake that will give younger gamers a chance to see what all the fuss was about. Older players will welcome a chance to revisit the wonderfully designed - and eerily atmospheric - environments of yore while being thankful that the aged graphics and - particularly - the control system have been bought into the 21st century. Now all we need is a 360 version. With Anniversary showing the way can we expect any more updates of classic titles? Ok, go on then, it's Friday - which game do you think most deserves the remake treatment?
The Indepedent Gaming Sourcealerted me to this brief trailer of a Wii game named Pollen Sonata. It's by a small indie studio in Denmark and they're looking for a publisher. It's pretty obtuse but appears to involve controlling pollen as it floats between flowers. The music's nice too and there's a lovely story sequence at the beginning - the visual style may remind you of Aha's Take On Me video.Little is known about the studio responsible but this trailer's building a bit of a buzz on the 'blogosphere'. Lot's of people are mentioning Pilot Wings. But with... pollen...
eBay has boughtStumbleUpon, a site for sharing web sites, for around $75 million. Thepress releasesays it's grown 150% over the past year and "delivers approximately five million new recommendations a day to its large, highly engaged user base". What eBay doesn't explain is why. With previous purchases such as PayPal, Skype and Shopping.com, there did seem to be a rationale, but this one escapes me.StumbleUpon currently has tabs for Websites, People and Videos, so it could possibly add one for Bargains on eBay, but that doesn't sound particularly useful.TheStumbleUpon blogsays:Looking to the future, we think that joining eBay is the right thing to do to help us to grow StumbleUpon to its full potential. We think eBay is a great fit for us because eBay and StumbleUpon share similar approaches - we're both driven by our community of users, and we are both dedicated to connecting people.Since it's increasingly hard to find a Web site nowadays that isn't driven by connecting its community of users, this will give eBay lots of scope for future takeovers.There are no such doubts about today's other takeover: Google buys Panoramio. ThePanoramio blogsays:The integration of photos from Panoramio in Google Earth has been so successful since John Hanke suggested it that we see the acquisition of Panoramio as a natural consequence.Of course, Google buys so many companies that it hardly seems worth mentioning the smaller ones....
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Friday June 1 2007In the article below, we said that users of iLike can buy tickets for gigs on the website when in fact they are sold through the Viagogo site.The social networking site Facebook is to open up its pages to third-party developers, who will be able to create applications that will run on users' pages - potentially turning the site, already the sixth busiest in the US, and claiming more page views than eBay, into a huge generator of revenue.Mark Zuckerberg, the 23-year-old founder of the site, told a crowd of developers at the announcement that "that's all your revenue. And it's good for Facebook because, if you're building great applications, it is a service to our users."The company says it has 65 partners in the development, including Amazon and Microsoft, offering 85 different applications including embeddable video.The move is being seen as the antithesis of the policy at MySpace, the largest social networking site, which has occasionally reined in the use of outside "widgets" or designs on its pages, and blocked the hosting of pictures from Photobucket, the most popular photo-sharing site - earning it the ire of some of users who found that restrictive.But crucially the opening of the interface could turn Facebook into an online platform that will attract developers, and hence more users, to the site which Zuckerberg says is growing at 3%, or about 100,000 users, every week, with half of the registered users returning every day.That growth, in turn, would boost the site's potential value well beyond the $750m (&pound;378m) that Zuckerberg was offered for the site in March last year - and turned down, reportedly reckoning that the site could be worth $2bn.Facebook has tried an integrated system before and fell foul of users' dislike of being co-opted into having their movements watched without their consent. It had to backpedal rapidly in September after adding a feature that would tell users about the activities of their chosen "friends". People complained that it would let casual acquaintances find out intimate details.That lesson has been learnt, Facebook insists: under the new system, "Facebook limits availability of user profile data beyond name and thumbnail picture to individuals in users' networks and confirmed friends. We give all users extensive control over who has access to their data through our powerful and granular privacy settings," it told Wired."When a user confirms another user as a friend, Facebook Platform enables that permission to extend to other Facebook applications. No application receives any data from Facebook unless and until a Facebook user expressly chooses to add it."Microsoft has already said it will integrate its PopFly web application, which lets people mix and mash together data from other online sites and applications, into Facebook, while iLike.com, a social music service, has developed a widget that can be incorporated into a Facebook page that shows what friends are listening to - and even buy tickets for gigs.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
