It is a man's world. Actually, it is a very young man's world, at least with Wikipedia. Three-quarters of updates to free online encyclopedia are made by men, who are on average 25 years old, a study has found. Yes, 300 million monthly users are getting their knowledge from twentysomethings.In order to change that Wikipedia plansa redesign which has been beta-tested by 500,000 usersand is now to roll out from April 5.The revamp will overhaul the homepage a bitand adjusts the navigation of the site to current standards – but most importantly it will make it easier to edit."Editing pages will be easier, thanks to a new editing toolbar. And we've simplified the site navigation, relocated the search box to satisfy user expectations and to follow other web standards, reduced some of the clutter,"says Naoko Komura, the program manager for Wikimedia's Stanton Foundation Usability Project, in a blogpost.Studying the findings ofthe multilingual survey of Wikipedia readers conducted by the Wikimedia Foundation, this is more than necessary as younger users tend to be less inhibited about making small changes to Wikipedia than those over 45.Wikimedia has introduced a new editing toolbar, with the amount of Wiki code to be reduced later onYoung people learned about making changes by trial and error, while older users tended to give up more readily, fearing they might "break" things.The study found that 80% of users have not edited Wikipedia, but are willing to contribute. At the moment, only 1% of Wikipedia users are responsible for half of the site's edits. A couple of months agostudies found that the growth of Wikipedia had slowed down.Wikimedia plans to introduce more radical revamps to the editing process later in the year: reducing the amount of confusing Wiki code users see in the edit system; making it possible to change data in tables and information boxes through simpler forms; and providing a new outline tool to navigate a long article while you're editing it.Have you contributed to Wikipedia? Would you do so if it were more easy to edit?
You'll have seen last Friday that the fearless developers at the Guardian capitalised on theidea of ChatRoulette(random webcam connection to someone usually wearing too few clothes, which may be desirable depending on your temperament; press Next if you don't like it to get connected to possibly more convivial person) to produceGuardianRoulette(random text connection to article which might be about clothes; press Next if you don't like it to perhaps find more convivial one).And quickly Daniel Vydra, who developed the latter, had knocked togetherNewYorkTimesRoulette. Yes, you can guess how. And went another step further:random Australian news.The speed with which we went from original idea to copycat to copycat copycat reminded me of the great truths of the development of ideas online, as illustrated by sites such as Chatroulette or, indeed,Alex Tew's Million Dollar Homepage. Remember that, and its cataract-inducing style?The Million Dollar Home Page created by British student Alex TewLet's takeMDHas the classic, canonical example. Here's how it progresses:1) young (they're always young) web whiz comes up with groundbreaking idea2) lots of people say "Why didn'tIthink of that? It's so obvious!" (This overlooks the fact that if it was truly obvious, it would have been done before.)3) Imitation sites spring up. None is as good as the original; nor do they get the media attention, to their creators' perplexity (as they fail to understand that "news" tends to be interesting for its novelty). Citation:MDH copycats.4) "Charity" versions of the site spring up. These are usually created by charitable organisations trying to leverage the combination of your knowledge of the original site and your guilt about not giving enough to charities to get you to use them. Citation: the "million-dollar charitable wish blogpost".5) Scam versions of the site spring up. (Sometimes this happens at step 3, but scammers often have other things on the go, and want to see if new ideas have any longevity before they waste effort on them.) These may hawk fake malware, or real malware (as they get paid a fee per thousand visitors infected by a drive-by download), or simply rip off the paying customer. Assuming they can get the customer to pay. Citation: themillion euro wiki: it's defunct. Bye-bye, cash.6) News articles and blogposts bemoan the pollution of the original, pure idea by all these copycats, and feature interviews with the original web whiz who explains that s/he is moving on to a new, as yet undisclosed, project which is going to be huge.7) Interest in the groundbreaking idea subsides, and the web whiz next pops up behind some gigantic corporation, or in penury having (paceGeorge Best) blown 75% of the money from their original idea on sex, drugs and rock'n'roll - the other 25% they wasted.On which basis, we should expect CharityRoulette any day now.Any stages I've missed out, or which need replacing?
It is, apparently, a decade since Pokemon Gold (and Pokemon Silver) were first released. For those in the know, these were, apparently, the pinnacle of Pokemon gaming. They've now been revisited, revamped and rereleased.The twist, aside from the improved graphics you'd expect with the intervening years and the evolution of GameBoy into DS, is the Michelle Obama-friendly addition of the Pokewalker. This is a pedometer cum Tamagotchi, an intriguing development that rewards exercise: you can upload your Pokemon to the pedometer and, as you walk around with it clipped to your belt, the Pokemon becomes friendlier and more powerful. You then return the Pokemon to the game and enjoy the improved experience. There are also some extra mini-games built into the pedometer that unlock extra creatures.Sadly, you can only go up one level: you can't, for example, clip the device to a passing marathon runner (or dog collar) and create some all-conquering Super Pokemon. But hey, it's the sort of novel touch we expect from Nintendo, and the First Lady will love it – because video games make us fat, okay kids?Elsewhere, this is business as usual for a Pokemon game. Your character is a small child on a mission: travel the land, catch and train the various "pocket monsters", complete challenges and set your Pokemon against those of other junior trainers to become the supreme master.Given the size of the Pokemon fan community – still sizeable after all these years – the "if it ain't broke" policy is probably a very good thing. The control system is straightforward and easily picked up, the fighting – while seeming random to non-fans (like, for example, someone not a million miles away from this review) – is apparently deeply involved and tactical, and the quest – collect all 493 Pokemon and 16 fighting medals – is massive, making this a very good value, and slightly nostalgic, package. Provided that Pokemon is your kind of thing, of course. If it's not, the series' appeal will remain a mystery – even if it does come with a gadget.
So how was your weekend gaming then? I played around some more with Just Cause 2 – it's the perfect 1 hour muck around game. My guilty gaming pleasure of 2010 so far - Sonic and Sega Superstar Racing - also got a look in. Yes, it is horribly derivative, but the mix of Sega and Mario Kart nostalgia – topped off with lovely HD visuals - was hard to resist. Last, but most definitely not least, I was dragged back to the DS for some moreMight and Magic.Anyway, what about your gaming weekend? Get one of the new releases? Or is it still all about catching up with Final Fantasy VIII, Battlefield and the rest?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
The announcement on Friday that News International wouldimplement a paywall for the Times and Sunday Times from Junehas sparked a lot of interest.And now it's offering people thechance to pre-register for the service. Wow - not only do you get to pay £1 per day, or £2 per week, but you also get to be the target of News International mailshots. Come on, tell us that's not fun. No?Interesting to have a look behind the site and unravel the code though. Which has a bit of a knife-and-fork feel - especially in its implementation of the age check.Which is important, of course. "Only private individuals aged 18 years or over are permitted to register for use of the Website and to use the Services." Why? That's not explained. Is it something to do with credit cards? Anyone?The age restriction is set out in theterms and conditions, which intriguingly is dated 16 March - 10 days before the announcement was made. Oh, and it's 13 pages long. And seems to have attracted comments before the move was made public. Who knew that keeping your eye on Ts+Cs pages was the way to track paywalls? We do, now.Anyway, rather than do what a smart coder might do, and use some sort of check against the current year in order to set the latest year available in the drop-down menu (pictured above), it has simply started at 2010.Or possibly it's expecting babies to try to log on. In which case of course they will get turned down by its age check. That's once they've read the 13-page terms and conditions, of course.It's also full of expectation that all those 110-year old surfers will be logging in too, as the registration offers you a birth year right back to 1900. (Though that would meanOxfordshire-based Catherine Masters, 110 in 2009, wouldn''t be able to register.) Come on, Rupert, can't centenarians get a break? You get free bus rides once you're on your pension here. That's worth more than £1 per day.But if -if- that is the way things are being implemented behind the scenes, we don't hold out huge hopes for the quality of the coding there. But go on, Times coders. Surprise us in a positive way. First try was a bit meh, to be honest.Update:Richard Morrell, who was head of internet security for three years at NTL/VirginMedia, points out that the site doesn't use SSL to collect your personal data - meaning that a "sniffer" in between you and it could pick up all sorts of useful stuff for ID theft."If I'd launched something as basic as this without using SSL I'd have expected a fair degree of embarrassment at the minimum," Morrell says. "I just find the whole thing very 1996 in their approach to requesting how this data is collected in plaintext. It was so easy to do this right."He points to the Information Commissioner's advice about collecting data, where itpoints outthat the cost of privacy failure can be significantly raised by "asking for a full postal address when the service requested does not involve delivery to a physical address and where the full address is not required to validate a transaction".The preview seems to fail in both ways - it collects lots of personal information but doesn't use SSL; but equally the information collected is far too detailed for what it's actually delivering. You don't, for example, need someone's home address if you're doing a preview of an online service. (You can argue you need the age - yes, even of those babies - because it's an 18-and-over service, which has never been the case with the Times site before.)Either way it's wrong, basically.
Google, one of the world's most prominent evangelists for all things digital, has turned to one of the most traditional of old media routes to try to persuade more British people to go online: it is printing a leaflet.The Simple Guide to the Internet is part of the search engine group's commitment to Race Online 2012, an initiative started by the UK government's digital inclusion champion, Martha Lane Fox. The co-founder of Lastminute.com and the entrepreneur behind a growing Lucky Voice karaoke bar empire hopes to get 10,000 British businesses and charities signed up to her campaign, which is designed to put everyone in the UK online by the end of 2012.Google's leaflet, which it intends to start distributing this year through libraries, charities and other public bodies that work with the digitally excluded, will give novices all the information they need to carry out basic online tasks, such as communicating with friends. It will not be used to push Google's own services.But its appearance is likely to raise a smile among old media executives as it proves that the product of dead trees can still be useful in this digital world.A Google spokesman admitted: "Well, if you're trying to get people who are not on the internet to be interested in the internet, then realistically you're probably going to have to do something offline."In fact, it's not the first time that Google has resorted to old media in order to eulogise about new media. A year and a half ago, it announced plans to launch its own internet browser – called Chrome  – through the medium of a comic. Unfortunately its faster-than-expected delivery to journalists meant that what was supposed to be a carefully stage-managed announcement became an online festival of speculation.But it's not just about leaflets. Google will create a complementary website, and hopes that the leaflet and site combined will reach a million people by 2012.More than 10 million adults in the UK have never used the internet, according to the digital inclusion task force. Roughly 4&nbsp;million of that group are socially excluded adults, including elderly and unemployed people, whom Race Online is particularly interested in reaching."The Race Online 2012 ambition will create profound social and economic change and will mark a step change for the country as a whole," said Lane Fox. "Together we are within reach of our goal to enable the 4 million most socially excluded to benefit from the opportunities and cost efficiencies that the web has to offer".Alongside Google, the first corporate partners for Race Online include BT, McDonald's, Microsoft, Moneysupermarket.com, BSkyB, the electrical retailer Comet, internet telephony specialist Skype and broadband provider TalkTalk. BT has pledged to get at least 100,000 people online for the first time by encouraging all of its staff, consumers and corporate customers to 'Pass IT on' through a series of partnerships which include UK online centres and Age UK.In a similar vein retail chain Comet has pledged to 'Pass IT on' to 50,000 digitally disadvantaged people through in-store training for older first time web users while McDonald's will introduce a new IT module to its corporate training scheme.Sky aims to encourage up to 100,000 customers online for the first time through its own leaflet campaign to customers, TalkTalk hopes to help a similar number through community training at its customer contact centres and offering discounted broadband to those who complete a course at UK online centres.A recent report by PwC estimated the economic benefit of getting everyone in the UK online is £22bn and government could save at least £900m a year in customer contact costs if all digitally excluded adults got online and made just one electronic contact per month.
He came, he saw, he  chundered. A three-minute comedy sketch called Gap Yah has turned globetrotting posh boy, Orlando, into a YouTube sensation. In  the last two weeks nearly half  a million people have watched the video, with tens of thousands more viewing it every day. It has spawned its own  T-shirts, several fan pages and even a dance music remix.The sketch's creator, actor Matt Lacey, says, "It's a satire on the great number of people who seem to be leaving these shores to vomit all over the developing world."The private-school equivalent of Little Britain's Vicky  Pollard, Orlando is a parody of the pashmina-wearing, point-missing upper-middle-class  idiot known as the Rah.  Indigenous residents of older universities and public schools, Rahs are known for their  ostentatiously unkempt hair, expensive clothes and tediously drawn-out vowels.If you have not been to  Durham, Bristol or St Andrews, however, you may never have encountered the gap-year Rah and his inventive use of the English language. Here then,  for your "spiritual – cultural – political" enlightenment, is our beginner's guide to Rahspeak.Gap Yah– A year's holiday spent in various developing countries getting very drunk on cheap local alcohol, reaching profound moral epiphanies and then vomiting "everywah".Burmah, Tanzanah and  Perah– Burma, Tanzania and Peru. Suitable gap-year destinations. Subsections of Africah, South Americah and Asiah. See also: Darfah.On the lash– The act of getting very drunk.Chunder– To vomit. A triumphant act, to be celebrated and, whenever possible, shared. Usually in graphic detail.Chunklets- The aforementioned graphic detail.Vomcano– The effect of chundering on the snow on a mountain in Peru after "getting a sense of the awesome power of nature and the insignificance of man".Oh My God– Expression used to signify that something, even something of no significance whatsoever, has happened. An acceptable way of interrupting someone mid-sentence. Often abbreviated to "Oh Em Gee", or even "Oh My Gee."Tom Meltzer
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?It would have to be a record player, because that's the one I've used most since I was a child and the one I use most now. It's the one I use for all my music, and I thank the person who invented that.When was the last time you used it?I used it last night for a couple of albums I've just bought. I'm still always buying records, but finding the time to play them isn't always easy.What additional features would you add if you could?Tea-making? Other than that's it's pretty perfect and self explanatory. I like the fact that it doesn't do everything. I like it because it does one thing very well, and there's a certain ritual involved in it – more so than just pressing a button.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No, I really don't. People have been saying that about records for the past 25 years, and they're not gone. I think there will always be people like me around. And a lot of the people I know who are absolutely fanatical about music love vinyl.What frustrates you about technology in general?The high turnover of it. On the one hand, we're constantly told about recycling and cutting back, and on the other hand we have to buy the next gadget that comes along three weeks after the last one you bought. It's absolutely insane. We've been suckered into buying and buying and upgrading and upgrading. We're being given two very different mantras at the moment, I think.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I like things that are simple, such as an alarm clock. For me, trying to program stuff is a nightmare. I hate the fact that so much of our life is computerised rather than mechanised.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Well, I would say be simple and know what it is that you want out of whatever it is you're going to use. And don't use it to run your entire life. And talk to your cleverest friend about how to use it.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Our laptops, I guess. But the amount I've spent on record players, speakers and amps is a lot more, I suppose.Mac or PC, and why?Mac, just because I was probably guided towards that. I have no colours to the mast on that at all – I've always used Mac, but I don't care – I just want it to do what I want. I don't have any Mac smugness about it – it seems pretty good, but then I have never used a PC.Do you still buy CDs and DVDs or do you download? What was your last purchase?I buy DVDs. I don't really buy CDs unless they're for other people. We also download music a lot. I bought a load of jazz records the other day.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Yeah, OK – I'll go for that. On the one hand you are taking money out of a real butler's hands… but there aren't any real butlers any more, are there?What piece of technology would you most like to own?A robot butler…•Martin Freeman stars in Peter Greenaway's film Nightwatching, now showing across the UK
Not everyone can boast test drivers of the calibre of Lewis Hamilton and Jenson Button, but then the launch of the first volume-production sports car from the iconic McLaren F1 stable is no ordinary event. It's more than a decade since the groundbreaking McLaren F1 became the fastest production car in the world. Only 106 of the £600,000 F1s were built, but it is the intention of Ron Dennis, the hard-nosed chairman of McLaren, that more than 1,200 MP4-12Cs will be built annually and that the car will be the first in a whole range of McLarens.The press conference to introduce Ron's new baby was held in the futuristic McLaren Technical Centre, just outside Woking. It doesn't look like a car plant so much as a vast, space-age pathology lab. It's a temple to the art of automotive design, and behind glass walls visitors can admire the fruits of McLaren's long involvement with Formula 1. There is Ayrton Senna's 1988 car, here is Lewis Hamilton's from last year. Over there, behind yet more glass, are some of the 1,500 employees enjoying lunch in the lakeside canteen.Ron Dennis stepped on to the podium and said: "Since 1966, when McLaren first raced in F1, 106 teams have come and gone – and that tells me that if we stay solely as an F1 team it will lead to extinction."Which is where the 12C comes in. It won't go on sale until 2011; the production facility that will build the car hasn't even been built yet. But when it is, the £40m facility will create 300 new jobs."It'll be good for UK PLC, good for car enthusiasts, and…" Ron couldn't resist a smile, "good for me." No wonder – 1,600 orders have already been placed.The managing director, Antony Sheriff, then gave us some more facts and figures. "The 12C won't take you to the edge of what's possible," he said. "It will take you to the edge of the edge. It's what we call an 'and' car. It's powerfulandefficient; lightweightandsafe; fastandcomfortable." The 12C will be built around a revolutionary Carbon Monocell. This is so strong that after three 56kmh crashes, the test car's windscreen hadn't so much as cracked. Sheriff said that the embossed McLaren badge had been vetoed by the engineers in favour of an engraved one, as this saved 2.5g on the overall weight of 1,300kg.The car will do 0-200kmh in 10 seconds and 200-0kmh in 5 seconds. Technically it's miraculous – a Wagner opera in  a world of candied melodies.Lewis and Jenson returned. Standing either side of the car, which shyly concealed itself beneath a silk shroud, the drivers were asked how they found the car to drive. There was a moment's silence before Jenson, with all the authority of the 2009 F1 champion, said: "It feels nice – the engine makes a nice noise." Lewis joined in: "The moment I got out of it I was on the phone to Ron asking when I'd get one." Ron chipped in that maybe Mr Hamilton would like to win a few races first, then he'd think about it.And so, the moment of truth, the official unveiling. Lewis and Jenson pulled the covers off, and there before us was the world's first MP4-12C. Gull-winged, shark-gilled, bright-eyed… but somehow, after all the hype,  a little underwhelming.Ron Dennis likes to win races, but up against the sublime beauty of Lamborghini, Ferrari, Aston Martin, Porsche and Bentley, the MP4-12C looks like a small orange fish in a very big pond.
Pokémon HeartGold/SoulSilverDS, cert 3 (Nintendo)It's been roughly 10 years since the release of the original Gold and Silver, yet the heart of Pokémon beats with the same rhythm. Players still pick one of three starter Pokémon and engage them in battles with rival creatures, collecting more monsters and training them into a balanced and powerful fighting force. It's as traditional as Japanese role-playing games get. Yet despite the decline of the genre in the west, Pokémon's popularity endures.Simplicity is key to its appeal. The turn-based combat system is based on elemental strengths and weaknesses – water beats fire beats grass beats water, and so on – but the game layers in additional complexities almost imperceptibly, so it almost feels like you're learning through osmosis. There's a constant sense of progression that compels you to play on.Both games (which are almost identical, save for a handful of Pokémon exclusive to each version) are bundled with the PokéWalker, a pedometer where players can transfer a single creature to walk alongside them in the real world. Steps convert into a currency to unlock mini-games, wherein players can search for new monsters and items. Meanwhile, the accompanying Pokémon gains an extra level per stroll, alleviating the grind of strengthening a weaker squad member – and all while you're away from your DS.Other changes are minor, and include the Pokéathlon, which offers a suite of rudimentary, stylus-based mini-games. It's ironic that a series focused on evolution is so resistant to change, but the overall quality and breadth is impossible to deny.
The promise of bullets and blades combining for the firstRed Steelgave the Wii launch a frisson of gory excitement. Sadly, the poor correlation between the player's arm and on-screen sword left everyone disappointed.The sequel's swordplay is made much more accurate by the MotionPlus add-on – a hefty swing is required to take down brawny opponents. It's not quite 1:1 matching, but that feels like a gameplay decision – I certainly haven't got the hand eye co-ordination actually to block bullets with a sword.The use of cel-shaded graphics is also a great improvement; modern LA abandoned in favour of a highly stylised, futuristic, wild west-meets-far east desert. Going for style over realism has really paid off. As the mysterious Swordsman takes on an army of goons from the tattooed Jackal gang, the combat is pulled off with aplomb and it makes for an exhilarating if undemanding experience.
The Google boys may be politically naive, but they're learning fast.At any rate, their decision toshut down their censored Chinese search engineand redirect queries to google.com.hk, its unfiltered service based in Hong Kong, was tactically masterful. To appreciate it fully, you need to remember that Hong Kong, although technically part of the People's Republic of China, is a "Special Administrative Region" which plays to different rules than those obtaining in Beijing, particularly in respect to the rule of law and freedom of expression. The differences are a legacy of the deal with Britain in 1997 prior to the handover of the colony to China.The Chinese leaders accepted the arrangement out of a pragmatic desire to avoid strangling a golden goose. Until now, that must have looked like a smart judgment call: Hong Kong has prospered under Chinese sovereignty.Google's move, however, throws down the gauntlet. Up to now, Hong Kong has been outside the "Great Firewall" of China. If Beijing responds by extending the firewall around Hong Kong, then the implications could be far-reaching and unpalatable – for Hong Kong and possibly for China.Another sign of Google's growing political sophistication is the way it has started to translate its Chinese difficulties into terms that the US government takes seriously, namely trade. "Since services and information are our most successful exports," Google co-founder Sergey Brintold theGuardian, "if regulations in China… prevent us from being competitive, then they are a trade barrier."This is pure dog-whistle politics. Western governments, especially in the US, engage in endless posturing about human rights, but rarely do anything to endanger their economic interests. But governments do care about restraints on trade and are minded to take action to deal with them. As General de Gaulle, paraphrasing Lord Palmerston, once observed: "Great nations do not have friends; they only have interests." By aligning their company's commercial interests with the wider economic interest of the US, the Google boys have begun to recruit powerful allies.In being open aboutthe cyber attackthat prompted Google's original threat to stop filtering search results for Chinese users, Google's leaders have also earned brownie points with the powerful US security establishment, which is increasingly alarmist – some would say hysterical – about China's aggressiveness in cyberspace. The most recent example of this came on 10 March when a US military strategist told the House Foreign Affairs Committee that it should be concerned because Chinese researchers published a paper on how to attack a small US power grid sub-network.Hmmm... the paper in question was published inSafety Science, an organ of that well-known subversive organisation, Elsevier. It's a mathematical exploration of a topic of great interest to anyone working on network security, namely the vulnerability of real-life networks subject to intentional attacks. Security researchers work by exploring methods of attack to assess their chances of success. This doesn't mean such research is evil; on the contrary, it's the only way to do this kind of investigation. But it means that security researchers are generally loathed by banks, governments and other organisations with vested interested in concealing vulnerabilities.My guess is that the Chinese researchers chose the US power grid as a case study for two reasons: the data are publicly available, and it has experienced a number of high-profile failures in the past. Using oodles of incomprehensible mathematics, the paper examines a number of scenarios involving "cascade failure" – ie, what happens when a grid fails as safety switches are automatically triggered to protect the network. The counter-intuitive conclusion is that, in the event of a cascade failure, an attacker would do better to focus on lower-load network nodes than on the ones carrying the highest loads.If you're responsible for the security of a critical network, then this is a useful result. The fact that such a theoretical study, published in the open scientific literature, could disturb the slumbers of a congressional committee suggests that the atmosphere in Washington is getting febrile. The Google boys could be pushing at an open door.
Post-apocalyptic Tokyo, year unspecified: a young boy called Seto buries his grandfather and ventures outdoors for the first time, searching for signs of human life. He begins a melancholic adventure of discovery, with a tone and feel quite unlike any other game.Fragilepresents a distinctively Japanese take on the end of the world; whereFallout's empty wastes were stark and oppressive, this finds beauty among the bleakness. As Seto explores, he finds remnants of a forgotten time; each piece of detritus has its own – often moving – story to tell. It's uncommonly attractive for a Wii game, and the haunting, piano-led soundtrack is sublime.Though the boy's combat skills are authentically clumsy, it doesn't make the sporadic enemy encounters any more pleasurable, while back-tracking and fetch-quests drag the already funereal pace down further. It can be a struggle at times, but the shafts of light that illuminateFragile's gloomy world make this curio worth the effort.
Just Cause 2, PC/PlayStation 3/Xbox 360Just Cause 2 is a game about bodily flinging your character, special agent Rico Rodriguez, from rooftops, over cliffs and on to speeding vehicles and aircraft, often directly into your next firefight. Set in the heavily jungled and highly combustible island of Panau, it gives a feeling of complete freedom mixed with the power to cause destructive chaos, which is surprisingly absent from most games. It's not perfect, though: the voice acting is awful; you'll often have to travel miles to find your next mission; and, at times, the controls feel glitchy and imprecise. But with a pervasive B-movie atmosphere derived from more than just its pulp subject matter, this is a chunk of explosive fun that never takes itself too seriously.Eidos, £34.99-£49.99Metro 2033, PC/Xbox 360Metro 2033.It's 20 years after nuclear armageddon, with the second generation of survivors growing up in Moscow's underground network, harried by savage mutants and renegade humans. Playing as a young lad named Artyom, your mission takes you through the monster-infested surroundings, punctuated by sojourns to the frozen, poison gas-infused surface. Ammunition is scarce, enemies tough and the wonderfully grimy textures of its world, shrouded in smoke and a perpetual stygian gloom, don't make for a particularly uplifting experience. The sense of desolation and wonderfully detailed interiors support the story – based on a novel of the same name – which, unusually for a shooting game, is at least as important as the action. Metro 2033 is a thoughtful and uniquely atmospheric game that certainly isn't for everyone.THQ, £39.99-£49.99Yakuza 3, PlayStation 3Yakuza 3.Yakuza 3's hero, Kazuma Kiryu, is a gangster gone good. Having disposed of his arch enemies and their clans, it's safe for him to head off to Okinawa to run an orphanage and enjoy the simple life. As if. A land dispute between local gangs brings him back to Tokyo for more violence between heavily tattooed antagonists and myriad distractions in the form of mini games, from quiz machines to golf to managing your very own nightclub hostess. Combat is fairly clunky by modern standards, even if things get less tedious as you accrue more powers through its steady, RPG-style drip feed. Its plodding, very detailed, plot gives you reams of text to plough through onscreen, most of it without voice acting to spice it up, giving the occasional impression of Yakuza 3 as unexpurgated Japanese cultural artefact rather than conventional videogame.Sega, £49.99
MarwencolAfter being beaten up by five men outside a bar leading to a brain-damaging coma, Mark Hogancamp built a  1/6th scale miniature second world war-era town in his back garden. The town, which he calls Marwencol, is populated with Barbie dolls and action toys representing himself – Captain Hogancamp – and all his friends and neighbours whom he photographs, creating stories that are straight out of 1950s pulp fiction. The results are somewhat bizarre, disturbing (the horror of war is not shirked), sweet and awe-inspiring. In time this homemade therapy has helped him deal with the psychological wounds and recover his hand-eye coordination. Unsurprisingly, Mark and his creation have become the subject matter of a documentary, also called Marwencol, which premiered earlier this month at Austin's SXSW festival.Charting The BeatlesCharting The Beatles.We're used to seeing information graphics, diagrams and timelines on GDP, the effects of global warming or crime scenes, but this modern way of simplifying information is just as effective when applied to matters outside of current affairs. Here the statistical source of this open collaborative project is the Beatles, the object being to explore their history and music through the wonder of graphics. One chart tracks the song keys of all of their albums, another analyses their working schedule between 1963 and 1966. Elsewhere, a venn diagram attempts to make sense of I Am The Walrus and a graph of Google searches demonstrates that the Fab Four really are still bigger than Jesus.Blog roll: Fake tweetersBig Sam AllardyceSam AllardyceThe lavatorial musings of the Premier League's most macho boss: "I just ate an entire tangerine in one go."Chewbacca"GRRRRHHhhh wwhhreeehrhrnnnn" and other consonant-based thoughts.Nick GriffinThe BNP leader's masterplan unravels tweet by tweet.Andy McNab"Going for a haircut. I'm taking a copy of Famous British Castles to inspire my barber."Dr Tobias FunkeArrested Development's Dr Funke still living the dream of one day joining the Blue Man Group.Alan Partridge"Don't you hate it when your inner hammock is on the verge of perishing?"What we learned on the web this weekMike Tyson.Mike Tysonis a pigeon fancierThe hidden meaningof Lady Gaga's TelephoneGloomy octopusesprefer HD to normal TVWhat happensif you leave a Happy Meal on a shelf for a yearNothing could bemore geeky than a sci-fi periodic tableThe greatest codasin popular musicAkon's colognewill arrest your sensesThe futureof moneyThe most awfulAnime characterSpaced fansflashmobbed Trafalgar SquareEverything Bea Arthursaid in the Golden Girls
Who are you? What are you like?These are incredibly important questions that some of the web's biggest companies - Facebook and Google, for example - are spending vast piles of cash to try and work out. Why? Because understandingexactlywho your users are means you can work out what they want and advertise to them more successfully.One company with an interesting twist on the whole idea isHunch, thedecision enginethat promises to learn about you and then recommend a whole range of stuff without even blinking.Over the last couple of weeks the site has been running a few experiments involving Twitter, and is now boasting about a new ability:to profile your Twitter followers.As you hopefully know, we have our own@guardiantechaccount - which, I'll admit, started as a way for me to monitor my stories by text message - that now has almost 1.6 million followers.So what does Hunch think our followers are like?You:Are EuropeanHave bought multiple web domainsThink about computers like a petrolhead thinks about carsDon't use much open source software because it looks horribleNon-religiousWhat else? Oh yeah,You like curtains.And you like pie - but not burritos.So. Is this you? Has Hunch got it right? Let us know.
The problem with trying to please everybody is that you run the risk of satisfying nobody. A game that attempts to marry together RPG elements and a first-person shooter with a heavy focus on stealth, all in a survival horror setting, Metro 2033 certainly cannot be accused of lacking ambition. But while there is much to admire and indeed enjoy about the finished product, there are also aspects that will frustrate fans of each of those genres.Based on Dmitry Glukhovsky's novel of the same name, the game is set in post-apocalytic Moscow, where survivors of nuclear fall-out have taken refuge in the city's underground rail system. Beastly mutants roam both the world above ground and the tunnels between the heavily fortified stations where humans reside. Players are cast in the role of Artyom, a young man born above ground but raised below, as he sets out on a mission to find help for his home station of Exhibition, which is threatening to be over-run.Gameplay is linear, though there are occasionally slightly different routes to the same destination. Essential plot is delivered through cinematic set-pieces but more layers to the story can be unearthed by speaking to and interacting with fellow survivors and it is here that the game is at its most impressive. Almost every human you come across – friend or foe – has something to say and even a seemingly throwaway comment could be a clue to later success. Significant scrapes can be avoided by eavesdropping on the right conversation at the right moment and in an environment where ammunition is scarce and also used as currency that can be a source of immense satisfaction.On the other hand, a lot of characters will, like real humans, spout nothing but inanities and at stations the sense of obligation to go round everyone can become tiresome. Impatient players can just bypass this, of course, but do so knowing they may be depriving themselves of useful information and perhaps also the possibility to see one of the game's alternate endings. A minor gripe it may be, but the inconsistency between adults all speaking with (admittedly very hammy) Russian accents, and most children having American ones does also grate.It is the fighting sequences, though, that are the game's greatest let-down. A range of improvised weapons – ball bearing sniper rifle, anyone? – keep things interesting, but controls are fiddly and enemies not well enough animated, meaning it can be hard to tell if you are hitting targets even when they are right in front of you. It is also not always easy to know which direction you are being attacked from when taking damage.On the plus side, though, underground environments are deeply claustrophobic and a rich narrative quickly draws you in and, like a good book, has you constantly wanting to push on and discover what happens in the next chapter. The absence of an HUD means that even a pause to check maps may leave you open to attack, which makes the whole experience a deliciously paranoid one. If it is easy enough to identify flaws in Metro 2033, then it is also is surprising how quickly many of those can be forgotten.
Is the number of times you recharge your DS in a week an indication of a game's quality? If it is, then Picross 3D is a borderline classic.It's further proof that it's gameplay not graphics that matter. Picross is not a great looking game nor, as it happens, is it particularly original: it's basically Minesweeper in three dimensions, with a sprinkling of Sudoku. However, the execution is often sweetly funny, in that classic, quirky Nintendo style, it's simple to learn and it's fiendishly challenging.There's an old quote about sculpting an elephant being easy: you start with a block of material and remove the bits that don't look like an elephant. Here you start with a large block made up of smaller bricks. Some of the bricks have numbers on them. The numbers represent how many bricks in that row or column need to remain in order to reveal the hidden object within, which could be anything from a dog to a piano, via a baseball player or Japanese symbol. Your task is to work out, against the clock, which bricks you can blow up and which you need to keep.The DS regularly comes in for criticism – probably justified – over its reliance on childish or simplistic puzzle games. However, like the excellent Professor Leyton titles, Picross 3D can only exist in this format. After a lengthy but excellent tutorial level, you'll find the controls natural and instinctive. You can flip the block around in three dimensions, or slice into the larger puzzles, with a flick of the stylus. Press up on the control pad, tap a brick and it's removed. Press right on the control pad and tap a brick, and you lock it in place. That's about it but, like Sudoku, it requires patience and logic to solve.Complete the challenges within the time and with no errors, and you'll score up to three stars. Gain enough stars per round – eight puzzles – and you'll get a couple of extra challenges to complete, such as pure time challenges, or rounds where a single mistake will end the game. All told there are more than 350 puzzles to complete. A week of what feels like constant playing (and daily charging) and I'm not even a third of the way through – and I haven't even unlocked the Normal or Hard sections.If that sounds off-putting, don't let it be. Picross 3D may be genuinely challenging but the learning curve is spot-on – which makes it alarmingly addictive. If you want a little grey cell stimulation and you're bored with Brain Training, there's a new option in town.
The original Red Steel was released around the launch of the Wii and promptly flopped, as everyone stuck to playing Wii Sports.The fact that it was a hugely disappointing attempt to bring sword-waving action gaming to the Wii didn't help the cause either. Luckily, the sequel – which is almost entirely separate from the original game in terms of plot and characters – is a lot better. For a start the sword swinging feels much more satisfying this time round. This is the first Wii game to properly get close to the sword fighting action many gamers assumed would be commonplace on the console.Adopting the traditional first person shooter viewpoint, Red Steel 2 makes you swing the Wiimote around to slash with your on-screen weapon. Different moves correspond to how you swing and which buttons you press. Gunfire is a simpler proposition that involves pointing and shooting.  The feedback and controls work a lot better than before and while it isn't quite the "virtual swordfight" you may imagine, the combat is fast and satisfying. Blocking – hold the Wiimote horizontally and pressing a button – adds strategy to the fights. It is tiring though. Waving your arms and flicking the wrist gives an unintentionally effective workout.The game itself is single-player only and very much in a traditional gaming mould, so there are missions to complete and money to be found. If you are not trading Katana blows with a ninja, you are bashing boxes and crates for goodies. The visuals are way above the Wii norm, with a vibrant sci-fi/Wild West aesthetic perfectly suited to this kind of game. Even the audio is decent – again, way better than the Wii norm.While the controls work well, there are still some imprecise moments which remind you that motion control gaming is not quite there yet. But Red Steel 2 is satisfying enough to overcome these issues and comes highly recommended to Wii owners looking for a challenge.
What will you do come April 1, when Ordnance Survey goes free?You hadn't heard? You should have. In a big victory for the Free Our Data campaign, Gordon Brown hasannouncedthat various sets of OS data - presently expected to be vector and raster datasets from 1:25,000 up to 1:50,000 maps will be made available for free reuse, including commercial reuse.That's going to create the possibility of paper maps created using OS data, but which are tailored to specific niche uses - rambling, climbing, canoeing, horse-riding, tourism, say.Then there are all the potential online uses - which theShow Us A Better Waycompetition, and its winners, could exploit in all sorts of ways that theyweren't able to before.One of the key changes that's expected to take effect is the removal of the "derived data" restriction - under which Ordnance Survey claimed that if you used its maps (physical or digital) to create a dataset, then it had copyright on the new product. Broadly like Microsoft claiming a share on the royalties for your book because you wrote it with Word. (Not exactly, of course, because you generally need a map to view the map-derived dataset.)The "derived data" argument has beenone of the fiercest, if out of sight of most consumers, in the geographic world. Local government didn't like it at all, as we explained in November 2008.The other interesting question is whetherOpenStreetMapwill incorporate the released OS data - expected to go under a Creative Commons Attribution licence - into its database. That would at a stroke mean that it will cover the whole of Britain. (OSM will, we're sure, want to wait until it sees the precise details of the licences and the datasets to comment.)But we're definitely interested to hear how you'd like to see the OS data used.The details of how the release of this data haven't been released either, but my understanding is that it will receive direct funding from the Treasury, which has made a financial commitment to cover the revenue lost from selling those datasets - reckoned to be about £20m. That still leaves the OS's large-scale MasterMap as a paid-for product, producing about £80m of revenue, and a good - lion's? - share of its profits.The other question is what will happen to the traditional OS maps. We expect to have more on that next week.But for now - what would you do with those datasets?
It seems you can't move these days without coming across a Chatroulette clone, at least in idea. Once we had got past theshock of the site itself, with its random connection to people via webcams who might be in various stages of undress, there was thepiano player improvising a songto it, and so on. These days even your parents have heard of it.Well, never to be underdone, the Guardian has got its own version.Welcome please to(drum roll)GuardianRoulette.The rules are simple: go to the page. Read the article. Click. Read a new, randomly-chosen article. Now click again.The idea came out of ajoking remarkby Chris Thorpe yesterday in a Guardian presentation by Clay Shirky that what we really need is a "Chatroulette for news".After all, we do have loads of interesting content: but the trouble with the way that one tends to trawl the net, and especially newspapers, simply puts paid to the sort of serendipitous discovery of news that the paper form enables by its juxtaposition of possibly unrelated - but potentially important - subjects.Think about it: if all you do is browse the football reports and the technology news, how are you going to find out about reforms in old age care which might affect your ageing relatives (or you)?Contrast it (please) with other attempts to mine serendipity, such asGoogle's Fast Flip, which you'll have noticed has set the world of publishing alight.Oh, hasn't it?AsCattDaniel Vydra, who coded The Random Guardian (though we prefer GuardianRoulette), notes,"If you'd rather go directly to the random page, without the toolbar at the top, bookmarkhttp://random-guardian.appspot.com/randompageinstead. You can also tryhttp://random-guardian.appspot.com/random/technologyor any other section (eg. society, education, sport, etc), and you'll be sent off to a random page in that section."CattVydra also notes:"Some technical details: It was written inPython, pulling data from ourcontent API, and running onGoogle app engine."We think it might be rather hard to implement on other papers. (Though you're welcome to try. No, go on.)But for now - enjoy.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?There's two, actually. One is my Sonicare toothbrush – I don't know if that counts as technology or not, but it keeps my teeth clean and keeps the dentist happy. But the piece of technology that has changed my life the most is my BlackBerry, I would say. It allows me to be in contact with a lot of people and do business when I'm on the road.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Just a few minutes ago, to set up dinner plans for the evening.What additional features would you add if you could?If it could play films, it would be ideal. I'm probably going to have to go into the iPod Touch for that.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Oh, there'll be something completely new, absolutely.What always frustrates you about technology in general?I am one of those people that is electronically challenged – not that I don't have the desire to work the object, but it never seems to work for me. So if something is going to go wrong with a piece of equipment, it's going to go wrong for me.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I'm having issues right now with my Mac Mini, because I've just adopted it as my main source of viewing for anything online with my television. And I think there's a learning curve that I haven't quite adjusted to yet, so it's a bit frustrating.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Don't talk to me!Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm probably more in the nerd category.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably my new iMac desktop, which was pricey – it wasn't outrageous, but pricey.Mac or PC, and why?Mac for sure. They're just easier for me to use, and they look cool.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I'm a member of the Academy – most of my DVDs come to me for free, so I take advantage of that to view the new movies for the year. I download music now and I haven't downloaded film yet, but that's next – especially with the Mac Mini, I can do that very easily. They've also hooked me in to Boxee and Hulu, which are kind of exciting, so that I can download television shows as well.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Are they curvy? Might be good ...What piece of technology would you most like to own?If I could have a guitar that could make me play like Eric Clapton, it would be ideal.•Kyle MacLachlan starred as special agent Dale Cooper in Twin Peaks, the Definitive Gold Box Edition of which is out now on DVD
First, a bit of history. For more than 25 years I, and others, have been urging successive governments – spectacularly unsuccessfully so far – to build a network of ultra fast fibre optic cables to the home in order to propel Britain into the vanguard of the digital revolution. The Guardian has written editorials on the subject since the early 1980s, when Mrs Thatcher ruled out British Telecom's bid to finance such plans (in exchange for being allowed to deliver video-on-demand) in favour of leaving the matter to market forces, spearheaded by the arrival of cable companies.But nothing much happenedexcept the odd experiment under special circumstances. BT now has trials at Ebbsfleet and intends to build fibre into new housing developments. Virgin also has plans but my own efforts to experience it myself have proved elusive.Until this week when I visited Bournemouth, where a network reaching minimum speeds of 100 megabits per second (Mbps) is being built with the cooperation of the council. For months the company behind the project Fibrecity, based in Newton Le Willows, has been inviting me down to talk about it but each time when I inquired further it turned out that it wouldn't have been possible to do the two things I wanted to do – see it working in a real home (not a show house) and use it with my own laptop.This week I accepted, as I was going to Bournemouth anyway to visit the flourishing multimedia part of the university and was keenly looking forward to the end of my 25-year quest for fibre optic broadband to the home as Fibrecity assured me that my two conditions would be met. At the show house they demonstrated speeds of nearly a gigabit a second, which was monitored on a graph on a screen. Impressive. But that was the speed the data was coming down the fibre pipe. Once it reached the laptop it slowed down dramatically to little more than 100Mbps because the specs of the computer (no optical interface, a spinning hard drive etc) meant it couldn't cope with the higher speeds. For this reason, fibre to the home actually means fibre to a box in a room. The final bit of the journey is by traditional copper wire because the laptop can't link directly with fibre. But 100Mbps is still very attractive compared with our BT broadband at home (plus or minus 6Mbps). Also you don't have to share the line from the exchange with anyone else which can slow it down – though sharing a 100Mbps connection with others in the same house using HDTV can have similar though less serious effects.When I tried it out on my own laptop my disappointment echoed around the room. While the speed of access to the internet was undoubtedly quicker, it was not dramatically so. I was still getting my usual problem of whirling cursors on the screen which slowed it down. When I entered the virtual world Second Life, it was just as jerky as it normally is and a video (file size, 84MB) I had takenabout pelicans in St James Park, barely a minute in length, took two minutes to upload to YouTube. The man from Fibrecity explained that whirling cursors had nothing to do with speeds but was the result of problems with the browser or something else. Fair point.It turned out I was wrong to be unimpressed by the upstream speed. When I got home and uploaded the same video to YouTube it took one and a half hours instead of two minutes. Wow. This points to the real advantage of fibre to the home – the death of asymmetric speeds. My computer at home may download at 6-7Mbps but its uploading speed is a measly 0.37 Mbps according tospeedtest.net.This point was confirmed when I visited the nearby home of Tom Collins in Bournemouth. He is in the software business and a paid-up subscriber to Fibrecity's service. He says that there is a noticeable but not huge increase in the speed of his web access, but with uploads it was dramatic. He has a policy of backing up the entire contents of his PC on the internet. He says it used to take a whole week, but now takes only a few hours.Speed is what this is all about. The government's target of up to 2Mbps by 2012 for the whole country seems devoid of ambition when you consider that speeds of 100Mbps – and counting – are at last available, even though the availability of 2Mbps to a home that didn't have web access before may seem like a miracle to them. Whereas for nearly all of the past 25 years industry and government have doubted whether there would be any demand for superfast broadband, you no longer hear that as we are entering a world swamped by high definition videos and television for entertainment and in which awesome possibilities open up for remote health care and education as broadband speeds multiply.But this needs a network effect to be successful. If only 5% of the population have 100Mbps access, then industry isn't going to build the products that will use it – including computers with the right specs. But if our home market had 100Mbps or more as standard then they would build products and services that could be sold to the rest of the world. Of course, this will be expensive but not as expensive as not doing it. Fibrecity has a neat device that cuts shallow ducts in the pavements so fibre – having been partly routed through the sewer system – can reach the home without digging trenches. It says it costs about £500 per home (currently free to paid up subscribers) which is about the cost of a smart phone. It leaves a "scar" on the road or pavement but nothing like the damage caused by trenches.The point is this – that more than 25 years since the debate about the economics of fibre to the home started, the arguments are stronger than ever. Sure, other technologies have come along that may seem to reduce the urgency – such as Wi-Fi and the amazing way that engineers have been able to squeeze high speeds out of 50-year-old copper cable – but there is an emerging consensus around the world that the almost infinite capacity of fibre optics is where the future lies. Alistair Darling's 50p phone tax to connect the majority of homes to next generation broadband services by 2017 (which doesn't mean speeds as fast as 100Mbps) is grossly inadequate for the task in hand. I don't know where all the jobs are coming from after the collapse of the financial sector but one thing I am still sure about, 25 years on, is that the words "superfast broadband" will feature somewhere.twitter.com/vickeegan
A quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPhoto byValerie Everetton Flickr.CC-BY-SA licensedThe Opposite of Fitts' Law &gt;&gt; Coding HorrorFitts' (Fitts's?) Law is that you should put interface elements that people are going to use in places that are close to the cursor and easily found - the edge of the screen is an example. But where should you put buttons that will, say, report an email as spam or delete them?Twitter powered subtitles for BBC iPlayer &gt;&gt; MASHeFabulous code - open source, download and play with and improve it! - to let you see how the Twitter conversation around a TV program developed even if you're watching it time-shifted on iPlayerPwn2Own 2010: iPhone hacked, SMS database hijacked &gt;&gt; ZDNet.comObviously, it's a hacking contest, so you expect that people will do this - but it's surprising how quickly it was done and how the standard builds don't seem to hold up against it.Is Twitter Winning the War on Spam? Our Stats Do Not Support this Assertion &gt;&gt; The Dustpan"Is Twitter doing a good job going after spammers? I'm sure they are making best efforts. Are they winning the battle? It's too early to say. Do they have spam down to 1%? Our stats certainly don't confirm that. If our stats indicate that 5% of followers are spammers, you've got to know the actual number is even higher."The Things Facebook Causes, According To Google, Yahoo &amp; Bing &gt;&gt; SearchenginelandObvious, of course. If Facebook causes syphilis (as claimed weirdly this week) then shouldn't Google know about it? Actually, what does Facebook cause, then? (Apart from stupid tabloid stories, that is?)Pwn2Own 2010: iPhone hacked, SMS database hijacked - ZD NetUsing an exploit against a previously unknown vulnerability, Vincenzo Iozzo and Ralf Philipp Weinmann lured the target iPhone to a rigged Web site and exfiltrated the SMS database in about 20 seconds. Weinmann said the winning exploit could have exfiltrated the phone contact list, the email database, photographs and iTunes music files.Pwn2Own MacBook attack: Charlie Miller hacks Safari againFor the third year in a row, Charlie Miller hacked into a MacBook by exploiting a critical Safari browser vulnerability. He already knows another 20 security holes in Safari so, given the chance, he could keep this run going for quite some time....The Bounty For An Apple Bug: $115,000 - ForbesSomeone is willing to pay "between $15,000 and $115,000 for the right Apple-focused security flaw". The Mac isn't mass market but they can be used for "targeted espionage". Either way, it shows the Mac is being targeted...Photoshop's CAF (content-aware fill)? GIMP can do it already &gt;&gt; the real UqbarRemember the breathtaking Photoshop video showing theupcoming feature in CS5that fills in chunks just as they should be? Yeah, well, GIMP already does it. Talk about your lights and bushels.China's home-grown internet giants may be stuck there &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"The hottest companies in the world's biggest Internet market have names like Baidu, Tencent and Alibaba — fast-growing local firms that are making huge profits. Post-Google, China's Internet market could increasingly resemble a lucrative, walled-off bazaar, experts say. Those homegrown successes, however, could have trouble becoming global brands."Steve Jobs saves superheroes with the iPad. Well, most of them &gt;&gt; Foxtrot.comBill Amend hits the nail on the headHappy birthday! Mac OS X turns 9 &gt;&gt; The Unofficial Apple WeblogThe first version was number 10.0.0 - and couldn't do loads of things. It was a really painful time... but OS X users today would probably agree it's been worth it.BBC - dot.Rory: Technophobia, Facebook and syphilis"In summary, Professor Kelly's colleague told me: 'Our press release was simply trying to highlight the risks of casual sex. We did not make the claim that social networking sites are causing the rise in the incidence of syphilis.'" &#10;&#10;Next week: spontaneous combustion traced to infuriated Facebook PRs?Hacker busts IE8 on Windows 7 in 2 minutes &gt;&gt; Computerworld.com"Both Peter Vreugdenhil of the Netherlands and a German researcher who only would give his first name of Nils, found ways to disable DEP (data execution prevention) and ASLR (address space layout randomization), two of Windows 7's most vaunted anti-exploit features." Darn.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Compared to the last 8 or so weeks today's release schedule is pretty quiet. The most tempting wallet-opener isJust Cause 2. I've been playing the 360 version for a few days and it has certainly got one of the prettiest gaming environments seen on a console. The plot isn't up too much though, and I'm beginning to wonder how long the sandbox thrill will last, but as a go anywhere, jump off everything kind of game Just Cause 2 is well worth a look.Elsewhere there is Red Steel 2 on the Wii (I am reviewing this for next week - "arm ache but worth a look for that hardy bunch of Wii core gamers" is the gist).  Pokemon returns too, for those that still care. The only other notable release isPrison Break Conspiracy. When I say notable I mean "not quite as bad as the Lost game". Prison Break is very very average, with weak combat and a seemingly endless series of fetch tasks. Fans of the show will possibly get something out of it but for me the main benefit was a stream of easy Xbox 360 achievement points.Anyway, are you planning to splash out on a game this weekend?
&bull; It's been a little whilesince we last wroteaboutWikipedia, but here's something big:a whole slew of changes are coming for the site, including a new look, new layout and new features. The idea is to make it easier to read pages, edit pages and encourage users - any thoughts on whether it will work?&bull; It's three years sinceone of the biggest credit card heists in US history, which saw the owner of TK Maxx lose the credit card details for 46m customers. Now one of the hackers responsible hasbeen sentenced to 20 years in prisonfor his part in the scam. That's not all, though - he's due to be sentenced for two more counts relating to the same spree.&bull; And time to sign off and let you dash towards the weekend with some amazing Photoshop skillz.This video of the upcoming content-aware fill- a tool that understands what's around it and fills in the gaps appropriately. Skip to about halfway through the video to see it really get going. I feel a bit dizzy from watching it, to be honest. Au revoir.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech,@gdngamesor ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Bring up the subject of internet censorship in China, and most people's minds turn to the Great Firewall - the set of filters and blockades aimed at preventing ordinary web users from seeing politically sensitive material. But it's also well-known that the government in Beijing also censors in a number of other ways, not least by pressuring media outlets, news sites and bloggers not to discuss certain topics.It's no surprise, then, that the latest topic to warrant treatment isGoogle's spat with the Chinese authorities. What is more unusual, perhaps, is that somebody has broken cover and published the censorship guidelines put out by officials in their attempt to suppress news of the battle with Google.A document from the State Council Information Office - one of the government departments charged with keeping the country's media in line at crucial moments - has beenObtained and translated by China Digital Times, a news site about China that's run by the University of California Berkeley. It details the government's , which it calls a "high-impact incident" and lists a series of "content requirements".Here are some of the orders:1. Only use Central Government main media (website) content; do not use content from other sources2. Reposting must not change title3. News recommendations should refer to Central government main media websites4. Do not produce relevant topic pages; do not set discussion sessions; do not conduct related investigative reporting;5. Online programs with experts and scholars on this matter must apply for permission ahead of time. This type of self-initiated program production is strictly forbidden.6. Carefully manage the commentary posts under news items.These are the rules for news outlets - there are alsoother instructions for "interactive media", blogs and forumsthat involve careful monitoring and repression of discussion on the topic.In addition, CDT also lists a series of extra rules.Outlets are told "do not report about Google exerting pressure on our country via people or events" and that reporters and writers should not provide material that could be used by Google to attack Chinese government policy. A little ironic, then, that it is the government's own instructions on the subject that end up providing grist to the mill.Whether you think Google's position is right or wrong, selfless or selfish, it's clear that it has irritated the governmenteven more than has already been documented: the government in Beijing is doing its best to quash any signs of conflict.And, on top of it all, it's worth remembering the fact that it is an offence in China to even report the fact that these restrictions exist. Blowing the whistle on the government's instructions to the media ispreciselywhat led to the imprisonment of Shi Tao, the Chinese journalist who was imprisoned in 2004 after Yahoo passed on his personal information to the government.How can Google, now taking the high ground in Hong Kong and censored by the Great Firewall as a result, compete with that?
Hopes that Google's forthright stand on censorship in China would inspire other companies to follow suit appeared unfounded today, with the move instead threatening to widen the rift between some of the world's most powerful internet companies.Microsoft, which has considerable interests in the country, including its Bing search engine, responded directly to criticism by Google's co-founder Sergey Brin, who this week accused the company of speaking against human rights and free speech.Brin, who pressed for the closing down of Google's self-censored Chinese search engine, said yesterday: "I'm very disappointed for them in particular."I would hope that larger companies would not put profit ahead of all else. Generally, companies should pay attention to how and where their products are used."Microsoft rejected Brin's critique, saying it would continue to obey local laws on censorship in China."We appreciate that different companies may make different decisions based on their own experiences and views," a spokesman said. "We have done business in China for more than 20 years and we intend to continue our business there."The company said it regularly talked to governments all over the world about the benefits of free speech, including the authorities in Beijing, but added that "engagement in global markets is important"."We believe all technology companies should make public commitments to help protect internet users."The comments come days after Google closed its Chinese search engine and moved operations to Hong Kong, which lies outside China's Great Firewall, which blocks access to some sites. That move, prompted by a hacking attack on Google's servers that has been traced back to China, is the latest attempt in the company's campaign to challenge Beijing's internet censorship.Brin, in particular, has tried to rally the US government and other businesses behind the cause, arguing that censorship is an unfair restriction on human rights and information.Most big internet corporations with business interests in China, including household names such as Yahoo and MySpace, are following Microsoft's lead.However there are some exceptions.GoDaddy.com, the world's largest internet domain registrar, told a US congressional hearing that it will pull out of China because of concerns over government interference and privacy. The company, which says it manages 27,000 Chinese domain names, said the authorities there had asked it to collect photo headshots, business licence information and signed registration forms from customers and forward them to government officials."The intent of the new procedures appeared … to be based on a desire by the Chinese authorities to exercise increased control over the subject matter of domain name registrations by Chinese nationals," GoDaddy's executive vice-president, Christine Jones, told the hearing."There appears to be a recent increase in China's surveillance and monitoring of the internet activities of its citizens."Some other technology companies have chosen not to enter the Chinese market, echoing the arguments made by human rights activists who said that Google should never have agreed to self-censor its search engine in 2006. Among the biggest hold-outs is Facebook, which has more than 400 million users worldwide but remains blocked by the Great Firewall. The site runs a Chinese-language version but has so far refused to set up an operation inside the country, not least because it holds a vast treasury of personal information and private conversations belonging to its users.Twitter, the social networking startup that was lauded for helping activists spread information during anti-government protests in Iran, has also indicated that it does not intend to give any element of control to the Chinese government.Evan Williams, Twitter's co-founder and chief executive, recently said that the service, which has a significant number of users in China, but is also blocked by the authorities, wanted to be a "force for good"."My hope is that eventually the open exchange of information will prevail in most regions, but we don't have any specific plans in China or other areas where we're blocked."Internet analysts played down the significance of GoDaddy's move, pointing out that .cn domains made up less than 1% of the company's business and that many people were simply unwilling to register under the rules."It is essentially a dead business," said a Beijing-based technology pundit, Kaiser Kuo.Journalist Michael Anti made headlines around the world when Microsoft closed his Chinese-language blog in 2005. But he said: "Microsoft has done a lot of good things for Chinese people – MSN [hosted outside the mainland] has expanded civil society. It certainly shouldn't be the first to be blamed."I don't think many companies can follow Google. First, Google is big enough; second, the hacking really damaged its core interests; third, their market share is only [a small] percentage of their global market."He added: "Google is not an internet company; it's the internet company."Others pointed out that the Global Network Initiative, founded a year and a half ago to encourage technology companies to adopt and implement human rights standards in their dealings with authoritarian regimes, included both Microsoft and Google."Only three companies – Yahoo, Microsoft and Google – have embraced meaningful human rights standards, and even among them there are differences in their approach to China," said Arvind Ganesan, business and human rights director for Human Rights Watch."There are many more companies that haven't said anything and are just as much obliged to respect human rights. That really speaks to the need for some kind of regulation."Blogger Isaac Mao said Google had set a good example which he hoped others would follow.Ai Weiwei, an outspoken contemporary artist with 25,000 Twitter followers, argued: "The rights to know and express yourself are basic human rights."Of course many companies want to do business in China, but we really think western nations should apply the same kind of moral standards they do in their own nations."Faced with the growing conflict between American internet firms and Beijing, the US government appears to have stepped back from its wholehearted support of Google, with the Obama administration instead taking a "lie low" approach, according to James Lewis, a senior fellow in the technology and public policy programme at the Centre for Strategic and International Studies.Legislation pending since last May would deter American businesses from co-operating with online censorship efforts and encourage a diplomatic push for internet freedom, but Congress has taken no action on it and observers do not expects it to reach the statute books in the near future.Corinna-Barbara Francis, Amnesty International's China researcher, said she hoped that a greater awareness among consumers would start having an impact on the decisions made by businesses eyeing the lucrative Chinese market."There is no question that adopting social responsibility policies – at least in the West – is good for your image and good for business."People may want their jeans manufacturers to be ethical, but it's even more personal when it's the company that provides your blog or social networking. People don't want to be doing all those things with companies they don't feel good about."But Andrew Lih, an expert on technology in China and director of new media at the University of Southern California Annenberg, said: "Americans rarely even engage in boycotting of US-based entities they know have done far worse things. I doubt the actions in China are going to energize them."Meanwhile Beijing argues that all governments place limits on internet content. It denies any connection to cyber-attacks and says it is regularly targeted by hackers.The companies: What they do in ChinaMicrosoftAfter being criticised when it censored blogs hosted on its MSN service, Microsoft made careful changes to its policies. For example, its Hotmail email service does not keep any data in mainland China. However, the company continues to self-censor other aspects of its service, and its co-founder, Bill Gates, surprised observers recently by saying that Chinese censorship was "very limited".MySpaceRupert Murdoch's News Corporation holds significant interests in the country, not least MySpace China, begun in 2007. The site, which is locally owned, operated and managed, is notorious for censoring users who talk about politics or religion.YahooAfter a huge privacy backlash when the company handed over personal information that led to the jailing of a Chinese journalist, Yahoo scaled back its involvement in the country. In 2005, it exchanged its Chinese arm for a 39% share of the popular website Alibaba. "We no longer have operational control or day-to-day management over the Yahoo China business," said the company.Cisco SystemsThe California-based networking company is one of the biggest targets for activists because it supplies technology and training that is used to run the Great Firewall. It remains relatively unrepentant. The company's chief executive officer recently said that he would invest hundreds of millions of dollars in building up the Chinese business, and claimed that Google's protests were part of a "natural &nbsp;give and take".
The controversial digital economy bill will be pushed through in the "wash-up" leading up to an election, after the government confirmed that it will receive its second reading in the Commons on 6 April – the same day that Gordon Brown is expected to seek Parliament's dissolution.Harriet Harman, the leader of the house, said  today that the bill will get its second reading. But when questioned by Labour MPs Neil Gerrard and Tom Watson about the lack of time given to debate over controversial issues in the bill, she said only that "ministers are aware" of the strong feelings that the proposed legislation has engendered.The "wash-up" is the system by which bills which have passed through one part of parliament can be nodded through by agreement between the whips of the main parties after parliament has formally risen for the election. It does not allow for debate of issues; the only changes that can be made to bills are deletions.The bill has proved highly controversial with many consumers and businesses because of the measures it would take against those accused of copyright infringement online. Hotels and cafes offering Wi-Fi to customers fear that they would have to shut the service off, while rights groups say that the balance of the bill is against people accused – but not proven–- to have infringed copyright. But groups lobbying for creative industries, particularly the music business, support the bill and say that it is proportionate.Hundreds of people demonstrated outside the Commons yesterday in protest at the bill's proposed measures.Reacting to the scheduling of the second reading debate for 6 April, Jim Killock, head of the Open Rights Group, which campaigns for digital rights, said: "Over 17,000 letters have been sent objecting to this Bill being rushed through. This bill will restrict individual rights and freedoms and punish innocent people by disconnecting them. This needs democratic debate, it cannot simply be pushed through during 'wash up'."More than 2,000 letters were sent to Harman, and more than 15,000 letters have been sent to MPs asking for a full debate.
Second world war codebreaking centre Bletchley Park has been given a £250,000 grant from the government to pay for urgent repairs to the centre, including resurfacing potholed roads and car parks and new roofs on the buildings where German Enigma codes were cracked in the war.But Sue Black, a campaigner for the preservation of the site, said that another £6m needs to be raised to upgrade the centre. She and other campaigners are trying to encourage people to volunteer one day's earnings to the site on 16 September to meet a £1.5m funding gap.The latest government money has to be spent by the end of this month, but Dr Black said "that will be easy because there's a massive amount of repairs that needs to be done".The site in Buckinghamshire was home to code-breaking work by early computers such as Colossus, believed to have shortened the second world war by two years, saving countless lives. It has been open as a museum since 1994 but was in urgent need of repairs and maintenance work.Culture Secretary Ben Bradshaw announced the funding on a visit to Bletchley Park today. He said: "The work carried out at Bletchley Park had a huge impact on the course of the war, and the museum does a brilliant job in bringing this alive for people of all ages. But having doubled its visitor numbers over the last three years, it urgently needs funds to keep it in good condition."Simon Greenish, chief executive officer of the Bletchley Park Trust, said the funding showed that the Department of Culture, Media and Sport endorsed the site as "a place of national importance that deserves Government support".But Bletchley Park's status lags far behind comparable sites in other countries, notably the US, where its Computer History Museum has an award-winning modern building with a 370-seat auditorium – which the Guardian's computer editor, Jack Schofield, contrasts with Bletchley Park's National Museum of Computing, "housed in dilapidated huts".The Bletchley site has had to scrabble around for funds for years as the site has fallen into disrepair. The Heritage Lottery Fundawarded the Bletchley Park Trust £460,000 last September to work on detailed museum development planswhich will be submitted in 2011 in a bid to secure £4.1m of further funding. And a year agoMilton Keynes Council pledged £300,000 to help with repairs, while in 2008 English Heritage put forward £330,000 for "necessary repairs" to the site.
Photo by theDutch National Archive.No restrictionsA quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team. Want to send a link our way?Tag it with "guardiantech" on delicious.comand we'll take a look.Pwn2Own hack topples Firefox on Windows &gt;&gt; ZDNetIn the annual CanSecWest Pwn2Own hacking competition, Firefox was beaten after Safari on Mac OS X and IE8 on Windows 7.Google Code University &gt;&gt; Google CodeAjax programming, algorithms, distributed systems, web security, languages.. and all with a CC Attribution licenceGordon's Brown's broadband speech with Twitter Subtitles &gt;&gt; SMIL PlayerFun, intriguing..New Research Suggests That Governments May Fake SSL Certificates &gt;&gt; Electronic Frontier FoundationActually, that's rather worrying.The BPI's China-like clauses in the Digital Economy Bill &gt;&gt; Epeus' epigoneAn interesting analysis by Kevin Marks contrasting China's Great Firewall with the provisions of the Digital Economy Bill. Are they so very different?Inside a global cybercrime ring &gt;&gt; ReutersReuters reports on a Kiev company that produced "scareware" (fake anti-virus software) for Windows. It has now been closed down.Robot Touchscreen Analysis &gt;&gt; labs.moto.comMoto eliminated the human element from its earlier test to show that the Apple iPhone's touch screen really is much better than the competition....Google v. China? No, It's Bigger Than That &gt;&gt; John Battelle's Searchblog"Thanks to Google's move, thousands, if not millions, of Chinese now understand the extend to which their own government has been duping them. And those who already knew have a new ally, and perhaps additional courage to continue change from within."The Sun accuses Facebook of spreading syphilis &gt;&gt; guardian.co.uk"So 0.83% of the cases in 0.80% of the population." Leadballoon applies statistics to show what you knew innately: this is a daft story. But it won't have made Facebook, already fuming at theDaily Mail story earlier this month, any happier.Digital Economy Bill [HL]: 26 Jan 2010: House of Lords debates &gt;&gt; TheyWorkForYou.com)Lord Howard of Rising, the Tory shadow in the Lords on culture, media and sport: "I am not sure that we would have demonstrations in Trafalgar Square about this, with people being thrown into fountains, but who can tell?" &#10;&#10;Who indeed? Though if he had gone to Trafalgar Square I'm sure there are some people who could have accommodated him.Video: Sneak peek of Content-Aware Fill in Photoshop &gt;&gt; John Nack's Adobe blog"Content-aware" fill looks like being the thing that will get you writing the cheque for the next version of Photoshop. Watch the video in full-screen at 480p to get the real idea. Photoshop: showing you even more scenes that don't exist in real life.HELP!!! I need a proxy server!!!! | Chinalyst &gt;&gt; China blogs in English"The regime has blocked my proxy server which I need to be able to teach my kids the international baccalaureate curriculum. With google search blocked, Wikipedia, anything to do with the Chinese prescribed history topic, etc., my students and I are having a hell of a time being hamstrung by fascists and intellectual pygmies while IB schools outside this country have free access to information and resources." &#10;&#10;And now you get a ton of proxy server offerings.The Social Media Bubble &gt;&gt; Harvard Business Review"During the subprime bubble, banks and brokers sold one another bad debt — debt that couldn't be made good on. Today, 'social' media is trading in low-quality connections — linkages that are unlikely to yield meaningful, lasting relationships," argues Umair Haque.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
You might recall that part of thefury with China that Google expressed in Januarywas over the hacking of Gmail accounts belonging to activists - that, and thediscovery of hackinginto its source code repositories (though Google hasn't confirmed the latter, it's widely understood that was the reason for its reaction).Well, don't think that just because Google has shifted its search engine to Hong Kong that things have eased up. IF you're on Gmail, and even if you're not an activist, it might be a good idea to check who else has been using your account recently. Ian Betteridge, who writes over atTechnovia, got a shock the other day when he looked at the record of who had been accessing his Gmail account.Screenshot byIan Betteridgeon Flickr.CC-BY licensedThere was an "unknown" access from a China Telecom IP - somewhere in the Beijing region. (The picture below is from GeoIPTool, which tries to map an IP address to a location. It's rough, but good enough.)That's a bit of a jawdropper. Also in the list is access by an Amazon Web service apparently belonging tomy6sense, which says it is "the sensational way to read and share your most relevant content from your RSS and social streams". (It's not Chinese-owned.) Possibly the hacker set up an RSS feed of new Gmail from the account to go to a My6Sense stream. If I were Betteridge, I'd be assuming that every email I'd had in my Gmail account had been copied and read, up to the time that I changed my password . (Which he has.)Now, does this indicate Chinese government evil intentions? No, not necessarily; there's a long way to go to prove that. There are plenty of Chinese hackers around - last year I discovered a chunk of PHP code clearly written by a Chinese hacker on the Free Our Data blog which had been used to insert pharma spam. That doesn't either mean that the Chinese hacker inserted it - he might just have sold it to someone who then used it for pharma spam.Even so, it's clearly a good idea to check your Gmail status from time to time.To do that, log in, go to Settings on the top right, and scroll down to the bottom. There you'll find some text in green telling you how much of your allowance you're using; and below that a line saying "Last account activity: ... minutes ago at this IP.." and a hyperlink to Details. Click that for a view of your account access history. And make sure that your Alert Preference is set for "Show an alert for unusual activity."&bull; We've also gotfull coverage of Google and China.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
I've been testing out the sword slashingRed Steel 2on the Wii for the last couple of days.  It is *way* better than the original for sure, but - and call me old-fashioned here - using the Wii for any serious length of gaming time is simply much easier with the classic pad compared to the wiimote - (Monster Hunter Triis a perfect example). I have actually had arm ache playing Red Steel 2 which is probably not the immersive experience the developers had in mind. Or maybe it was? Either way I'm still to be convinced that motion play can work with the time and control demands of a  "hardcore" title.  Microsof's Project Natal may be different though, but rumours earlier this week suggested you may need a massive living space - do you have 4 metres (13 feet) of space in front of your TV? - to even use it. Understandably European and Japanese Xbox owners will have been concerned.  So, Microsoft havenow confirmed to Kotakuthat this space need is an optimum but not essential.The comments recently about the play space for 'Project Natal' were misinterpreted.  It is true that the 'Project Natal' sensor reads the configuration of your room and adjusts play space, as appropriate. We know that living rooms come in all shapes and sizes, and have conducted numerous play tests to ensure everyone will be able to jump off the couch and into the fun when 'Project Natal' launches globally this holiday.This wouldn't be the first time that the Xbox has had these kind of concerns - remember the Japanese-unfriendly bulk of the original Xbox model and controller? - and despite the Microsoft comments you will clearly need a bit more space to jump around using Natal rather than just waving the Wiimote. What this will mean in practice remains to be seen but personally I still can't see how you can use Natal for "hardcore" games like, say, Fable 3 without it feeling like a jarring bolt-on that adds little to the experience. Yes, I'm looking forward to playing a bit of "Natal Sports" or whatever but am yet to be convinced that motion control - whether Wii, Natal or Playstation Move - will ever really work with core games. But what about you? Agree with me? Or do you expect to be playing Modern Warfare 4 and Halo 5 with some kind of motion or full body controller?
&bull; After a week filled with news about Google's escapades in China - and a day when domain registrar GoDaddy tried to get some time in the spotlight by saying it wouldstop selling Chinese domains- let's start with... something different. Here's a really great, but entirely random piece by Reuterslooking at the inner workings of a cybercrime ring. Worth perusing.&bull; How much will books cost on the iPad?Exactly the same as the Kindle. Is Apple trying to force the market on ebooks? Is it merely being competitive? The truth's not clear right now, but it's enough tomajor publishers like Random House.&bull; And a piece that's really worth taking note of from today's Guardian:this column from Naomi Alderman looking at the work of Jane McGonigal. Jane is optimistic, but inspirational: and if you take nothing else away fromher fun TED talk, it's that we can all be inspired by the idea of the epic win.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech,@gdngamesor ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed..
A recent talk bygames academic Jane McGonigalhas re-ignited discussion  on the role they play in our society. Traditionally, the debate has centred onwhether they are "damaging"or merely "harmless fun". But McGonigal is a games advocate. Her belief is that games are actually good for us.In order to solve the world's most urgent problems, McGonigal says, we need to play more games because gaming creates people who are solution-focused, collaborative, optimistic and hard-working. This position is interesting, although open to the obvious critique that, unlike in-game challenges, real-world problems are not set up to be rewarding, interesting or even soluble, so framing them as a game is likely to lead nowhere. But there's certainly potential in using game-like mechanics to encourage us to do things we otherwise might not want to: such asthe S2H fitness monitor, which allows users to claim rewards for physical activity.The wider point – whether playing games actually improves any of our skills – is still open for debate and research. Various studies have shown that playing certain games canincrease players' visual attention,fine motor skillsandspatial reasoning. Intuitively, it is not surprising that practising  skills involving fast responses and complicated physical manoeuvres might make us better at them.But is this a reason to play games, or a useful position for gaming advocates? As a novelist, I've always found the idea of promoting reading because it improves cognitive skills deeply depressing. Reading is a wonderful thing not because it makes our brains better but because it is enjoyable, enriching and gives us new experiences: just like games.Once someone has told you that something is good for you, it immediately becomes less attractive. I'm not sure it's necessary to say that playing games will save the world or improve us. Can't we just have fun?
Is the essential thing about a game that it has to be pointless - if fun?Photo byAhron de Leeuwon Flickr.CC-BY licensed.Pretty much the first reaction from some software developers I saw on Twitter when thetax breaks for the video games industry(as it must be known, because Google likes the term - don't blame me) was: why them, and not me?It's an interesting point. Why should games get it, but more general software - lines of code that let you do something, shall we say, vaguely, er, contributory to the economy - not qualify? Is the government saying that creating distractions is lauded, but creating serious stuff like accountancy software or photo-editing software isn't?And what the hellisa game anyway? I pointed out, when the Digital Britain first mooted the idea, that the idea of "cultural games" would lead you logically to something likeGTA: Weston-super-mare.. which wouldn't entirely make sense.The "games" one though is going to be even more knotty, I think.For example: isFoursquare, where you "check in" to various locations using your GPS-aware phone and "unlock badges" and try to become the "mayor" of a location, a game? It's got some of the elements of a game: challenge, ranking, though arguably not difficulty.A quickGoogle search on "game definition"turns up necessary elements such as "a contest with rules to determine a winner" and "an amusement or pastime".In fact, it seems that the unifying aspect of the definition of a game is that it should haveno usefulness outside itself. Is that how the taxman (or woman) is going to apply this new rule? And, contemplating that, is there any way that, say, Microsoft could remake Word or Powerpoint to make it into that most vaunted of tax break beasts, a game? Suggest - and discuss - away.
It seemed last year, as Twitter was undergoing its most explosive growth, that you couldn't go an hour without acquiring a new follower whose name seemed to include "Britney" and whose profile photo showed her demonstrating a new pink handsfree Thermos flask. Something like that - they were always rather small photos.Yes, spammers were hitting Twitter big-time. They'd discovered that they could work their way through a huge list of names and that if you aimed an "@" message at enough people with a link to some site or other, you might get a few to click through. It's the classic spam business model: free ride on something and ignore the annoyance cost to others, because you'll get a few who will pony up.But now Twitter - whichadmits that at its peak last August spam tweets were hitting 11% of all traffic- says it's got a handle on the problem.One of the things it did introduce was a "report for spam" button (though that doesn't seem to have been properly introduceduntil October, when things were already improving).More likely Twitter took measures to deal directly with spam. It's not saying what, of course, because that would tip the spammers off. But you can guess that spam has a very clear profile:1) the accounts will be created pretty quickly, and they will have generic names stuffed with numbers, because computers are better at creating IDs like that than meaningful human-sounding ones2) all their updates will come via the API3) they'll have very few followers4) their links will be spammy (durr)5) they'll tend to send out the same message to lots of different people6) they'll get little, if any, interaction in the way of replies [this is a key one - humans recognise spam and tend to ignore it; but you could get a human sending out an annoying non-spam message, in which case you'd get recipients telling them to go away]7) they'll have a burst of activity and then probably give upThe trouble is, many of those characteristics are hard to distinguish from normal people who try Twitter a bit and then give up. Human or spammer? It's tricky. Clearly, some of the wise heads at Twitter starting applying themselves to the algorithms and to weeding them out. It makes our piece,written back in March 2008when Twitter was young - it's only four years old now - suggesting that Twitter "doesn't have any spam" look a bit nieve; any free service will get spammers.The interesting thing now will be to see whether the spammers will try to come back in this arms race - and quite how they'll do it.The other interesting question: is Twitter spamming (in the handsfree pink thermos genre) effective? I've not seen it used to sell V1@gra or similar stuff; is it possible that not even sex sells on Twitter? Is there any way we can find one of the Britneys, or their puppetmasters, who could tell us? After all, the possibility is that the spam volume is falling simply because Twitter just isn't a good platform for this sort of thing. Which would be an intriguing discovery indeed. But until the company tells us how many spammy accounts are being registered - and how that's changing - we'll have to just wonder.
Calls from the UK's video games industry for government help have finally been heeded with chancellor Alistair Darling announcing plans to introduce tax relief for game developers in the final budget before the general election.But homeowners and businesses will have to pay a new 50p-a-month tax for every phone line they have in order to help pay for the roll-out of the next generation of superfast broadband networks.The computer games industry, which annually contributes £1bn to UK GDP and has created worldwide hits such as the Grand Theft Auto franchise,has been lobbying hard for tax relief in order to be able to compete with countries such as Canada, France and South Korea,which have introduced more attractive fiscal regimes. Once home to the world's third largest developer community – behind the US and Japan – the UK has been slipping down the league tables as talent has been lured abroad."I will offer help to the computer games sector, similar to the steps which are helping restore the fortunes of the British film industry," Darling told MPs in his budget speech. "This is a highly successful and growing industry, with half its sales coming from exports, and we need to keep British talent in this country."His decision marks a dramatic government U-turn for the games industry after being left out of then communications minister Lord Carter's interim Digital Britain report a year ago. In his final report, Cartersuggested introducing a "cultural tax break",butin his pre-budget reportlast year, Darling dismissed the idea completely. The government will consult on exactly how the tax relief system will work and then introduce the scheme, subject to state aid approval from the European commission.Shadow culture minister Ed Vaizey has previously expressed his general agreement with plans for a tax break for the games industry, so it is unlikely to be quashed in the event of a change of government.The decision was warmly welcomed by industry figures and game developers. Richard Wilson, chief executive of the video games industry association Tiga, described it as "inspired"."The government has chosen the future over the past, growth over decline, success over failure. Games tax relief will increase employment, investment and innovation in the UK video games sector," he said.The games industry in the UK supports about 27,000 workers, including more than 9,000 developers, and rather than being concentrated in London, it is spread across the country with clusters of developers in the West Country, north-east England and Scotland.Tiga reckons that over a five-year period, games tax relief should create or protect 3,550 graduate-level jobs and increase or safeguard £457m in development expenditure.Jason Kingsley, Tiga's chairman and the chief executive of Rebellion Studios in Oxford, which has created games including Alien Vs Predator and Rogue Trooper, said that the tax relief will "enable the UK games sector to compete on a more even playing field", while Gareth Edmondson, managing director of Ubisoft Reflections in Newcastle, which created the smash-hit undercover driving game Driver, added: "This is a real triumph for UK developers. It will enable the UK games industry to remain a success story."The budget also included confirmation that the government will impose the 50p-a-month tax on all phone lines proposed inLord Carter's Digital Britain planandconfirmed in the pre-budget report last year.The tax is designed to raise about £175m a year and help the creators of new superfast broadband networks to push them out to 90% of the UK population by 2017. Butit has been heavily criticised by some MPsas a tax that would hit the poor but only benefit the relatively well-off who can afford to pay for fast internet access. BT's 40Mb-per-second Infinity service, which it hopes to have within the reach of 10m homes within the next two years, starts at £31.53 a month, while Virgin Media's 50Mb service – only available to half the UK – starts at about £33.50.The Conservatives would prefer to use part of the TV licence fee currently received by the BBC to help support superfast broadband andalso want BT to be forced to give rivals more access to its infrastructure so that they can install their own kit. On Tuesday,regulator Ofcom set out plansfor BT to share physical assets such as its cable ducts and telegraph poles with its competitors.BT said it will investigate the government's plan, adding that it is already investing £1.5bn to get fibre optic networks to about 40% of the population and wants "to go further". But it warned that going substantially further would require some form of public sector support, as has been seen in other countries.The Communication Workers Union welcomed plans for the broadband levy, saying a 50p tax "is the most equitable way of funding universal access", but the union added that it wanted the government to look again at the role of the mobile telecoms providers who will increasingly benefit from this innovation.BT has already suggested that mobile phone customers should have to contribute to the levy."This is a historic step recognising the importance of broadband to the modern world and committing the necessary funding to ensure UK-wide rollout," said Andy Kerr, CWU deputy general secretary. "Confirming the funding today means that hundreds of thousands of people who may have been left out of the broadband revolution can now look forward to equal access to superfast connections."The 50p levy on households is the only credible way of ensuring that next generation rollout reaches the whole of the country, with an exemption for low-income users. The Tories, by scrapping public funding and relying on the market, would leave gaping holes in a superfast network which would create a two-tier system at the mercy of market whims."
Hundreds of people are expected to turn up outside the House of Commons at 5.30pm this afternoon to protest at proposals in the digital economy bill to disconnect people accused but not proven of illicit file sharing online, block websites and which could cause hotels and cafes to shut down Wi-Fi systems for customers.People are alsobeing urged to contact Harriet Harman, the leader of the house of commons, to demand a full debate on the issues.The protesters will carry black placards and wear black tape on their eyes or ears, to indicate their feelings about the bill, which is being rushed through parliament and is expected to be pushed through in the "wash-up" process by which bills are nodded through on agreement of party whips after the election is called.So far the bill has passed through the full process in the House of Lords. It has already had one reading in the Commons; procedure dictates that if a bill has a second reading by the time an election is called, it is eligible to be passed into the wash-up. Harman is expected to announce on Thursday that the government will give the bill its second reading on Tuesday 6 April – the same day that Gordon Brown is expected to go to the Queen to request the dissolution of parliament to trigger a general election.The decision to protest today was partly driven by theallegedcomments ofone peerthe Tory shadow minister for culture, media and sport Lord Howard of Rising, who saidduring the debate: "I was interested to hear the comments of the noble Earl, Lord Erroll. I am not sure that we would have demonstrations in Trafalgar Square about this, with people being thrown into fountains, but who can tell?"If MPs do push for a comprehensive debate on the bill, that could stall its progress and prevent it going into the wash-up."We want a debate," said Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group, which has campaigned against many of the strictures in the bill. "Without the appropriate legal scrutiny the government's plans will criminalise innocent people and prevent them from conducting their lives, work or education online.The bill also appears to contradict Gordon Brown's vision for Digital Britain set out in a speech earlier this week in which the prime minister described the internet as a "fundamental freedom in the modern world".More than 12,000 members of the public have sent emails to their MPs via 38 Degrees, a site which enables citizen advocacy, urging them to demand a debate over the controversial bill in the House of Commons. Almost every MP in the house has received a letter, says 38 Degrees.&bull;Digital economy bill: what you need to knowUpdate:this story was edited to add the reference and precise quote from Lord Howard of Rising.
Google's corporate information sites appeared to have been hacked this morning.Update, 3.21pm:Google now says the problem is "not a hack, but a bug". Their California offices are waking up and dealing with it now...Users searching with Google for "Google executives" were given an English link saying "Corporate Information – Google Management" that took them to a page with all information in Chinese –http://www.google.com/corporate/execs.html. The site lists Google's executives, among them Eric Schmidt, Sergey Brin and Larry Page.Its parent sitehttp://www.google.com/corporate/which usually gives information about Google's business was also in Chinese and further directing users from there to the new non-censored Chinese version of Google.The redirection occurs only in some areas, but the failure could be reproduced after the cookies were deleted and when the private browsing mode was turned on.Google was informed by the Guardian about the problem, and a spokesperson confirmed it, saying they are now investigating the issue.Update:A Google spokesperson later added: "This is not a hack but rather a bug affecting the language displayed to some users, and we are working to fix it soon."Google's Executives on the Chinese versionOn Monday, Google stopped censoringthe Chinese Google search, Google News and Google Images, and redirected search users in China to its uncensored search engine based in Hong Kong, Google.com.hk. Now its US corporate site is partly mirroring the Hong Kong version.Google's move caused lots of criticism in China yesterday. CCTV, China's state television, broadcasted criticism of Google's decision, and the overseas edition of the People's Daily, the main newspaper of the Chinese communist party, accused Google of collaborating with US spy agencies, Reuters reported.In January an American internet security firm said it has traced the sophisticated cyber-attack against Google and 30 other US companies back to the Chinese government "or its proxies".
Photo bycogdogblogon Flickr;CC-BY licensedA quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team. Want to send a link our way?Tag it with "guardiantech" on delicious.comand we'll take a look.Apple Is In The Middle Of The Pack On Revenue, But Crushing On Operating Profit &gt;&gt; BusinessInsiderYour handy chart showing how Apple has just 7% of the PC market's revenue, but 35% of its operating profit.An Interview with David Drummond of Google - the AtlanticComments from Google's chief legal officer and author of yesterday's Official Google Blog post about the company's new policies in China.Price Parity - Amazon.co.ukAmazon.co.uk has told its marketplace suppliers that "the item price and total price (total amount payable, excluding taxes) of each product a seller offers on Amazon.co.uk must generally be the same or lower than on the seller's other non-physical sales channels". In sum, no undercutting Amazon online. Sellers probably won't like this, but Amazon.co.uk owns the marketplace...The 10 Thinnest and Lightest Laptops on The Planet - gadgetswow.comDoesn't include netbooks, some less common brands such as MSI's X340 Slim or even the well-known Toshiba Portege range (weight starts at under 1kg)  but it's a start....Digital worlds: designing games, creating alternative realities &gt;&gt; Open UniversityFeel like getting into games design? Sign up.Turn one USB port into as many as you like &gt;&gt; Gonglue JiangAn elegant solution, and a worthy design winner, though people have pointed out that you'd only be able to get up to 127 of these (only 127 USB devices on a port) and that the voltage wouldn't power more than 5. Even so, neat.Who will buy Palm? &gt;&gt; Monday NoteJean-Louis Gassée, former Apple Mac head, founder of Be. Inc: "in one day, this past Friday March 19th, Palm shares collapsed, -29% in one Nasdaq session, closing at $4. The obvious question is why [did it fall]? But a second query immediately comes up: why $4, why not zero?"How the Tablet Will Change the World &gt;&gt;Wired MagazineSteven Levy suggests that the iPad is going to make us use micropayments... though then links that to credit cards. Hmm. It's more interesting on how Microsoft's tablet forms haven't broken through. At all.The 15 Most Massive Data Breaches in HistoryA great list not dominated by UK government, though there is room for the 25 Million Child Benefit Records Missing From HM Revenue and CustomsYou can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
A video demo of Japanese DSiWare title,Rittai Kakushi e Attakoreda(or 'Hidden 3D Image: There It Is!'), has being doing the rounds of video game news sites and Twitter feeds. Pundits are suggesting that this Japan-only puzzler from developer Good-Feel may point toward the type of 3D 'technology' we'll see employed in the forthcoming Nintendo 3DS.The game uses the DSi camera to track the player's position in relation to the game screens, changing the camera angle and synchroncity of the two displays in response. The result is the illusion of a 3D display, though one that projects back into the screen, rather than out toward the viewer - if that makes any sense.Some are suggesting this would be a cheap-'n'-cheerful route into the currently fashionable realm of 3D, and cite Nintendo's ostensible unwillingness to fork out on expensive new technologies - see the comparatively underpowered Wii, for example.However, Iwata's statement clearly refers to the Nintendo 3DS as the successor to the previous handheld, so you would expect such a generational leap to include some kind of new hardware - even Nintendo isn'tthatcheap. Indeed, this belief that the company is somehow allergic to cutting edge tech is rather a misnomer. The touch screen implementation in the DS was pretty advanced for the time, while the development of the Wii Remote took four years of research and consultation - hardly a thrifty endeavour.So what will the Nintendo 3DS technology actualy be?"There is a technology called 'Parallax Barrier' that would give a perfect 3D display and also can give an excellent 2D display at a touch of a button," says Andrew Oliver, CTO at Blitz Games Studios. The Leamington-based games developer has done pioneering work in the area of 3D gaming, creating itsown stereoscopic 3D enginefor the Xbox 360 and PS3. Indeed, Engadget reported yesterday that aJapanese news source is claimingthat Nintendo is almost certainly using this technology, which is already being employed in Hitachi's 3D phone, the Wooo H001, and in Sharp 3D laptop displays.In Parallax Barrier displays a slitted layer is placed over a standard LCD screen to separate the image into separate light paths for the viewer's right and left eyes. It's not a new technology. Sharp developed a version for a mobile phone handseteight years ago- and as with the 3DS, it doesn't require glasses. One problem with the technology as a home TV option is that the viewer needs to remain still and central for the effect to work. However, as Oliver points out, "if you know there is only one viewer and they are roughly in front of the display and within a meter, then there are ways to give each eye a different image."Oliver also mentions another advantage of the 3DS: unlike with the PS3, which is set to get a 3D firmware update this year, 3D imagery will be a fundamental launch element of the Nintendo product. "3D games on a 3D-specificdevice have the added benefit that designers will be able to really tune and exploit the potential of real-time 3D, to completely immerse players in the next generation of games..."
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Plenty more news onGoogleand its relations with China, most notably (of course)our interview with co-founder Sergey Brin- who called for the US government to start putting internet censorship at the top of its list of priorities. And kicked out at Microsoft. And talked about the past four years of censorship. Anyway, on top of that,we also take an inside look at how China censors; plus there's aninterview with chief legal officer David Drummond in the Atlantic, and a note from the company itself onusing Google apps in China.&bull; Remember recently whenTwitterstartedcracking down on spamlast year? And then when it startedscanning links to block dubious links? Turns out it actually had an effect:according to new figures from the Twitter team, spam has been cut massively. Good news? Can't be bad.&bull; It's been ages since we shared any Whole Robot Fun. No longer!Go and watch this video of a little Japanese robot making coffee, and I'll guarantee that it makes you break out into a smile.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech,@gdngamesor ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed..
Google's operations and long-term prospects in China were shrouded in confusion , as it emerged that it is still censoring search services for its partners because of contractual obligations.The world's leading search engine hoped to resolve two months of uncertainty with Monday's announcement that it had closed its mainland search service and shifted its Chinese-language facility to Hong Kong.The territory has different laws under the "one country, two systems" formula adopted after the 1997 handover and that allows Google to display results without removing sensitive material, as promised.But the company has over a dozen syndication deals with internet and telecommunication firms on the mainland. Those sites would break the law if they offered uncensored searches."Over time we won't be syndicating censored search to partners in China but we will fulfil existing contractual obligations," a spokesman said.But mobile and online service provider Tom.com – controlled by Hong Kong tycoon Li Ka-shing – has already dropped the Google search box from its portal, switching to Chinese rival Baidu.The New York Times reported that the state-owned telecoms company China Mobile was expected to cancel its search agreement with Google "under government pressure".Mobile search service google.cn/m also appeared to be censored last night, but it is thought its hosting will soon be transferred.While Google plans to keep its research and development team and advertising sales staff on the mainland, it is unclear what will happen to other parts of the business.It has only weeks to renew its internet content provider licence if it wishes to continue operating services such as maps and music on Google.cn."We'll review each on a product-by-product basis and decide how to proceed," the spokesman said.Earlier, the company's co-founder, Sergey Brin, said there was a lack of clarity about whether the Hong Kong-hosted service would remain available from the mainland.The Chinese government played down the dispute after initially lashing out at Google's decision."The incident is just an individual action by a company and I can't see its impact on China-US relations unless someone wants to politicise that," said a foreign ministry spokesman, Qin Gang.Earlier, an unnamed official from the state council information office described Google's move as "totally wrong".Some sources suggest that the move to Hong Kong was part of an unofficial deal brokered with Beijing after two months of intense negotiations.Experts suggested the move could cost the Californian company as much as $4bn over the next five years."Google's value to advertisers in China will have been diminished," said Steven Chang, who runs the Chinese arm of the advertising company Zenith Optimedia.A small number of Chinese supporters left flowers and other gifts outside the company's headquarters in Beijing today.Google said in January that it was no longer willing to self-censor google.cn. It cited a Chinese-originated cyber-attack targeting information on human rights activists and intellectual property, as well as increasing censorship.Beijing says most countries control internet content and denies any connection to cyber-attacks.Chinese voicesXinruochen, blogger"Why does Google always try to politicise the issues? Leaving the Chinese market, what will you have left, Google? Since you have come to China to do business, you should obey Chinese law and regulations.""Qualified citizen", blogger"Google is leaving and that is good – it leaves now before causing more damage. What it wants to do is to establish a monopoly as the source of information for people.""Idstory", blogger"We should applaud Google – how much courage must a company have to give up on a market of more than tens of millions of people?"Liang Qiushi"I'm a Google fan, but I think leaving China won't influence the service they can provide – it's only a superficial change. It's impossible to totally block a website: Twitter is blocked, but a lot of people here still use it in various ways."Wang Jun"I like Google and use it frequently so I think it's a shame it has to go."
Google co-founder Sergey Brin has called on Washington to take a stand against China's censorship of the internet, urging the US to make the issue a "high priority".Brin, talking to the Guardian about Google's decision yesterday to lift censorship from its Chinese internet search engine, called on government and businesses to act in order to put pressure on Beijing. "I certainly hope they make it a high priority," he said. "Human rights issues deserve equal time to the trade issues that are high priority now … I hope this gets taken seriously."The Obama administration has been playing down the growing conflict between one of America's most successful companies and the Chinese authorities, suggesting that the relationship between the two countries is "mature enough to sustain differences".But Brin said it was vital that Obama tackled the issue – not least because the importance of the internet means that trade and censorship are inextricably linked. "Since services and information are our most successful exports, if regulations in China effectively prevent us from being competitive, then they are a trade barrier," he said.Brin, 36, who started Google with fellow Stanford graduate Larry Page in 1998, also criticised companies that co-operate with Beijing – singling out the actions of Microsoft, which has criticised Google's approach in China.He said that companies should think carefully about whether they are providing an ethical service to Chinese citizens and took aim at critics of Google's U-turn. Brin has admitted in the past that launching the censored service in 2006 was a mistake. "We have always opposed [censorship] but obviously we have now taken a stronger point of view," he said. "I was surprised immediately after our January announcement how much resentment there appeared to be among free marketeers."The notion that any company should make any sort of decision other than to maximise profit? I would hope that larger companies would not put profit ahead of all else. Generally, companies should pay attention to how and where their products are used."A number of technology companies have been criticised over the years for their roles in helping the Chinese government censor the internet, including most notoriously Cisco – which provides some of the systems used to run the so-called Great Firewall.Brin saved his strongest criticisms for Microsoft, which he said had capitulated to the Chinese government and trampled over human rights merely in an attempt to score points over Google."I'm very disappointed for them in particular," he said. "As I understand, they have effectively no market share – so they essentially spoke against freedom of speech and human rights simply in order to contradict Google."He was referring to comments by Microsoft chairman and co-founder Bill Gates, who told American TV – shortly after the revelations that Google had been attacked by hackers based in China – that Beijing's censorship was "very limited"."You've got to decide: do you want to obey the laws of the countries you're in or not?" Gates told ABC's Good Morning America in January. "If not, you may not end up doing business there."Brin has long advocated lifting censorship from Google in China. He has said that his strong feelings stemmed from the fact that he was born in the Soviet Union in the 1970s and that his parents, Jewish scientists, left Moscow in 1979 after encountering widespread antisemitism. "It touches me more than other people having been born in a country that was totalitarian and having seen that for the first few years of my life," he said.But after four years of self-censoring, Google's about-face now means that it essentially offers the same filtered service to Chinese users that it did in 2006, before it opted to comply with Beijing's wishes.Asked whether he felt that Google had been wrong to go into China in the first place, he said: "I think it's really hard to say. I do think we helped some. "Obviously it's impossible to replace history, and we made a pretty reasonable set of decisions at the time."He added: "I hope the political system in China evolves so that we can have more direct involvement again … I hope this leads to a path where the doors start to open more."Indeed, Brin suggested that the more companies like Google were only accessible outside the firewall, the more pressure would grow on China.
