Social publishing websiteScribdhas been hit with a lawsuit which claims that it profits by encouraging internet users to illegally share copyrighted books online.The complaint, brought by American author Elaine Scott, alleges that the site "shamelessly profits from the stolen copyrighted works of innumerable authors" - claims that the San Francisco startup says are "without merit".The case emerged after Scott discovered that a copy of her financial advice book, Stocks and Bonds, Profits and Losses, had been illegally uploaded to the site. In a22-page complaintfiled with a court in Houston, Texas, her lawyers allege that the site is building a multimillion dollar business out of supporting copyright infringement."They have built a technology that's broken barriers to copyright infringement on a global scale and in the process have built one of the largest readerships in the world," it says.The San Francisco startup, which has received almost $13m in funding from investors, enables users to upload documents of any kind - including books, presentations and academic papers.This has led the site to become known as the "YouTube for documents" and, just like the video sharing website, Scribd has experienced trouble with users who upload copyrighted files to the site without authorisation.Last week, for example, copies of the new novel by Dan Brownwere available for a short period before being taken down. Earlier this year JK Rowling told the siteto remove copies of Harry Potter booksthat had been made available on it.But while Scribd does not police the vast number of files on its site, it does take down any copyright-infringing material that is reported to it - in accordance with America's Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA).A company spokeswoman said these provisions meant that the lawsuit was "without merit"."Scribd is an online service provider that complies with - and goes above and beyond - the provisions of the DMCA. Scribd is therefore is entitled to the full protection of the DMCA's safe harbour provisions," she told the Guardian in a statement."Scribd does not want unauthorised content on our site; we built the industry's leading technology to prevent the upload of unauthorised documents. This is one of the reasons why best-selling authors and many of the world's largest publishers have chosen to put their works on Scribd."Scott's complaint also attacks the method used by Scribd to filter out material which it knows is copyright, however. The company holds a database containing unauthorised copies of books that have been taken down from the site - against which it screens future uploads to filter out illegal material.But Scott's lawsuit alleges that this is also a breach of copyright, and that "once a copyrighted work is uploaded to Scribd without the copyright holder's permission, the infringement is ongoing and permanent".However, while Scribd's approach has clearly antagonised some in the publishing industry, it has also impressed others. Earlier this year Simon &amp; Schuster, one of the world's largest English-language publishers, signed a deal with the site that saw it sell digital copies of books by best-selling authors including Stephen King.Earlier this year, the website's co-founder and chief executive Trip Adlertold the Guardian that he wanted to make Scribd a major player in digital publishing."The goal is to become the central hub of publishing, where we have all the written material - user-generated and professional," he said. "We want to be the place where people can publish instantly to their audiences ... and to get there, it's just about doing things step by step."
There are few things that make me more suspicious of a company than when they push out some sort of news announcement late on a Friday afternoon. It's almost always bad news, purposely intended to miss the news cycle and seem like old hat by the time Monday morning rolls around.This sort of damage limitation technique is a time-honoured tradition: the West Wing called ittaking out the trash; Labour spin doctor Jo Moore gave it when she suggested that September 11, 2001 was"a good day to bury bad news".So when an email popped up in my inbox at the tail end of Friday from Facebook that started out by saying "apologies for the late timing", my radar immediately went off. And then, it turned out, the email was detailing a $9.5m legal settlement between Facebook and a number of litigants over itscontroversial Beacon advertising system.So was Facebook burying bad news? Or just running late? I think the answer's pretty clear - and I don't think we should let Facebook get away with it so easily.Beacon, if you remember, was anadvertising system put in place by Facebook late in 2007. It took activity you conducted on other websites - for example buying a DVD from an online retailer - and sent that information back to Facebook. The idea was that all your friends would see your actions on their page ("Bobbie has just bought True Blood on DVD!") with a link so that you could follow suit; something which would be useful advertising for the companies and drive purchases.That prospect provedpretty controversialwith users -not least because it monitored all activity, regardless of whether you were signed into Facebook or not- and in December 2007, Mark Zuckerberg personally apologised for what he called "lots of mistakes" in the way the system was handled.But things really hit the fan last summer, when aclass action lawsuit was lodged against the companyon behalf of Facebook users, alleging that the scheme was too difficult for users to opt out of, and that it wasn't telling them the whole truth.Anyway, there's your context.What Facebook announced on Friday afternoon was that it had come to an agreement over that lawsuit - with proposals that would see two things happen if a judge in San Jose approves the settlement. Those things are:- That Beacon will close down entirely(it is still running at the moment- That Facebook will put forward $9.5m to settle the case, with the money used to create a foundation "to benefit internet users"- by which it means funding online privacy and security initiatives.The statement from Facebook spokesman Barry Schnitt dealt with this as a net positive - Facebook had learned a lesson and internet users would get this great new foundation to make their online life better."We learned a great deal from the Beacon experience," he said. |For one, it was underscored how critical it is to provide extensive user control over how information is shared. We also learned how to effectively communicate changes that we make to the user experience... We look forward to the creation of the foundation and its work to educate Internet users on how best to control their privacy; engage in safe social networking practices; and, generally, enjoy themselves more online by having knowledge that gives them a greater sense of control."What you can probably hear through the corporate speak, though, is one great big sigh of relief. The major reason that the social network was absolutely desperate for this case to go away - and for it to miss the news cycle - is thatprivacy is a very, very big deal to Facebook.Like many other companies, Facebook wants to be seen as a champion of people's privacy online. However, unlike some competitors who pay lip service to the idea, I believe that Zuckerberg and friends genuinely value privacy, and for good reason: owning people's identities online is the central plank of what makes the company different.Most users register with their real names, meaning that Facebook has a lot more identifying information than other sites out there - and as long as you trust it, Facebook can use that "privacy" (its access to your private data) to its advantage.Lose that trust, however, and millions of people could turn away from Facebook - even it does have 300 million people on board.Beacon was the biggest mistake the company has made in its short life, though it has chipped away at other areas of what we consider public and private with things like thenews feedandterms of service. But Facebook's staff know that they have to be seen to be getting privacy right.That concern with privacy is why it's treading carefully with new projects in this area, and probably pretty happy to announce the news late on a Friday. And it's why the company hired lobbyists in Washington and Brussels -including former Lib Dem MP Richard Allan.And it's why Facebook is happy to pay $9.5m to make this thing go away.
&bull; A fairly quiet weekend on the technology front, butGoogleremains at the heart of the headlines. The company is furiously trying to rework the terms of its controversial Google Books deal with publishers, according to theNew York Times, after the USDepartment of Justice was the latest to weigh in on the arguments.&bull; MIT students working on mining data from social networks have discovered that it's possible to detect whether you're gay by examining your network of friends,the Boston Globe reports. It's partly a statement of the obvious that gay men are likely to have more gay friends, but the fact that social networks can uncover certain facts about you certainly opens up interesting privacy questions (compare withthis study from Cambridge that I wrote about earlier this year.&bull; Your post-weekend reading:Jason Friedof 37Signals certainly raised some interesting issues in taking apop at Mint.com for selling itself to big rival Intuit for $170m(a deal that reminded me ofAmazon buying Zappos. Fried gave the company's executives a bit of a pass, though, blaming instead venture capital - which alsogot a drubbingfromVivek Wadhwaover on TechCrunch. Both interesting pieces worth reading, though I feel like they pick their arguments quite selectively.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Remember Phorm? Of course you do - everyone's favourite (sometimes, or often, in the love-to-hate sense) webside adware company.It's due to release its latest set of financial results on Monday morning, but in the meantime a few things have happened.Its Stopphoulplay.com website, which itlaunched back in April- in what looked to most with any experience in public relations like a slightly wild attempt to smear anyone who didn't love it - is now gone. At the time it said"Over the last year Phorm has been the subject of a smear campaign orchestrated by a small but dedicated band of online 'privacy pirates' who appear very determined to harm our company," explains the site."Their energetic blogging and letter-writing campaigns, targeted at journalists, MPs, EU officials and regulators, distort the truth and misrepresent Phorm's technology. We have decided to expose the smears and set out the true story, so that you can judge the facts for yourself."Oh well, no more judging facts now. But here's a few other ones. First, its chief technology officer  is no longer its chief technology officer: Stratis Scleparis, who was at BT when Phorm carried out its first (and extremely controversial) trial and subsequently joined Phorm, has left.Second, its director of corporate communications David Sawday has also left. (Here's thecached Google pagefrom when he was there.)Basically, the board now looks rather thin. There's Kent Ertugrul, its founder and chief executive (we interviewed him); and then there are four, count them, non-executive directors. There's not a lot of executing going on there.We don't think that Phorm's results will be delightful to its investors.The Telegraph is suggestinglosses in the range of $15m to $20m compared to a pre-tax loss of $48m last year. It will be interesting to see what its revenues are, and what its forecast for business in the coming year is. (Investors and peoplediscussing itdon't seem bullish.)Still, Norman Lamont is on board. Perhaps he can see some green shoots.BT also needs to figure out whether it has a relationship with Phorm or not - there'sthis page on its sitewhich saysBT Webwise has not yet been launched. We completed a trial of BT Webwise with a small proportion of BT Total Broadband customers between 30th September and 10th December 2008. After assessing the findings, we will make further announcements on this Website concerning the launch of the service for BT Total Broadband customers... but there's alsothis pagewhich saysOn 6th July 2009 BT announced that, whilst it continues to believe that interest based advertising and BT Webwise offer major benefits for consumers and publishers alike... we have no immediate plans to deploy Webwise today.We think the second is the more correct one, but it would be nice to be sure.All in all, the great idea that this form of "targeted online advertising" would help ISPs out (by routing some of the money from ads back to them) has looked less and less robust. It has said that it will aim for other countries that are more interested in its products. But from where we sit, it's not looking that hopeful.
Kia Soul&pound;10,495Miles per gallon: 43.5CO2 per KM: 153 gramsGood for: City squaresBad for: Boring squaresWhen your neighbour guffaws, points at your car and asks, "What's that?" you know the designers at Kia have succeeded in the brief they were set. They were asked to create an urban crossover vehicle that was "totally different to conventional, workaday small cars". And the Soul is defiantly different. It has an unusually high bonnet with wide powerful shoulders, bulging wheel arches and a roofline that slopes from the windscreen down to the upward sweep of the tapering doorline. One of the car's "concept" sketches featured a wild boar. And it's true, there is something of The Lion King's Pumbaa about the Soul.The Soul is without doubt an attention-seeker - it's a Big Brother contestant in car form and in the week I drove it provoked a huge amount of interest. But I'd be lying to you if I told you it was all positive. In fact, "What's that?" was about as good as it got. I patiently smiled through a dozen or so comments, but two did make me laugh.1) "It's like the new KitKat caramel - chunky and funky." 2) "You look like you're in a Playmobil ambulance." Aren't people witty?In fact, Kia has a lot to be proud of. With the Soul, the Koreans have created from scratch a vehicle with a "personality" - an incredibly difficult thing to do. On the highway, it's the bland that lead the way. Taking its inspiration from the Mini and Fiat 500, the Soul can be bought in a bewildering array of configurations. The design boss, Peter Schreyer, says it is, "the first Kia where customers will check the colours and accessories before they check the price".To add to the confusion, Kia has also instigated a rolling programme of special Soul "Originals" which will be refreshed every 12 months. This year, the Originals are the Samba, Shaker and Burner. Once you've plumped for your model, you can then select everything from carpet mats to security upgrades. Some are little more than froth (dragon decals and speakers with "mood lighting"), but underlying all, Kia has blessed its Soul with a sound mechanical foundation and all the safety and driver-handling programmes your heart could desire.Finally, a shocking fact you may not have considered. Each vehicle produced by Kia in its Gwangju plant creates an average of 5.1 tonnes of waste. And that's from a company very aware of the ethical and environmental tightrope all manufacturers tread these days.martin.love@observer.co.uk
The founders of Skype have alleged its trade secrets were stolen to help facilitate its sale by its current owner, eBay, in a move which could scupper the $2bn (£1.2bn) deal.The legal action follows another filed earlier this week by Skype's founders, Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis, accusing eBay and a group of potential investors of technology theft.The legal action targets Index Ventures and one of its partners, Michelangelo Volpi. Acrimony between Skype's founders and Volpi, a former high-flyer at Cisco Systems has been building for some time.Volpi served on Skype's board and the pair of entrepreneurs recruited him to head another company they founded, the Web TV venture Joost.The founders alleged in yesterday's lawsuit that Volpi misappropriated confidential information as he moved from Joost to Index Ventures, and helped to orchestrate its bid for Skype. "Volpi has maliciously and willfully breached his fiduciary duties,"  Zennstrom and Friis said in their complaint.Volpi was not available for comment, while Index Ventures declined to comment.The legal action is the latest development in the tortuous four-year relationship between Skype's founders and chiefs at eBay. The online auction company bought Skype in 2005 for more than $3.1bn, but two years later admitted that the purchase had been a bad strategic move and wrote down about $1.43bn of its investment in Skype. eBay had hoped to use Skype's technology to increase sales of its auction business by enabling buyers and sellers in its online marketplace to talk to one another. But this failed to materialise.Equally as serious, eBay failed to buy the core technology for Skype when it purchased the company, licensing it from Joltid, the founders' company, instead. Last month eBay said a legal dispute over its use could see the phone service close.The peer-to-peer technology that is used to deliver video and phone services over the internet is now at the heart of the legal war.Joltid sued eBay and the investor consortium earlier this week, claiming that Skype was using this proprietary technology without authorisation. Joltid and Skype have also been in a legal battle in Britain over rights to the technology.There are suggestions that Zennstrom and Friis had previously contacted several private equity firms to try to buy back Skype.However, eBay agreed to sell a 65% stake in Skype to the consortium including Index, private equity firm Silver Lake, Netscape founder Marc Andreessen's Andreessen Horowitz and the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board.Yesterday's lawsuit said Volpi's knowledge of the confidential information had played a key role in the consortium's bid."Volpi and Index lacked the credibility and financial heft to lead a private equity investment consortium to acquire Skype unless and until they advertised their knowledge of the confidential information," it said.Volpi was once regarded as a potential chief executive candidate at Cisco, and many in Silicon Valley had looked on with worry at his tenure at Joost since June 2007.Although the company was a pioneer in bringing popular TV shows and movies to the internet, it struggled to tie key programming deals and find revenue.He stepped down from his CEO role in late June, while the company cut jobs and scaled back its services.He initially stayed on as chairman, but was removed from that role days ago and Joost had said it was investigating his actions.
Mr AahH!! is so called because it's the noise you will be tempted to make as you see your little character plummet to his death - as you will very frequently. His job is to swing between platforms: your part in this is to time the moment he releases the rope on each swing to land as centrally as possible on the platform below to gain the most points. And that's it. As you progress through different sized platforms, every few swings the wind also changes, as does gravity, meaning you need to adjust your release times accordingly. The essence of Mr AahH!! is the gentle swoosh of rope through air followed either by a reward for good targeting or the sight of a stick figure falling to his demise. With the sole interaction being to tap the screen at the right time, the remarkable addictive qualities on display and the fact that it can make you mildly emotionally involved with a stick figure mark this out as a tiny understated landmark in mobile games.• PONOS, 59p
WET owes its look, feel and subject matter to the films of Quentin Tarantino. Bafflingly, it chooses the turgid Deathproof and the distinctly middling Kill Bill as its role models, with a grainy, 1970s, Grindhouse style, complete with fake cinema ads and a sword and pistol-wielding heroine, Rubi, who owes more than a nod to Uma Thurman's character.The action sees her tearing through legions of sleazy-looking enemies, with gun and swordplay occurring in slow motion whenever you're jumping, sliding or running along walls, enforcing continual acrobatics during fights. While it's a nice idea and Eliza Dushku does a fine job voicing Rubi (while Malcolm McDowell, as is now the norm, can barely even be bothered to phone in his role), the action, though stylish, doesn't feel particularly smooth or natural and like Stranglehold before it, never quite gels in its moving carnival of ultraviolence.• Bethesda, &pound;45
In the movie (500) Days Of Summer, two lovers visit their local Ikea store and imagine their future life together amid easy to assemble bookcases. It's a scene familiar to couples throughout the world, as the ubiquitous Swedish store is a place we go to both dream about the ultimate and argue about light fittings. Now, in an excellent piece of guerilla film-making, a melodrama is being made in a California branch. The storyline and acting are chiselled from the finest varnished pine, but the real fun is the occasional puzzled passing shopper or giant poster for 10 meatballs framing the emotional breakdown of a man who's just discovered his wife in bed with a co-worker.
Arriving on every current-generation console and handheld device, Colin McRae: DiRT 2 is the first of this year's seasonal blockbusters to be released following the traditional summer drought. Building on a successful formula test driven in Race Driver: GRID, this also features "flashbacks" that let you rewind time for a few seconds, thus allowing the undoing of collisions and avoiding the horror of a last lap spill undoing five laps of awe-inspiring perfection.Despite spanning the globe, DiRT 2 has a relatively small number of vehicles and tracks to unlock, which, like the original Sega Rally, lets you get to know the nuance of every single corner. Its silky smooth learning curve lets you experience the joy of victory while luring you with new, harder events and higher difficulty levels. DiRT offers incredibly addictive and exciting racing with a fully featured set of online multiplayer modes that come complete with their own experience point system.• Codemasters, &pound;29.99-&pound;49.99
The Canadian author most famous for his dissection of zeitgeist surfing novels Microserfs and JPod was recently on these shores promoting his new novel Generation A, an exercise in replicating the style of his 1991 book, Generation X. The first 26 pages are available to read here, while, for a truly elite consumerist buzz, you can order your own individually created cover. Elsewhere, there is artwork to be seen and an excellent blog with entries on 9/11, insects and Helvetica plus, demonstrating his own irreverent sense of himself, a list of Couplandisms containing such wisdom as, "In our heads we're all about 33 years old" and, "Making eye contact with adults while dressed as a clown is risky". So true.
Microsoft is now offering Windows 7 on pre-order to American students for $29.99 via a promotional site atwin741.comThe offer applies to Windows 7 Home Premium or Windows 7 Professional, and students must have a college or university e-mail address.According to theWindows Team Blog:Students in the US can pre-order their copy of Windows 7 in the US starting today and students in the UK can pre-order their copy beginning on September 30th (pre-ordered copies will be available for download beginning October 22nd). Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Korea and Mexico can participate in this offer on October 22nd (Windows 7 GA).GA is "General Availability". Windows 7 has already shipped to many professional categories of users.TheUK announcementimplies that this is an upgrade version. It may also have been done in a bit of a rush, because it says: "You can take advantage of this offer from September 30th" and "This offer will be available from 1st October".The US announcement at win741 also mentions theMSDN Academic Alliance. Students at universities and colleges that subscribe can already get free Microsoft software, and the licences never expire, even after they graduate.
You've bought a secondhand computer from an auction site. Unsurprisingly, it's not been wiped - most people are rubbish at wiping their hard drives. You're intrigued, though, and you discover some pictures and emails that haven't been deleted.Oh my. Some pictures of a celebrity who you've heard of (and happen to like, though only on reputation; you've never met). Very intimate pictures. And they're with someone who isn't their spouse. The emails, which are similarly intimate, aren't to their spouse either. You've not seen anything about these two on the news, and a web search doesn't suggest anyone has written about their relationship.You realise that these pictures might be worth something - perhaps quite a lot - if you sold them to a paper or website. Or you could wipe them. Or...What do you do?
If you're on Twitter, you may have been surprised to receive a direct message (like an email, in that it's not in the public domain) from someone who follows you, saying something like"Hey, I just added you to my Mafia family. You should accept my invitation! :) Click here:"And then there's a link to playmobsterworld.com, where the "Mafia family" game seems to be hosted.If you happen to follow the link, you'll be presented with a big, mostly black screen and a big red button in the middle saying "Click here to play more". Look, here's a picture.But what you rapidly find is that you're taken by the scruff of the internet over to Twitter where you're, um,encouragedto authorise the game to access your Twitter feed. (It uses the OAuth system, which means that the people behind playmobsterworld don't get your username or password. The owners have chosen to hide their identities by using Domainsbyproxy, and haven't left an email address on their website, so we don't know who they are, and couldn't contact them.)Once you've done that, the "game" will then spew that invitation in the form of a direct message to everyone it can. (The people who receive it are the ones who follow you, and who you also follow. They're the only group you can direct message on Twitter.)And so those DMs turn up in peoples' feeds, and they click them.. and so on. You'd think that by now Mobster World would be played by everyone.Not so. Instead many people - the non-players - get annoyed by it.It's easy to see how the spewing of invitations happens: it's so easy to miss the tiny text at the bottom of the main page that tells you about the Terms of Service (such as they are: basically, it's a website and takes no responsibility for anything) and the one that says "Click here if you don't wish to invite your contacts automatically".See - there it is.Oh, so that's how you do it. Except that if you click that second link (the tiny bit of yellow text on the left), you get directed to a page that looksexactly the same as the firstwith a link to the same Twitter OAuth link, and no indication that your friends won't get spammed just the same way again as if you had never managed to find that well-hidden link.Although it must be said that the front page does say in a prominent position, "please read the note below for our terms of service". Prominent position, but unfortunately not prominent in any other sense; it's tiny dark grey text on a dark background, and to say that it doesn't stand out is an understatement at best.See?OK, now try it with some highlighting of the text:So is there actually agamein Mobster World? Rik Ferguson, of the security company Trend Micro, has been looking at it for a while. His view?"In essence it is very similar to the previous Twitter "game" Spymaster" which gotvery amusingly subverted."Mobster World is not a new game to social networking, it hasbeen around on Facebook for some timealready with over 1000 active users and in fact was one of the apps that was being linked to via advertising in the series of rogue apps we saw on Facebook recently."There is a game behind Mobster World, but in the loosest possible sense of the word. You also have to question the motives of the people behind it when the text "(please read the note below for our terms of service.)" and the terms of service themselves are greyed out almost to the point of invisibility on their front page."However, here's the kicker: it doesn't let go of your account even if you tell if to, according to Ferguson."The game itself consists of doing "jobs" to earn cash and respect, using the cash to go on and buy further equipment to do yet more jobs and recruiting other to your mob through direct messaging on Twitter. Having granted read &amp; write access to your Twitter account through OAuth though,the game can send DMs without your knowledge.[emphasis added - CA]"The default settings on the game account definitely lead to a barrage of Update Tweets.The "Cancel Account" option, despite warning you that it is an irrevocable step, does not work - the account remains active and can be reused at any time. The OAuth permissions granted on your Twitter account are also not revoked.[emphasis added - CA]"So it grabs hold of your Twitter account and won't let go. That's not good, in the scheme of things. What if the owners decided to start using their access to tweet links to malware links, or adverts? It would seem to come from you to your friends.So is it dangerous, in Ferguson's view? "It's not overtly malicious, but it is definitely configured to fool the unwary into generating publicity through social worm techniques."Our opinion: probably best avoided. You can deny it any further access to your Twitter account on Twitter's system itself, atTwitter's Settings -&gt; Connections page, which will show you what programs and sites are allowed to access your account. If you don't want Mobster World to have that access, deny it there.But is this a new trend in games, or just an aberration? What's your view?
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I guess I'm going to have to go with the tiny little iPod shuffle that I've got. I love going on long runs, and I loved the idea of the Walkman back in the day, but they would jump and skip. The iPod changed my whole attitude to exercise outside. And it never jumps. I had a CD Walkman that I tried to run with, and it was a complete disaster. The idea that you can carry all your music on something that light is just brilliant.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I use it all the time. When I'm at home in LA I run up a canyon up the back of my house. When you're running to music, it all seems to make sense.What additional features would you add if you could?I would love it if it could tell you how fast you've run, and how far you've gone. If it could tell you which way to turn to, that would be fun – an interactive Google map, how's that for an idea?Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?In the sense that there will be things that do everything I've just said, and hold a million times more songs, then yes. Everything in technology becomes obsolete.What always frustrates you about technology in general?The fact that it updates so quickly, there's this mad rush to get the newest thing, and by the time you take it out of the box it's almost near the end of its shelf life.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?When I first bought my laptop PC, I struggled to find my way around everything.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?At the risk of doing Steve Jobs' job for him, it would be to find the Mac version of everything.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm a luddite.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?My Macbook Pro, I guess. Or I've got a big flatscreen NTV in LA – a 48in Sony Bravia.Mac or PC, and why?Definitely Mac. The packaging, just the simplicity of it – everything they design looks beautiful and it's as simple as can be. All the menus and different windows you open are visually simple, and it makes sense.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I do still buy DVDs – I buy box sets. I tend to download music these days, but with DVDs I still like to own them physically. The last thing I bought was season one of The Wire.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Any butler is a good idea. Never having had one, a robot butler might be the next best thing to a real one.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I would love to won one of these new Red HD movie cameras. A bit out of my price range, but I'm intrigued by what they can do.•Jamie Bamber stars as Captain Lee "Apollo" Adama in Battlestar Galactica, the entire series of which is out on DVD and Blu-ray on Monday
Personally, I never sold slaves or narcotics. Even when I was down to my last few quid. I dealt mostly in precious stones. I always bought an auto-pilot first, because I was terrible at docking. I never once got invaded by tribbles.I am of course, referring to Elite, the legendary space trading game written by Cambridge graduates David Braben and Ian Bell, originally for the BBC Micro, but later released on the C64, Spectrum and a whole host of other platforms. There has never been a game like it since – though maybe Eve Online is the closest modern interpretation. The combination of trading, space combat, exploration and mission-based adventure sounds ambitious today – but Elite was written in machine code on a computer with just 32k of memory. And it was released 25 years ago this month...To celebrate, Braben's company Frontier Developments has launched anew Elite website, which has information about the game and its sequels as well a forum section so that fans can leave their memories. Better still, on Wednesday 23rd September, david will be taking part in a Q&amp;A session on Twitter. To take part you just need to head to the Frontier Twitter channel (www.twitter.com/frontierdev) and submit your questions to @frontierdev. Apparently, selected questions will  earn a limited edition Elite t-shirt, while the contributor of the best query walks away with a  framed Elite artwork signed by David Braben.So what are your memories of the game? Let us know here before heading over the the Elite site. For now, here's the contents of a rejection letter received by David and Ian when they submitted the game to Thorn EMI for publishing:"The game needs three lives, it needs to play through in no more than about 10 minutes, users will not be prepared to play for night after night to get anywhere, people won't understand the trading, they don't understand 3D, the technology's all very impressive but it's not very colourful'."(From The Backroom Boys by Francis Spufford, a fascinating section of which can be foundhere.)
Lord Byron might have been furious. Hemingway outraged. Austen inwardly irritated. But the inevitable has happened: their prose has been reimagined through Twitter and will be published in a book distilling more than 60 classic works of literature.There was a minor publishing sensation this summer whenPenguin announced that it had bought the rights for the book, Twitterature, in which two first year university students summarise everything from Medea to Madame Bovary.The book is not published in the UK until 5 November but an advance copy has been seen by the Guardian.Romeo tweets his dying lament: O, I am fortune's fool! Maybe just a tool. And so I die. BTW that other woman I was into before Juliet? Would've been a safer bet.Sherlock Holmes says: Continuing investigation. Made brilliant deductions on many snorts and very little evidence. Notice salt deposits on factory owner's shoes?Goethe's Young Werther emotes: Have I noted how upset I am? I am very upset. #pain #angst #suffering #sexdep.Elizabeth Bennet muses: It's as if the less he seems to care about me, the more drawn to him I am. This seems the opposite of how it should be? Oh well.And then there's Ishmael from Moby-Dick: We set out. Follow @starbuck, @queequeg for long introspective soliloquies on the human soul. Or @tashtego if you like adorable kittens.The book's authors, Alexander Aciman and Emmett Rensin, haveset up a Twitter pagefor the book and yesterday tweeted Dan Brown's The Da Vinci Code (example: HOLY SHIT!!!! We stole the Codex for a large-scale conspiracy that is conveniently in my area of expertise!).Rensin and Aciman came up with the idea for the book when they were roommates at the University of Chicago. "We spent a lot of our time with three feet between us," said Rensin.He said the book should not be seen as some sort of guide to the classics. "There has been some misunderstanding about the book in that it's been said it's going to educate people, but you couldn't do an English class with this book. The humour is heightened by having knowledge of the works."Rensin eulogises Twitter, declaring it nothing less than an extension of the Enlightenment, and for anyone throwing their hands up in horror at tweeting classic works, he invoked Martin Luther. "People were horrified when he translated the Bible from Latin into German but he was making it accessible. I don't think anyone killed Luther so maybe we're all right."All the works have been distilled into 20 tweets or fewer. On the Road has just the one: "For TWITTERATURE of On the Road by Jack Kerouac, please see On the Road by Jack Kerouac."
The office of theDigital Inclusion Team, set up to get more people in the UK online, was broken into this morning in a rather more direct encouragement of computer use than the government intended.Computers were stolen in the raid, which could set back the team's aim of getting 6 million more people online in the next two years. The silver lining may be that at least the thieves will now be included, digitally.Martha Lane Fox, the government's champion for digital inclusion, broke the news on Twitter this morning: "O bloody hell the #digitalinclusion office has been broken into and all computers taken :((."She declined to elaborate further when contacted by the Guardian.The news quickly spread on Twitter, with more than one user remarking on the irony. But it seems Lane Fox may have over-dramatised the theft somewhat.The break-in was played down this morning by Tara Maynard, media adviser to the Digital Inclusion Team, who stressed that all confidential information was secure and that not all computers had been stolen."A couple of laptops were taken from the office, but they did not belong to the DIT," she said. "They were freelance workers' personal computers and did not contain any sensitive information."Which seems fortunate.The Digital Inclusion Team is funded through the Department for Communities and Local Government. It has the broad aim of encouraging the use of technology to improve the "lives and life chances of disadvantaged people and the places in which they live," according to their website.An estimated 17 million Britons do not use the internet. Lane Fox, who was appointed champion of digital inclusion this year,has indicatedthat she intends to concentrate on getting the 6 million of these who are "also socially and economically vulnerable" online first.The Metropolitan police said they were investigating a break-in on Carlisle Street, in the West End, where the Digital Inclusion Team's office is based.
Two million out-of-copyright books that have been scanned by Google could come back into limited printed form after the search giant signed a deal with On Demand Books, the company that makes the Espresso Book Machine - a custom book printer able to produce a bound one-off 300-page paperback, with a full-colour cover, in about five minutes.But if Google wins its case to be able to scan and reuse out-of-print books whose copyright is unclear, and those where publishers have given permission to scan them, a huge range of material that has fallen out of print could become available.Though each Espresso machine costs £85,000, there are already more than a dozen installed in locations around the US, and its makers hopes to reach 30 by the end of next year. There isalready one in Blackwell's Bookshop in London. The company offers about 1.6m books already.The books from Google will cost about $8, of which $1 will go to Google and $1 to On Demand - which says it will give those proceeds to non-profit schemes."We founded Google Books on the premise that anyone, anywhere, anytime should have the tools to explore the great works of history and culture,"Google Books Product Manager Brandon Badgersaid in a blog post. "Reading digital books can be an enjoyable experience, but we realize that there are times when readers want a physical copy of a book."The Google deal will limit available titles for printing to those whose copyright has expired, buta court case now being heard in the US- where Google is arguing that it should be able to scan and offer contents of "orphan" books whose copyright is unclear - might mean that it can offer a much larger number in the near future.However, Google is being opposed in that court case by rivals such as Amazon and Microsoft. A decision is expected next month.Google's aim to scan huge numbers of books will also have been enhanced by itspurchase earlier this week of ReCaptcha, a scheme which aims to defeat spammers by using words that have been scanned in from books and which computers have been unable to decode. "CAPTCHA" systems try to ensure that humans rather than computers are entering text into a web page, such as a registration system.By offering distorted words that are known to have beaten computer attempts to read them,ReCaptcha has become one of the most successful such systems online, employed by more than 100,000 sites."We'll be applying the technology within Google not only to increase fraud and spam protection for Google products but also to improve our books and newspaper scanning process," said Will Cathcart, a Google product manager.
The news that consumer gaming event Game Onhas been cancelledwas a bit of a surprise. Or was it? After all, the last few years have seen numerous UK-based gaming events fall flat. The organisers of Game On are blaming it on the recession.The economic climate of 2009 and short timeline with which the new GameOn London management team took over has proven too challenging to launch a mass-market consumer gaming event of the magnitude and quality that the UK market merits.Clearly the economic climate is an issue plus the timing probably wasn't great either. After all most of the games likely to be shown at a November event will have already been released in the Christmas rush. With demos of current releases usually widely available it is the the attraction of playing pre-release code that is likely to attract big crowds.But is there more to it? The UK is the biggest console market in Europe so why no big show? The recent Gamescom event in Germany pulled in around 245,000 visitors. Could we ever see something of similar size in the UK? Or is there some cultural issue preventing it? What do you think? Would you visit a big games event in the UK? And if not, why not?
The bad news is that some users woke up this morning (or noticed last night) that their personal icons had been replaced by the generic Twitter-supplied version that makes users look like newbies. The good news is that at least it's not the old icon (o_O), which looks horrible.In one of Twitter's continuing attempts to give itself a facelift, the original icon has just been replaced by an attractive new one that features a little bird. It's even available in different colours, though these seem to be assigned at random.Twitter is aware of the problem, andposted a note on its status page:We're working on a bug whereby the default avatar is showing up for users who have previously uploaded their own image. We hope to resolve this soon.Update (5:30p): We've identified the root cause of this problem and expect the issue to be resolved within the next several hours.It's not the first time that random people have lost their personal icons, but there's no hint as to whether it's the same problem as before, or whether Twitter has found a new one.In some cases, users have also lost their personalised backgrounds, which have been replaced with generic versions.Last time around, the personalised icons reappeared all by themselves, though some people have been reuploading them. (But I wouldn't bet on every Twitter user having a back-up copy of their icon and background.)Concerned Guardian readers will no doubt be overjoyed to hear that my icon has survived at@jackschofield, and I have a back-up because I just used the one I already had at Facebook. I was assuming that in the long run, Facebook would buy Twitter and the two services would merge. However, this looks increasingly unlikely.Unconfirmed reports suggestthat Twitter is getting another $50m in funding, which values the company at $1bn, whileFacebook is building its own versionof Twitter, using @mentions instead of @replies etc.
Friday's slightly late edition of Chatterbox
It has already made untold profits from web search advertising, making scores of millionaires and turning its founders into some of the richest people in the world. But today web giant Google took another step towards global domination by announcing a major push into online display advertising.In anannouncement on its blog, the Silicon Valley company said it was launching an auction system that allows advertisers and publishers to trade space for display advertising across hundreds of thousands of sites all over the web.The scheme, which it is calling Ad Exchange, is closely related to its AdWords system for text advertising - the technology that has helped propel Google tobecome one of the world's most valuable companies.Neal Mohan, Google's vice president of product management, suggested that the ability for anyone to run display advertising campaigns across any partner website would prove a winning formula for all concerned."With a multitude of display ad formats, and thousands of websites, it often takes thousands of hours for advertisers to plan and manage their display ad campaigns," he said. "With this complexity, lots of advertisers today just don't bother, or don't invest as much as they would like.""On the other side of the equation, some publishers are left with up to 80% of their ad space unsold. It's like airlines flying with their planes mostly empty... We believe that a better system built on better technology can help grow the display advertising pie and benefit everyone."Although worldwide spend on online advertising has dropped in the face of the recession - with display hit harder than search advertising - it is still a successful market worth more than $7.6bn in the United States alone.Other companies have found success with display advertising exchanges, and such a move has been widely expected from Google - coming two and a half years after it made a $3.1bn offer to buy the American advertising network DoubleClick. That deal had toget regulatory approval amid concerns that it would hand Google too much power in the advertising market, but legislators eventually waved the deal through last year.But while the Californian company described the effort as an attempt at "growing the display advertising pie" for everyone, those words are likely to come as cold comfort to some. While rivals such as Microsoft objected to the deal on grounds of competition, many publishers are concerned that Google's involvement will help create a vast inventory of advertising space that drives down prices - just as it did with text ads.And the news will also cause consternation at AOL and Yahoo, the struggling web giants who have been among the largest movers in the display advertising market in recent years. The continual success of Google in a number of areas has chipped away at its dotcom rivals, but display has been one area that they have remained consistently ahead in.Yahoo currently provides display advertising for around 120,000 companies, largely as a result of the 2007 purchase of Right Media - the world's most successful online display exchange. As a result, the Sunnyvale web portal - which recentlypartnered with Microsoft over its search engine advertising- said that it was in a strong position."We are very confident in our capabilities," Frank Weishaupt, the company's vice president for North American marketplaces,told the New York Times. "We will continue to innovate and do our best to control our own destiny."
End of the week chatting!
&bull;Microsoftis taking square aim at online app providers (hello, Google) bylaunching preview versions of its Office 2010 web applications- Word, Excel, PowerPoint and OneNote all there. Mary Jo Foley has ahandy FAQon the subject.&bull; After we wonderedwhether the Palm Pre could lift the company out of its rut, the answer from the company's financial resultsended up being inconclusive. The company kept its cards close to its chest, and simply said that the Pre made up the "vast majority" of 810,000 handsets the company sold in the last quarter. However, it also knocked down expectations for the next three months -  which might not be good news for UK customers looking for a good deal when it comes out on O2 soon.&bull; If the fact that it's Friday isn't enough to perk you up, how about a couple of brilliant videos to get you going towards the weekend with some verve? They're from either end of the fluffy spectrum, but both just as amazing to me. First up,Jarbas Agnellimade abeautiful little tune out of a photograph of birds sitting on telephone wiresthat's great to watch. And for those of you who don't mind something a bit harder,Wired Sciencedug up somefantastic old British Medical Association videos on YouTube- including this one of1930s brain surgery(warning: it is more than a little gory). Happy weekend!You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Struggling mobile phone maker Palm has left investors puzzling over its future, after the company announced mixed results following the launch of its much-vaunted Pre handset.In its latest financial results, the Californian company said it had unadjusted losses of $168m for the last three months - with revenues down 82% on the same period last year to $68m. However, adjusted for one-time costs, Palm said it had losses of just $13.6m on revenues of $360m - coming in ahead of Wall Street expectations.The company said it sold 810,000 handsets in the last quarter, the majority of which it said were thetouchscreen Pre- the new model that the company is banking on spearheading its revival. Analysts predictions had varied, with most expecting losses of $35m from revenues of $297m and around 500,000 units sold.Palm chief executive Jon Rubinstein, who masterminded the company's revamp as chairman before being given complete control over the summer, said that he was pleased with the progress made over recent months. He added that the company planned to launch more products that used the company's new software - known as WebOS - in the near future."We're making significant progress with Palm's transformation, and our culture of innovation is stronger than ever," he said. "We're launching more great Palm WebOS products with more carriers, and turning our sights toward growth."The Pre, which has received positive reviews,went on sale in America in Juneand executives hope it can challenge competitors such as the iPhone and BlackBerry. It is due to launch in the UKlater this yearin partnership with the country's biggest phone network, O2 - which also has exclusive rights to the iPhone.But analysts were left questioning Palm's future prospects, after the company said it expected sales to drop in the next quarter as low as $240m - despite the fact that it covers both the busy Christmas period and the planned European launch of the Pre."We had a very strong launch period with the Pre, and as we head into the second quarter what you're seeing is a decline in our legacy business," said Doug Jeffries, Palm's chief financial officer.It is the company's ninth quarterly loss in a row, as Palm invests heavily in an attempt to turn around its business and recapture the public's attention in a crowded market.While the company has released pioneering products in the digital organiser and smartphone markets over the last 15 years - including popular products such as the Palm Pilot and Treo handset - it hasstruggled to keep pace with the rise of competition from the likes of Apple and BlackBerry.While the Pre was well-received, in the two years that Palm has been rebuilding its business the mobile market has grown far more competitive - with a number of Asian manufacturers rising in prominence as well as the introduction of mobile phone software from Google and Microsoft's soon-to-be relaunched Windows Phone system.The company - which has $211m in available cash - said it was preparing for a common stock offering of 16 million shares. That would include a $35m buy from private equity group Elevation Partners, which invested $325m in 2007 and encouraged Rubinstein to join shortly after he retired from heading up Apple's hardware division.After-hours trading saw shares drop by around 3.5%, to 13.91.
Sony is already up in arms about a Watchdog investigation into defective PS3 consoles, due to be aired tonight. The show is presenting allegations that Sony is failing to repair consoles that have suffered a technical failure labeled, 'yellow light of death' (a reference to the 'red ring of death' fault that afflicted the Xbox 360 console). This fault has reportedly made PS3 units repeatedly shut down after booting up.According to Gamesindustry.biz:"As a stunt for the show, Watchdog set up a van outside Sony's UK headquarters – dubbed the PlayStation Repair Action Team – earlier this month and offered to fix consoles suffering from the hardware problem for free. Watchdog received 155 complaints from viewers, with 10 viewers showing up for the street stunt. Watchdog also issued a technical report to Sony, based on only three home consoles, one of which had already been subject to an attempted repair by a user."The MD of Sony UK, Ray Maguire, has issued a firm rebuttal, questioning the investigative methods employed by the show, and accusing its makers of, "a fundamental misunderstanding of the technical issues."Naturally, this is required viewing for Gamesblog readers. Let us know what you think in the comments section below.
From next month a New York public school namedQuest To Learnwill begin teaching pupils using videogames and other ludic sources. Titles like LittleBigPlanet and Civilization are to set to provide conceptual exercises for the children, who won't be expected to leaf through moth-eaten text books for hours on end. The idea is that kids learn more easily, and more enthusiastically, from games because they offer simple to follow rule-based systems that clearly exhibit how different elements interact within a reconisible real-world context. Or as the school's website puts it:"Through an innovative pedagogy that immerses students in differentiated, challenge-based contexts, the school acknowledges game design and systems thinking as key literacies of the 21st century."Part funded by the non-profit organisation,Institute of Playas well as various donors (including Intel), the school is only taking on sixth graders at first, but will increase in size on an annual basis. Before you start sending in application forms, it's not just going to be about sitting around playing commercial titles - the school has its own board and card games, and will also use software packages like Maya and Flash to teach modeling and programming skills. It must also meet the educational requirements of any normal school, which means traditional maths and english lessons won't just disappear from the curriculum.Intriguingly,according to Metropolis Magazine, the school is going as far as to adopt gamingstructureand terminology:Each of the 20 to 25 children per class will have access to a laptop and, rather than studying individual subjects, will attend four 90-minute periods a day devoted to curriculum "domains" like Codeworlds (a combination of math and English) and the Way Things Work (math and science). Each domain concludes with a two-week test that is called—borrowing from video parlance—a "Boss Level."How much better would we all have performed at school if it had operated just a bit less like a draconian institute and a little bit more like a 2D platform game?(ViaPopsci.com)
Apple's keynote last week - well,we were a bit underwhelmedin the liveblog.But that's because we hadn't shrunk it down to 1 minute and 50 seconds of what Apple is really trying to tell you. Described by UK satirisnarkists Techchuff on Twitter as "Apple's reality distortion field" at work, we'll think you'll agree that this shortened version of the keynote is really.. well, try it yourself.Don't you agree?
Today is a good day for chatting...
&bull;Skype's founders have been deadlocked witheBayfor a while over alicensing disputethat threatens the future of the internet telephony service. Now things have escalated, withJoltid filing a lawsuitagainst Skype, eBay and the investors behind therecent dealto buy 65% of the service for $1.9bn. It feels like this is getting personal, but all sides are staying schtum for now.&bull; Dan Brown's new novel The Lost Symbol might not be everyone's cup of tea, but it's certainly proving popular among pirates, as the book's publisherschase down copyright infringing versions appearing across the web. And it's giving a boost to theAmazon Kindle- with theKindle Nation blog reportingthat the Kindle edition outselling hardcover versions of the book in early sales on the retail giant's site.&bull; This week'sTechnology Guardianis here again, and it's full of stuff to get your teeth into. On the eve of Palm's make-or-break results, we askwhether the Pre can do enough to turn things around, review LG'sstrange little watchphoneand interview David Levy,who predicts that we'll be having sex with robots very soon. Yours with the paper, all for just one measly pound.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Twitter, the upstart messaging service, has become virtual Marmite thanks to its love-it-or-hate-it status. That is unlikely to change with the news that it's about to close another round of funding - perhaps as much as $50m.The story, which wasbroken by Techcrunch earlier, has now been supported by a number of other reports suggesting that CEO Ev Williams has confirmed the deal to staff and that the money is just around the corner.Who's behind the investment? Nobody seems to be sure. But it would value Twitter at around $1bn - significantly more than the$500m that Facebook offered earlier this year. And while that might seem like a ludicrous sum for a service which still has no revenue of note, presumably the company's investors believe they can sell it on for a significantly higher sum and make some cash on the deal.Meanwhile, the site has continued tweaking its service with another small change that might make a difference to the millions of people who are signing up and struggling to understand what it's all about."Trending topics" - the list of popular keywords that people are talking about - have become a source of fascination for many users, particularly those who have recently signed up or are looking for things to talk about. The trending topics list is essentially the town square of the site, where anybody's message can surface among the hubbub.Well, I opened my Twitter feed just a few moments ago and saw that Twitter is now offering explanations ofwhycertain topics are popular - for example, this explanation of the current "Ze Mayer" trend.Twitter's official on-site explanation says it's produced partially by a link toWhatTheTrend, a crowdsourced explanation engine designed specifically for this purpose. It's not a terrible system, although sometimes it tends towards the obtuse ("iPhone is trending because the iPhone is popular") or the optimistically narrow-minded (the BBC "often appears on Twitter when important news stories are being discussed. The BBC have also recently launched a Javascript library called Glow" - sorry, chaps, but I doubt Glow is the reason). And, of course, it's probably open to gaming.I dropped a line to Twitter to see if there were any manual actions involved in screening these explanations, but so far haven't received a reply.Yes, it might seem like a trivial change, but it serves a couple of purposes: giving new users a place to understand what's going on on the site and, hopefully, preventing a flood of "WHY IS X A TRENDING TOPIC?" messages. That's been a real problem, since it effectively push X back up the popularity list without adding any more signal. This sort of attempt to control spam is something that Twitter must hope can improve a sometimes confusing and overwhelming user experience.While the new investors - whoever they are - will probably appreciate anything that broadens the appeal of the website, there's still a question as to why Twitter feels the need to raise more cash now, just seven months after its last investment round and with $30m apparently still in the bank.The economic situation, we're being told, is only going to get better... which would suggest that Twitter could in fact get more money for less equity if it held out. The obvious answers are either that the investment comes from somebody who can offer Twitter a new avenue (such as a company like Google taking a stake) or because it plans to invest very heavily in some grand new project that requires a bigger wallet.But none of those seem straightforward right now. So what's the rush?
What is the difference between a Windows 7 clean installation and an upgrade?Gren DixWhen you boot from the Windows installation DVD, you get two options: Upgrade and Custom (advanced). If you select Upgrade, then Windows will upgrade your current installation, keeping your programs, folders and data intact. If you are running Vista, then it will be upgraded to Windows 7. If you select Custom (advanced), then you will get a new installation of Windows 7 on a selected partition or, by default, the whole drive. This will not preserve your existing programs, folders and data, so you must make sure that anything you want to keep is backed up first. You will then have to reinstall your programs and data, just as if you were moving to a new PC. Microsoft provides some tools to make this easier. The Windows 7 DVD includes Windows Easy Transfer software to copy your documents and settings from XP to a backup, and migrate them back afterwards.You can preserve an existing copy of Windows XP if it's on a different partition, or a separate hard drive.
My mother is in her 70s and doesn't get to see her grandchildren very often. She doesn't want a PC with a webcam, even though she has a Virgin Media account supplying her with digital TV and a landline. Is there a video telephone that she could use?Jon BrownYou can still buy BT Videophones but they require a subscription to the BT Broadband Talk service. The best option I can think of is theAsus Aiguru SV1videophone which supports Skype-to-Skype video calls. It has a built-in 7in (800 x 480 pixel) LCD screen. An alternative would be a pair of 3G mobile phones that support video calls.
My 9-year-old son is a Pivot stick animation freak. I want to save his short animations on CD and online, but have no idea how to.Laurence O'ToolePivot Stickfigure Animatoris a small free program that enables anyone to produce short cartoons. You can save each animation as a GIF image file, which can be copied, stored and run like any other GIF. You can also add a GIF file to the timeline in the free Windows Movie Maker or a similar program. That lets you add titles and music, then export the result as a movie file. There's a 7-minute guide,How To Get Pivot On YouTube, on YouTube. In fact, if you search YouTube for pivot tutorials, you (and your son) can find guides to doing a range of Pivot tricks.
After readingAsk Jack, I set my networked computer at work to Hibernate, but when the PC powers down it reboots. Searching the web, I found numerous examples of this but no real solution. Is there one?Wayne WaltersThe request to Hibernate can result in a reboot if one of your PC's programs or components refuses to go to sleep. As there are tens of thousands of components and tens of millions of programs, there is no generic solution. You will have to go through everything that's running until you find the culprit – and with networked corporate systems, it may be something the IT department insists on running. For individual users, it's commonly the network card. The Windows Device Manager's power management options may let you solve the problem, or you can do it by editing the Registry, or you may need to change something in the BIOS. However, your IT department probably will not want you to try these, even if you have the rights via an administrator account.Microsoft has atroubleshooterfor those trying to solve Hibernation problems.
The founders of Skype have filed a lawsuit against its parent company eBay and the investment group attempting to buy the online telephony service, as the battle over its future continues to escalate.According to documents filed with a court in California, Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis - who  founded Skype in 2003 before selling it to eBay two years later - are seeking an injunction against the service. They are also requesting millions of dollars in damages for what they claim is the unlicensed use of a networking technology they own.The dispute could see Skype shut down, potentially derailing eBay's plan to sell off a majority stake in the internet phone business for $1.9bn to a group which includes venture firm Index Ventures and private equity firm Silver Lake.The quarrel surrounds a piece of technology called 'Global Index', which belongs to Joltid, a separate, UK-based company started by Zennstrom and Friis in 2002. It provides some of the crucial peer-to-peer sharing systems that underpin Skype - but when eBay bought the internet telephone company in 2005 for $3.1bn, it decided not to purchase the system. Instead, it agreed to license Global Index from Joltid for the foreseeable future.Zennstrom and Friis left Skype in 2007, and earlier this year Joltid revoked the license, leading to a series of court battles between the two companies over the details of their contractual agreement.Although eBay is believed to be working on alternative technologies to replace Global Index, it admitted in a  regulatory filing that the dispute could prevent Skype - which currently has almost 500m users worldwide - from operating as normal."If the matter is not resolved through negotiation," the company said, the "continued operation of Skype's business as currently conducted would likely not be possible".The news also leaves the plan to sell off part of the company under a cloud. Earlier this month eBay announced that it had agreed to sell a 65% stake in the business to a consortium of investors that included Index Ventures - one of Skype's original backers - and a venture capital fund led by web pioneer Marc Andreessen.At the time, the deal was welcomed by all parties and presumed to have the blessing of Zennstrom and Friis because of the close links between Joltid and Index.
And so last week, 24 hours before the release ofThe Beatles Rock Band, another hoary old rocker suggested that guitar games will destroy music as we know it. Inan interview with the BBC, the Rolling Stones star Bill Wyman moaned: "It makes less and less people dedicated to really get down and learn an instrument. I think is a pity, so I'm not really keen on that kind of stuff."His comments reflect those of Chad Kroeger, lead singer with execrable post-grunge outfit Nickleback, who last yeartold MTV website readers: "Start rock bands. Set down the Guitar Hero, learn how to play an actual guitar and start a band, because it's hard to find more bands to put a solid rock-and-roll package together, to get out there."First of all, any rock musician who uses a sickening corporatised phrase like "solid rock-and-roll package" to describe a band's music should be immediately shunned. (Surely, in rock terminology, "solid rock-and-roll package" should only ever be used to describe the contents of a male band member's trousers?) Also, fundamentally, Wyman and Kroeger are  wrong. Their fears are ridiculous. And here's why ...Kids learn the guitar for two key reasons: to express themselves musically and to get together with some mates, form a band and attract a solid base of adoring fans. Rock Band is no use for either of these. Sure, there are specialist nights in bars around the world where you can play Rock Band and Guitar Hero on stage, but this is the instrumental equivalent of karaoke: although enormous fun for an evening, it's not going to bring fame, fortune or creative satisfaction.At the same time, Alex Rigopulos, co-founder of Guitar Hero and Rockband creatorHarmonix Music Systems, offers an intriguing counter-argument to the Wyman hypothesis: that these games actually encourage more people to play a genuine guitar. He may well have a point. Last year, a research project commissioned by the charityYouth Musicfound that up to 2.5 million UK youngsters have been inspired to take up real instruments after playing console music titles.Claire Davies, deputy editor ofTotal Guitarmagazine, which is aimed at novice and intermediate musicians, concurs: "Total Guitar has received hundreds of emails over the past year since running a feature on Guitar Hero and one of the game's lead guitarists, Marcus Henderson. The majority of our readers praise the game for introducing them to an entire catalogue of music that they might not otherwise have discovered, which they have then requested tablature for, to learn on guitar. Some of our readers do get stagnant in their development, but accessing a new catalogue of music via the Guitar Hero soundtracks has given them a new focus, new genres to explore and in turn new techniques to develop to bolster their guitar vocabulary."Certainly, most young bands seem to be enthusiastic about the games. "Whenever Total Guitar does an on-the-road diary piece with a guitarist or heads backstage to their dressing room or tour bus for an interview, we always find copies of Guitar Hero among their videogames," says Claire Davies, the magazine's deputy editor. The games love them back – Harmonix has featured unsigned artists in downloadable track packs for Rock Band, and is now setting up theRock Band Network, allowing groups to upload tracks, which can then be bought by the game's fans and played along to. The up-and-coming Welsh group Attack! Attack! has just won a competition to have their latest single, 'You and Me' included on Guitar Hero 5. Furthermore, established bands get a much better split of the revenues from a Rock Band or Guitar Hero inclusion than they would on an iTunes download and there's usually a huge boost in sales for tracks featured on the games. Apparently, Aerosmith made more money from the release of last year's Guitar Hero: Aerosmith than they did from either of their past two albums.Critics also like to say there's no useful correlation between the experience of playing console guitar sims and the ability to make real music. But they're wrong again. For a start, the latest iterations of Guitar Hero (now developed by Neversoft) come with a Music Studio feature allowing players to create their own basic tracks, then distribute them on the GHtunes service. The results are probably not going to get you in the iTunes Top ten, but this facility represents a vital bridge between simulation and creation.There are also more fundamental links between the two skillsets. "The essence of maintaining rhythm, developing hand-eye co-ordination and a sense of timing that you gain from playing these games is helpful," says Davies, "and for people who have never held a guitar before, holding a controller will enable them to get used to the sensation of holding the real thing. As for the controllers, they keep getting better and more realistic: this month guitar giant Fender has released the Rock Band Wireless Wooden Fender Stratocaster guitar controller, which is a wooden full-scale replica of the popular Stratocaster, even down to the hand painted gloss three-colour Sunburst finish."Ultimately, what Wyman's comments reek of is the familiar generational fear of technology and of profligate and irresponsible youngsters ruining the arts.Veteran musicians were saying the same thing about sampling in the 80s; they envisaged a future in which traditional instruments rotted as tech-savvy teens turned wholesale to keyboards and computer screens. Predictably this audio apocalypse never happened. Tactile music-making is a primal creative instinct, it is coded into the DNA of modern man; scientists from the Univeristy of Tübingen this year discovered three flutes in the Hohle Fels cavern in Germany that date back more than 35,000 years. Flutes are still around. And when Harmonix gets round to writing Flute Hero, they won't disappear.Same with guitars. The reason Activision is so delighted about grafting Kurt Cobain's image into Guitar Hero 5 is because artistically (let's put the tragic addictions and suicide aside for a moment) he represents something - something to aspire to, something iconic and beautiful. You could complete every song in expert mode on Guitar Hero or Rock Band, you could do it blindfolded – but this pales into insignificance beside composing Smells Like Teen Spirit – as much fun as these games are, deep down, we all know this to be true. But you know what? We play anyway. Music is a powerful enough medium to allow us to continue.• A longer version of this article appeared at theGames blog
Yes, if you mean that they're now trying to catch people who read the New York Times, rather than random visitors to music download, porn and hacking sites. Of course, it's harder to compromise one of the Grey Lady's web servers, but one group of criminals recently found the answer: buy advertising.What we now call "malvertising" has grown this year, and it represents a serious threat not just to individual users but to a web that's ultimately paid for by ads. As Deloittenoted in its predictions for 2009: "Anything that makes large numbers of internet users decide that clicking on online advertisements could be a bad or dangerous thing threatens the current business model of almost every company that does business online."The New York Timessays it fell victim to a malicious ad swap. "The culprit masqueraded as a national advertiser and provided seemingly legitimate product advertising for a week. Over the weekend, the ad being served up was switched so that an intrusive message, claiming to be a virus warning from the reader's computer, appeared."The result is one of the most obvious scams around. A message says your Windows PC has 38 pieces of malware and invites you to run a scan. The fake antivirus program then asks for money to remove the malware (which doesn't exist). In the worst cases, it also drops a Trojan that can download some real infections. The Times slipped up becausethe criminals impersonated Vonage, the internet telephony company, and it seems they may have owned vonage-inc.com at the time. "Because the Times thought the campaign came straight from Vonage, which has advertised on the site before,it allowed the advertiser to use an outside vendor that it had not vetted to actually deliver the ads," according to the NYT's internet section.The Times says it has now improved its checking system, but malvertising attacks have also been mounted via other publications, and via Facebook and Google ads. Nowadays, it's also very common for the attacks touse topical events, such as the deaths of Ted Kennedy and Patrick Swayze, to try the same scam using Google's search results.The result, as Kris Lamb, director of IBM's X-Force security group,told ECN, is that: "There is no such thing as safe browsing today and it is no longer the case that only the red-light district sites are responsible for malware. We've reached a tipping point where every website should be viewed as suspicious and every user is at risk. The threat convergence of the web ecosystem is creating a perfect storm of criminal activity."
Installing Windows 7What is the difference between a Windows 7 clean installation and an&nbsp;upgrade?Gren DixJS:When you boot from the Windows installation DVD, you get two options: Upgrade and Custom (advanced). If you select Upgrade, then Windows will upgrade your current installation, keeping your programs, folders and data intact. If you are running Vista, then it will be upgraded to Windows 7. If you select Custom (advanced), then you will get a new installation of Windows 7 on a selected partition or, by default, the whole drive. This will not preserve your existing programs, folders and data, so you must make sure that anything you want to keep is backed up first. You will then have to reinstall your programs and data, just as if you were moving to a new PC. Microsoft provides some tools to make this easier. The Windows 7 DVD includes Windows Easy Transfer software to copy your documents and settings from XP to a backup, and migrate them back afterwards.You can preserve an existing copy of Windows XP if it's on a different partition, or a separate hard drive.Video callingMy mother is in her 70s and doesn't get to see her grandchildren very often. She doesn't want a PC with a webcam, even though she has a Virgin Media account supplying her with digital TV and a landline. Is there a video telephone that she could use?Jon BrownJS:You can still buy BT Videophones but they require a subscription to the BT Broadband Talk service. The best option I can think of is theAsus Aiguru SV1 videophonewhich supports Skype-to-Skype video calls. It has a built-in 7in (800 x 480 pixel) LCD screen. An alternative would be a pair of 3G mobile phones that support video calls.Movies with PivotMy 9-year-old son is a Pivot stick animation freak. I want to save his short animations on CD and online, but have no idea how to.Laurence O'TooleJS:Pivot Stickfigure Animator is a small free program that enables anyone to produce short cartoons. You can save each animation as a GIF image file, which can be copied, stored and run like any other GIF. You can also add a GIF file to the timeline in the free Windows Movie Maker or a similar program. That lets you add titles and music, then export the result as a movie file. There's a 7-minute guide,How To Get Pivot On YouTube, on YouTube. In fact, if you search YouTube for pivot tutorials, you (and your son) can find guides to doing a range of Pivot tricks.Hibernation problemsAfter readingAsk Jack, I set my networked computer at work to Hibernate, but when the PC powers down it reboots. Searching the web, I found numerous examples of this but no real solution. Is&nbsp;there one?Wayne WaltersJS:The request to Hibernate can result in a reboot if one of your PC's programs or components refuses to go to sleep. As there are tens of thousands of components and tens of millions of programs, there is no generic solution. You will have to go through everything that's running until you find the culprit – and with networked corporate systems, it may be something the IT department insists on doing. For individual users, it's commonly the network card. The Windows Device Manager's power management options may let you solve the problem, or you can do it by editing the Registry, or you may need to change something in the BIOS. However, your IT department probably will not want you to try these, even if you have the rights via an administrator account.
Ofcom relaxes rulesThe telecoms regulator says the retail telecoms market is deregulated – so BT can compete harder.Google's Data Liberation FrontA Google team has launched a Data Liberation Front with a website that explains how to get your data out of Google applications (because if you can't get it out, you shouldn't put it in).DRM+An enhanced version of the Digital Radio Mondiale (DRM) system, which allows broadcasting in the FM bands, has become a European standard.IP for profitThe CBI has outlined a six-point plan to help UK companies profit from their intellectual property (IP).USB spy cameraAjoka's Thumbcorder (AJ-024TC) – a hands-free camcorder built into a USB Flash drive – is designed for surreptitious recording.User-rated malwareSymantec plans to give Norton 2010 "reputation-based malware detection" where users rate files.Windows 7 for ITMicrosoft is offering IT professionals a free 90-day trial version of Windows 7.Netting beginnersThe third annual Get Online Day will be 23 October, with more than 700 events taking place at UK online centres across England from 19-31 October.Jack Schofield
There are plenty of sites out there vying for the attention – and patronage – of Flash game players and developers. The likes of Mochimedia, Newgrounds and Kongregate are all attractive, well-populated portals filled with engaging browser titles, and all offer reasonable deals to programmers who want to gain ad revenue from their wares. What they don't offer is that unavoidable buzzword of contemporary interactive entertainment: user-generated content.EnterPlatogo- a brand name tortuously hewn from the phrase 'PLAy TOGether Online'. It's a new Flash game portal, developed by a group of Austrian coders who secured funding fromDeparture, Vienna city council's rather moddish entrepreneurial fund. Designed to resemble a social networking site (you know, lots of pastel colours, cute creatures, friendly language), it promises a new take on the browser entertainment business, offering a range of games with level editors, allowing users to create their own designs before uploading them for other users to play and rate.You'll need to register on the site, or hook up via Facebook Connect, before you can start tinkering with your own designs, but you can then develop, save and share your creations with a like-minded community. "Today marks our second day online," says chief marketing officer, Simone Haider. "We officially launched yesterday at 6:00 am. Before that, we had been in private beta for two weeks: in this period, we had about 8000 visits and a peak of 105 concurrent players on Platogo. So far, there have been more than 15,000 plays of user-generated levels."At the moment, there's only a handful of titles on there – one, Veggie Snake, was produced in-house, the rest have come from external developers - notably Exploit, by respected indie/Flash coderGregory Weir. Naturally, the Platogo team hopes that more developers come onboard, attracted by the chance to share between 25-50% of the ad revenues from each game (it looks like revenues rise toward the latter figure if you include more features, such as UGC). "Our plan is to release about one new game every week," says Haider. "Right now, we have some rather interesting projects in the pipeline. Among them is a brand new game produced by Platogo. Another one is a novel title byLorenzGames(fromDynamic Systemsfame) which cannot be found on any other gaming portal yet."There are questions marks over how much advertising revenue there is in the market at the moment, of course - especially via a start-up service. Right now, there are no in-game ads in place; the focus instead is on gaining ad revenue via exterior sources. "Concerning banners, we are co-operating with an Austrian advertising network," says Haider. "Globally, we're using Google AdWords at the moment but we're aiming to find an international advertising partner in the near future."Programmers can, however, introduce micro-transactions into their projects, from which they draw revenues of 70%. And gaining revenues from the gamers themselves can be a surer way to make money - especially if the game is good. Earlier this year, Gamasutra ranan article on Flash game revenues, and mentioned one coder who ended up making a "six-figure" income in a matter of months from his gameFantastic Contraptionwhen he added a paid-for level editor.At the moment, the games are all simple physics-based puzzlers and versions of popular casual titles like Snake. It'll be interesting to see if more complex fare is gradually introduced – like browser versions of, say, LittleBigPlanet or Trackmania. Meanwhile, another key aim is to grow the whole community element. "Among other things, we're focusing on extending our Facebook integration," says Haider. "Furthermore, there will be a personal activity stream for each Platogo user, to keep him or her informed about what is going on at Platogo, e.g. which games are being played by his friends, has someone beaten his or her high score, has someone commented on a level he or she has created, etc. We also want to improve the possibilities for our users to interact with each other on the website."It's a fascinating endeavour, and there seems to be a real emphasis on quality rather than quantity - the UGC stuff is also nicely implemented in the games I've played. Have a look and see what you think though – it could be a more creative way of blowing your lunch hour than playing Desktop Defense for the millionth time...
When Apple's iPod began to rise to prominence in 2003, analysts suggested the digital music player had created a "halo effect" that boosted the company's computer business – which at the time definitely needed it. With the release of the iPhone, Apple created another halo effect, but the beneficiaries this time are not just the company but the entire mobile industry.Apple didn't invent the idea of an MP3 player, but it created an effective combination of hardware, software and a convenient music store that appealed to consumers. It also didn't invent the idea of mobile applications or even the idea of an app store, but with the iPhone it has the rest of the industry – both networks and handset makers – scrambling to create or relaunch application stores.Mobile applications are not new. Sun Microsystems' Java platform was designed to work on mobile devices almost from the start, and the industry has long been successful in selling Java-based games and ringtones. However, the iPhone has increased awareness of a much broader range of apps, dramatically increasing their demand.Ilja Laurs spent five years as the head of a mobile games developer, and had become frustrated. His company was finding it impossible to get its applications onto phones. In 2005, he launchedgetjar.com, an open app store. Having grown up in Lithuania when it was under the control of the Soviet Union, Laurs's view of GetJar was of "a democracy, rather the controlled economy" of the mobile world.Apple shows the wayThe Jar in GetJar refers to the Java Archive format commonly used to distribute mobile applications. The apps store started out catering strictly to mobile Java applications, but it has expanded to support all major platforms, including indirect support for the iPhone. It doesn't host the files for iPhone applications, but has links to the official app store.Apple's store has led to a much greater awareness of mobile apps among consumers, Laurs says, and has led to an exponential growth in demand for apps – not just for Apple but also for GetJar. In January this year, his store had 18m downloads, but now is seeing 55m a month. GetJar makes money from that too – 95%, through charging content developers for premium placement or extra visibility on the site. The rates are determined by auction.But for the future, Laurs sees the mobile apps market becoming as big if not bigger than the internet. It's a safe bet, considering thatmore than half of the world pays to use a mobile phone, while only 23% of the world has internet access, according to the UN's International Telecommunications Union.Of course, the full power of mobile applications is limited to higher-end smartphones, whichaccounted for only about 14% of global mobile phone salesin the second quarter of 2009, says the analysis company Gartner. According to the mobile advertising startup AdMob, Apple's iPhone storesells $200m of applications every month, or $2.4bn a year. Half of all iPhone owners buy applications. The same research showed that 19% of the owners of handsets running Google's Android operating system buy apps.Despite Apple being a newcomer to the mobile market, the number of iPhone apps hasgrown quicklyto boast around 75,000 applications. The BlackBerry maker Research in Motion hasa few thousand. Nokia's Ovi storehas about "5,500 content items", which includes applications, ringtones and wallpaper graphics. Palm has a rudimentary store for its Pre.That said, mobile application sales have a very long tail. The top 100 applications account for only 20% of the downloads on the site, Laurs said. GetJar says that it hasabout 54,000 game and application files. About 80% of the mobile applications on GetJar have some kind of business model: some charge for the applications, usually in single-digit amounts, while others such as the Opera mini browser operate a search-based business. Some 10% of downloads from GetJar are non-commercial, including religious apps such as electronic versions of the Bible or the Qur'an.Carriers and device-makers have opened up, but it is still far from being completely democratic – a situation that would have been unacceptable on the internet, Laurs says. "It's like if Microsoft would have blocked Firefox or if Google decided a site didn't exist at all. These are examples that sound completely stupid in the open internet world, but this is what we have in mobile now." Carriers now understand that consumers want applications and will abandon carriers that don't provide them, he suggests: apps stores like Apple's have been a huge step forward for the industry.Open the storeHowever, pressure is building on Apple to open up even further. It has come in for increasing criticism for the level of control it exerts over the iPhone apps store, to the point where theUS communications regulator queried Apple, the carrier AT&amp;T and Googleabout the rejection of the search giant's Voice application. (Apple responded that it is "still considering" it.)Some have credited the pressure with pushing Apple to approve the application from streaming music service Spotify, even though it could be seen as competing against Apple's iTunes music store.Carriers are wary of becoming "dumb pipes", a mobile phone companies see the landline internet service providers. Mobile phones are unlikely to become as open as computers connected to the internet, but with greater awareness among consumers about applications on mobile phones, there is a new pressure to open up the closed world of mobile even more.
The music radio site Last.fm is one of the great ideas from the UK during the first dotcom boom. Users can listen to their own songs and other tracks recommended by Last.fm's algorithms based on their tastes, including iTunes, and those of friends. It could easily have been a one-trick pony. But now a few academics have applied its serendipity to scientific research. Why can't researchers, instead of waiting anywhere up to three years for their papers to jump all the hurdles, be part of a real-time market place – a fusion of iTunes and Last.fm for science? They pitched the idea, among others, to two of Last.fm's investors: Spencer Hyman and Stefan Glaenzer, newly enriched by the sale of Last.fm to CBS. They bought into the idea of using the site's principles to aggregate users' data (anonymously) while building up a databank of articles. Now the show is on the road and expanding fast. It is free, but a premium version will be added soon.How does it work? At the basic level, students can "drag and drop" research papers into the site atmendeley.com, which automatically extracts data, keywords, cited references, etc, thereby creating a searchable database and saving countless hours of work. That in itself is great, but now the Last.fm bit kicks in, enabling users to collaborate with researchers around the world, whose existence they might not know about until Mendeley's algorithms find, say, that they are the most-read person in Japan in their niche specialism. You can recommend other people's papers and see how many people are reading yours, which you can't do in Nature and Science. Mendeley says that instead of waiting for papers to be published after a lengthy procedure of acquiring citations, they could move to a regime of "real-time" citations, thereby greatly reducing the time taken for research to be applied in the real world and actually boost economic growth. There are lots of research archives. For the physical (but not biological) sciences there isArXiv, with more than half a million e-papers free online – but nothing on the potential scale of Mendeley. Around 60,000 people have already signed up and a staggering 4m scientific papers have been uploaded, doubling every 10 weeks. At this rate it will soon overtake the biggest academic databases, which have around 20m papers.This startup is fascinating for a few reasons. First, it shows the second phase of the dotcom boom is throwing up great, practical ideas. Second, the technology transfer involved – from music to science – is innovative and raises the question of how many other disciplines could adopt it. Could there be a rival for Google by gearing search not to links to a website, but to the thinking of like-minded people? Third, this is another example of "Wimbledonisation", (a reference to the tennis tournament) in which Britain may not win the competition but gets the economic benefits of hosting the tournament. Mendeley, though based in Clerkenwell in central London, was founded by three German academics – Jan Reichelt and Victor Henning (interviewedhere) and Paul Foeckler – confirming London's dominant position for European entrepreneurs as well as footballers. Investors told them it was the centre of the best research hub outside Boston and a magnet for recruitment. When I heardtheir five-minute pitchin a noisy room recently I hadn't realised how fast they were moving nor that they were about to be named one of the top 10 inTech Media Invest 100, sponsored by the Guardian.Small wonder that it has already got some of the world's leading universities on board, including Harvard, Stanford, Cambridge and Imperial, all by word of mouth. Dr Werner Vogels, chief technology officer of Amazon, reportedly said of Mendeley that if they got it right they could change the face of science. They seem to be well on the way.twitter.com/vickeegan
A quicker diagnosis for early stages of colorectal cancer would save lives. Combining biology with electronics, Sefi Vernick, a PhD student at Tel Aviv University, hopes to provide just that. By adding lab-on-a-chip technology to an endoscope, his work should enable doctors to test for cancer biomarkers during internal examinations.Vernick is working on biosensors, mainly electrochemical, for cancer detection as part of a group effort to develop biomedical devices. As the third-most common cancer, early diagnosis is important. "It's also widely accepted that, since cancer is the sum of many cellular events manifesting in many ways, the solution lies in multi-target strategies. A simultaneous detection of biomarkers may increase level of confidence [for detection] considerably," says Vernick.Biomarkers are commonly used in medical diagnostics to indicate a disease state. Cancer biomarkers are molecular changes detectable in the tumour as well as blood, urine or other body fluids with these telltale signs being produced in the tumour or by the body itself. But there's a problem: "CRC [colorectal cancer] is a greater challenge since its biomarkers aren't sufficiently specific."Endoscopes allow doctors to examine the rectum and colon, take biopsy samples, and remove small polyps that may develop into cancers. By fitting lab-on-a-chip technology to an endoscope, cancer biomarkers are detectable too. "This tool allows us to both visualise and remove polyps and screen for cancer in real time.".At the moment, he relies on the presence of a single biomarker for healthy cells not found in cancer cells. The lab-on-a-chip acts as an electrochemical biosensor for this biomarker (which catalyses the substrate) with electrodes transducing a signal into a measurable electric current. Filters help reduce biological noise within this "highly sensitive" method. The research, which is partly funded by American-Israeli businessman and philanthropist Lester Crown, also hopes to add further cancer biomarkers to increase the level of confidence in the results.The new research is welcomed by Dr Alison Ross, senior science information officer at Cancer Research UK. "There are many questions that need answering before we know whether this potential new test is accurate and reliable and provides benefits over existing methods," she says."This new technology is just one example of the huge research effort to identify biomarkers that can aid cancer diagnosis. But any new way of speeding up the diagnosis of bowel cancer would be very­welcome."Ross also points out that when cancer is detected early, treatment is often simpler and more likely to be effective. The UK has already introduced a bowel cancer screening programme using the faecal occult blood test to check for early signs.
The arrival of Apple's Snow Leopard upgrade to its Mac OS X operating system this month, and the advent of Microsoft's Windows 7 next month, is being seen as a golden opportunity to sell more product by one group of semiconductor manufacturers – whose potential market per computer will be increased by a factor of about 4bn each – 4,294,967,296 to be precise.That's the multiplier in the amount of RAM that a 64-bit operating system can address compared with a 32-bit one. That upgrade from 32-bit to 64-bit is part of a key shift in Snow Leopard compared with its predecessor, Leopard. And although Windows 7 will come in both 32-bit and 64-bit flavours (with prices varying between them), and upgrading from 32-bit Windows to 64-bit Windows requires a wipe-and-install, a significant number of people – perhaps half of buyers of new PCs, by some estimates – are expected to find it attractive enough that they will.Raise a DRAMThat's good news for the DRAM (dynamic random access memory) industry, which has had nothing but bad news for the past 18 months. As supplies ballooned in 2008 while PC sales slowed, revenues fell by around 15%. Total DRAM industry revenues in 2008 were $23.6bn (£14.3bn), down 25% on 2007. The analysis company iSuppli forecast that 2009 would bring in only $20.1bn. The problem: manufacturers didn't have any reason to put more than 4GB (maximum) into a PC, but DRAM makers were getting more efficient – and hence pumping out more memory. Their efficiency was coming in the "wrong" part of the business cycle.That is typical for the DRAM industry, which bounces from champagne to commiseration. But now, 64-bit computing has come along, and may keep it happy."A basic 64-bit machine will probably have 8GB of RAM," says Terry Groth, worldwide product marketing manager of Lexar Media, a subsidiary of Micron Technology (which sells the Crucial brand of RAM). "It's probably going to be driven by OEMs [original equipment manufacturers] and manufacturers. We're expecting a rebound in the economy, and more computer buying in the [Christmas] holiday season, and we expect the trend in DRAM sales to follow that."In theory, a 64-bit operating system can address as much as 16m gigabytes (16 exabytes) of RAM. In reality, physical limits (of available memory slots in the machine) and cost mean that even those keen to stuff their personal computer with the maximum can only put in 8GB – although 64-bit Windows can support up to 128GB.Even so, both numbers are a significant advance for the RAM manufacturers, where the maximum has been 4GB for some years – of which Windows Vista users were usually only able to use 3GB. The transition inside the operating systems is by no means complete; 32-bit drivers will exist in both for a long time to come. But 64-bit is a reality; and so is the prospect of people wanting significantly more memory. (It's even possible that people will need extra RAM when running 64-bit – because the operating system will have to load 32-bit drivers as well, increasing the memory it needs.)For a market that has been depressed, along with the rest of the PC supply chain – with sales off by around 10% in 2009 compared with 2008 – the shift towards 64-bit is delightful news. The obvious advantage of having more RAM is that more data can be stored in memory, rather than having to be read off the (comparatively slow) hard drive. Browser page data, video information, and dozens of programs can all sit comfortably together in huge RAM spaces without having to be swapped onto and from the hard drive (such "paging" is a key constraint on systems with limited RAM).However, it's not a panacea. John Nack, principal product manager of Photoshop at Adobe, noted onhis blogthat: "What does 64-bit computing mean, practically speaking? In a nutshell, it lets an application address very large amounts of memory – specifically, more than 4 gigabytes. This is great for pro photographers with large collections of high-res images: [Adobe] Lightroom being able to address more RAM means less time swapping images into and out of memory during image processing-intensive operations."But, he added: "It's also important to say what 64-bit doesn't mean. It doesn't make applications somehow run twice as fast. As Photoshop architect Scott Byerwrites, '64-bit applications don't magically get faster access to memory, or any of the other key things that would help most applications perform better.' In our testing, when an app isn't using a large data set (one that would otherwise require memory swapping), the speedup due to running in 64-bit mode is around 8-12%."Bigger, better, fasterEven so, regardless of RAM, running a 64-bit address system has other benefits. It can handle files more than 4GB in size, such as entire DVDs, disk images and video directly; 32-bit systems struggle because each address over the 4GB point must be represented using more than one "register", requiring multiple CPU cycles to read it. In a 64-bit system, every address can be held in a single register.Tests suggest data encryption and decryption runs between three and five times faster in a 64-bit environment; complex numerical analysis (of which encryption is a subset) also runs faster, though few people will use their PCs for that. Professional Apple users, often high-end graphics users, are likely to be early adopters, says Groth.And the DRAM manufacturers will be happy to sell to you. They have recently introduced a new form, DDR3, which runs faster and can store up to 8GB – gigabytes, not gigabits – on a module. By the end of 2010, says Groth, we'll be seeing 16GB modules, though the cost may make them useful only to high-end servers.But the cost will, inevitably, fall. And DRAM chips keep stuffing more onto them: Moore's law, suggesting prices halve every 18 months, has held fast for decades."Every time the technology goes to a point where it seems Moore's law can't be improved on, they somehow do," says Groth. "At some point I imagine that the physical nature of the components will have an impact. But for now it's still going strong and working for the industry."
One of the winners of the Cabinet Office's Show Us a Better Way competition – held last year to find ways of using government-owned data – is getting into its stride, after Royal Mail was forced to release the location details of its 116,000 postboxes by the Freedom of Information (FoI) Act.The idea of finding out where your nearest postbox is –put forward by Jenny Ingram– was one of six winners. But creating a map of those postboxes had to be put on hold almost immediately when Royal Mailexpressed reservationsabout providing its data to an outside party.But following a series of FoI requests, the details not only of the postcodes of the postboxes but also their collection times has been gathered. The crowdsourcing effort (which readers are encouraged to help with) aims to pinpoint every postbox in the UK on an openly licensed map so it can be provided on future mobile platforms without licensing concerns.The scheme, being run by Matthew Somerville, a web developer, athttp://www.dracos.co.uk/play/locating-postboxes/builds on the complete set of postboxesreleased under an FoI requestin August. Other requests have also gathered collection times.Royal Mail has insisted it retains all rights in the information released through the request – which would include precise locations of the postboxes. But Somerville has got around that by using the open-sourced OpenStreetMap system, and asking viewers to click a spot that they think is closest to a named, postcoded postbox.Does that infringe the Royal Mail's rights? "I don't think locations of postboxes are being derived from the list, regardless of what the IP [intellectual property] status of the list itself might be." Somerville said. "I would hope that they would consider what I have done/ am doing worthwhile and a public service. They could even use the accurate locations themselves to run things such as travelling salesman algorithms to work out better routes to collect from the postboxes!"So far 22,747 have been located out of about 116,000 in total. And how long could it take to finish? "No idea," says Somerville. "People can really only do the ones around them unless they're travelling, so it's really up to getting people all over the place."It's a wonderfully useful idea – though the fact that it required multiple FoI requests and still has faint legal uncertainty shows that the government urgently needs to stop looking at its non-personal data as requiring protection – and start allowing the public to create new products with it.Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog
In the past couple of months I've visited two of the world's leading computer history museums, and they provide a remarkable contrast. Mainly it's to do with money. TheComputer History Museumin Mountain View, California, is housed in a magnificent, award-winning modern building, with a 370-seat auditorium and rooms for classes and corporate events.TheNational Museum of Computing(TNMOC) at Bletchley Park, near Milton Keynes, is housed in dilapidated huts left over from the second world war.The Computer History Museum has a fairly substantial staff that includes a "vice president of capital campaign and principal giving" and a "senior director of corporate business development". Its fundraising efforts try to exploit its proximity to local tech companies such as Google and Cisco, and local universities such as Stanford and the University of California's campus at Berkeley.TNMOC is run by volunteers, and there are no local computer giants. While Bletchley Park is close to the Open University HQ, OU's students are rarely on campus.In terms of things to see, however, the two are closer than you might think, especially considering that The Computer History Museum first opened in Boston in 1984. Its exhibits range from pre-computer punched card systems through a Cray supercomputer to racks of small micros, including relatively rare machines such as the MindSet. Yes, it also has a working Babbage engine built by the Science Museum in London, but it won't be there forever. It was paid for by Nathan Myhrvold, formerly of Microsoft, who plans to take it home.TNMOC has a working Colossus rebuilt by Tony Sale and others, and it expects to have what may be the world's oldest original computer that still works:the Harwell/Witch(Ding dong, this Witch ain't dead, 10 September 10). It also has an air traffic control room and a new microcomputer gallery, which is excellent. You can actually use some of TNMOC's old micros, which you can't in California.A rational government would look at TNMOC's impressive progress in only four years and chuck it a few quid. Sadly, we don't have a rational government. It seems that the history of computing is the preserve of theScience Museum, which, while it has many great merits, isn't doing the job at the moment. Of course, TNMOC is just one of the organisations based at Bletchley Park, a short walk from Bletchley station. It is also home to a reconstructed code-breaking Bombe, a Home Front exhibition, a Churchill Collection, and a model railway, among other things. It could be developed to offer much more.But Bletchley Park needs £10m for repairs. This led almost 22,000 people to sign the Save Bletchley petition, but the polite government reply to that more or less decodes to "get stuffed". Downing Street says English Heritage gave Bletchley £330,000 for roof repairs, and Milton Keynes council will provide "a further £600,000 for critical restoration work".Dr Sue Black, from the University of Westminster, the petition's independent organiser, might have done much better financially if she had just persuaded a couple of MPs to make Bletchley their second home.There's really no arguing with the fact that computing has been dominated by the US, and that the giant American computer corporations can afford to subsidise the preservation of their heritage.But important pioneering work on cryptography, code-breaking and computing was done atBletchley Park, in the UK, and it arguably changed the course of history. It certainly shortened the war, and saved many thousands of lives. If that's not worth preserving, what is?At this point, there is still time to rescue our digital heritage, while some of the men and women who created it are still alive, and many electronics components are still available. Ignore it for another five or 10 years, and it may well be too late.
"You're not going to wear that in public," my wife said when she saw me sporting the LG watchphone. "Of course," I responded. "I have to do a review of it. And besides, it makes me look like James Bond.""James Blunt, more like," came the reply.And that is the big problem with Orange's pre-pay watchphone: anyone  who grew up in the 1980s and was given one of Casio's first digital watches, or, even better, a watch that was also a calculator, and dreamed of it turning into a communicator bracelet from Blake's 7, is going to love this watch/phone. Everyone else, however, is going to think you look a bit of a prat.I did not find it as objectionable, in fashion terms, as my other half did, though I did worry that anyone who saw it in standby mode, when the screen goes all but blank, might think I was on day release, because its sheer size does leave the wearer looking like they have been tagged by the prison service.The small touchscreen is remarkably sensitive, making it easy to navigate, use the number pad and even send relatively long texts. It has the usual friendly green and red call buttons; the former doubles up as a menu button for many of the basic functions of the phone such as texting; plus a back button that if held down launches the phone's voice activation menu. The phone has several in-built voice commands, allowing you, for instance, to call specific contacts. You can speak directly into the watch, and hear the caller very clearly, or use the Bluetooth headset supplied. Talking into the watch really does bring back images of long-ago sci-fi films.I was baffled to find that despite also being able to handle video calling, which is just as much of a gimmick on this device as it is on every other phone that can do it, it does not have picture messaging capability. That said, without an accelerometer to tell the camera it is upside down – it faces the user so you have to twist your wrist to take a picture of anything else unless you are fantastically double jointed – any pictures you do take are inverted anyway.It lacks any internet capability but has a music player, though without using the Bluetooth headphones you really are going to look like an idiot with your watch blaring out tunes.The fact that it is only available on pay-as-you-go is an indication that even its exclusive network partner in the UK, Orange, knows it's more of a gift for a particular generation than a real mobile phone or indeed watch. It is, however, good fun. Not £500-worth of fun, granted, but if you've got that sort of cash to throw at a present you could do an awful lot worse.Pros: It's the gadget you always wanted in the 1980sCons: It's the year 2009orangeaccessories.co.uk
People often talk to machines, including computers and robots, and a growing number of AI (artificial intelligence) researchers are working to enable them to talk back. And soon, human-computer interactions may include having sex with them. That's the view of David Levy, who has just won the 2009 Loebner prize for the most human-like chatbot.The annual competition, held last week in Brighton, is based on the "Turing test" inspired by a 1950 paper written by the British computer scientist Alan Turing: that when communicating only via a keyboard, a judge should have trouble distinguishing the software from a human being.Turning predicted that by 2000, "an average interrogator will not have more than 70% chance of making the right identification after five minutes of questioning". Conversation programs are still a very long way from that, but Levy's Do-Much-More chatbot, developed at Intelligent Toys Ltd in London, has its charms. (An earlier version was called Do-A-Lot, after Eliza Doolittle in Shaw's play Pygmalion.) One Loebner conversation, for example, went as follows:Judge-3: What do you do when you're not doing the Loebner prize?Do-Much-More: Oh, I do much more than I intended to do at first. I got more interested in the job as I went along.Judge-3: Is that difficult?Do-Much-More: No, it isn't at all difficult. It is as peaceful as a platypus playing with a potato pudding.Surprise winLevy last won the competition when it was held in New York in 1997, so why did he wait so long to re-enter? It does, after all, carry a lot of prestige, and this year's cash prize was $3,000. "About 18 months ago, I was approached by an American startup, and I got involved with developing a chatbot for them. So I took some work I'd done after the last competition, and we extended it. I was quite pleased with it, and it occurred to me that the advances in chatbot quality since I first won the prize were really nothing to write home about. So, more as an experiment that anything else, I thought it would be interesting to see how I fared against the cream of the crop. I didn't enter with the idea that I was going to win. It surprised me a lot."Levy has, of course, seen dramatic improvements in chess computers since "the Levy Challenge": in 1968, he bet £1,000 that no computer program would beat him in a chess match within 10 years. He didn't lose what had become a $5,000 challenge until 1989, and by 1997, a chess computer was capable of beating the world champion, Garry Kasparov. Chatbots started with Joseph Weizenbaum's Eliza "psychotherapist" in the 1960s: why haven't they made similar progress?"It's a very difficult problem to solve, and to solve any of the major tasks in AI requires a huge amount of effort," says Levy. "One of the reasons computer chess progressed was that the subject was so interesting that there were hundreds of people all over the world working on chess programs, and on the hardware as well. I think that if the same effort was devoted to good conversational programs – if research institutes or governments or corporations threw enough money at it – the state of the art would advance even further."Well, people nowadays often interact with artificial intelligences in games and on the web, so why aren't commercial needs already driving that investment?"There are two things about the commercial world: one is to have the need, and the other is to have the confidence or the courage to invest significant resources," says Levy. Until recently there was justifiable doubt whether throwing a lot of money at the problem would produce something good enough to be used commercially. Now companies are probably beginning to realise that it might bring about the kind of advances they're looking for."For a program to be commercially successful in this field, it has to be interesting and entertaining over a long period. It's not enough to have someone conduct a conversation for two or three minutes and say, 'Oh, isn't that cute?' "Of course, AI researchers have developed both chatbots and humanoid or at least pet-like robots, and it seems most likely the two will eventually converge. It's hard to imagine a good companion or carer robot that can't understand what people say, and that might also apply to sex robots. This is an area Levy got to know well through researching his 2007 book Love and Sex With Robots, which he then rewrote as a PhD thesis for Maastricht University in the Netherlands. It caused quite a stir."It did, yes, and I was very pleased about that," he replies. "I've done more interviews about Love and Sex With Robots than I have about computer chess!"Almost humanBut so far there hasn't been any commercial interest in adding conversation software to sex robots. "The state of the art is only a little further advanced than the Real Dolls of this world," he says. "There's a Japanese company that has a product called HoneyDoll, which has some electronic sensors. If the man strokes the nipples in the right way, the doll can make orgasmic sounds … There's also an engineer in Germany, Michael Harriman, who has developed a doll that has heating elements so most of the body is warm, apart from the feet."There's also a lot of AI research going into artificial emotions and artificial personalities; into things such as artificial skin in the medical industries; and in Japan, into carer robots, which the Japanese government sees as the only way of caring for rapidly growing numbers of older people. All these should make it possible to produce far more sophisticated robot companions than Tamagotchi, Furby, Aibo and Robosapiens."I think the sex robot will happen fairly soon because the bottom is dropping out of the adult entertainment market, because there's so much sex available for nothing on the internet," says Levy. "I think the market was worth something like $12bn a year, and they aren't going to want to lose all their income, and this seems to me an obvious direction to go. The market must be vast, if you think of the number of vibrators that sell to women. I'm sure a male sex doll with a vibrating penis will sell better than sex dolls today. I'll be surprised if it's more than another three years or so before we see more advanced sex dolls with more electronics and electromechanics."There will be a huge amount of publicity when products like this hit the market. As soon as the media starts writing about 'My fantastic weekend with a sex doll', it will be like the iPhone all over again, but the queues will be longer."I am firmly convinced there will be a huge demand from people who have a void in their lives because they have no one to love, and no one who loves them. The world will be a much happier place because all those people who are now miserable will suddenly have someone. I think that will be a terrific service to mankind."
