I'm making DVDs of some family movies on my computer. I would like them to play back on a standalone DVD player for my technologically challenged relations. After making a few, I belatedly discovered that AVI would not play on a DVD player. What video container is most suitable for this? MPEG? MP4? Something else?Dave NullCD and DVD discs come in dozens of different formats for a multitude of purposes, including simple file storage and data backups. However, standalone CD and DVD players are only guaranteed to play discs that are written in their standard formats, which are CD-Audio (sometimes called Red Book) and DVD-Video. These require particular types of file to be written, sometimes to specific parts of the disc. So, even if you want to duplicate an unprotected DVD movie, you should use DVD authoring software (or a DVD-aware copier) to do this; you can't just use a PC to copy the files to a blank DVD.Today, many standalone players will also handle other formats. For example, most CD and DVD players can play MP3 music files burned to CD-R discs, and some DVD players will play movies encoded in the DivX format. But as these features are not part of the official standards, there is no guarantee that they will work. The movie format most likely to play is mpg, ie MPEG-2, which is the Moving Picture Experts Group movie format that DVD-Video uses. But although all DVD-Video movies are in mpg format, not all mpg files are in DVD-Video format! Also, they won't have the header files that DVD players use to navigate the disc.Of course, PC users have long since moved on from mpg to AVI, DivX and so on, and formats based on MPEG-4 are increasingly common. The obvious examples are the two Blu-ray movie formats MPEG-4 Part 10, Advanced Video Coding (AVC), sometimes known as H.264, and VC-1, the standardised version of Microsoft's Windows Media Video WMV-9. These require much more processing power to decode, but they are far more efficient.The sad implication is that when you create DVDs, this will reduce the quality of your movies (because you're converting one lossy movie format to another lossy format) and increase the file size. You may get one or two hours of movies on a DVD instead of the six or seven hours you would get using AVI and a better codec. In addition, the TV set will often be inferior to your computer monitor, so prepare to be disappointed.Another drawback is that DVDs are not global, and come in either the NTSC television format (used in the US, Japan, and other places) or PAL/SECAM (used in Europe, China, India etc), though you can choose both. If you have relatives overseas, see Jim Taylor's excellentDVD FAQ section 1.19for the information needed to help you choose.Your DVD-Video discs will contain folders called VIDEO_TS, for the video files, and AUDIO_TS, which will usually be empty. The video directory will include files called VIDEO_TS.IFO (the video manager information file), VIDEO_TS.BUP (a backup of the IFO file), VIDEO_TS.VOB (the title that will play first) and the actual movies. These are the Video OBject files numbered from VTS_01_1.VOB to VTS_99_9.VOB. To make these easily accessible, you will probably want to add a menu and titles.It's simplest to let a DVD authoring program handle all this for you. Examples include Nero Burning ROM, Xilisoft's DVD Creator, CDBurnerXP, AVStoDVD and DVD Flick; the last three are free. ImgBurn is also recommended as a free, open source option, but it requires a bit more knowledge than some alternatives. SeeHow to burn DVD folders with ImgBurnfor a walk-through. However, ImgBurn is included in DVD Flick and AVStoDVD, so these are the ones to try first.Alternatively,Windows DVD Maker, which is included in Windows 7 and Vista Home Premium, will do the job. So would iDVD if you had a Mac.Although DVD authoring programs make it easy to create DVDs, you may lose control over the quality of the conversion from your original file. This is a process that can benefit from a lot of tweaking. Also, authoring programs may do the conversion quickly, which sounds good but may not be. Video manipulation needs a lot of processing power, and slower, multipass conversions may produce better results. You can experiment with a program such asSUPER ©, which uses open source video codecs to convert almost any type of video into almost any other type. This lets you have two or three goes before you commit to disc, though when making movies for relatives, the technical quality probably isn't all that important.If you don't have theDVD-Video specsat your fingertips, SUPER © can convert any video input file into a VOB-DVD output format that an authoring program such as Nero will accept. Also, if you have an Apple iPod/iPad/iPhone, Sony PSP or PS3, Nintendo DS or MPMan player, SUPER © will convert files for those as well.If you get stuck, there are lots of tutorials at theVideo Helpsite, though some of them are a bit out of date. Video processing is an area that changes all the time, even though the target – DVD-Video – doesn't.
Keep calm and carry on – Shigeru Miyamoto is not, absolutelynot, retiring. That's the message being feverishly beamed around the world by NIntendo's PR machine on Thursday, aftera Wired news articleappeared to suggest the company's famed head of game development was stepping down to concentrate on smaller game projects.In the news piece, drawn from an interview with Miyamoto set to appear in the US edition of the magazine in December, he is quoted as saying:Inside our office, I've been recently declaring, 'I'm going to retire, I'm going to retire.' I'm not saying that I'm going to retire from game development altogether. What I mean by retiring is, retiring from my current position. What I really want to do is be in the forefront of game development once again myself. Probably working on a smaller project with even younger developers. Or I might be interested in making something that I can make myself, by myself. Something really small.The thing is, this isn't any old head of game development announcing his decision to work on small projects; it's Shigeru Miyamoto, the visionary behind Super Mario and Legend of Zelda, and Nintendo's creative lifeforce. Widely considered to be gaming's answer to filmmaker Steven Spielberg, his games have practically defined Nintendo for the past 30 years.According to Reuters, in the wake of the Wired story Nintendo shares fell 2%t to ¥11,040 (£90) – a practical demonstration of how important Miyamoto is to the company. Consequently, at 10am on Thursday, Nintendo issued the following statement:Video game designer Shigeru Miyamoto's role at Nintendo is not changing. He will continue to be a driving force in Nintendo's development efforts. In discussing his priorities at Nintendo in a media interview, Mr Miyamoto explained how he is encouraging the younger developers at the company to take more initiative and responsibility for developing software. He attempted to convey his priorities moving forward, inclusive of overseeing all video game development and ensuring the quality of all products. Mr Miyamoto also discussed his desire to pursue fresh ideas and experiences of the kind that sparked his initial interest in video games.Hmm, this does seem to contradict Miyamoto's direct statement: "What I mean by retiring is, retiring from my current position." The Wired piece stresses that the interview was undertaken through an interpreter and there's always a margin for error in such transactions. I'm no expert on the Japanese language, though, but "retiring from my current position" seems pretty unambiguous to me.In some ways, gamers may not be breathing an unreserved sigh of relief at the news from Nintendo. The idea of this vastly imaginative industry legend going back to working on original IP rather than vast five-year sequel projects is quite an intriguing one.The last two brand new properities he created were the offbeat and engaging Pikmin and the hugely successful pet sim Nintendogs – freed from the tyranny of the endless Mario and Zelda franchises, and paired with a young hungry dev team, you do wonder what he'd come up with. Nintendo's statement does at least confirm that he'll be working on smaller projects alongside his other responsibilities.So anyway, calm down internet, Miyamoto ain't going anywhere.
A selection of 32 new apps for you today:OnLiveCloud gaming service OnLive has launched an app for tablets and smartphones, with the Android version live – an iOS version remains in approvals with Apple. The app enables OnLive users to play games on their mobile devices using touchscreen controls or a wireless joypad. For more on the launch, read ourfull news story.AndroidXbox CompanionOn a busy day for Xbox-related apps, Microsoft has released its official Xbox Companion for Windows Phone, which lets people control their console from their smartphone – including films, TV shows, music and Bing searches.Windows PhoneMy Xbox LIVEMicrosoft isn't letting gamers control their Xbox 360s with an iPhone or iPad yet, but the company has released an official Xbox Live app for iOS. It enables people to track their achievements, connect to friends and edit their avatar, while also reading news about new Xbox Live games.iPhone / iPadBatman Arkham City LockdownWhat if Batman was thrown into Infinity Blade? That's seemingly the idea behind this new iOS game, which sees Batman taking on a series of his famous foes in one-on-one battles, with power-ups to help him defeat them. Warner Bros is the publisher responsible.iPhone / iPadDimensions – Adventures in the MultiverseMusic startup RjDj's new iPhone game is hard to explain, but easy and fun to play. The company describes it as a real-world game using "augmented sound" to play, as players explore the world and try to discover virtual artifacts.iPhoneTheme ParkEA's Theme Park has returned in iOS form as a freemium game. The aim is still to build and manage a theme park, customising it with rides and shops. In-app purchases provide the business model, with EA's Origin community providing the social wrapping.iPhone / iPadSoundTrackingMusic app SoundTracking has made the leap from iPhone to Android, designed to help people share details of the songs they're listening to with friends, including location tags. New for Android is the ability to play full songs shared by friends in the Spotify or Rdio apps (where available), rather than just samples.AndroidFootball Manager Handheld 2012Sports Interactive and Sega's world-dominating football management game is back on iOS, with updated stats and additional leagues – Blue Square North and South at last – AirPlay mirroring support to play on TV, and a new Challenge mode.iPhone / iPadGrimm's Hansel and GretelIrish startup Ideal Binary has released its latest (and richest) book-app, based on the famous Grimm Brothers fairy tale. Voice narration, 11 pages of interactivity and another 39 pages of text offer a treat for children.iPhone / iPadBejeweledandBejeweled BlitzPopCap Games has split Bejeweled in two for iPhone. Bejeweled is a paid game (69p) with the solo gem-puzzling experience, while Bejeweled Blitz is the freemium social version where players have 60 seconds to out-score their friends.iPhoneBattlelines: Pearl HarborAimer Media and Osprey Publishing have collaborated on this iPad app about the 1941 Pearl Harbor attack. It's described as an "interactive, illustrated timeline", with a map plotting the Japanese attack and American defence efforts.iPadHasta La MuerteMicrosoft's latest first-party game release for Windows Phone is Hasta La Muerte, a 2D arcade-puzzler with characterful scribbly graphics.Windows PhoneEvernote HelloThe first of two new apps from cloud startup Evernote, this aims to help you recognise the people you've met, using a mosaic of faces – "Say goodbye to business cards and forgetting people". The downside being it revolves around giving them your phone the first time you meet them and getting them to create a profile.iPhoneEvernote FoodThe second new Evernote spin-off today is Evernote Food, which wants to get you to "capture, share and relive your memorable meals". Photos can be tagged with locations, captions and friends, and it syncs with the main Evernote service.iPhoneDK Kids' CraftsDorling Kindersley's latest iPad app wants to get children into crafting, with virtual scrap bags, cross-stitch and furry felts. There are also "off-screen activities" showing kids how to make pirates, doodles and teddy bears.iPadThe SurvivorsThe Survivors is a novel that's been turned into an "Immersedition" interactive book-app, with historical background to its Salem witch trials setting, maps and images ready to browse behind more than 300 touchpoints placed on the virtual pages. Characters are also on Twitter and Facebook to add a social twist.iPhone / iPadAvast! Mobile Security BetaSecurity firm Avast Software has launched an anti-virus and anti-theft app for Android smartphones, promising automatic virus scans, infected URL alerts and (for rooted phones only) a firewall. On the anti-theft side, there is a history wipe feature, phone lock, siren activation and GPS tracking.Android(spotted byAndroid Police)Six-GunsGameloft's latest free-to-play game on iOS is Six-Guns, set in the Wild West. It includes 40 missions and is set in Arizona and Oregon. Gamers may recognise the odd element or two from console title Red Dead Redemption.iPhone / iPadCollins My First Dictionary HDChildren learning to read and write may have fun with Collins My First Dictionary from developer Viscuit Creative. It offers audio pronunciation in American and British English, with sample sentences, the ability to add words to a favourites list, and mini-games.iPadWikitude for OS6Augmented reality app Wikitude has a new BlackBerry version without... the augmented reality? Well, yes. People with BlackBerry smartphones running the OS6 software can use it to find cafes, pubs, events, tweets and Wikipedia articles around them through more traditional map-based means. The AR features are left for the separate version of Wikitude running on BlackBerry OS7.BlackBerryLonely Planet Magazine, Dream TripsLonely Planet magazine has released its second book app for iPad – or "bookazine" as it's calling them. Image-heavy features include pieces focused on Botswana, New Zealand, Bali, the US and Morocco.iPadDiamond DashWooga's Diamond Dash social game has attracted more than 10 million players on Facebook, and now it's made the leap to iOS. It's free to play, but players must pay for extra lives (although they can also be earned by asking friends, or waiting for a free refill).iPhone / iPadDear ZooPan Macmillan has released an iPad version of award-winning children's book Dear Zoo, adding animation, a Picking Pairs game and voice narration from actress Caroline Quentin.iPadNYTimes Election 2012The New York Times newspaper has launched an iPhone app with a guide to the 2012 US presidential election, including news, poll numbers, candidate biographies and other updates. It's free in its basic form, but users require a $14.99 monthly subscription (which includes the NYTimes.com website) for full access.iPhoneColosseum HeroesKorean publisher Gamevil's latest Android game sees you slicing and dicing a variety of monsters, with a mix of side-scrolling action and RPG elements.AndroidPuzzle Words HDSwedish developer Westfell's new iPad app for children wants to help children learn the alphabet while also having fun with digital jigsaw puzzles. There are three different themes for the six-piece puzzles.iPadABC SpyMore letter-based fun comes from Stealth Education's new iPhone app, which gets children to create their own alphabet by taking photos of things in the real world that begin with the various letters. Once done, they can turn their work into a video to share with family or YouTube.iPhoneTiny VillageMobile social games publisher TinyCo has ported its Tiny Village game from iOS to Android, getting players to build prehistoric villages, raise dinosaurs then battle it out with bosses.AndroidBoom BugsPlayer Three's Boom Bugs is a colourful and entertaining-looking puzzle game for iOS and Android, which sees spiders being blasted by a variety of other bugs. It's safe to say Angry Birds has been an influence on the gameplay, although it's not a pure clone.iPhone / AndroidDo or DieDigital agency Razorfish's chairman Clark Kokich has published an iPad business book-app that claims to chronicle "the decline of traditional marketing and advertising, and makes a provocative case for why companies should quit simply saying and start doing". Case studies are included from Nike, VW, Virgin America and other brands, with Twitter feeds, videos and other interactive content included.iPadPat LaFrieda's Big App for MeatMeat. Lots of meat. This iPad app is the work of New York butcher Pat LaFrieda and production house Zero Point Zero, offering 200 different cuts of beef, lamb, pork, veal and poultry, along with 50 minutes of video tips from the celebrity chef.iPad
A quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy Deezer's mouthy music claims don't stack up &gt;&gt; GigaOMBobbie Johnson points out that Deezer's plan to extend its streaming music service (which it didn't invent) to 210 countries faces the slight challenge that there aren't 210 countries in the world, apart from anything else. And that's only the simplest objection.What if Apple TV is an iMac? &gt;&gt; AllThingsDAnalyst Brian Blair: "We believe Apple's redesign of the iMac in the first half of 2012 will likely usher in some … TV capability into the iMac offering first, effectively taking the high end and larger screens of the iMac line and pushing it toward the TV market by integrating Apple TV and iCloud features into a slimmer all-in-one PC ... Apple could effectively start with what they already have on the manufacturing line and slowly push their offering from 27 inches and scale up from there to 32 inches and then move on to the 42, 50 and 55 inch market."Motorola update on Ice Cream Sandwich &gt;&gt; MotorolaMotorola Mobility blog post on why it's going to take ages before it can roll out Ice Cream Sandwich to existing phones. It's a four-step process full of complications which includes the intriguing step 2: "Stabilize and 'bake' the result to drive out bugs".Wikipedia probes edits by Bell Pottinger"Wikipedia, the online user-generated encyclopedia, has suspended 10 accounts associated with Bell Pottinger, the firm at the heart of a dispute over lobbying industry ethics, on suspicion there may have been a breach of its editing rules."Jimmy Wales, founder of Wikipedia, told the Financial Times that it was conducting an internal investigation into changes made to the pages of Bell Pottinger's clients in a case which has roused controversy over the methods used by lobbying companies to influence opinion."LivingSocial Delays IPO, Offers $400 Million In Private Sale – Can Only Raise $176 MillionA faster Facebook for Android &gt;&gt; Facebook blogNew app fixes bugs and is quite a bit zippier, according to FacebookYou can follow Guardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
It's Thursday. Let's chat.
Cloud gaming firm OnLive is launching iOS and Android apps to enable its subscribers to play its catalogue of games on their tablets and smartphones, while also adding Rockstar Games' LA Noire to the service.The apps join OnLive's PC and Mac clients, as well as its OnLive Game System set-top box. The new apps will provide full access to all OnLive games and demos, with a choice of three control methods for touchscreen tablets. The Android version is live on Google's Android Market, but the iOS app has yet to be approved by Apple.Some games, including LA Noire, will have bespoke touchscreen controls created by their developers, taking advantage of native hardware features like the accelerometer. Others will use OnLive's own "vPad" on-screen controls, while the tablet apps will also be compatible with a new wireless controller which is being sold for £39.99.OnLive will have 25 games available with touchscreen controls as its tablet apps launch, while the rest of its nearly 200-strong catalogue will be playable using the wireless controller.Chief executive Steve Perlman says that OnLive is targeting two types of people with the new apps. "There are no console-class games on mobile, and certainly no controllers that work with mobile," he says."For gamers used to having physical contact with buttons, sliding around a touchscreen is good for some little games, but not for others. Yet gamers have smartphones and tablets, and if they're in a situation where they don't have their gamer rig or console with them, they may want to continue a game they started at home."The more interesting potential audience for the OnLive apps, though, is people who aren't already hardcore gamers. Perlman cites LA Noire as the perfect example of a game that will appeal to an audience beyond those who own consoles or high-end PCs."We really think that the casual audience is going to be very excited about these high-performance games," says Perlman."LA Noire is a detective story. My parents would be very interested in a game with that type of subject! But they're never going to pick up a controller or buy the class of PC required to run it. I think a game like LA Noire has the potential to be a big hit among people who would never have a console."Rockstar's decision to make LA Noire available through OnLive comes as the company prepares to release a new version of Grand Theft Auto III on 15 December as a native iOS and Android game.OnLive now offers an alternative route to tablets, particularly for newer titles like LA Noire that – according to Perlman – would still present a headache to any developer trying to squeeze them down into a native app for these devices.He also thinks it's important that Rockstar has chosen to make new touchscreen controls for the game. "The major publishers don't look at tablets as a port: they look at them as a new market, and want to address that market in accordance with the nature of the device."Getting OnLive onto iOS has required some finesse in terms of the company's business model. On Android, people can purchase and rent games directly from the app. On iPad, they can only play free demos, view HD trailers and play the games already in their libraries – those they have bought, rented or subscribed to via OnLive on another device.Isn't there a risk of Apple seeing OnLive as unwanted competition for its own App Store games ecosystem? Perlman seems relaxed, even though at the time he spoke to The Guardian, OnLive's iOS app was still in Apple's approval process – a state of affairs that continued beyond the actual announcement of the apps on 8 December."We're not going to displace anything in the Apple store: we don't have the games they have, and if there's no internet connection, people will want to play games locally anyway," he says."They view us like anything else: they have Netflix on there that competes with iTunes. Our Viewer application for iPad has been featured in their New &amp; Noteworthy section, so they seem to be alright with it."Perlman's statement about there being no console-quality games on tablets could be challenged by the existence of titles like Infinity Blade II, released earlier in December. OnLive's expansion to tablets begs the question of whether these kinds of games might make their way from being native iOS titles to being available on OnLive for PC, Mac and TV gamers."A lot of the guys building these higher value games [for iOS] are approaching us," he confirms. "They do want to run them on OnLive, but they want to justify the fact that you're connected by beefing up the games or adding new features that couldn't be added to the existing versions."OnLive launched in the US in June 2010, and in the UK in September 2011. Perlman declines to give absolute numbers for how many users have signed up, but claims it's "a number of millions", and says it stacks up well to the Xbox 360's user base one year after it launched."If you look at them in their first year, the growth is very similar," he says. Xbox 360 launched in late 2005 in North America and Europe, and according to industry site VGChartz hadsold 7.9m unitsworldwide by the end of 2006.Perlman also says OnLive's support from the games industry has been increasing rapidly. "People have been asking 'where are the big publishers', but with LA Noire and the work we're doing with other major publishers, they can see that's going on," says Perlman.He adds that publishers are increasingly keen to make exclusive demos for their games available on OnLive, with Batman: Arkham City the most high-profile example so far. "On the day the demo was released, more than half the users who logged in that day played it," says Perlman.
The artist Diego Rivera is celebrated in the latest Google doodle which draws inspiration from his huge murals that depicted Mexico's turbulent history.While Rivera might have approved of Google bringing art to the masses in this way, the Marxist artist's view of the multi-billion dollar internet giant may have been rather more critical.Born in Guanajuato, Mexico in 1886, Rivera was considered the leader of the Mexican muralists who sought to expose ordinary people to art through large-scale works in public buildings. He is credited with re-introducing frescoes – murals painted on fresh plaster – into modern art and architecture.In recent years his tempestuous relationship with fellow Mexican artist Frida Kahlo, which was depicted in a2002 Hollywood film, has renewed interest in his life and work.His murals, which retold Mexico's turbulent history, adorned the walls of buildings throughout the capital city. He was also commissioned to paint huge murals in the USA.Among the most famous of his works is his mural on the walls of the Detroit Institute of Arts that celebrates the American worker, particularly those on the production lines of car plants, which was completed in 1933.
Nine out of 10 Britons are "concerned or distressed" about receiving unsolicited text messages offering bogus compensation schemes, according to a survey by the information commissioner.The study of 1,000 people found that messages offering accident compensation are the most common nuisance texts.The Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) warned that some people still fall for the scams, but that its crackdown on the firms behind the messages had made "significant progress".Research for the Direct Marketing Association suggests more than 8m unsolicited texts are sent every day, offering anything from insurance claims to loans.The ICO launched an investigation into the plague of spam messages earlier this year in a bid to discover who is behind the bogus texts and how they obtain millions of people's mobile phone numbers. The data protection body said it had recently raided a house in north England as part of its investigation, and that visits had been made to a number of other addresses. The ICO said it had seen a slight drop in the number of complaints reported to its office."Significant progress has been made in tracking down who is responsible for sending these nuisance messages," said the ICO director of operations, Simon Entwisle."We've raided one office, visited various others and are still actively working with mobile phone networks to trace various locations. This is an ongoing challenge; we have a good idea about who is behind the messages and we continue to gather evidence to enable us to take enforcement action. So far these individuals have managed to cover their tracks but we'd encourage anyone with information to come forward."Entwisle added that a handful of insurance companies had agreed to undergo a data protection audit to make sure that the details they hold about people had been obtained lawfully.The ICO said its probe has revealed that the messages are being sent from unregistered pay-as-you-go sim cards, and that mobile operators were working to establish the exact whereabouts of the people behind the texts.The watchdog is working with the Ministry of Justice, the Office of Fair Trading, media regulator Ofcom and mobile phone networks including Orange and Vodafone to tackle the scam.Almost 700 of the 1,014 people surveyed by the ICO said that receiving a spam SMS caused them concern; 205 respondents described it as inconvenient, and a further 61 said it had caused them substantial damage or distress.Nearly 800 of the respondents said they had received a spam text for accident compensation claims; 439 people had received an payment protection message, and 360 had received a debt settlement SMS.
Six years after Apple thumbed a nose at what it saw as Microsoft's copying of its features in its Mac OSX operating system with banners saying "Redmond, start your photocopiers", Microsoft has announced that it will introduce a Mac-like "app store" on the next generation of Windows PCs.Just over a year after Appleannouncedan "App Store" to run on its desktop computers (which went live in January), Microsoft has set out the terms for its "Windows Store" to run on Windows 8 machines – expected to appear in autumn next year.The software giant will initially give developers what Microsoft calls the "industry-standard" split of 70% of any revenues, and keep 30% – the same as Apple initially instituted on its iPhone App Store. But once revenues pass $25,000, the split will shift to 80-20 for the lifetime that the app is on the store.The bigger cut to successful developers is the latest sign that Microsoft is trying to compete with Apple and with phones running Google's Android on the app front by luring developers with financial incentives."We intend to offer the industry's best terms, so that the best apps make developers a lot more money on Windows than on any other platform," Ted Dworkin, partner program manager for the Windows Store, said in a blogpost on Tuesday.However, unlike Apple, developers will be able to set up their own relationships with customers outside the Windows Store. There will also be availability for free apps and time- or feature-based trials, and in-app purchases. The latter have been the target in the US of a number of patent lawsuits against developers. It is unclear how Microsoft will handle this.The success of Apple's iPhones and iPads partly comes from the fact that its app store has a larger selection than any of its rivals. That means more games, entertainment guides and other apps available from outside developers to extend the functionality of the devices.Through iTunes, Apple has also made it easy to buy and sell apps through its App Store, something other companies have been playing catch-up on.Pricing of apps will begin at $1.49; Apple's begin at $0.99. Microsoft set a ceiling of $999.99 on apps: "$1,000 is just too much for an app", quipped Antoine Leblond of Microsoft.Citi Investment Research analyst Walter Pritchard said it's not surprising that Microsoft is giving more lucrative financial terms for developers: he doesn't think Windows Store revenue will be as important for Microsoft, because the company's business focuses on the Windows platform itself, which is enormously profitable.Microsoft thus makes more money by getting people to buy devices running Windows software even if it means sacrificing some of the app revenue to make that happen.The Windows Store will be available on PCs, laptops and tablets running Windows 8. The company did not disclose plans for mobile devices, though its Windows Phone platform, which runs on a number of companies' mobile phones, already has its own Marketplace.Microsoft also plans to include apps in its Bing search engine results to make them easier to find.It also plans to open the store to customers when it releases a "beta" test version of Windows 8 in late February. Pritchard said the February beta launch suggests a late October launch for the general market. Microsoft has not said when it's launching Windows 8 for everyone.Microsoft's stock fell $0.13, or 0.5%, to $25.55 in trading on Wednesday, while the Nasdaq index of technology stocks fell by about 0.25%.
Volvo S80 DRIVe£25,763.83Top speed: 118mphMPG: 57.7mpgWhen children walk into your life, the first thing that grabs its coat and heads for the door is spontaneity. Those heady carefree days are over. And to be honest, that suited me fine. I hate doing things on a whim. But my impetuous wife is the opposite. For her, planning begins and ends in the seat of our pants – which is why we're rushing to Dover on a&nbsp;wintry Saturday morning to catch a ferry to France. Why? Because three days earlier she'd won a free crossing, and that was all the prompting she needed. But where will we stay? What will we do? Will it be cold?  So many known unknowns. But I do have one fact to work with. And it's a&nbsp;good one. I'm driving Volvo's lavish yet economical S80 – a car built to munch miles of open road without a&nbsp;peep of discomfort.After crossing a glassy Channel, we snake out of Calais and pick up one of the rail-like roads that sweep across the fields of Flanders. I click on the adaptive cruise control, adjust my heated seat, settle back and wait until we hit, um, oh yes, Lille. Yes, why not…You can't accuse the S80 of being boastful. It's a super smart, street-savvy car that's loaded to the eyeballs with technology, yet from the outside it has as much style clout as that shapeless office cardi that gets passed around when it's chilly. But it deserves better, because under that anodyne exterior the S80 has several remarkable tricks up its shapeless sleeves.First up is safety. Well, of course. It's a Volvo. You can't move without lights flashing and warnings being issued. The spec sheet is littered with more acronyms than a draft EU legislation. WHIPS, PCC, BLIS, ROPS, DSTC, CWBS, IC… Volvo has thought of more ways for you to get into trouble on the road than you could imagine – and made contingency plans for them all. There is nothing "seat of the pants" about a&nbsp;Volvo. And that's good by me.Second is economy. The S80 DRIVe sits at the top of Volvo's green line-up. It's huge yet has a tiny engine. Its 1.6-litre turbodiesel emits just 108bhp, but that gives you all the performance you'll ever need. It'll whisk you to 120mph in 11 seconds and deliver almost 60 miles to a single gallon. A&nbsp;whiffling 120g of CO2per km means you pay only £35 in road tax.In all it's a lovely relaxing car to drive and I'd have been happy to cruise the open French highways all day, but Juliet still had plans to make on the hoof. There were waffles and crêpes to be eaten, a&nbsp;Christmas market to be stripped bare and booze to buy. And she also had a sentimental journey to make…A soldier of the Great War: the children looking at their great uncle's grave. Photograph: ObserverHer great uncle Reg was killed a fortnight after the Battle of Arras in 1917. He was a 19-year-old farmer from Somerset and now he's buried alongside 735 other young men, including one German, in an immaculate cemetery outside the tiny village of Douchy-Les-Ayette. We found his grave and stood quietly together in the weak sun as a tractor tilled the field behind. Reg had never left Somerset before he came to France. But now he's been here for almost 95 years. And it still feels a&nbsp;long way from home.Driven by the starsDo you drive like a Gemini? What car are you likely to own if you are an Aries?Confused.comhas consulted an astrologer and has revealed the most popular car choices for the 12 signs of the Zodiac.Aquarians, known for their eccentric streak, are 30% more likely to drive a Peugeot 106 than any other star sign. A Rover 620 is likely to be their second choice. Pisces, often regarded as alluring individuals are most likely to be seen in a sporty little number. Research shows that drivers of a Mazda 2 Sport are 31% more likely to be Pisceans. Always in search of adventure, the car of choice for an Aries is a Daewoo Kalos or an Alfa Romeo. If your star sign is Taurus you're probably cool, calm and collected, which is reflected in the most popular choice of car the Mazda 2 Tamura. Gemini's, described as curious, thirsty for knowledge and mischievous, are most likely to be seen in a Hyundai i30 Comfort than other star sign. Motorists carrying the Cancer star sign are most likely to drive a Vauxhall to complement their caring and sensitive side. Regarded as charismatic and fortunate it is no surprise that Leo's are more likely to drive a Land Rover than other star signs. The British classic complements their traits perfectly. Virgo drivers, described as confident, successful and creative, are more likely to drive a Lexus and Scorpions, who are known to be wise, are 40% more likely than other star signs to drive a Fiat 500, an economical car. Vauxhall Corsa is the most popular car choice of the thoughtful and happy-go-lucky Librans. Sagittarians are 30% more likely than average to drive a Subaru Optimistic than other star signs. Capricorns, are most likely to drive a Volkswagen Beetle, the popular car makes a statement, which contradicts their seemingly quiet nature.
The Xbox 360 isn't the only console gettingan interface makeover this week. Nintendo 3DS owners who hit the system update button today will find they have a modest array of new features to play with, including the ability to make 10-minute 3D videos, using the handheld console's built-in camera.The new option is also accompanied by a couple of neat little filming modes. Interval Shot allows you to record sequences of images in short timed intervals, creating your own time-lapse photography. Meanwhile, the Frame Pick feature puts your still images together to create stop-go animations.The StreetPass mode is also getting some new functionality. There are fresh Puzzle Swap pieces to exchange with other players, and a new quest to take part in. Plus, the StreetPass Mii Plaza can now use SpotPass to download new content, while a globe icon at the bottom of the screen shows the home location of any Miis you've met on your travels. As you make new connections, fresh countries are coloured in on the map – a good motivation for booking that tour of Europe you've always planned...Okay, it's a modest selection of additions, but the StreetPass needed a few new novelties to refresh the concept, and the new filming option should prove fun over Christmas – although there should be a warning that the combination of festive office parties and 3D video cameras can lead to extreme embarrassment and/or loss of employment.
Facebook has scrambled to shut down a security hole that let anyone view photos marked as "private" – and which has apparently been used by adults to view pictures of underage users without their knowledge.Posts on a bodybuilding site seen by the Guardian suggest that it was used by adults to view pictures of children. Facebook allows people to join if they are aged 13 or over; in practice, many schoolchildren aged 11 create accounts by lying about their birthdate.The flaw appears to have existed in Facebook since an update to its system in mid-November and lets users view others' private photos by first reporting their profile picture as "pornographic".However, it was only fixed when the account of Facebook founder and chief executive Mark Zuckerberg was targeted on Tuesday. Personal pictures of Zuckerberg rapidly began circulating on the internet, including an image of his meeting President Obama and other shots of him with his girlfriend Priscilla Chan."I did three of these with my real profile then realised I might get banned for doing it, so I switched to a different profile,"wrote one poster on a bodybuilding forumwhere the flaw seems first to have been made public on 27 November.Once a profile picture was reported as supposedly pornographic, Facebook's reporting system would then give them the opportunity to view the user's other pictures – including, due to the error, private ones. The theory was that other pictures could be reported to Facebook too.Facebook could not say how many peoples' private pictures had been viewed as a result of the flaw – and it appears that all users of the social network were able to exploit it.The security lapse is a serious embarrassment for Facebook, coming just a week after it signed a 20-year agreement over privacy issues with the powerful US Federal Trade Commission, whichcharged that it "deceived consumers by failing to keep privacy promises".Facebook said in a statement: "Earlier today, we discovered a bug in one of our reporting flows that allows people to report multiple instances of inappropriate content simultaneously. The bug allowed anyone to view a limited number of another user's most recently uploaded photos irrespective of the privacy settings for these photos."This was the result of one of our recent code pushes and was live for a limited period of time. Upon discovering the bug, we immediately disabled the system, and will only return functionality once we can confirm the bug has been fixed."Only last week, Zuckerberg posted anadmonished admission on the company blogthat "we've made a bunch of mistakes" relating to users' privacy after reaching a settlement with the FTC.Graham Cluley of Sophos said: "The flaw worked like this. If you're a Facebook user, you can report other users' profile pictures as being 'inappropriate'. For instance, you can say that they contain 'nudity or pornography'."However, Facebook then gives an opportunity to select 'additional photos to include with your report' and displays a selection of photographs – which might not be shared publicly."Cluley observed that the error would have been introduced because Facebook's ethos, depicted in posters on its wall, is "Move Fast and Break Things" – but, he adds, not "Privacy Matters"."Facebook's programmers are experimenting with new features and are testing them out on the live site without, in this case at least, the code being properly reviewed with privacy in mind," Cluley said.Facebook said: "The privacy of our user's data is a top priority for us, and we invest significant resources in protecting our site and the people who use it. We hire the most qualified and highly-skilled engineers and security professionals at Facebook, and with the recent launch of ourSecurity Bug Bounty Program, we continue to work with the industry to identify and resolve legitimate threats to help us keep the site safe and secure for everyone."The FTC settlement "bars Facebook from making any further deceptive privacy claims, requires that the company get consumers' approval before it changes the way it shares their data, and requires that it obtain periodic assessments of its privacy practices by independent, third-party auditors for the next 20 years".
Goodness, is that the time?
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMotorola Xoom 2 10in Android tablet review &gt;&gt; The Register"A lighter and slimmer version of Motorola's first tablet that doesn't quite offer enough of an improvement to justify the price." That price being expected to be the same as the iPad. How much has Motorola spent on the Xoom, of which it has shipped a steadily decreasing number?Search engine monte &gt;&gt; blekkoBlekko, which started up in 2010, has the rather marvellous "/monte" function which does the search against three search engines - Bing, Google and Blekko - and offers them in three anonymous columns. Choose one and you find out which it is. See if you can spot which is which on this search for "search".SAP will buy SuccessFactors for $3.4 billion &gt;&gt; TechCrunchFair enough on the headline. However, here's what follows: "In what is perhaps the most boring piece of tech news to come out of this week, German software giant SAP has today announced that it will buy the US-based SuccessFactors, a company that "helps organizations align strategy with objectives and manage people performance to ensure execution &amp; results," IN THE CLOUD, OF COURSE." Seriously, TechCrunch? A company that's crucial to many peoples' and companies' fulfilment systems buys another one for a serious amount of (putative) money - it's a shares, not cash, deal - and you call it a snooze? (via @ciaranj on Twitter)Why won't iTunes display files by path? &gt;&gt; William VambenepeHe bought himself a Mac. (Interesting that even Oracle engineers are buying Macs.) He has lots of music files. "The next issue is that, within iTunes, you cannot organize your music based on the directory structure. All it cares about is the various metadata fields. You can't even display the file name or the file path in the main iTunes window. "Leave it to Apple to create a Unix operating system which hates files." This is like arranging your music based on the colour of the album covers. Fair enough, but how would you deal with the customer support complaint from this user? Happily, though he flirted with writing a Python script to solve it, he wrote an Automator task (high-level scripting) to do it. Including a shell script with regex. He's not impressed with iTunes, though.How about some Android graphics true facts? &gt;&gt; Diane Hackborn"I get tired of seeing so much misinformation posted and repeated all over the place about how graphics rendering works on Android. Here is some truth". And then once you've read that, move on to...Follow up to "Android graphics true facts" &gt;&gt; Andrew MunnMunn worked as an intern at Google on the graphics team. If you really want to understand why Android displays can be laggy (particulaly if they're very graphics-heavy) even though they have incredible hardware, read this.Dell Streak 7 Android Tablet 3.2 (Honeycomb) &gt;&gt; Dell UKInteresting find by @jforbes: the 7in Dell Streak is still on sale in the UK, while having been discontinued (you can't order it) in the US. Surplus stock? Different patterns of consumption in different regions? The rating distribution is interesting too (click on "customer ratings"): 58 five- and four-star ratings; 31 two- or one-star ratings. It's the Marmite tablet, even for people who actually paid money for it.US wireless use is 102.4% of population &gt;&gt; CTIA"For the first time in history, the semi-annual survey conducted by CTIA-The Wireless Association® shows the number of wireless subscriber connections (322.9 million) has surpassed the population (315.5 million) in the United States and its territories (Puerto Rico, Guam and the U.S. Virgin Islands), which means the wireless penetration rate in the U.S. is 102.4 percent." The future - no, the present - is mobile.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
A selection of nine apps for you today:Kylie ARKylie Minogue has hopped on board the augmented reality bandwagon with a new app released by Warner Music – her label in Australia. It promises fans the chance to "hold a miniature dancing Kylie in their hands at all times" when their phone is pointed at a special K marker found in her new book, or downloaded and printed from her website.iPhone / iPadFlipboard for iPhonePersonal magazine app Flipboard started life on the iPad, but an update this week has made it universal, with a version for the iPhone added into the mix. It includes a feature called Cover Stories for iPhone – "a selection of interesting articles and photos being shared with you right now".iPhoneRZA's WorldThe Wu Tang Clan's RZA has launched his own iOS app, with features that go beyond the regular promotional fare. Expect original photography, footage from his Bobby Digital project and a Soundtrack to Your Life feature offering "original beats and words of wisdom". There's also a 3D chess section, building on RZA's famous love of the sport – he set up the WuChess site in 2008.iPhone / iPadColor for FacebookMuch-maligned photo-sharing startup Color has returned with a new iPhone app, although at the time of writing it's only available in the US App Store. The focus this time round is on video: "The status update needs an update. Use Color to update your Facebook status with a LIVE broadcast." In other words, livestreaming video from your current location for friends to dip into.iPhoneTimelines+ for FacebookAs Facebook (finally!) starts to roll out its new Timeline feature, Loytr has released an iPad app that aims to bring a similar storytelling experience to Facebook profiles on the iPad.iPadMinoMonstersWhat if Pokemon was given an injection of social games DNA? That's the idea behind MinoMonsters: a beast-training title that encourages players to battle one another over the network.iPhoneDefenders of ArdaniaiPad has a new tower defence game in the form of Defenders of Ardania, with a fantasy setting and the ability to control both offensive and defensive operations. Game Center-fuelled multiplayer is also included.iPadAT&amp;T Locker BetaThis isn't available in the UK, but it's an interesting sign of what more mobile operators may do in 2012 with cloud locker services and smartphones. AT&amp;T's Locker service offers 5GB of free storage for photos, videos, documents and music, although for now it's not letting any beta users access the music from their smartphones.AndroidStylmee for iPadFashion app Stylmee wants people to check out designer brands "within a virtual 3D fashion city": essentially it's a cross between a fashion e-commerce site, a social game and a Second Life-style virtual world. Game? Yes, part of it involves running a virtual boutique using real branded products.iPad
BlackBerry-maker RIM is having no luck of late. After announcing ahuge write-off on its PlayBook tablet, seeing an executive in its Indonesia operation charged following a stampede at a new device launch, and firingtwo executives who caused a plane to be diverted, it has seen the "BBX" name it planned to use for software on phones to be released in 2012 injuncted.Software company Basis International said a US federal court in Albuquerque has granted a temporary restraining order against RIM, barring it from using Basis' BBX trademark.The court decision bars RIM from using the trademark at its Asian DevCon conference on Wednesday and Thursday in Singapore.However, late on Tuesday, RIM appeared to backtrack on using the trademark."RIM doesn't typically comment on pending litigation, however RIM has already unveiled a new brand name for its next generation mobile platform. As announced at DevCon Asia, RIM plans to use the 'BlackBerry 10' brand name for its next generation mobile platform," RIM said.BBX, the operating system that Research in Motion is counting on to revive its BlackBerry franchise, has run into trouble even before the company could install the system in its smartphone line.Albuquerque-based Basis International claims the "BBX" name is protected by trademarks it holds and had earlier threatened to take legal action against RIM unless it stopped using the moniker.Basis said RIM had refused requests to stop using the moniker at the DevCon conference, which resulted in the company filing for the temporary restraining order.BBX had been the planned name for the software that would power the phones, which will mark a transition to a form of the QNX operating system presently used on the PlayBook.
Aleks Krotoski and Charles Arthur are joined by Which? technology reporter Ben Stevens to run through the best of the technology fruit under the Christmas tree. Under consideration are the pick of the tablet, ebook reader, mobile phone, camera, and audio and video markets. Is it going to be an iPad Christmas, or will Kindle carry it? Which brands should you avoid, and which should you invest in?Games correspondent Keith Stuart asks Guardian, Eurogamer and Edge writer Simon Parkin and IGN's UK games editor Keza MacDonald which games should end up under the tree, and which are just fodder.And among all this consumer consumption, there are a few news stories. Kaitlin Thaney of Digital Science talks the team through the implications of David Cameron's NHS open data plan – releasing prescription and referral data to the public on data.gov.uk. Charles explains how the Iranian's use of Gmail and Skype may be intercepted by hackers. And we find out what the continuing decline in sales of RIM's Playbook tablet means for the company that makes Blackberry.All this in a jam-packed edition of Tech Weekly from the Guardian.•This footnote was added on 9 December 2011. In the Tech Weekly podcast, Keith Stuart is incorrectly introduced as the Guardian's games editor. He is the Guardian's games correspondent.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Groupon is in trouble with regulators again after a promotion for breast enhancement failed to deliver the boost promised, and a discount deal on an Ocado product that never existed.These latest breaches of the advertising code – Groupon's 49th and 50th this year – come days after the Advertising Standards Authorityreferred the deal-of-the-day website to the Office of Fair Trading.The ASA made the referral after 48 breaches in 11 months, asking the OFT to look at concerns including running unfair promotions and the exaggeration of savings that can be made.The first of the latest two rulings involved a promise that women who took advantage of a Groupon deal to have breast enhancement sessions with "microbean energy technology" would see "typical growth between a quarter and two cup sizes within five to eight weeks".The ASA received a complaint that when a woman attended the spa, she was told it would take "a greater number" of treatments to achieve the growth claim.It turned out that the claim was made on the basis of only six patients, which "was not sufficient evidence to substantiate the claim that the treatment was capable of achieving breast growth". The promotion was deemed to be misleading.The second promotion was a deal for Ocado, which mainly delivers Waitrose groceries. The promotion made a claim of offering a one-year mid-week delivery pass "usually priced at £69.99". The ASA received complaints that the price was misleading because on 28 July – when the offer was launched – a six-month delivery deal was just £14.99.There was also an annual delivery deal priced £69.99, however this was for deliveries on any day of the week the customer desired.It transpired that at the time of the offer, there was no annual mid-week pass that was "usually priced at £69.99"."In the absence of any evidence that compared the value of the promoted pass at £69.99 with an equivalent product, or that demonstrated how this price was calculated, we considered the 'value' of the promotional item had not been substantiated and therefore concluded that it was misleading," said the ASA."We take any claims by the ASA very seriously," said a spokeswoman for Groupon. "Providing clear and trustworthy information to our customers is of utmost importance to us."In the case of the ruling against the beauty treatment, Groupon said that "we regret that we relied on our partner's data for results and didn't conduct our own investigation"."We have made and continue to make enhancements to our quality assurance process to verify claims made by partners," said the spokeswoman.Groupon said that in the case of the Ocado deal it does advise partners not to run multiple deals at the same time that might cause for confusion."We regret any confusion this may have caused," the spokeswoman added. "Going forward, we will also clearly mark new products or products where the value is not immediately obvious on the partner's website or in the marketing information."• This article was amended on 15 December 2011 to clarify a description of Ocado.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook.
In case you hadn't heard (and why should you have), as of Tuesday  you can buy a website with the suffix ".xxx", the intended home of pornography. The idea is that porn sites will set up on .xxx, and so all of the porn will be gathered in one place on the web, which means there won't be any left elsewhere. As the press release puts it, "the new .xxx domain functions as a responsible alternative for sites that offer adult entertainment content and related services".The sites will be "appropriately labelled" and scanned for, ahem, infections. And this, says ICM Registry, the company which gets the money whenever someone registers a .xxx site, "means internet users can surf the internet with more confidence".You may be able to see the flaw in ICM Registry's logic. Why would porn sites which rely on being easily found in search engines want to be corralled off into a virtual red-light district that web filters are guaranteed to block?So .xxx isn't going to get all the pornographers presently filling every nook and cranny of .com, .org, .net and so on to up sticks and head to .xxx. It almost certainly won't make the web a cleaner place. But it should make a tidy sum for ICM Registry as worried brand-holders buy the corresponding domains in order to stop their names being besmirched by association. Already 100,000 businesses have signed up. So barclays.xxx, hsbc.xxx and lloydstsb.xxx have all gone. Still, good news: cliffrichard.xxx and charliebrooker.xxx are available. Don't delay. (You can find out what's been bought and what's available atbuy.xxx)
Last week, I popped into a branch of Phones4U and picked up a SIM-free Lumia. The suspense was starting to kill me - was this a device that was going to make Microsoft relevant the smartphone space or not?(Spoiler: I'm not sure. I've given myself until January 1st to decide whether to keep it, or trade it in for an iPhone 4S.)But here's something - why on earth is Microsoft insisting that a tablet form factor has to be based on Windows 8? The Windows Phone OS would do the job just fine. Apart from one thing. Money.Mood musicIt's coincidental that I bought a Windows Phone smartphone around the same time that there was some chatter aboutWindows 8 being 'largely irrelevant' to traditional PC usersandWindows 8 tablets being too late to hold consumer interest. The "mood music" on Twitter is not good in this regard … a good number of Microsoft specialists that I follow particularly closely are really starting to talk down Windows 8 tablets. In fact, it feels a little like the knives coming out for RIM around the time that people started to twig that PlayBook was not really all that. Here's a taster between James Kendrick and Mary-Jo Foley:@maryjofoley Windows 8 is increasingly seeming not like a work in progress, but a work in question.The iPad's not a MacDo you remember that there was a time before iPad? I just about do … one thing I dimly remember was that no one proposed putting OS X on the thing. When it was launched, people tended to assume it would be abig iPhoneand run the iPhone OS accordingly. Sensible move - small device, small OS.Last week I wrote a piece onrunning a Windows-based development environment in the cloud. One standout thing from that experiment is that I only need a proper, full-on personal computer to do development - anything else I do with a computer I could happily write this on an iPad with a decent keyboard. I could happily do most things on an iPad. (Today, Harry MacCracken ran a much-tweeted piece onhow the iPad 2 became his favourite computer, which reflects this idea.)And now I own a Lumia. If I switch it on and play with it, it's pretty obvious that if this had a bigger screen and a Bluetooth keyboard, I wouldn't need a Windows PC in exactly the same way that having an iPad means that I don't need a Mac. If Windows Phone can do (generally) everything that an iPhone can do, a Windows Phone with a 10" screen should be able to do everything that an iPad can do.So far though the message has been that as well as "immersive", Metro-style apps the big win for Windows 8 on ARM processors (the chip architecture that driving the smartphone revolution) is that you'll be able to run "normal" (what some call "legacy") Windows apps. That's a massive deal, the biggest of all the big deals. If you can by something that looks and feels iPad-esque but which runs Windows apps, that's really something. And it's worth the market waiting for. It's a strong differentiator to the iPad, and like all good differentiators its not easy to emulate.But what's this? Mary-Jo Foley, the experienced Microsoft reporter, suggests thatlegacy apps won't be supported on Windows 8.Oh.What does that leave us with?What do you call a tablet that's not an iPad, costs as much as an iPad, has less available software that the iPad, offers about the same user experience (UX) as the iPad, doesn't run normal Windows apps,can run Office apps, and reaches the market in Q4 2012 or Q1 2013? I think they call that a Windows 8 tablet. If I run the  "punditry" app on my Lumia, I can see future headlines like "lacklustre sales" and "iPad storms the corporate world".OK. So what do you call a tablet that's all those things, which runs Windows Phone rather than Windows 8, and is the hands of consumers in Q1 2012? I think you call that a decent competitor to iPad. Refresh my "punditry" app and I see headlines like "iPad sales challenged by Microsoft's tablet play" and "huge increase in MSFT stock price".Moreover, without native apps, what on earth is the point of a Windows 8 tablet? There's only one differentiator that I can think of: Xbox. Hardly relevant to business.Microsoft's entrenched thinking that a tablet has to be Windows 8-based is part philosophical, part commercial. Microsoft likes the idea of Windows Everywhere and wants to converge on a point of common engagement.Commercially though, life is much bleaker. Microsoft makes most of its money from Windows and Office licenses. In fact the Windows division last quarter generated 28% of revenues and 57% of its profits, and the Office division generated 32% of revenues and 65% of its profits.Yes, I know - that's 122% of profits. The reason it's 122%, not 100%, is because Bing burns money nearly twice as fast as it collects it, and because of other internal financing adjustments, which all subtract from the bottom line. (Here's abreakdown from October.)  Here's the point: Windows and Office are the twin pillars of Microsoft's income. You - or Steve Ballmer - mess with them at your (his) peril.Now, Microsoft charges OEMs far less for Windows Phone licenses (about$15 per unit) than for full-on Windows licenses (on average, working out to about $56 per unit).Although there isn't much room in the bill of materials for a full-on Windows license in an iPad-competing tablet play in any case,iSuppli suggests it costs around $330 to build an iPad 2; adding a $56 Windows license would up the cost to around $386.Now send your OEMs out to compete with Apple, selling iPads at retail for $499 (assuming Apple doesn't lower the price next year before Windows 8 tablets come out.) Apple has $169 of headroom to play with in its wholesale pricing to the retailer; the Windows 8 tablet OEM has $113. So Apple starts with an advantage: in a price war, it can make the first move.That $113 now has to be split with the retailer. Assume that our OEM splits it 50-50 with the retailer, and retains $65 profit on a device sold at retail for $450. Not bad - except that $65 has to cover the logistics, marketing (why is yours better than BigOEM's Windows 8 tablet?), sales, and any variation in component prices. If you want to know how it will probably pan out, look at HP, the world's biggest PC OEM, which makes about $40 per $800 PC (average price) it sells, or 5% profit. (Notice that Microsoft makes about $37 profit per Windows licence - almost the same as HP.)If the OEM can keep those costs down, say to $20 per tablet, then it's looking at $45 profit on a tablet sold wholesale for $450. And praying Apple doesn't lower iPad prices. Or that a bigger competitor doesn't undercut it. If all this sounds like "Mr Micawber's Tablet Business", well, that's because selling tablets turns out to be as easy as taking sweets from a baby. A baby tiger, being guarded by its mother.Meanwhile, in this scenario, Microsoft's executives are back in Redmond, happily counting the $37 profit per tablet. For Microsoft, it's the classic "innovator's dilemma" - should you ruin income from one market on the hope of making it big in another? This scenario says: it probably won't.Yet if Microsoft were to allow OEMs to use the cheaper Windows Phone licence, then the device price before wholesale is $345, and the headroom to the $499 retail price is $154 - much closer to Apple's. That difference gives far more wriggle room in every department - price, components, advertising. What's more, Windows Phone could look rather good on a tablet. It could sell - at least as well as a pricey Windows 8 ARM one. After all, Windows Phone includes Office and Office 365 in ways that tie people in to their existing Office licences.But for Ballmer and the team, this is the bad news scenario. Only $15 per licence? And even less in profit? Compared to $37 in profit? It's a money-loser, people.In Microsoft's case, though, there's another reason to wonder about tablets. It's this: will customers stump up for full-on Office licenses for a tablet? We have heard murmurs that Microsoft is apparently developing an Office version for the iPad, but how much will it cost? Apple's kinda-sorta-Office-competitor for iPad - theiWork suite of Keynote, Pages and Numbers- costs £7 a pop.Documents To Go, a popular Office-compatible productivity app for for Android and iOS, goes at £7 for the whole set. Not that businesses buy at retail, but a one-off Office Professional 2010 license from PC World costs £215. So that $499 becomes more than $600, even with a business licence.Yes, but don't people need Office on tablets? Actually, look at it this way: the iPad hasalreadydone pretty well in business without Office, so perhaps there's an argument that it doesn't need Office at all, and won't get it. A device where Microsoft can't make the same per-install profit as it can with Office on a PC also kills off one of the pillars of the business. The device might as well run Android, or iOS, or webOS, oranythingif Microsoft can't sell an Office license to go with it. There's little net gain. Soi maybe there'll be no Office for iPad. Perhaps that will be the differentiator between Windows 8 tablets and the iPad.I'm looking forward however to Microsoft explaining how ARM tablets won't support legacy apps and yet will run Office. That implies a port of Office to WinRT, or a port of the web-based Office 365 to run locally. Neither of those options sound doable in the timescale - I suspect we'll see a Windows 8 on ARM launch without Office.[Then again, Steve Sinofsky showed offMicrosoft Word running on an ARM chip at CES in January 2011, so perhaps it will - Tech.Ed].)ConclusionCan anyone think of a previously dominant tech company that allowed the market to change under its feet while it thought its way was the right way? If you answered "RIM", we're on the same page. Microsoft's behaviour – the steadfast insistence on cramming Windows 8 onto the iPad-clone – is bleeding time and market share. And the hilarious (well, OK, tragic) thing is that it's unnecessary.Microsoft could throw rocks out of any building on the Redmond campus and hit ten OEM partners falling over themselves to build as-good-as-the-iPad hardware on which the Windows Phone OS could be run. A little bit of development, a lot of testing and they're off and running. At least that's the (easy) technical side to the problem. Commercially, well, it's easy to say "jump over that cliff, you'll be fine". But having the guts to do it is another thing entirely.So my Lumia is probably going to remain alone in having Windows Phone. No tablet to match. Oh well.
From Charlie Sheen to the Arab spring,Twitter has revealed its most talked-about hashtag topics for 2011.The top hashtag this year was #egypt, following the downfall of president Hosni Mubarak in February. The second most popular was #tigerblood – the phrase coined by Sheen following his acrimonious axing from hit US sitcom Two and a Half Men in March.News events dominated Twitter's hashtags this year, including the Japanese earthquake in March, the Egyptian revolution and the Super Bowl.Sheen was the most tweeted about actor of 2011, according to Twitter, as he quickly attracted millions of followers on the social network amid the media frenzy around his high-profile firing. The momentous downfall of Mubarak, which many saw as the tipping point for the Arab spring uprising, was the most talked-about news story of the year on Twitter.Top hashtags of 20111#egypt2#tigerblood3#threewordstoliveby4#idontunderstandwhy5#japan6#improudtosay7#superbowl8#jan25Top world news stories of 2011 on Twitter1Mubarak's resignation2Raid on Osama bin Laden3Japanese earthquake and Fukushima nuclear disaster4Shooting of Gabrielle Giffords5Colonel Gaddafi's death6Swine flu outbreakTop 10 actors, according to Twitter1Charlie Sheen2Macaulay Culkin3Ryan Dunn4Ricky Gervais5Pete Postlethwaite6Tracy Morgan7Jake Gyllenhaal8Ashton Kutcher9Colin Firth10James FrancoTop 10 actresses, according to Twitter1Elizabeth Taylor2Mila Kunis3Anne Hathaway4Raven Symone5Natalie Portman6Elisabeth Sladen7Jennifer Lopez8Nina Dobrev9Emma Watson10Fernanda VasconcellosTop 5 music topics1Rebecca Black and Friday2Nate Dogg3Femme Fatale4Gerry Rafferty5Gil Scott-Heron
The August riots pushed the popularity of BlackBerry Messenger into the public consciousness, with the teenagers' mobile (or "mobe") of choice revealing itself as the perfect tool for organising spontaneous – er – mobbing.Until the chaos erupted, I suspect most of BlackBerry's suit-wearing users, who rely on the phones for their office email, had little idea that the gadgets had taken off with such a different demographic.But those without companies to pay their phone bills have found a way to get something for almost nothing – and legally. Armed with an unlocked, secondhand BlackBerry and a SIM-only contract from T-Mobile costing just over £10 a month, BBM (BlackBerry Messenger) messages are free and unlimited. If all your friends are messaging, there is no need to spend any money at all on calls and texts.The way we use our phones is a neat example of a two-tier society, and BBM is just the tip of the second tier. In the jungle of applications now available to smartphone users, those that use the internet to offer free voice calls or messaging are emerging from the undergrowth.Mobile phone networks have been worrying for some time about how these "free" services would eat into their profits once they became mass market. A quick look at the numbers now using them suggests the threat is no longer theoretical.WhatsApp, based down the road from Google in Mountain View, California, is a text message alternative that works on most handsets, including BlackBerrys, iPhones, Android and Windows Phone devices. Launched in 2009, it uses 3G or Wi-Fi, has been downloaded onto more than 10m phones, and now carries over 1 billion messages a day. (That compares to about6bn SMS messages sent daily in the US alone.) It can carry text, but also photos and videos, saving a packet on the extortionate fees charged by operators to send a picture message.Viber, which offers free international calls and text messages, has been downloaded 30m times.Rebtel, with a similar service, has 14m users, and video calling applicationTango20m followers."Over-the-top" services (so-called because they piggyback on the mobile phone networks without bringing them any revenue) have come out of the trenches and are rushing headlong towards us.There are stumbling blocks. Because they are free, these over-the-top services do not yet make big money for their creators. There are exceptions: Rebtel, which can connect you to a phone not on its network and charges for that, has revenues of $60m a year. With a swathe of rival brands competing for our attention alongside similar products from big beasts like Google and Facebook, many will fall by the wayside.And of course using WhatsApp or Viber is only free if the person at the other end subscribes. Like Skype, which also has a mobile offering, they are only useful for communicating with people you are likely to speak to on a regular basis.Whatever the hurdles, the numbers are growing. Downloading WhatsApp this week, I found that out of over 900 work and personal contacts on my phone, some 70 are already signed up. Less than 10%, but more than I expected.At the Telco2.0 conference in November, senior executives from the telecoms industry were polled andpredictedtext messaging revenues would decline by 37% in three years, and voice revenues by 21% over the same period. They blamedcuts imposed by the European Commission on the price of calling a mobile, as well as competition from rival operators. But the biggest factor, they believed, would be responding to price pressure from over-the-top alternatives.In fact, 2011 has been a year of mobile phone tariff inflation, as the likes ofVodafone,OrangeandO2try to mitigate the impact of the price cuts imposed by European regulators.Working out how to maintain revenues at their current levels is a multi-billion dollar question. But price increases in cash-strapped times may simply drive more consumers into the arms of free alternatives. The two-tier mobile culture is here to stay.
Education secretary Michael Gove has acknowledged that current ICT teaching in schools is out of date and that computer science has a place in secondary education.Speaking to a group of young reportersat the Schools Network's national conference last week, he stated, "One of the problems we've had is that the ICT curriculum in the past has been written for a subject that is changing all the time. I think that what we should have is computer science in the future – and how it fits in to the curriculum is something we need to be talking to scientists, to experts in coding and to young people about."The admission has been seen as a breakthrough by members of the UK games sector, who have been campaigning for more relevant computing education in British schools.As reported in the Guardian last week, industry body UKIE together with Google and a host of video game publishers have launched theNext Gen Skills campaign, calling for better creative computing lessons in schools. The games business is worth $2bn a year to the UK economy, but UKIE has argued that a more rigorous approach to computer science teaching will help the country compete across the full spectrum of digital industries.Until recently, the Department of Education has failed to engage with the games industry, despite constant lobbying, and the support of the Department of Culture, Media and Sport. However, the government'srecent responsetoNesta's Next Gen reporton education and computing was positive, backing the calls for more in-depth computer science teaching, and promising to look in to providing more teachers skilled in the subject.Ian Livingstone, the life president of games publisher Square Enix, has been pushing hard for the introduction of computer science to the national curriculum, and since Eric Schmidt, CEO of Google, lent his high profile support to the cause in August, has been able to secure meetings with Gove's special advisor, Dominic Cummings.Livingstone told The Guardian today, "I have had several meetings with special advisors at DfE before and after the recent official response to our Next Gen review. These meetings have been incredibly encouraging. There is now an understanding of the need for our children to be taught computer science in place of the office skills that are currently being taught as ICT. There is an understanding that computer science is to ICT as writing is to reading."That Michael Gove has stated publically the need for computer science to be taught in schools is nothing short of miraculous, and he is to be congratulated for saying, 'I think what we should have is Computer Science.' Wow! I'll buy the T-shirt!""But we have to be realistic," he continued. "Curriculum reform does not happen overnight. The task ahead is enormous requiring a modified curriculum, the creation of exams, teacher training or re-training and implementation. Of course nothing has been agreed yet by DfE but the winds of change are blowing through their corridors. Putting creative technology into the hands of creative children will inspire them to help build a digital future. Our children deserve the opportunity. I hope Michael Gove will let them have it."
Just in case you've somehow missed this, the January issue of US magazine Game Informerhas a rather unlikely cover star: South Park – the RPG. Yes, Trey Parker and Matt Stone, the creators of the scurrilous cartoon series, apparently contacted developer Obsidian about working on a console adventure title. The California-based studio has previously created the likes of Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic II and Alpha Protocol, and was developing an RPG based on the Aliens movie until the project was canned this summer.So what can we expect from a fantasy role-player based around the adventures of Cartman, Kenny, et al?According to MCV, the title will put players in control of a new kid in town who enters a live role-playing tournament with the cartoon's stars before the event turns into a real-life adventure. Apparently, there will be five classes to select from including wizard, rogue, adventurer and paladin, as well as an unannounced "unconventional" fifth class. Chef? Scientologist? Canadian? It could be anything. I'm just hoping that Mecha-Streisand turns up as a boss battle.Interestingly, it seems the game will be structured as a faily traditional 2D RPG with customisable weapons and turn-based combat. Stone and Parker are known to be gaming fans, and several titles have been namechecked during the cartoon's 14-year history, most famously in the legendary episode Make Love Not Warcraft. Fans may also remember Chinpokomon, which satirised the Pokemon phenomenon, and the episode entitled Crack Baby Athletic Association in which EA Sports president Peter Moore is depicted telling the boys: "Now let's part with that old EA Sports saying – Get the fuck out of my building!"There's no word on platforms yet, but it seems that Xbox Live Arcade and PSN will figure. And South Park: The Game is not the only series tie-in due out next year – the Xbox Live Arcade platformer, South Park: Tenorman's Revenge, is due out in the spring. We're really going to be spoiled for choice.So, any favourite cartoons thatyou'dlike to see transformed into faithful genre titles? Let us know in the comments section...
When it was released back in 2007, The Darkness was something of an oddity. In a genre of games that was becoming increasingly filled with testosterone-soaked run and gun action, The Darkness (along with BioShock) stood out from the pack by offering players an FPS experience augmented by superpowers.It told the story of Jackie Estacado, a mob hitman, who had the good fortune to become possessed by a demonic spirit called The Darkness on the same day he had the bad fortune to be blown out of a window by his Mafioso uncle.The single-player campaign was excellent, mixing atmospheric horror with gore-splattered action and all of it was shaded in a palette of moody greys, browns and blacks. It had a multiplayer, but it seemed tacked on as an afterthought, offering only four match-types and supporting eight players.We only mention all this because it seems a little odd to be previewing The Darkness II with the game's multiplayer mode. To be honest, its predecessor didn't need one and, let's face it, it's not remembered as one of the gold standards among online shooters.Besides, unless a shooter's online mode allows it to eat into the multiplayer audiences of the genre's current big boys – Gears, CoD, BF3, Halo – it seems a wasted effort to include one. Perhaps knowing this, Digital Extremes has decided against a competitive multiplayer for The Darkness II and has instead created an online co-op mode called Vendettas.Vendettas is split into two modes, Campaign and Hit List. Campaign is a story-based mode that runs parallel to the main single-player campaign in The Darkness II. It involves a team of super-powered killers seeking out artefacts for Estacado, which apparently contain the essence of The Darkness.There are four characters to choose from – a street samurai (Inugami), an ex-Mossad operative (Shoshanna), a voodoo priest (JP DuMond) and a brawler from Scotland (Jimmy Wilson). Each of them carries a weapon that is powered by The Darkness; Inugami has a sword, Shoshanna a sawn-off, DuMond has a staff and Wilson carries an axe.Each of them  also possesses a power – such as unlimited ammunition or the ability to summon imp-like creatures called Darklings – that the player can activate for brief periods of time.The levels we played through essentially amounted to fetch-questing. At the start, the team are told that Estacado needs them to rescue a mobster or find an artefact and then the player heads into a level, which involves running through an environment and shooting at anything that moves (the levels we played through involved a junkyard, a printing press and what looked like a run-down housing project).Players can carry two firearms along with their Darkness weapon. They also have the option of dual-wielding by hitting down on the D-Pad, but this means they can't aim down the sights of the two guns they're holding. It's rare they'll need to use iron-sights all that much (although it does happen) because most of the action takes place in close quarters and at quite a frenetic pace. It's also graphically violent.Due to the fact that the Darkness team are all superpowered beings, they're able to soak up quite a bit of damage before they go down. They can also keep their health levels topped up by using their Darkness weapon to extract the hearts of any of the enemies they've killed.The Darkness weapons do feel a tad overpowered; one blast from Shoshanna's shotgun can send an opponent flying with a massive hole in their chest, while Inugami's katana cuts through enemies like they're made out of paper.Wilson's axe is a thrown weapon, which returns to his hand like the hammer of Thor. DuMond's staff is the odd bird in this flock as attacks with it aren't lethal. Instead, the staff allows the player to levitate foes briefly, and then they can riddle their target with bullets while they're suspended helplessly in the air.Each team member also has an execution attack. Players arm this by firing one or two shots into a victim and then moving in for the kill when a prompt to hit the left bumper appears.At this point Inugami and Wilson will use their weapons to chop a foe in half, DuMond levitates them into the air and twists them apart, and Shoshanna puts her shotgun in the victim's mouth and literally blows their head off.It's all quite visceral, although the in-game dialogue and comic-book cel-shaded graphics combine to make it seem more cartoon-like than shocking.The AI doesn't seem too challenging, although it doesn't let the mode down. Players need to take stock of their surroundings because the AI will try to box them in and flank them should the opportunity present itself.They also need to take out any electric lights in the environment as direct exposure to light weakens their abilities and will ultimately kill them. It's also worth keeping an eye-out for shimmering Darkness portals; players earn XP for kills, headshots, Darkness weapon usage, hearts they collect and executions, and can spend these points at a portal to level up their special abilities.The other mode in Vendettas, Hit List, is a drop-in/drop-out mode where players can replay missions from the co-op Campaign mode. It also contains a set of unlockable missions that are exclusive to the mode and some levels that require two players.Unfortunately, at the preview event we attended, we couldn't play any of the Hit List content, nor could we play the levels offered us in Campaign any other way except solo, due to Wi-Fi issues. So we can't report on Hit List or how Campaign stacks up when tackled with a few mates. We can say, however, that Campaign seems perfectly serviceable as a solo experience.Still, the meat of the matter in The Darkness II is the main campaign, and so far no details have been forthcoming. In a world where the dominant trend in shooters is to package a short campaign with an extensive multiplayer, that's more than a little worrying.Make no mistake, Vendettas looks fine and plays very well, but really, we're hoping it's a tantalising extra and not the main event.•The Darkness 2 will be release on 10 February for Xbox 360, PC and PS3• This article was amended on 7 December 2011 to correct the name of the developer behnd The Darkness II
Right now, most gaming news sites are busy putting together their mandatory 'most anticipated games of 2012' features – and most will include a title that looks nothing like anything else on the list. Journey.This desert-bound co-op adventure is the latest work from LA studio,thatgamecompany. Previously responsible for beautiful PlayStation experiments, Flow and Flower, the 12-person team has a unique approach to development, focusing on emotion and experience rather than conventional notions of design, challenge and structure.The game's producer is Robin Hunicke, one of the most influential and inspiring figures on the US indie gaming scene. Starting out at Will Wright's Maxis studio she was a designer on Sims 2 and MySims before working on Steven Spielberg's BoomBlox puzzler. Now firmly ensconced at TGC, she's also a co-organiser of the Game Design Workshop and Experimental Gameplay Sessions at GDC and speaks at games festivals around the world. Her sessions at Nottingham'sGameCityfestival, which this year included aplaythrough of Journey in the Old Market Square, have been among that wonderful event's highlights. Meanwhile, she's also currently completing a PhD in game design and AI.Recently, I got to chat to Hunicke about Journey, and about the future of interactive entertainment. Will artificial intelligence ever mean more that just effective path finding? And will games ever completely personalise their content to individual players? Hunicke was fascinating on all of this. Here's what she had to say.Starting your development career with a series like the Sims must have been a highly educational experience. What have been the lasting design lessons?Well, it had a huge fan site, and at the time that was really rare – you didn't really have social sites based around games. The Sims Exchange was a sort of strange phenomenon. That taught me how diverse a gaming audience can be. Also, my first experience of working in the games industry was at a studio that was well over 40% women – I was totally spoiled, I had no idea! The Sims was a completely different kind of game team at the time. I think now if you were to go and visit Zynga or one of the social games developers you would see that there's a similar mix, and a similar relationship with the players.The development culture at thatgamecompany is very interesting, too. Is it true that you start out with an emotion that you want to explore or communicate through the game, andthenyou start on things like design and environment. Is that how Journey started?It is. Our approach is a combination of two things: the feeling that we want to communicate and create in the player, and then our own passions as developers.So moving from Flower to Journey one of the things we really wanted to do was explore the online component. We'd never made an online game, we'd never made anything with a network backend. And also we'd never made a game with a character in it, so it was our first animated avatar! There were a lot of challenges – the simulated sand, the simulated cloth, all the animation systems – that's all new. We were really passionate about expanding our technical capabilities and learning as developers.Journey is set in a vast desert, where the ruins of a mysterious civilisation litter the landscape.There's something very evocative about the desert, something immediately beguiling and mysterious. Is this why you chose it?One of the things we talked about early in the project was this idea of creating a connection between players in an environment where you feel small and less empowered than you might in a tradition video game setting. We thought this would be conducive to a feeling of wanting to spend time together. And we wanted to create this connection without forcing it – we don'tmakeyou play with someone else, but we chose the desert setting because we thought a desolate and unfriendly place might actually encourage a connection between players.The desire to make the player feel small within the game environment is totally at odds with what most titles try to do. And in your previous titles, Flow and Flower, the player is almost obliterated entirely as a virtual entity. And yet your projects have proved popular with 'core' gamers. Why is that?I guess it's that we offer the same kind of craftsmanship, art and care that would be put in to a very high-end core game. I think if you play mainstream games, you will understand what the components are in Journey – it's just that they're put together in a different way. And if you're into video games then of course you'll be into new experiences, right?!The co-founder of thatgamecompany, Kellee Santiago, has spoken a little about this, but I'm interested in your angle: why is it important for your co-op partner in Journey to remain anonymous, even when the game ends?Well, there's a lot of pressure associated with performing socially, when we spend time together. When you go out to a bar and meet new people, the quality of the experience is really determined by how well you connect – there's so much that you see in each other from the moment that you meet.If you see a person's online identity, if you hear their voice, if they send you text messages, you're getting a lot of information that might get in the way rather than facilitate the connection. So we wanted to see – as anexperiment– if we could take away a lot of that noise, in the same way that the desert takes away noise from the visuals. The tactile experience of moving through that environment is quite different from, say, a cityscape with tons of buildings and doors and stairs. Similarly, not being able to talk to each another, you just have tobetogether…And does the game have a traditional narrative to it?There's a reason behind the world. We spent a lot of time talking about why everything exists, what it meant before and what it means now, because the world has a history and a backstory. But the narrative of Journey is about whatyoudo in it – it's really hard to describe to someone who hasn't played it. It's a little bit like a mirror – the way you engage in the experience… you take something away from it because of who you are. If you want to follow someone you may, if you want to lead, you can lead. These things create the narrative of your own journey. That's what we wanted – we wanted to leave it up to the player, the individual.That's intriguing, because I think it's a key question in modern game design. I wrote a feature earlier this year aboutDeus Ex and how much freedom you can really give to a player. How much do they want? Is this something you thought about while designing Journey?Yes, and actuallyWarren Spector[designer of Deus Ex], has always been a huge influence on me; we spent a long time talking about Journey when I was down atFantastic Fest. He asked me the same thing: how much agency do I have in this setting?It's a very interesting philosophical question. What would it be like if you could live the same life over and over again, and see the same things over and over, but with the ability to change them, like Groundhog Day? If you have a favourite hike you regularly go on, it's always the same, but yet also never the same. That is how Journey is attempting to be – like a place that you visit, and while you're there you experience yourself and other people, but it is effectively the same Journey. But then it isn't! Do you know what I mean?I do, but then I worry that modern game design orthodoxy is moving toward prescriptive narrative experiences and away from player agency and interpretation…It's expensive and difficult to find new things, to do systems engineering for tactile experiences, for nuanced gameplay. It takes a lot of time. What I talked about at GameCity was, well, why did Journey take us three years to develop? A lot of people would be hard-pressed to justify that sort of effort to a corporate entity. It's expensive and it takes a lot of energy.We're a small studio, we can get by, but if you had 300 people doing that, it would become really scary. We stay small because we want to be able to experiment – that's the nature of what we do. It's like research. And we always wonder – will this be the one that doesn't work?But I think we're at the beginning of a trend – a lot of indie developers are doing things that are similarly exploratory. Whether or not they'll ever be as large as Call of Duty, I'm not sure. But maybe that doesn't matter.Thatgamecompany's Flower was a critical success on PS3, despite its abstract nature.But then, are indie games being experimental enough? I thought that, by now, we'd see a totally procedurally generated game, which creates unique landscapes, populates them with intelligent characters and leaves the rest up to the player.I actually think there's a real buzz about this in the community. I was atIndieCaderecemtly, andCasey Reas,Robert HodginandZach Gageall gave talks about procedurally generated environments and working with generated events and content. It was very exciting. I heard a lot of people talking about how they're going to start working on procedurally generated stuff – so you may get your wish in about five years! But there have been examples – Darwinia, Minecraft – it's happening, it's just that it's happening in isolated areas.Maybe there will be a procedurally generated killer app that'll just turn the whole industry in that direction.And maybe thatgamecompany will make it – you never know!Do you actually have a whole bunch of future projects written down somewhere at thatgamecompany or do you very much work on one thing at a time?No, we are a one-game studio. But we'll have conversations about what's happening in game design, so we're aware of the milieu that we exist in.Journey has been such a long project – three years with a team of 12 people. Have there been any real screaming matches in the office?Every once in a while there'll be a very heated discussion. We're close to the end of the game now, so we've been talking a lot about the story and what Journey means. The last meeting we had was actually very constructive and polite – we've reached the point on the project where the things we're all passionate about are in the game. Now it's just a case of getting it done. That's the best part. It's always the middle of the project that's the most angsty!Something that's certainly happening right now is this idea of dynamic difficulty and procedural mission creation in games. We saw it with the AI director in Left 4 Dead and we're seeing it with the personal quests in Skyrim. That sounds like a move towards procedural generation.It does, and one of the things that excites me is thinking about how you can get so much data from a player, in the way that they move and choose things. If we spent more time paying attention to what they are really doing we would be able to create games that react in much more elaborate ways.Thinking about a game thatknowsitself as a game, that engages you in the way that a human games master would is really fascinating. You could probably just attach procedural outcomes to the behaviours of other humans within the game, then you wouldn't have to simulate everything yourself; one of the things that happens with Journey is that players assume the other character is an AI, which is very flattering, because we could never program a robot to do the things that a player does with that avatar.But you get a similar kind of experience when you play it because they're not interrupting you with their own thoughts and needs – it really is a lot more like playingwiththe game, but the game is being puppeted by another person. I think that's an interesting area to explore – what kinds of interfaces do games create between people, and how do we as designers manipulate the signal that goes from one player to another?Players can meet up with other gamers in Journey, but the relationships are entirely silent and anonymous.A lot of games seem to stop at simply facilitating a relationship between gamers – providing voice chat, for example.Yes, and that technology is like 50 years old! It's crazy that we haven't moved beyond that.The idea of games being aware that they're games is fascinating. They're usually just systems that are sort of plonked in front of the player. I like the idea of something sentient within the game, guiding and altering the experience…Have you playedthe Stanley Parable? It's really amazing, it's a narrative game, but it has a quality to it… I don't want to spoil it, but there is a quality to the design and the way that the developers approach the problem that's very much about, what if games were sentient? What if there was something about the narrator that goes beyond the voice that comes through the speakers? That's a really fruitful area to explore.The other thing that's been happening lately is, some designers have been able to build environments in which the player is also able to create games.GlitchbyTiny Speck, for example. The game world itself is an excuse for people to participate in an event with each other. From there on, it's kind of Wild West – they want to see what happens in a world where players can alter the environment.And building a world where players see the game as an interface between each other, it's like going back to board games, but through digital technology, which is really fascinating.Yes, and one of the things we lost in the move from, say, paper-and-pencil role-playing games was being able to cheat the system, or come up with your own rules…Exactly! And that's the way people learn how to become game designers. The way that we all experience design is as children when we're playing street games or board games and we decide to change the rules to see what happens. Those kinds of instincts should be embraced rather than squished as we go through school; I expect we'll then see a lot more people ready to explore those possibilities with the technology they have.You're just finishing a PhD on Artificial Intelligence aren't you?Yes, I was researching the AI system in Half-Life, which is like the AI director in Left 4 Dead but more primitive. I was fascinated by this idea of a program that changed itself based on what you did. If you look at Journey, you'll see that the design is taking part in an exchange with the machine. The computer is working with you to create this experience, it is mediating between you and the other player. People write to us at TGC and talk about how they've had these amazingly emotional experiences with Flower – people really fell in love with that program. And really, that's the goal, to develop a piece of software that creates a lasting connection with another person.But the problem with the way the games industry approaches AI is that its so prescriptive and functional – it's all about better path-finding and being able to flank the player in a shooting game…Well, the joy and the pain of working with robots, which I did at school, is that you quickly realise in order to getanythingto work, you have to really simplify the universe. You paint a white line around the walls so they can follow it, you create a special system that lets them recognise corners… I did a lot of work with sonar early on.Then I just moved on to working with Half-Life because it was easier to program the in-game bots than it was to program real robots. But you quickly realise it's the same problem: you have to simplify the environment in order to bring about progress. And as a game developer, what happens is, you just get more and more objects in your world – everything can move, individual agents can move things – so now your planning has to be that much more complex. As environments become more dynamic, you're always on the treadmill of trying to solve the same problem.But yes, it would be nice if we also worked on new technologies using AI to create game play. Michael Mateas has a laboratory atUC Santa Cruzand the whole focus is to do procedurally generative design for art and games. He believes that if you work on procedural systems you can generate new kinds of games – but you can't do it the other way around; you can't think of those games then design the systems that will make them. I think that work is groundbreaking.AI in games now is about simulating believability. If you want to simulate hidden information then you also have to simulate the suspicion of information, which is what most stealth games do. So if the player makes a noise, an AI enemy will say, 'hey, what was that?! I'm coming to investigate' and then you know to hide. It really is like an advanced game of tag, and you're just programming a tag bot – which is research that was done at CNU many, many years ago!It's strange how many of our fundamental game systems are pretty decrepit now…But at the same time, we build with what we know – that's what makes TGC such a special place. Wecouldhave made a forced co-op platform puzzler with really basic mechanics that were recognisable to the gaming community. But what we ended up doing was taking away everything that wasn't central to the thesis and then trying to design the systems that would make it feel great. Maybe that's not for everybody, but I wouldn't want to work in any other way.Journey will be released on PlayStation Network in spring, 2012.
A selection of 10 apps for you today:Financial TimesIt may have ditched Apple's App Store in favour of an HTML5 site, but the Financial Times hasn't given up on native apps altogether. The financial newspaper has just released an app for Android smartphones and tablets, although it's flagged as a beta.AndroidWallace &amp; Gromit – Chat-O-MaticAnimated duo Wallace &amp; Gromit are back on the App Store with an app that turns an iPhone, iPod touch or iPad into Wallace's mouth, complete with a selection of catchphrases. The idea is that the device is placed in front of the user's real mouth – something seen previously in the MouthOff app.iPhone / iPadLyric Legend 2Music startup TuneWiki's original Lyric Legend was a music rhythm game that was as much about the lyrics as the music. Now it has a sequel, armed with tracks from the likes of Lady Gaga, Rihanna, Selena Gomez, Coldplay and Kanye West to tap along to. The link above is for iOS, but you can find the Android versionhere.iPhone / Android / iPadArtspotterArtspotter is a new app to, yes, help you spot art. It offers a database of galleries, exhibitions and street-art on a map, while allowing users to add their own finds for the benefit of others. The app ties into the Artspotter website, where other users and galleries can be followed, alongside other social features.iPhoneWenzaniWenzani is a mobile travel guide app that pulls in content from a range of providers, including Lonely Planet, Time Out, Frommer's and BBC Travel. Social features encourage people to share recommendations with friends too.iPhoneMoney TalksAndroid app Money Talks does one thing: point your camera at a Euro banknote, and the app speaks it aloud, while also vibrating the note's value. No gimmick: it's for blind and visually impaired people, and wasone of the finalistsin this year's Smart Accessibility contest run by The Vodafone Foundation.AndroidDragon's LairDragon's Lair has already been revived once for iOS, but now it's available on Android too. Originally released in the 1980s, the game boasts impressive cartoon graphics and... well, it's still mainly about the impressive cartoon graphics to be honest.Android(Spotted byAndroid Police)Macworld UK MagazineVeteran Apple-watching mag Macworld UK is the latest publication to join the iOS Newsstand, with an app offering six-month subscriptions for £19.99 and 12 months for £29.99.iPhone / iPadFAADChatiOS games community FreeAppADay has launched a new app of its own, which combines text-chat with app recommendations. The aim being to hang out in chat-rooms talking to other FAAD users, and find out what apps they're raving about.iPhoneRoomba RevengeRoomba is probably the world's most famous robot vacuum cleaner (admittedly in a narrow field), but now it has an official branded game for iPhone, created by a pair of developers at the company behind it, iRobot.iPhone
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHow the iPad 2 became my favorite computer &gt;&gt; Harry McCracken" I think it's possible to use an iPad as one's primary device for professional-level content creation. Actually, scratch that. I'm positive it's possible - because I've been doing it for the past three months, and I've been having a really good time. "This hasn't been one of those experiments-for-the-sake-of-experimentation in which someone temporarily forsakes a PC for another device in order to write about the experience. No, I've been using the iPad for my daily activities-running Technologizer, writing for TIME, CNET, and AllBusiness.com, and more - because I find it to be the preferable tool in multiple respects. I've been using it about 80 percent of the time, and using my MacBook Air about 20 percent of the time. I have no desire to go back." That's using ZaggFolio, which is a really good keyboard for the iPad. Otherwise it would just be "reading and light productivity". See the pic with the article.Microsoft Research: spammers act just like HIV virus in avoiding filters &gt;&gt; threatpost"A report from Microsoft Research in honor of World AIDS Day yesterday described how Microsoft Researchers David Heckerman and Jonathan Carlson were called upon to help AIDS researchers analyze data about how the human immune system attacks the HIV virus using technology and algorithms Microsoft had developed to fight spam e-mail in the company's Hotmail, Outlook and Exchange e-mail products."Clever game pricing, not just games, is key to Vita's success &gt;&gt; Eurogamer.net"The world is a very different place now than it was when DS and PSP launched, when there was no such thing as an iPhone, let alone any real notion of games that could be easily downloaded in seconds for pennies. "Apple's rampant, rapid growth in handheld gaming has been astonishing and has caught traditional console makers completely off-guard. And what must really stick in Nintendo and Sony's craw is not Apple's boast of making the most popular portable gaming device in the world (a crafty spin, since most don't buy iPod Touch primarily as a games system), but that it's achieved it without even trying."Anonymising medical data properly &gt;&gt; Ross Anderson"I will be talking in London on Wednesday at a workshop on Anonymity, Privacy, and Open Data about the difficulty of anonymising medical records properly. I'll be on a panel with Kieron O'Hara who wrote a report on open data for the Cabinet Office earlier this year, and a spokesman from the ICO." Professor Ross Anderson is always worth listening to. Get along there.RIM's faux BES for iOS and Android: Too little, too late | Mobile Technology - InfoWorld"What's not been said in the immediate press release-based news coverage is RIM's careful statement that its mobile device management (MDM) tool will implement only those "inherent" capabilities of iOS and Android. Translation: None of the stuff that IT really likes about BES, such as its 500-plus security policies and military-level encryption, will apply to iOS and Android devices. RIM is doing nothing to advance iOS or Android security. "So why bother with Mobile Fusion? After all, dozens of MDM vendors support the "inherent" iOS and Android security capabilities. And a good half-dozen strong MDM providers offer proven, innovative, and value-added MDM tools. "Any company that now supports iOS or Android devices already deals with two MDM consoles: one for BlackBerry, and one for the rest. The benefit of having a single console is long gone." Oh, RIM, you.. do this a lot.ITC postpones ruling on Apple's first complaint against HTC to December 14 &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsThe ITC has put off a decision about Apple v HTC until 14 December; it's got a heavy caseload. "Whatever the outcome will be, this is still the early stage of Apple's assertions of intellectual property rights against Android. It's not going to be the end for either party's aspirations. If there is an import ban, the key question will be what implications a possible workaround (which HTC and Google are sure to announce) will have."Dell drops Streak 7, backs out of Android tablets in US &gt;&gt; ElectronistaIn October, welinked to V3who pointed out that Dell was "gearing up to launch Windows 8 devices as Android disappoints". You now can't buy the Streak 7 online, and the Streak 5 has been axed. Dell however "remains committed to the mobility market". As it's not doing Windows Phones, or Android tablets, what's left there exactly? Oh, Windows 8 tablets. Next year. And do read the comments: "the developer community will support it." (As Dell, they expect, won't.)Why Apple will be the #1 computer maker in 2012 &gt;&gt; TechPinions"We are hearing that Microsoft's fee for Windows 8 tablet version could be as high as $68. If that is true, right off the top the BOM costs of Windows 8 tablets will most likely force prices higher than Apple's low-end iPad is today. And if Apple starts lowering their prices in 2013 as I suspect they will, Windows 8 tablets would be at premium pricing. "Also, while Microsoft and Intel and their partners are excited about ultrabooks, their current pricing is too high for consumers. ... "And even if Android tablets start gaining market share in consumer markets in the future, most of them are coming from non-PC vendors. The major PC vendors are winding down their Android tablet programs and all the big guys will be backing Windows 8 by the end of 2012. They must hope that Windows 8 tablet is a hit for this to give them any market share boost over Apple." That Windows tablet licence price is higher than that for Windows on OEM PCs now.Microsoft Delays Windows Phone 7 in China to First Half 2012 | PCWorld"Microsoft expects its Windows Phone 7 mobile operating system to launch in China during the first half of 2012, rather than in late 2011 as originally planned, the company said Saturday. "The US software giant is working to 'ensure local citizens have a great experience with Windows Phones', and is working closely with its partners in China to determine through what channels and when Windows Phones will be available regionally, it said in a statement." It's not as if Windows Phone has been in development since 2008, or that there are any major competitors already selling products there, so not to worry.Google and the UK Citizens Advice Bureau - an uncomfortable alliance &gt;&gt; Tim Anderson's ITWritingTim Anderson goes hunting for the booklet advertised as being available from the Citizens Advice Bureau about being safe online. The physical booklet, not the web site.Working at the Death Star &gt;&gt; Blogspot"So, rather than host our shield generator safely inside the Death Star, you want us to contract it out to an external supplier based on a forest moon inhabited by hostile and deeply annoying midget bears?" "It's very cheap."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
BlackBerry maker Research in Motion said Monday that it had fired two executives whose behaviour, allegedly fuelled by alcohol, forced a flight to China to return to Canada for their removal and arrest last week.''RIM does not condone behaviour that conflicts with applicable laws and employees are expected to act, at all times, with integrity and respect," the company said in a statement.The two executives, George Campbell and Paul A Wilson, pleaded guilty last week to mischief after an Air Canada flight was forced to turn around near the North Pole and then land in Vancouver, British Columbia. The men were given suspended sentences, placed on probation and each was ordered to pay the airline C$35,878 (£22,990) in restitution by a court in British Columbia.After allegedly drinking heavily on a Toronto-to-Beijing flight, the two men became hostile and were ultimately restrained with plastic handcuffs by crew members and passengers. Neither of them is allowed to fly on Air Canada during their year of probation.• The firing was not the only personnel issue involving RIM on Monday. Citing statements from the police, the Jakarta Post reported that the head of RIM's unit in Indonesia is under investigation after a half-price promotion for a new BlackBerry handset led to a near riot that sent several shoppers to hospital last month.The newspaper said the executive, Andrew Cobham, and three other people may face criminal charges of negligence. RIM declined to offer any information about Cobham, although an online CV for an Indonesian business group that he advises suggests that he is Canadian.In its statement, RIM said it was co-operating with police and was conducting an internal investigation of the incident, which offered the discounted phones to the first 1,000 buyers.''We sincerely regret that many loyal customers experienced frustration and upset, and that some individuals suffered injuries," the company said.RIM's BlackBerry phones are very popular in Indonesia, with about 6 million of the company's 70 million users worldwide.
It's Tuesday. Have you tried the new Xbox 360 menu system yet?
Facebook has confirmed it is stepping up its assault on the potentially lucrative location-sharing market with the acquisition of Gowalla, which will close as a standalone service in January.The Gowalla app has been downloaded millions of times by iPhone and Android phone users happy to share their location and check in to restaurants, cinemas and cafes throughout the world.Josh Williams, co-founder of Gowalla,announced the acquisition in a blogpost on Monday evening."We know how much many of you loved Gowalla," Williams said. "It's been the highlight of our lives as we've built it with your help over the past two years. As we move forward, we hope some of the inspiration behind Gowalla – a fun and beautiful way to share your journey on the go – will live on at Facebook."The move is Facebook's most significant acquisition in the past year, and comes as the social network ramps up its service ahead of a planned public offering and in the wake of new competition from Google+. The acquisition will put the heat on Foursquare, presently the leading and fastest-growing location-sharing app for smartphones with10 million users in July.Senior members of the Gowalla team – including Williams and his fellow co-founder, Scott Raymond – will join Facebook's rapidly expanding design and engineering team in January."In talking with the Gowalla team, we realised that we share many of the same goals: building great products that reach millions of people, making a big impact quickly, and creating new ways for people to connect and share what's going on in their lives," said a Facebook spokeswoman. "While Facebook isn't acquiring the Gowalla service or technology, we're sure that the inspiration behind Gowalla will make its way into Facebook over time."Williams said in the blogpost that he was "blown away" by Facebook's recent expansion as it integratedthe site closer with media partnersincluding the Guardian, Spotify and Deezer. "A few weeks later Facebook called, and it became clear that the way for our team to have the biggest impact was to work together," Williams said. "So we're excited to announce that we'll be making the journey to California to join Facebook."Facebook already has check-in features similar to those of Gowalla and Foursquare, including the ability to tag friends at places and share photographs from specific venues. The site's "Nearby" feature allows users to see the last publicly shared location of their friends.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook.
The PlayBook is beginning to look like the worst and most expensive decision that RIM, the maker of the BlackBerry smartphone, ever made.Not only that: preliminary results issued by the company on Friday indicate that it is struggling to maintain pricing of its flagship phones, even though the new devices introduced last quarter were meant to push that pricing up.The company announced on Friday that it iswriting down the value of unsold PlayBook tablets in its warehouses by $485m, which will be taken as a charge against its pre-tax profits for the third quarter which ended in November.That announcement indicates that RIM has now given up hope of charging the original price - which began at $399 for the 7in version, the same price as Apple's 10in iPad.Told you soThe Guardian drew attention to theenormous growth in RIM's inventoryat the end of the previous quarter, pointing to the way that it had begun to balloon as soon as RIM began receiving finished PlayBooks from Far Eastern factories. Here's the graph:RIM inventory by value from Dec 2002 - August 2011. Source: RIM accountsNow RIM has had to recognise the reality: it's not going to get its money back on them. It's unclear whether the writedown effectively takes the value of the tablets in inventory down to zero, so that they can now be sold at a profit. But that would probably be the smart thing.The big question is, how many PlayBooks are there sitting around that haven't even been shipped to retailers in RIM's warehouses? ISuppli put the device's BOM (bill of materials) cost at $271. Assuming that the PlayBooks it has were valued at that price, and have now been valued at zero, RIM is sitting on 1.79m unsold and unshipped PlayBooks.That comes after it says it shipped 150,000 in the just-finished quarter, to add to the 200,000 in the previous quarter and the 500,000 in its inaugural quarter.In other words, RIM seems to have ordered something like 2.65m PlayBooks. For the sake of simplicity, and because some of them won't have been the cheapest model with the $271 BOM, let's assume the real figure is actually 2.5m.Not shipping, not sellingOf which it has only managed to ship (not sell) about one-third. Of which it has managed to sell… well, the company says in that announcement that more than the 150,000 shipped in the quarter were activated, so the swingeing price cuts must be kicking in at last. (Crackberry.com suggeststhat actually the figure is more like 5m units sitting in inventory. It all depends what value you take for the per-unit device.)But the impact on RIM's cash position has been dire. Itssecond-quarter results (PDF)(to the end of August) show that its cash on hand dropped from $1.99bn at the end of May to $851m at the end of August. That's $1.14bn spent on something; most likely the PlayBook. (In its statement, RIM says that "The Company's cash balance at the end of the quarter increased by approximately $80 million to approximately $1.5 billion." It must be tweaking that by including long-term investments in its "cash balance". We don't think of long-term investments as cash, so it will be interesting, again, to see if RIM has simply revised the value of its long-term investments, even while its cash on hand has fallen.)And now it says it will have to "increase promotional activity" - in other words, subsidise sales of - the PlayBook "to drive sell-through to end customers". That means more cash paid to retailers to artificially lower the price of the PlayBook.The company also gave preliminary details of its third-quarter results, indicating that it shipped 14.1m BlackBerrys - a figure that represents a slight fall compared to the 14.2m of a year ago, but a substantial sequential increase from the 10.1m of the previous quarter. Those shipments would have been bolstered by the introduction of new phones.But RIM also indicated that revenues for the quarter will be below its initial guidance of $5.3bn-$5.6bn. That would be a fall from the year-ago quarter, when revenues were $5.5bn. That, in turn, suggests that average selling prices for BlackBerrys has fallen from the year-ago period. We'll get more when the company reports its full results on 15 December.So if we assign a sale price (to the channel) of $400 per device - impossible, because that was the retail price - then the PlayBook has contributed, over its life, about $340m to RIM's revenues. That's for a company which has brought in around $14.6bn in reeves in its past three quarters. Even if you price the PlayBook at $500 (which is above its selling price) the number shipped would mean it has only generated $425m, or around 3% of RIM's revenues in the past three quarters.The PlayBook, in short, has been a flop from start to finish. It has so far cost the company around $1.6bn (the fall in cash plus the write-off) and it hasn't finished.How did RIM get it so wrong? That's an interesting question. Announced just over a year ago, and the subject of a great deal of hype (RIM's co-CEO Jim Balsillieinsisted in Januarythat companies were so excited by the prospect they were delaying iPad purchases), the only thing that the PlayBook seemed to have going for it was that RIM had a great name for security and for accessibility. There was thepromise made in February, even before the first one had launched, of an update in the summer - two 4G versions of the PlayBook - also never materialised. (It said in February that they would feature "support for LTE and HSPA+ high speed wide area wireless networks.")But the software has been late, and RIM's reputation for solidity came unstuck after aseries of outagesin October, for which it is taking another charge of $50m.Why, RIM, why?My own guess? RIM was stampeded by the launch of the iPad into doing its own tablet, because it lost out so badly to the iPhone whenthatwas launched (even though its business thrived on the back of the smartphone boom). In 2007, Balsillie was all but instructed by Vodafone (which had missed out on selling the iPhone in Europe to Telefonica) to build a touchscreen BlackBerry. Voila! The Storm, released in late 2008. It was awful, and left RIM behind in the game.So when the iPad came out, RIM decided to get ahead of the game. Unfortunately, it didn't get ahead in the right part - the "persuading people to buy your product rather than someone else's" part. (Not to mention the "building your product on a just-in-time basis rather than optimistic three-month forecast" part.) The PlayBook isn't substantially worse than many of the 7in Android tablets out there, apart from having even fewer apps. But there's no reason to buy it ahead of an iPad, if a tablet is what you want.And there goes another $1.5bn, tossed on the tablet pile, to go with HP's $2bn burnt on the TouchPad. Tablets are turning out to be money-munching monsters for some companies. At least when companies went into making would-be iPod killers it didn't murder them like this.Woe is the stockThe stock market has completely lost patience with, and faith in, RIM. Itsstockhas fallen to $16.72 - the same level as May 2004, when it was selling fewer than a million handsets per quarter, though it was at least profitable; when you include the write-offs from inventory and the service outage, the one just past will be a loss-making quarter.We'll remind you of what Horace Dediu uses ashis rule of thumb for the mobile business: if you make a loss, even for one quarter, then you never come back to your former position in terms of market share or profit. So far it has held true across more than a dozen companies which have either exited the phone market or lost their independence after falling into loss.The prognosis for RIM, therefore, isn't happy. Stock price on its own doesn't mean anything to the company; it doesn't affect how much money it has in the bank, nor in the short term how easy it is to get money, nor how good or bad its products are. The stock price is just a guess at how much money the company will make in the long term.Right now, the market says that RIM's market capitalisation - its total profits in its future life - is $8.71bn. Subtract the $1.5bn of cash, and you have profits for its life forecast at $7.2bn. That's somewhere between 21 quarters (based on the profits in June-August) and eight quarters (based on the profits in December-February).Either way, the numbers say RIM isn't long for this world if it doesn't shape up. The PlayBook? It's harmed the company enough. Time to let it go and focus on the smartphones, RIM's oldest, and best, business.
Sophie Lee got a shock when she checked her website's statistics data on 24 February. The number of visitors to her site about irritable bowel syndrome,IBStales.com, which she has run since 2003 and relies on for her income, had dropped precipitously. "It was so sudden," she says. "They had halved overnight."Some examination quickly showed what had happened: Google's engineers had tweaked the company's search ranking system, in what later became known as the "Panda update", and demoted Lee's site so that rather than appearing, as it had, among the key first 10 results when people put "IBS" or "irritable bowel syndrome" into Google's search box, it was now about 300th.And being on that first page is crucial:a recent studyshowed that 89% of clicks are on those 10 results. Suddenly, Lee's site – which is her livelihood – had effectively vanished from the sight of searchers in the US.Worse was to come: a couple of weeks later Google extended the Panda update to the UK. And in October it tweaked its search algorithms again, as it says it does constantly – and Lee saw another fall in visitors."We were crushed by the Panda update, and the site is now gasping for breath," she said. "Traffic is down 75%, revenue is down 90%, and I'm getting seriously worried about the future."  She has never bought adverts on Google, and isn't thinking of doing so now. "Everybody says not to rely on Google, but there's no way around it," she says.Though Google's search system is often thought of as purely machine-driven, in fact its engineers are constantly changing the ways in which sites are ranked."Panda," they indicated, would downgrade so-called "content farms" of copied or useless content. The implication was that Lee might have fallen foul of that - though she insists that IBStales.com consists of original stories from fellow sufferers of the gut condition and some advice.But to some, Lee's drop in income – which has been mirrored bya number of British technology news websites– is seen as collateral damage in a far bigger battle being fought over Google's dominance of the search industry, whereabout 95% of searches in Europe) and82% in North Americago via Google.Any day now, the European commission is expected to announce whether it will formally object to what some see as Google's abuse of its power in the way that it treats smaller sites that offer the same sorts of services as it does.If that happens, Google could be forced to comply with strictures on the way it treats rival sites offering particular sorts of search – for news, products, maps, shopping, images or videos – rather than pushing its own on the site. Alternatively, it could face fines of millions of pounds.The EC began its investigation almost a year ago, after complaints from a number of companies, includingFoundem.com, a British "vertical search engine" company that offers comparisons for a huge range of products and services, such as flights, hotels, gadgets and jobs.Foundem says that it was repeatedly demoted in Google's search rankings despite breaking none of its publicly-stated rules. Shivaun and Adam Raff, its founders, woke up in 2006 to discover they had suffered the same fate as Lee: their site had vanished.It stayed that way for three years, even while they won awards for being the UK's best comparison site. Then Google tweaked its system again, and Foundem reappeared. But now the Raffs were determined to make Google treat them fairly. Google said that it "de-indexed" Foundem because too much of its content was copied from other sites, which leads to automatic downgrading.But the issue of "copying" is a mysterious one – because Google itself effectively "copies" everything, and products such as Google News do not originate any content at all. Yet they aren't downgraded, and they always feature ahead of any rival. Why, then, was Foundem downgraded, asks Shivaun Raff?She thinks that the Panda alteration was part of a preparation by Google for a battle with the EC – and, potentially, the US, where theFederal Trade Commission(FTC) has begun an antitrust investigation of its share of search advertising, and a Senate committee quizzed the Google chairman, Eric Schmidt, about its dominance in the field in September.Schmidt insistedthat Google faces a "tremendously dynamic and competitive" environment, citing Microsoft's Bing – which has abouta 3.6% share worldwide, compared with Google's 91% – and Yahoo and Yelp, now being used by Apple for searches done with its Siri voice assistant."Panda is a collection of disparate updates," Raff says.  She says that though panda was widely touted as an attack on content farms, "it also marks an aggressive escalation of Google's war on rival vertical search services. First, vertical search services are in many ways the polar opposite of content farms" - because they link to multiple different sites, rather than containing content on one site."Second, Google's anticompetitive demotion of rival vertical search services, while simultaneously promoting its own, lies at the heart of ongoing antitrust investigations on both sides of the Atlantic."Panda wasn't just deployed in the midst of these investigations; we suggest that it was deployed in direct response to them. By bundling these diametrically opposed updates together, the 'content farm' elements could be viewed as providing cover for the vertical search targeted elements."For Google, the stakes are high. If the EC or the US finds it is abusing its dominance – by pushing sites such as Foundem down – then it could face close oversight of its search algorithms and might be obliged to check them with the EC before implementing them.A spokesman for Google declined to comment on Lee's experience, but said: "Quality is obviously a core factor in how highly a site ranks. In search, we're constantly updating and fine tuning our algorithms to help high-quality publishers get more traffic."For some context, last year we tested about 6,000 changes and launched about 500. As you can imagine, with each of these changes some websites will see more traffic and some will see less."Lee, meanwhile, just hopes she can climb back up the search rankings. "It's almost impossible not to be reliant on Google," she says. "It has such enormous power. I'm trying to use Facebook and Twitter, to get less reliant on it. But I need this to work. It's my job."
Google's chairman, Eric Schmidt, has met Europe's competition commissioner  amid signs that the search giant will be accused of abusing its dominant position in the market.If found guilty, Google could face fines of 10% of its annual turnover in the region, or oversight of how it runs its online search and advertising businesses in Europe.The European commission is understood to have a 400-page "statement of objections" that it may pass to Google within the next eight weeks outlining its findings against the company.TheFinancial Times reportsthat "Google is being blamed for multiple and multifaceted abuses".Schmidt met Joaquín Almunia, the commission's antitrust chief, to follow up discussions they had in January, when the commission began contacting companies about their experience of Google's handling of competition in search and advertising.Almunia's department formally began the antitrust investigation on 30 November 2010 into "allegations that Google Inc has abused a dominant position in online search, in violation of European Union rules".In Europe, companies which dominate a market have to tread carefully so that they do not lock out other potential rivals – unlike the US, where having and defending a monopoly is legal but using it to monopolise new sectors is not. The commission can impose serious strictures or fine companies for non-compliance.The complaints that led to the investigation originally came from: Ciao, a Microsoft-owned site; Foundem, a British "vertical search" company; 1PlusV, which runs search engines in France; Euro-Cities, a German company offering online mapping; and two German industry groups representing newspapers and magazines.They allege that Google unfairly pushes its own services such as maps and shopping to the top of search results, locks out rival advertising services, and uses news organisations' content unfairly.Google says its services let people find what they want quickly, and that users are free to switch to other services.The International Herald Tribune says that at the January meeting, Almunia told Schmidt that he would give the company a chance to offer a solution to the antitrust case without incurring a penalty.But last week Almunia said: "This is not a meeting to discuss in detail a case that is being investigated by my services&nbsp;… This is not a meeting to negotiate anything."Google is also trying to get commission approval for its $12.5bn (£8bn) bid for the mobile phone company Motorola Mobility, in a deal approved by the companies' boards in August.Microsoft and Intel have both fallen foul of the European commission over antitrust abuses in the past, and had to pay fines of more than €1bn (£850m) in settlement. Intel is appealing against the decision. Microsoft tried to resist the finding without success."You don't fly across the Atlantic and meet with Europe's most powerful antitrust official without having something significant to discuss about your case," Tom McQuail, a partner in the Brussels office of the independent law firm Morrison &amp; Foerster and a specialist in antitrust law, told the IHT.The Motorola Mobility deal would give Google access to a number of patents in the mobile phone space that would be crucial for defending licensees of its Android mobile operating system against attacks from Microsoft, Nokia and Apple. But it could raise antitrust fears because it would increase its power in mobile search and advertising.The US Federal Trade Commission has also begun an antitrust investigation into Google's practices.Observers thought that the case might be resolved without legal battles.Almunia "has had no big confrontations with companies since taking office and he's shown a willingness to settle all of the abuse of dominance cases that have come his way," Nicolas Petit, a law professor at the University of Liége in Belgium, told the IHT.By wringing some concessions from Google, Almunia "still could come out looking like a winner", he said.
There is no shortage of startups providing apps for children in 2011: Toca Boca, Mindshapes, Nosy Crow, Callaway Digital… and nowFingerprint Digital.The San Francisco-based company has launched its first five iOS apps, and is counting on a feature called Mom-Comm to help it stand out from the herd. In short, it's like a Game Center for kids and parents, providing rewards and app recommendations for the former, and an update on their progress for the latter.Fingerprint was founded by Nancy MacIntyre, who previously worked at electronic learning company LeapFrog Enterprises as executive vice president of product innovation and marketing. Her new company raised $1.4m (£0.9m) in September 2011 to fuel her ambitions of finding an audience among 3-8 year-olds and their parents."There are tens of thousands of kids' apps out there, and for parents just discovering what apps are good and knowing how to find them in the App Store is problematic," she says."Once playing, they have no idea what their kids are doing with them. We set out to create a network of high-quality kids content where it's easy for the parent to know what games are appropriate for their children, and get an insight into what the child is playing."This communication goes a bit further than just telling parents what their children have been doing. Parents can send voice or text messages of encouragement to their children within the apps, while the kids can send pre-scripted messages to their parents to tell them about achievements.Fingerprint's first batch of iOS titles includes three in its Big Kid Life franchise, focusing on firefighters, vets and fairy princesses, with a mixture of educational puzzles and more standard gameplay.Fingerprint Play Maker is an avatar-based app designed to teach maths and spelling skills, while DoReMi 1-2-3 is a musical app introducing pitch and melody through the medium of cute animals. This last app is the work of an external developer, Creativity Mobile."Our apps were created to showcase how the platform works, and train people in how to use it and engage with it," says MacIntyre. "We've created an SDK that third party developers can use to plug into our system, and we'll have several more third-party apps coming out soon."Children will create their own character when they first use a Fingerprint game, and will then take that avatar from app to app, and device to device. They will also be able to collect and play with virtual pets, with one unlockable in every app – through play, it should be noted, not through an in-app purchase.MacIntyre says that in Fingerprint's tests, the messaging features have received the strongest response from parents and children. "We see it as transforming the solo app play of one child playing an app to making it a social experience between the child and their parent or caregiver," she says."A child can send a message to mom, mom can send one back, and suddenly the parent is engaged in the learning. Kids have gotten really excited about that. We want to bring parents into the apps in a way that we think is interesting and clever."MacIntyre is under no illusions about the competitive nature of the kid-apps market, but she also warns that no developer in this space can afford to focus solely on their direct competition."Kids have so many choices," she says. "The battle ground isn't only about your apps versus Sesame Street. It's about your apps versus Angry Birds. You need really compelling, fun content. We hope that our shared reward system gives children a reason to go from app to app, while bringing parents into the equation."The competitive kid-apps market could work in Fingerprint's favour as it tries to get more third-party developers to use its SDK in their games and apps. MacIntyre says that the company's pitch is its ability to deliver an audience for developers' apps, while also providing them with analytics on how they're being used."It gets them out of the mode of being one of tens of thousands of apps in the App Store, and into being one of a group of highly-curated very high-quality kids apps," she says. "It's not about being an app developer building one app at a time. It's about the network."Fingerprint's launch games are based on its own characters, but during the interview MacIntyre alludes to conversations she's been having with children's brands. Licensing looks set to play a part in the company's future, although no deals have been announced yet."As a small company starting out, we need to attract as many customers as possible, and some anchor licensed brands is helpful in that regard," she says. "However, the apps market has proven its ability to create new IP, and most of the biggest app brands are new IP. We're really optimistic about Big Kid Life."Much of the competition for Fingerprint – but also many of its potential licensors – come from the toys industry that is very familiar to MacIntyre, given her background.She thinks that most big toy companies still treat apps "as a marketing element" – something to bolster the brands of their physical toys, rather than a way to create new brands and become an important new revenue stream."I'm quite sure all of the major toy players are really thinking about the app business," she says, though, expressing optimism about the idea of linking real-world toys with apps – something done already by Disney with its AppMates line.What about companies like LeapFrog and Fisher Price making their own tablets for children, and so become a rival platform for kid-app developers to consider?"Is it possible to have a good experience with a kid-oriented tablet? The answer is yes, but it's still a toy," says MacIntyre. "With the price of full tablets coming down, it will be very difficult for anybody to make a meaningful business out of making proprietary devices [for kids]. Every parent with an iPhone or iPad is actually a competitor for LeapFrog or Fisher Price."She cites a recent survey showing iOS devices at the top of children's Christmas wishlists in the US as a sign that Apple's devices in particular have "done an amazing job of becoming aspirational to children".Can Big Kid Life and Mom-Comm become similarly attractive to children, parents and other developers? 2012 should provide the answer.
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamA VC: Cheap Will Be Smart. Expensive Will Be Dumb. &gt;&gt; A VCFred Wilson on connected devices.Here's Gowalla CEO's Non-Denial Denial Email About Facebook Purchase &gt;&gt; AllThingsDSo Gowalla *has* been acquired by Facebook? That's pretty big - perhaps Zuckerberg can see something we can't.Facebook's Zuckerberg answers the big question "Is Google+ a threat?" &gt;&gt; The Next WebMark Zuckerberg's answer: 'Um, no, not really'Google Employees Are Receiving Ice Cream Sandwich OTAs On Their Nexus S Phones &gt;&gt; Android PoliceThe dogfooding has begun.Apple licensed iOS scrolling patent to Nokia and IBM, offered license to Samsung &gt;&gt; The VergeIt's the feature that displays a background texture when you scroll beyond the edge of webpage.Microsoft upgrades Xbox Live with 40 entertainment services, live TV, and Kinect voice control &gt;&gt; VentureBeatMicrosoft unveils "the future of TV" ... for gamers with an Xbox 360. Note the design, though: the tiled interface of Metro is washing across every aspect of Microsoft's consumer-facing products. After Windows Phone, Zune, and Xbox, the next to feel it will be Windows.European Union Bans Exports to Syria of Systems for Monitoring Web, Phones &gt;&gt; BloombergSpeaks for itself.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 3 DecemberPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (41)PC (2)Wii (2)42 (5)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (34)Wii (7)3DS (5)103 (2)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (41)PC (5)34 (8)Just Dance 3(3+)Wii (89)Xbox 360 (11)85 (4)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (30)PC (9)46 (3)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (67)PS3 (32)37 (7)Professor Layton And The Spectre's Call(7+)DS (100)28 (–)Mario Kart 7(3+)3DS (100)19 (9)Battlefield 3(16+)PS3 (45)Xbox 360 (50)610 (10)Super Mario 3D Land(3+)3DS (100)311 (13)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (100)312 (11)Need For Speed: The Run(16+)PS3 (50)Xbox 360 (46)Wii (3)3DS (1)313 (12)Moshi Monsters: Moshling Zoo (3+)DS (100)414 (6)WWE 12(12+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (40)215 (16)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (42)PC (6)716 (20)Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception(15+)PS3 (100)517 (15)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure(7+)Wii (47)Xbox 360 (34)PS3 (16)3DS (3)818 (–)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)719 (14)Lego Harry Potter: Years 5-7(7+)Wii (31)Xbox 360 (25)DS (18)PS3 (17)320 (18)Zumba Fitness(3+)Wii (85)Xbox 360 (13)PS3 (2)36UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
At some time in the next 48 hours, Xbox 360 owners will notice the appearance of their console's dashboard has changed considerably. The list of tabs that they are used to navigating exclusively with a control pad will have been replaced by a format that resembles a giant version of the Windows Phone 7 interface.That is, the dashboard will be a series of squares that encompass different functions and aspects, such as gaming, social music and video. Players will lose none of the functionality they currently have, but they may need a couple of days to familiarise themselves with where everything is.Facebook and Twitter, for example, will be positioned in the menu marked "Social", along with Kinect's video calling functionality. They'll also notice the dashboard boasts quite a few new features.The Bing search engine is also bundled into the dashboard, although players can only use it to search for content on their own Xbox 360, and anything on offer in the dashboard – VOD services, Xbox Marketplace and so on.Xbox Live Gold members gain access to Cloud Storage, where they can save games and also upload their profile, enabling them to log in to any Xbox 360 with their Gamertag (provided the console is connected to the internet).Gold members also have access to the console's new on-demand services, which are all bundled together in the Apps menu. These include Lovefilm, YouTube, 4 On Demand, Channel 5 On Demand, Blinkbox and Crackle among others, as well as Sky, Last.fm and Zune, which are already available on Xbox Live.Players can download apps from the Xbox Marketplace to add to the list as more content is rolled out (such as the BBC iPlayer, which is expected some time in 2012).The new menu system also offers a better level of integration in functionality between the Xbox 360, the Windows Phone 7 and Kinect.While the new dashboard isn't any more or less difficult to navigate using a control pad, it's far easier and faster to do it using a Kinect controller.Unlike the current dashboard, where Kinect's functionality is relegated to a small sub-menu, players are able to use voice commands to access every menu available.So, for example, a brief process that involves flipping through a couple of menus with a thumbstick to find Bing and then entering the phrase "Harry Potter" into the engine to find all content relating to the bespectacled wizard, can now be accomplished in seconds with Kinect by saying, "Xbox, Bing, Harry Potter".The new dashboard, in fact, may be the one instance on the Xbox 360 console, where the Kinect module has the edge over traditional control pads.Changing the dashboard to resemble the Windows Phone 7 is also a pretty canny move on Microsoft's part. It familiarises users with that device's interface and may poke a few undecided smartphone purchasers in the direction of a Windows rather than Android or iOS device.Players can also earn Xbox Achievements in games on their Windows Phone 7, as well as share music they've downloaded on it with both their Xbox 360 and their PC. There are already several WP7 titles that connect with Xbox 360 games, including the excellent Fable Coin Golf, which allows you to earn in-game currency to transfer to and then spend in Fable 3.The pet sim, Kinectimals, also lets you transfer your favourite cubs between console and handset versions. Gamers can even use their Windows Phone 7 as a remote control device for the Xbox 360.So the new dashboard increases the functionality of both Kinect and the Windows Phone 7, and offers greater integration between those devices and the Xbox 360.While the console's new interface makes neither device essential, it does make the prospect of owning them a tad more enticing. It's also further proof – if any were ever needed – that Kinect is set to play an even greater role than ever in the Xbox 360's future, which only fuels more speculation that the sensor will probably be bundled into the next iteration of the console.The Windows Phone 7, for its part, is more has more integral functionality with the console than before, which is a clear enough indication that Microsoft considers the smartphone to be a gaming platform of the future, and is quite happy to let Sony and Nintendo duke it out in the handheld console market.There are bound to be some gamers who don't like the new dashboard, as should be expected when a perfectly good system is changed for what seems, initially, no good reason.But it shouldn't be too long before this resistance transforms into enjoyment or, at the very least acceptance, and looking at Microsoft's overall vision of the Xbox 360 as a central hub, the changes make sense.They also offer more integration between Microsoft's hardware and software and it's a safe bet that if the changes help to shift a few more Kinect units and smartphones, that'll be just fine with them.
A selection of 10 apps for you today:Tap Zoo 2: World TourThe original Tap Zoo has been one of the most popular and lucrative freemium social games on iOS. Now it has a sequel, which lets players carry over their zoo from the first game. New features include more animals and the chance to breed new varieties.iPhone / iPadCarrier IQ DetectorAs the controversy around mobile monitoring firm Carrier IQ continues to rage, there's now an app to detect that. Android owners can run Lookout Labs' app to determine whether the Carrier IQ diagnostic software is running on their device.AndroidmiCoach FootballAdidas' new iPhone app works with a new gadget called the Speed Cell – a sensor that fits into or onto football boots. The idea: it measures your speed, number of sprints, distance covered and other stats when training. The miCoach Football app keeps tabs on all these metrics, while wrapping a game around them.iPhoneFrisbee ForeverAlready a big hit on iOS, free game Frisbee Forever has been flung onto Android too. It sees players throwing frisbees through more than 100 3D levels with varied themes.AndroidHubYahoo has launched a new (beta) messaging app for Android smartphones called Hub. It's about free texts and group messaging, gathering them into one app. It'll face plenty of competition, from Facebook Messenger and others.AndroidApps For MomsApps For Moms (alas, the Americanism has been kept for the UK App Store) offers recommendations of apps in a variety of categories for mothers, from entertainment and games to higher education, breaking news and productivity.iPhoneRough Guides Travel Survival KitThe new iPhone app from Rough Guides isn't a traditional book, as such. It's focused on preparations for trips abroad, information in the event of medical emergencies, and help for travel in scenarios such as Sea, Arctic, Desert, Jungle, Natural Disasters and Danger.iPhoneCandy CarnageHandyGames' latest free Android game sees "ravenous butchers" trying to lop the head off princesses, with your job being to stop them. A choice of Candy and Carnage modes add gameplay depth.AndroidMy Life In NumbersTurn your life into a succession of big numbers courtesy of this intriguing new iPhone app. It gets you to enter key events: birth, wedding, gave up smoking etc, and then measure them in seconds, heartbeats, lightning strikes and other metrics.iPhoneShine RunnerVector Unit knows its boats, having already worked on the excellent Riptide GP game. Now it's turned its attention to hillbilly smuggling of "Moonshine and Tobacky", with high-speed flat-bottomed boats and spiffing visuals.Android
UK social gaming company We R Interactive has appointed Geoff Heath, a games and music veteran who sold the rights to Beatles songs to Michael Jackson and founded Call of Duty maker Activision, as it prepares to launch its second major title.Heath joins a roster of high-profile names supporting the company including Elio Leoni-Sceti, the former EMI chief executive, Eric Fellner, the co-chairman of the Four  Weddings and a Funeral maker Working Title, and ITV senior executive Fru Hazlitt.We R Interactive,founded last yearby former Sony and Eidos executive David Rose, is aiming to become a British social gaming rival to Zynga, the US maker of successful Facebook game FarmVille.Heath, who was awarded an OBE in 2009 in part for his contribution to the computer games industry, has been hired as We R Interactive looks to marry music and gaming with a new title called I Am Star. The company says the game will "enable players to live the life of a music star".The title is being hyped as giving players the chance to achieve "fantasy fulfilment" and live a rock star life "from bedroom to concert hall".We R Interactive has won €150,000 (£129,000) in funding from the European Union Media programme, which aims to strengthen the competitiveness of the EU film, TV and digital media industries. The EU money will be used in the pre-production phase of the I Am Star."There is a rich heritage in console-based music games that have proven there is an appetite for user interaction," said Leoni-Sceti. "Yet to date interactive music has not successfully translated to social platforms."The company, chaired by former Ingenious Media director Richard Dale, has launched a football-themed title called I Am Playr.In May, We R Interactivesecured a second round of fundingof $5m (£3.2m) from private investors including Leoni-Sceti and Paul Fitzsimons, a former media partner at private equity firm Apax. Other investors include Peter Mead, the co-founder of ad agency AMV BBDO.During his career in music publishing, Heath was instrumental in striking deals that resulted in ATV acquiring Northern Songs, the home of publishing rights to a range of Beatles compositions, which was then eventually sold to Michael Jackson in the 1980s.In the 1990s, ATV merged with Sony, to create Sony/ATV, which last monthsecured a dealto buy EMI's music publishing division for £1.3bn.
How was your weekend of gaming then? I played a littleModern Warfare 3on Saturday, trying to improve my kill/death ratio but failing miserably.I also took my first stumbling steps into the world ofSkyrim. I'm keen to find out just how flexible the game system really is – I'm not really interested in magic or crafting; I just want to carry a sword and a mace, and a lot of very heavy armour. I don't mind poisoning my blades to give them some extra HP oomph, but I don't want to be messing about with spells or potions. I am really desperate to get back into it, though, which is a very good sign.How about you?
Why would anyone want to buy Yahoo? Such was the question posed by one of my Twitter followersas Thursday's bid(from private equity groups Blackstone and Bain) crossed the wires. "It's a zombie company," he said.Indeed, Yahoo has been stumbling about for quite a few years, with nobody quite clear what its purpose is. I asked the recently departed chief executive Carol Bartz precisely that question a year or so ago, and she burbled around the answer. Really, all Yahoo is there to do is vacuum up spare display advertising while it provides a bit of news, and photography (hello Flickr!) and also be an intermediary for lots of email. Revenues are on a downward slide; Facebook and Twitter are sucking up the display that it used to thrive on.And, er, that's it. Nobody can quite think of anything that Yahoo has done in the past 10 years that has set the internet alight. (Apart perhaps fromYahoo Pipes, which made explicit the method of connecting sites implicitly used by mashups and Web 2.0.) All of which should have newspaper and magazine editors pausing and shivering. Display adverts? News? Photography? Isn't that what … newspapers and magazines do?Yes, and if you aren't looking to the future and doing it with an eye on the money, then your fate is going to be the same as Yahoo's, where nobody can see a good end to the story; it's MySpace or Bebo, just bigger and with its own email server. Indeed, the tale of Yahoo is really just the tale of so many news organisations, except this is played out entirely on the internet. Yahoo's top layer has always been really bad at reading the weather. One of the recurring themes that kept coming up when I was researching my forthcoming book Digital Wars (about Apple, Microsoft and Google's business battles since 1998) was how down the years Yahoo has kept screwing things up. It's like a Shakespearean supporting character, a cross between Falstaff and Rosencrantz and Guildenstern: fated to make bad choices.For example: in 1996, two Stanford PhD students approached Jerry Yang, the co-founder and chief executive, to explain that they had developed a search engine that was even better than Yahoo's own at finding stuff on the web: the most relevant results appeared on the front page. Yang explained patiently that Yahoo didn't really want a better search engine – it made its money from display ads, so the more pages people went through, the more ads it could sell.Yes, the PhD students were Larry Page and Sergey Brin, and their search engine would become Google.Then, as Google was rising in 2000 to 2003, Yahoo kept failing to develop a better ad system, which cost it years and millions of dollars of lost opportunity. Then there wasMicrosoft's colossal $44.6bn (then £22.4bn) cash-and-shares bid in January 2008: at $31 per share, it was a 62% premium to the company's stock price. But Yahoo had devised some internal forecasts that suggested it would quickly be worth far more. It was wrong, the credit crunch came, and Microsoft walked away.How many news organisations have been told about the internet repeatedly, but liked the revenues from display ads too much to go more deeply into this new medium? How many haven't been brave enough to test new ways of doing things, to integrate (or even devise) new technologies and ways to connect?It took the music industry long enough. Finally, some have twigged that apps are (or can be) the new albums. Or that survival is about changing the balance in what they do, away from reissuing CDs of stuff you've sold once on vinyl, to more live tours and interactive paid-for products.Will the news industry figure it out in time, though, as the hull of Yahoo slowly tips out of the water and the bow starts sliding under the waves? We can all complain – as Yahoo's executives might – that the formula worked really well for a while, and it's just unfortunate that it isn't doing quite so well now. Display ads aren't dead online. They're just a bit poorly. And can't get out of bed. Any more.Except there's no reason for Yahoo not to have done what Facebook did. Lord knows how many companies have been offered up to Yahoo, only to disappear into its maw and never emerge usefully again. Its only semi-success at getting paid has been through subscriptions to its photo site Flickr (which remains a best in class).For the rest? Yahoo offers a case study in why you must never get comfortable. It has failed to focus on the money, buoyed by its success in one narrow area. In contrast, Google has tried and tried to find new avenues for making money: it bought Android, the company, in 2005 (Page and Brin didn't tell their then-chief executive Eric Schmidt). It's tried multiple times with social networks. It's never satisfied. Yahoo, and Yang, got comfortable. That's what will kill your business.Digital Wars: Apple, Microsoft, Google and the battle for the internet is published in March 2012 by Kogan Page
The drive for universal mobile phone coverage has seen masts hung from every street corner and disguised asfir trees, clocks and even church windows. Now miniature versions could make their way into living rooms, under plans being drawn up by Virgin Media.The cable operator wants to offer customers a personal mobile phone signal, using transceivers the size of a paperback book, because the wireless network relied upon by personal computers is predicted to become overloaded.Virgin hopes to bid alongside more traditional mobile operators such as Vodafone and O2 for a chunk of the 4G high-speed mobile internet spectrum due to be auctioned by the government next year. Other landline companies, including BT, are considering bidding for spectrum, but have yet to disclose their plans.Virgin and BT have been engaged in a broadband arms race, trumping each others' highest speeds, with BT now offering internet access in some areasof up to 110 megabits per second, more than 10 times the average home connection and enough to stream video to a handful of screens simultaneously.Fast internet is a potential high earner for telecoms companies – Virgin charges up to £45 a month for a 100Mbps connection. However, the top speeds can only be guaranteed as far as the cable socket. And as the number of gadgets with an internet connection increases, with iPads joining smartphones and laptops in many homes, the Wi-Fi signal which connects them to the fibre network is filling up.Eventually, even those paying extra for a high-speed line may find they have a slow connection because their wireless channel is full.The pressure will mount as the so-called "internet of things" takes hold. Household appliances from fridges and washing machines to boilers are expected to get their own internet connection in the next few years so that they can be operated remotely.Virgin Media strategy director Robert Samuelson said: "As more pieces of equipment are going to use Wi-Fi and we get into video, there is a risk of the quality of service declining. It's already happening in student halls of residence and hotels."The Wi-Fi capacity crunch has affected even high end establishments such as Hilton Hotels, with frequent complaints from guests about slow internet speeds. Luxury venues, including the Ritz and the Dorchester, charge for a connection, presumably as a way of limiting usage, while other hotels offer free Wi-Fi for basic functions like email but charge for a high speed connection.Wi-fi signals are notorious for seizing up at conference centres, particularly during hi-tech events such as the annual Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, where efforts to demonstrate the latest in wireless technology have been hampered by overcrowded networks.The miniature masts which Virgin wants to use, known asfemtocellsor nanocells, would have a range of up to 100 metres. They could be plugged into living rooms and studies, or used in offices to provide coverage over a wide area at higher power. Public places such as restaurants, exhibition centres and railway stations may also take an interest in the technology.Once the 4G spectrum auction is complete, mobile phone networks will begin erecting yet more masts and transceivers as they roll out high speed internet. However, the money might be better spent indoors, where signals are often poor. Deutsche Telekom research has shown that even on smartphones, 45% of traffic is generated from homes, 45% is from work, and only 10% is while out and about walking, driving or taking a bus.
InstagramiPhone, freeMore than 13 million people are using Instagram, an app that helps you apply stylised filters to your photos before sharing them on Facebook, Twitter and other social sites. It's simple to use and the resulting shots are frequently beautiful.360 PanoramaiPhone/Android/iPad, £0.69As its name implies, 360 Panorama is an app for taking panoramic shots, stitching the images together on your phone there and then. You spin around in a circle snapping and can then share images on Facebook, Twitter and via email.FxCameraAndroid, freeFxCamera is a simple but hugely popular photography app for Android smartphones, which applies effects including toycam, fisheye, Warhol and "polandroid" to your photographs. It lacks the social features of some rivals, but is very easy to use.Touchnote PostcardsiPhone/Android/iPad, freeTouchnote is all about turning your digital photos into physical postcards: ideal for sending holiday snaps to luddites who aren't on email or mobile phones themselves. The cards cost £1.49 each and can be delivered anywhere.Paper CameraiPhone/Android, £0.69Paper Camera is another app that involves applying visual filters to your photographs, but here the emphasis is on cartoon and comic-book-style effects. They are applied as you line up a shot, too, letting you see how they'll look before snapping.Photo Editor UltimateBlackBerry, freeBlackBerry smartphone owners aren't left out of the mobile photo-editing space. This app offers a range of filters, effects and tools to crop, rotate and resize your images. It's also currently free, to say sorry for the recent BlackBerry service problems.PicplziPhone/Android, freePicplz is similar to Instagram in many ways, including its vintage filters and the ability to share pictures on Facebook and Twitter. Its main advantage: it's also available on Android, beating its rival on to Google-powered smartphones.Camera+iPhone, £0.69The cameras on Apple's iPhones have been improving steadily, but Camera+ is still an essential download for anyone who's serious about their iphotography. It includes tools to improve exposure, focus, lighting and even has a stabiliser to avoid blurry shots.Color SplashiPhone, £0.69This app has only one use, but it's a very stylish one. It turns your photos into black-and-white shots, then enables you to bring the colour back to specific details: an item of clothing, someone's eyes, a certain building and so on.Thumba Photo EditorWindows Phone, £0.69Another slick photo-editing app here, with filters to style up your images and easy cropping and brightness/contrast adjustment tools. It's also notable for being available on Microsoft's Windows Phone smartphones, where it's found a healthy audience.Slow Shutter CamiPhone, £0.69This app's selling point is that you don't need an expensive DSLR camera to try slow shutter-speed effects on your photos. For creating imaginative and arty photos, Slow Shutter Cam works very well.
So dominant is Apple's handset that it's hard for anyone else to get a word in when it comes to apps. Their latest rival, Windows Mobile (WM), is still lacking in numbers and having embraced the platform, Nokia has felt obliged to provide a number of proprietary apps to fill that void. With the Lumia 800 they may just have a phone that can compete.Nokia Driveprovides a GPS, with turn-by-turn directions, that can't be matched for free by any competitors, while the similarly exclusiveNokia Mapsis superior to the Bing navigation available on other WM phones. However, the killer app could well beNokia Mix Radio. It provides 15&nbsp;million tracks, dividing playlists by genre or generating them based on taste – and can be downloaded to listen to offline. You can only skip six tracks an hour, meaning it isn't quite up there with Spotify's premium service, but for free it's hard to fault.
THQ's pro-wrestling game, in all its theatrical, chest-slapping, Lycra-clad glory enters the ring again, this time with a more sophisticated repertoire for each fighter. Trademark grappling, take-downs and strikes (and an assortment of objects such as ladders and chairs) deliver increasingly damaging attacks as players bring the pain in full WWE-style, but locking-in submissions and pins have also been overhauled, allowing more opportunities to escape and gain the upper hand. With a roster of 60-plus superstars to choose from and plenty of customisable features and downloadable content,WWE '12feels like a real move forward in quality. While the AI is still inconsistent at times, with difficulty levels ranging from pathetically easy to being on the receiving end of a severe duffing-up, and&nbsp;the single-player Road to Wrestlemania mode pedestrian at best,&nbsp;the 40-man Royal Rumble is awesome fun and the online multiplayer remains a blast, ultimately making it a must for diehard fans.
Some folks are happy to exercise in front of other people. These same people generally aren't mortified by dancing in public either. Everyone else hasZumba.Zumba Fitness 2isn't, despite its packaging's claims, a dance/fitness "party". It's not even something as joyless as a "workout". It's an opportunity for unsupervised flailing about, masquerading as the most fun you can have in your own home while wearing Lycra. The originalZumba Fitnesssold over 3m copies. That number makes the appearance ofZumba Fitness 2a formality – and it presents like a game with a ready-made constituency and little to prove. So the controller doesn't track your movements with any certainty, and the bundled fitness belt that leaves your hands free doesn't register any movement at all unless you're merengue-ing like a maniac. Honestly, just put some music on and have a bit of a dance. Work up a sweat if you like. It's still exercise, and it's free.
Seventh time around for Nintendo's flagship driving series sees Mario, Luigi and chums competing at more wacky races in the Mushroom Kingdom and you might assume that there would be few new places to take this hugely entertaining Kart racer. An assumption proved wrong the moment the kart is first launched into the air and sprouts a pair of wings to glide back to earth; this latest iteration still has plenty of original places to take the player. By venturing into the air (and under water), the races have had an extra dimension added; another left-field masterstroke from Nintendo. Equally, applying 3D to a driving game isn't as obtrusive or as controversial as for some other genres, and here it is used to great effect, with each track an undulating ribbon of colours, sights and sounds. The controls are as smooth and responsive as ever, although Nintendo has scaled back the stunt-jumps feature from the Wii version. A selection of classic tracks make their appearance, including the infamous "Rainbow Road" from the original SNES game, but it's the new circuits that really shine, while, most importantly, playing on the 3DS allows you to sidestep the weak rubber-banding of AI rivals to compete locally and online with other players. As charming and as rambunctious as ever with a fresh feel too, it should be a smash hit with families this Christmas.
Price £25,525MPG 42.2Top speed 138mphThe car is 125 years old! Happy birthday! It's been quite a journey since that heady day in 1886 when Karl Benz clambered into his open three-wheeled "velocipede" and motored along the Ringstrasse in Mannheim. The vehicle, which came to be known as the Benz Patent Motor Car, looked like a park bench slung between two penny-farthing wheels… actually that's pretty much what it was. Concerned he'd run out of petrol on that first journey (there were as yet no garages, of course), Benz asked his son Eugen to run along beside him carrying a bottle of fuel. Karl later recalled: "I must have reached a speed of 16kmh." So, the first driver and already the first speeder.The world's first car: the Benz Patent Wagon. Photograph: Daimler AG for the ObserverThe local paper, theNeue Badische Landeszeitung, had a&nbsp;reporter there who, in breathless prose, described the event:  "A velocipede was tried out this morning. The test is said to have been satisfactory." Journalistic hyperbole had yet to be discovered.Benz went on to apply for a patent (patent enthusiasts: it's number 37435), which essentially became the automobile's birth certificate. In the 125 years since, Mercedes-Benz has applied for a further 80,000 patents – a list of astonishing and groundbreaking motoring milestones which have turned Benz's velocipede into the omnipotent modern motor car we all take for granted today.To get into the birthday spirit,  I drive the new C-class, the capable workhorse at the heart of the Mercedes-Benz line-up, to Mercedes-Benz World. Yes, non-car lovers, that's right – Mercedes-Benz World, a&nbsp;theme park slash temple to the brand located on the historic Brooklands site. For devotees, it's a&nbsp;beautiful, restful place to pause and take in all that's marvellous about the cars of the three-pointed star. For non-believers, it's a&nbsp;stultifyingly turgid day out, but there is a nice café.At first I had a great time getting up close and personal with the famous Mercs of the past. There's the iconic Gullwing, the lavish Maybach and, oh my, the awesome McLaren&nbsp;F1. The cars crouch on gallery-grade plinths, like works of art in a huge glass-and-steel mausoleum. But as the day wears on I start to feel a little sad. Seeing how far the car has come, all that it has achieved, I can't escape the feeling that somehow we are on the final lap, that the car's journey is coming to an end. One day will these cars be little more than exhibits from a forgotten world? Like the spine-tingling scene at the end ofPlanet of the Apeswhere they find those last humans, stuffed, with taxidermists' stitches edging their hairlines.I climb back into the C-class. Reliable, comfortable, safe, efficient, sexy, triumphantly well made and intuitive to drive. Its engine uses 10 times less fuel than the first diesel of 1936. As I turn the key I mentally run through the list of life-saving firsts that now come with each and every Mercedes. The crumple zone and rigid passenger cage from 1959; anti-lock braking from 1978; airbags from 1981; electronic stability from 1995…One of the things this car isn't yet fitted with is a Pre-Scan chassis – another patent. Cars will soon be able to read the surface of the road ahead using laser sensors and adjust their suspension to give you a super smooth "magic carpet ride". Maybe there's life in the old car yet. Maybe I'll get my son to run alongside me to remind me just how far we've come.
The strange thing about photography is that although it's been revolutionised by digital technology, at heart it's the same medium that entranced Louis Daguerre, Eugène Atget and André Kertész, to name just three of its early masters. And although it's become much easier to take photographs that are technically flawless (in terms of exposure and focus), it's just as difficult to capture aesthetically satisfying images as it was in the age of film and chemicals. It turns out that technology is a necessary, but not a sufficient, condition for creating art.Still, the technology is pretty impressive. Almost every digital camera on the consumer market today is a marvel of automation, with auto-focus that generally works, metering systems that accurately assess light (at least on evenly illuminated scenes) and do a passable job of reducing the red-eye effect produced by direct flash. The newer consumer cameras go much further than this, offering face detection (so that you don't wind up taking photographs of people's shoes) and now even (so help me God)smiledetection. So while it is still possible to take terrible pictures with these devices, you have to work pretty hard to achieve a convincing display of incompetence.The result is a world where an unimaginable number of photographs are taken every day. Photo-hosting services such as Picasa and Flickr, and social networking sites such as Facebook, now host upwards of 100 billion images between them. The scale of this abundance is really hard to grasp, but recently an Amsterdam gallery had a shot at it, by printing off a copy of every photograph uploaded to Flickr in a 24-hour period and then shovelling the resulting avalanche into a succession of rooms, all of which werewaist-high in photographs. And Flickr is small beer compared with Facebook.The pace of change in technology has also been dramatic and not just in terms of the "megapixel wars" over the number of pixels that could be fitted on to a sensor. As sensors improved, the industry spotted a demand for more sophisticated cameras and so the digital single lens reflex (DSLR) was born, complete with prismatic viewfinder, a mirror that flipped up when you pressed the shutter, interchangeable lenses and all the other paraphernalia of "serious" photography.This worked for a while, until people discovered that packing a DSLR and a couple of lenses meant that you could only bring a toothbrush before you'd exceeded Ryanair's cabin baggage allowance. So the quest was on for something that functioned like a DSLR but didn't have all that clunky mirror stuff. The result was a new line of cameras with the catchy (not to say incomprehensible) tag of "micro four thirds" such as the Olympus PEN series (see below). These will probably be the must-have devices this Christmas.In recent years, the whole concept of what constitutes a camera has been up for grabs. As an inveterate photographer, I used to carry a Canon IXUS with me everywhere, sitting snugly in a leather case on my belt. But then I bought an iPhone4, the first mobile phone I'd owned that had a decent camera. You can guess the rest of the story: more often than not, the IXUS now sits at home on a shelf.The reason is obvious. It's the old photographer's adage that the best camera is always the one you happen to have with you. Since most of us carry mobile phones, it was inevitable that once their onboard cameras became powerful enough to produce reasonable pictures then they would become the default photographic device. That's one reason why the iPhone is now the most popular camera among Flickr users.The other reason for the popularity of cameraphones is that smartphones are actually quite powerful computers, which means they can run software that does quite sophisticated image-processing, something beyond the capacity of the feeble processors that power conventional digital cameras. Sothe market for photo appsthat can do stuff such as high dynamic range (HDR) photography, or produce all kinds of weird retro effects, has exploded (see panel below).This, in turn, is a harbinger of the next big thing, what geeks call computational photography – that is to say image-making that owes as much to computing as it does to optics. The best-known example is light field photography, a technology that captures all the light in a particular subject and produces not a flat, two-dimensional image but a virtual cube out of which 2D images can be sliced by taking cross-sections through it. Once upon a time, this required a roomful of computers, but the room has now been shrunk to the size of a handheld consumer device.The Lytro light field camera hits the streets early in 2012. It's a long way from the Kodak Box Brownie that made photography a consumer pastime, but, hey! that's progress  for you.
