Apple's new maps offering has drawn huge amounts of ire from users used to having Google Maps on their device. But it's far from the company's first brush with a PR embarrassment. What's surprising is how many of them it has managed to ride over and turn into success. Will maps be the same – or cause lasting damage?Apple Maps - September 2012The introduction by Apple of its own mapping service in iOS6, the operating software rolled out to iPhones and iPads on Wednesday 19 September, has been one of its worst PR disasters. Although the update has brought voice-driven turn-by-turn navigation, users have complained that the new maps, which replace Google's – in use on the iPhone since 2007 –lack accuracy, clarity and detail. In response, Apple said that "We launched this new map service knowing it is a major initiative and that we are just getting started with it. Maps is a cloud-based solution and the more people use it, the better it will get. We appreciate all of the customer feedback and are working hard to make the customer experience even better."In other words, it knows that people aren't liking it. But it hasn't got a quick fix – and for people missing public transport information since the loss of Google, the only options are to use Google's maps in the browser (maps.google.co.uk), hope that the map will get you there, or – when all else fails – buy a paper map. Or ask someone.Apple's new maps. Photo byKim Gunnarssonon Flickr.Some rights reservedOne intriguing point to nice: within days of the iOS6 release, some users were reporting that they'd seen errors fixed. Getting every item in the world in the right place with the right name is no small task – but Apple seems to have embarked on it, for better or worse.iPhone 4 antenna – July 2010"Antennagate", as it was inevitably known, began whennew owners of the iPhone 4 started using their devices- and discovering that the new design had worse reception when their hand bridged the gap between the two external antennae on the lower left. Some complained by email to Steve Jobs - whoresponded"don't hold it that way".Although Jobsthought that the claims were a smear campaign, two weeks later he fronted a press conference at which he said that Apple would offer a free "bumper" for the phones – while also saying that only 0.55% of iPhone 4 owners had complained to Apple about problems. The iPhone 4 was knocked off PR World's "Top 10 Cell Phones" list. Separate testing by AnandTech suggested that the iPhone 4 was actually more sensitive to mobile signals than its predecessor. The iPhone 4 sold substantially more than the 3GS, and is still on sale today.The buttonless iPod shuffle - March 2009The what? That's right: Applereleased an iPod with no buttons at all, and it wasn't even April Fool's Day. You were meant to control it through your headphones, whichwouldhave a button. In September 2010, Apple updated the line. Guess what? No more buttonless iPod shuffles; instead, they now had buttons again. (Thanks Michael DeGusta forpointing that one out.)MobileMe – July 2008The launch of MobileMe – Apple's first big foray into cloud computing – was meant to be a proud moment. Apple created a paid-for service which was meant to synchronise email, calendars, address books and settings between Macintosh computers and iPhones. It launched at the same time as the iPhone 3G, the App Store, and the iPhone 2.0 software update.But instead of being a triumph, MobileMeturned into a fiasco, with people failing to receive email and the service suffering long outages. In an email to staff, Jobs said that the launch, which saw repeated outages, was "not up to Apple standards". He was more brutal with the staff of the MobileMe division, whom he called into a meeting hall and berated. "Can anyone tell me what MobileMe is supposed to do?" he asked. On receiving an answer, he responded: "So why the fuck doesn't it do that?" The head of the team was fired in front of the rest. Jobs laterapologised publicly.MobileMe became iCloud. Photo byosde8infoon Flickr.Some rights reservedMobileMe morphed in 2011 into iCloud – which now provides storage for millions of iPads and iPhones, as well as doing the functions of MobileMe for email, and delivering text message-style iMessages over mobile data.Original iPhone price cut - September 2007The first iPhone was released in June 2007, priced at $600 for the 8GB version (there was also a 4GB version). In September, Appleabruptly dropped the priceby $200 - leading to howls of protests and overflowing email inboxes at Apple. Within days, Steve Jobs acknowledged the mistake and said: "Our early customers trusted us, and we must live up to that trust with our actions in moments like these." Early buyers were given $100 of credit for the Apple Store; Jobs defended the fact it was not the full $200 by saying that "this is life in the technology lane".The price drop did apparently help sales in the phone's first Christmas.iMovie HD replaced by iMovie 08 - August 2007By the time iMovie, Apple's free cut-it-yourself movie-making software, had reached version 6 (aka "HD") it had reached a sort of nirvana, offering a timeline to drag clips into, effects, separate sound volume controls, and simple import. Inexplicably, it then replaced it with iMovie 08 - a complete and user-mystifying departure from the features of its predecessor. The outcry was so great that Apple eventually had to offer iMovie HD as a separate download; it's still so popular that copies are sold on eBay. (Thanks Roy van Veenon Twitterfor the suggestion.)iPod nano screen – September 2005A scratched iPod nano screen, October 2005. Photo byweedavidon Flickr.Some rights reservedThe tiny Flash-based nano, which Jobs unveiled by pulling out of his jeans coin pocket, had a colour screen – but early users quickly discovered that itscratched rather easily. With the nano being key to Apple's plans to dominate iPod sales at Christmas, the early response from Apple was no response. Instead it huddled for a while before responding, some days later, to say there was a problem with a small batch of screens.The nano went on to drive Apple's biggest ever quarter of sales.Revealing the PowerMac G5 – 2003Steve Jobs wanted the glory of unveiling the new Power Mac G5 desktop computer. Unfortunately his web team got there first: a mistake in the setup meant that the picture and specifications of the device were shown on the Apple website on the Sunday evening before his Monday speech, for long enough for screenshots to be snapped. Jobs referred to it in his speech as "premature specification". A website management position became vacant not long afterwards.The Cube computer – 2000Back view of the Cube. Photo byianmunroeon Flickr.Some rights reservedShown off proudly by Steve Jobs in July 2000, the Cube (literally a seven-inch cube) was a fanless desktop computer (for which you had to bring your own screen and keyboard) aimed, Apple said, at "prosumers" – people who wanted professional-level power at consumer-y prices. Though the cubic design looked good, the fact that you couldn't add full-size graphics cards or upgrade the RAM, and that the price without a screen was higher than for a full-powered desktop Power Mac murdered sales. In addition, some had manufacturing problems that led to mould lines – or cracks - appearing in the sides. Apple put the Cube on ice in July 2001.The Mac's missing CD burners – 2000In 1999, Napster exploded onto the internet, offering a completely new (if legally dubious) way of accessing huge amounts of music stored on other peoples' PCs. Abruptly, people began downloading music, and burning CDs of music. But at Apple, Steve Jobs was sure that the way forward was DVD playback – and so iMacs, PowerBooks and iBooks included DVD drives by default, not CD-burning drives. Potential customers turned away: Apple Mac sales dropped by a third while that of the PC market grew by 10%. In November 2000 Jobs warned analysts that Apple would see lower profits:  we "completely missed the boat" he admitted to them: "We just blew this one."Within a year, Apple had launched the iPod - which was only a theoretical idea when he spoke to analysts.The "hockey puck" mouse - September 1998Spot the odd one out: the iMac's USB mouse was an ergonomic nightmare. Photo bymoparxon Flickr.Some rights reservedAlong with the attractive curves of the first iMac, Apple introduced a new mouse which was circular, rather than the more usual oval. Unfortunately, nobody seems to have tested it to see what extended (or even brief) use would be like. The "hockey puck" was incredibly frustrating to use because it gave no clues to the hand about which was the front or back, and which was the side. That meant the onscreen mouse often moved in the wrong direction. People who bought iMacs soon found they needed to spend on a third-party mouse as well, to the delight of third-party mouse manufacturers, who saw a brief boom – which, ironically, persuaded many that Apple might be a company worth building add-ons for.That latter effect was amplified by the number of iMac users who had to buy new peripherals, because the iMac dumped the floppy drive and adopted USB wholesale – both moves that Windows PC companies held off doing. The add-on accessory business for Apple products including the iPod, iPhone and iPad (and to a lesser extent Macs) is now worth billions every year.Somehow, the awfulness of the hockey puck mouse lasted 18 months before Jobs killed it in January 2000, citing its terrible reviews, and introducing an oval-shaped optical mouse which still – like all Apple mice before and since – only had one button.The Newton – 1993Apple Newton beside an iPhone. Photo byblakespoton Flickr.Some rights reservedThe Newton was meant to be an intelligent "personal digital assistant" (a phrase coined by John Sculley and a Toshiba executive over dinner one evening). It would decipher handwriting and carry contact details and in essence be the first Apple iPhone – but years before the iPhone. However, the handwriting recognition was deeply flawed (unsurprising given the ambition of the project and the comparatively underpowered processors of the day) and the device was costly. Steve  Jobsfinally killed the Newtonnot long into his return.
Welcome to Monday. And please make sure you sign up for our forthcoming game events (click on the links to apply for tickets):Guardian presents: so you want to be a games journalist, October 2, freeCome and meet a bunch of the Guardian games writers (including me, Simon Parkin, Keza Macdonald and newcomer, Christian Donlan) as well as a couple of special guests. Even if you don't want to be a games writer (what?!) you can come along and ask us questions about games journalism, or simply hurl abuse, like a live comments section. It's free, too!Meet the creators of Dishonored, Oct 3, £8Come and see the artistic visionaries behind the steam punk stealth adventure. Art director Sebastien Mitton and visual design director Viktor Antonov will talk about how they imagined and built Dunwall and its unique retro futuristic architecture. I've seen them do this talk at the Develop conference and it was AMAZING. We also get to ask them questions afterwards. It's £8 including snacks and drinks.Both of these are at the lovely Guardian offices near Kings Cross
A quick burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamInside Apple's go-slow approach to mobile payments &gt;&gt; WSJ.comHolding back in mobile payments was a deliberate strategy, the result of deep discussion last year. Some Apple engineers argued for a more-aggressive approach that would integrate payments more directly.But Apple executives chose the go-slow approach for now. An Apple spokeswoman declined to comment on the decision-making process.Apple's head of world-wide marketing, Phil Schiller, in an interview last month, said that digital-wallet mobile-payment services are "all fighting over their piece of the pie, and we aren't doing that."...Last year, Apple engineers and executives considered some aggressive approaches to exploit that advantage when in-house debate over the market began in earnest. Google unveiled its Android payment system around the same time.A small group began investigating whether the company should create a new service that would embed various payment methods into the iPhone or build a payment network of its own, according to people familiar with the matter. Apple's head of iPhone software, Scott Forstall, was interested in the idea, say people familiar with the matter, and engineers on his team began to brainstorm a comprehensive "wallet app."The blockage: effect on NFC on battery life, and retailers' slow takeup in the US. Basically, it has it all ready - but is waiting for the market to arrive. (Subscription required.)Google adds 'Do Not Track' to Chrome &gt;&gt; PCWorldGoogle has added a Do Not Track privacy option to Chrome's developer channel, though it's late to the party compared to other browsers.When Do Not Track is enabled in a browser, it signals to Websites and to advertisers that the userdoesn't want to be followedaround the web for ad targeting purposes. Ad networks and sites aren't required to comply, butseveral of them do, and the U.S. government is now pressuring more companies to play along,including Google.Apple Maps: The FAQ &gt;&gt; counternotionsAs they say, every turn-by-turn direction starts with the first step.LG Display holds 70% of iPad panel shipments &gt;&gt; DigitimesLG Display is now responsible for 70% of iPad panel shipments while Samsung Electronics, Sharp and Chimei Innolux (CMI) have all been seeing decreasing shipments, according to industry sources.Samsung originally accounted for a large portion of iPad panel shipments and was shipping over one million iPad panels in July. However, as of August the company had dropped to roughly 700,000 in iPad panel shipments and that number may decrease even more, added the sources.The decrease is a significant drop from Samsung's monthly average of 2.5m iPad panel shipments during the first half of 2012, said the sources. The sources did not specify specific reasons for the drop in shipments but market observers suspect it has to do with disputes between Apple and Samsung.When the patent lawyer met the genie &gt;&gt; SMBCSplork?Apple accused of ripping off famous Swiss clock design &gt;&gt; CNET NewsIn a report in Swiss newspaper Tages-Anzeiger (by way of Macrumors), the Swiss Federal Railway service, or SBB, has taken offense to the app's design, to which it says it owns the trademark.The 1944 design by then-SBB employee Hans Hilfiker (which you can see here) is used in station clocks throughout the railway system, which is well-known for its timeliness. It's also licensed to Mondaine, a Swiss watch manufacturer.An SBB spokesman told Tages-Anzeiger that he was pleased Apple was using the design, but noted that the company was not authorized to do so. The report suggests a legal complaint is being drafted as a result.Someone forgot that if there's one thing the Swiss take seriously, it's their clocks.Wal-Mart says it will stop selling Amazon's Kindle &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comWal-Mart Stores, the nation's largest retailer, said Thursday it was dropping Amazon's Kindle tablets and e-readers, a sign of how seriously it views Amazon as a competitor in the consumer goods market.Target said in May that it would stop selling Kindles, though other stores, including Best Buy, Staples and Office Depot, said Thursday they would continue to carry the devices.What does Twitter know about me? My .zip file with 50Mb of data « Anne HelmondThree weeks ago I reada tweet from @web_martinwho had requested all his data from Twitter under European law and received a .zip file with his data from Twitter. He linked to the Privacy International blog which has written downstep by stephow to request your own data.You, too, can play if you live in the EU - though Twitter CEO Dick Costolo has indicated that Twitter will allow you to download all your tweets by the end of this year. We'll see.Asus to unveil the Padfone 2 in October &gt;&gt; LiliputingThe Asus Padfone hasn't exactly taken the world by storm since Asus first introduced the smartphone that can transform into a tablet, notebook, or desktop with liberal use of docking stations. In fact, the Padfone has yet to officially go on sale in the US.But Asus is getting ready to launch the Padfone 2.On 16 October, it seems.German court says Samsung and Motorola don't infringe Apple's touch event model patent &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsUnlike the multitouch patents that Apple asserted at the recent California trial, each one of which is specific to a particular gesture, this is a fairly broad patent that covers the way the operating system reports touch events to applications or purposely ignores them. If Apple's proposed interpretation of this patent had been adopted by the court, numerous applications that rely on the attacked operating system functionality would no longer run in a reliable, stable fashion after a workaround. This would have caused logistical complications with the need to rewrite, recompile and reinstall many apps.Now it won't.New iPhone, old abuses: Have working conditions at Foxconn in China improved? &gt;&gt; SACOMNow, in September 2012, our researchers revisited Foxconn's plants in Zhengzhou, HenanProvince, China, whose sole product is the iPhone. Most of the 60 interviewees who SACOM talked to are new workers recruited by the government. The high turnover rate and the government's need to recruit workers and take other special steps to smooth production implicitly suggest that job satisfaction is not high. More than that, SACOM's new investigation finds that Foxconn workers in Zhengzhou are still facing deplorably harsh working conditions. It is disappointing that no matter how advanced the technology introduced by Apple is, the old problems in working conditions remain at its major supplier Foxconn.Seen at Hackney Wick station: for the benefit of iOS6 users...When the transport system is making fun at your expense...You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
My brother, Peter Jackson, has died aged 57 of complications following heart surgery. For many years, he was a freelance journalist at the forefront of the microcomputer revolution, explaining the new technology in simple and clear prosefor the Guardian, the Times and many other publications.Peter was born in Eccles, Greater Manchester. He went to Eccles grammar school and studied physics and electronics at Lancaster University. In 1984, as editor of the journal MicroScope, he won the prize for computer journal of the year at the Computer Press awards. The following year, he won the award again – this time as editor of Personal Computer World, which the judges praised for its "lively writing and design style".He always preferred writing to editing and moved on toPC Magazine, becoming an editorial fellow along with their other star columnistGuy Kewney. Peter was joint winner, along with Steve Malone, of the UK Press Gazette Business Press award for columnist of the year. The magazine was taken over by VNU in 2000 and Peter, along with many other staff members, was made redundant at the end of that year.In recent years, Peter had a number of serious health problems. He moved to Brighton in 2007 and became reclusive, but colleagues and friends remember him with great affection for his phenomenal intelligence and his ability to understand complex subjects and take the time to explain them with clarity and wit. They also remember his encyclopedic brain, which led to him being banned from pub quiz teams as there was no point in competing against him.He is survived by his daughter, Rosie, his former wife, Annie, his partner, Carolyn, and me.
Price£7,630MPG62.8Top speed99mphKeeping a tab on who's getting into bed with who in the motoring industry requires all the relationship savvy of a divorce-hardened couples counsellor. Unlikely alliances seem to spring up faster than they do&nbsp;during the last dance at  a youth club. And the results of these automotive liaisons mean that the car you are driving may not be exactly what you think it is. Would you have guessed that your Volvo S40 has the same DNA as a&nbsp;Ford Focus and a Mazda 3? Or that a&nbsp;Ford Galaxy is a VW Sharan, which is a Seat Alhambra by any other name?This week's example of a motoring cross-fertilisation is the Skoda  Citigo: a city-friendly supermini designed to cope with the  horrors of urban motoring. It just so happens that the Citigo is the same as the VW Up! and the Seat Mii. By the same, I don't mean that all three share a passion for congested streets, red lights and speed bumps – I mean that they are essentially identical triplets. They all come off the same production line in the same factory in Bratislava in Slovakia. All three manufacturers are, of course,  owned by Volkswagen, and other than the badge and the odd very superficial difference, you'd be hard-pressed to spot the difference. Interestingly they don't all cost the same, though. The Up! is the most expensive and the Citigo the cheapest, but only by a few hundred quid. When you are spending less than eight grand on  a car, the differences in price are never going to be that great. But why would VW make three different cars the same? It's all part of the huge German firm's masterplan for global domination and goes back to that basic tenet of marketeering: give the customer the impression of choice.The strange thing is that the impression of choice is very real. I&nbsp;have test-driven the Up! and now I&nbsp;am driving the Citigo. My head tells me that the cars are the same, but my heart insists there's a difference. The Up! felt innovative and new, while the Citigo feels economical and sensible. But then that is Skoda's home turf: the brand is a byword for cheap, reliable, no-nonsense motoring. And that is exactly what the Citigo feels like. It'll be hard for Seat's Mii to carve out a&nbsp;role in this triumvirate. The quirky black sheep of the family, maybe.The Citigo (and its brothers) makes a decent fist of taking the pain out of city driving. It's remarkably roomy for a car with such a small footprint and can easily seat four adults. The boot is narrow but surprisingly deep, so there's plenty of room for the shopping. Driving in town is not so much about driving as pausing – it's a waiting game – so, as you would hope, the Citigo comes with a decent stereo, a nifty detachable (theft-proof) infotainment device, loads of small clever storage cubbies, comfortable seats with plenty of headroom, and effective air con. It's a great car to be stuck in traffic in.It can handle the open road, too, its high-revving 1-litre engine coping with the demands of the motorway better than you would imagine. True, a long haul up to the Highlands or down to the West Country would be pretty knackering – but any pain you felt in your back would be compensated by the gentle ride the car gives your wallet: it'll do up to 78.5mpg on a steady run.So, easy to drive and easy on the wallet – the Citigo/Up!/Mii hardly seems like an intimidating weapon as VW goes head to head with GM and Toyota in the battle for global sales, but in a fight that's all about numbers, it's three in one.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in  one place
The first thought to strike anyone stumbling upon the now-infamousInnocence of Muslimsvideo on YouTube without knowing anything about it would probably be that it makes Monty Python'sThe Life of Brianlook like the work of Merchant Ivory. It's daft, amateurish beyond belief and, well, totally weird. So the notion that such a fatuous production might provoke carnage in distant parts of the world seems preposterous.And yet it did. In the process, the video created numerous headaches for a US administration struggling to deal with the most turbulent part of the world. But it also raised some tricky questions about the role that commercial companies play in regulating free speech in a networked world – questions that will remain long afterInnocence of Muslimshas been forgotten.European commentators have smugly observed that the kerfuffle shows how little the Arab world understands the idea of free speech. Actually, what it shows is the gulf that separates the US from the rest of the world, including Europe. If the video had surfaced on a hosting site based in the UK, for example, it would have been taken down for incitement to religious hatred.But the first amendment to the US constitution provides a different kind of legal environment. The Obama administration was therefore not in a position to ban the video so it took the route of trying to persuade Google, YouTube's owner, that it violated YouTube's rules.Google declinedthe request 10 days ago, saying that the video did not violate its terms of service regarding hate speech. The video would remain online because it was against the Islam religion but not Muslim people.So far, so good. But then Google appeared to undermine its own argument by announcing that it had blocked access to the video in some countries. Access was denied in India and Indonesia because it violated local laws in those jurisdictions, but it was also blocked in Egypt and Libya‚ not because it violated their laws but because of "the delicacy of the situation".At this point, even those who are not constitutional lawyers begin to smell a rat. Here we have a commercial company effectively making editorial judgments. If Google were a publisher, like, say, theNew York Times, then the question of whether it should or should not publish the video could be trashed out via an established channel – the courts. But Google is not a publisher: it's something else entirely – anintermediary– a type of entity that's increasingly common nowadays and includes Facebook, Twitter and, oddly enough, Amazon.So we're now in new and uncharted territory, nicely described by one legal scholar, Eoin O'Dell, onhis blog: "First, in the online world, where most of us access the internet through a range of intermediaries, government censorship does not necessarily need to target the disfavoured speech; it need only target the intermediaries. Very few US companies would feel able to decline a request like that from the White House, and Google are to be commended for standing firm in those circumstances. Second, these intermediaries now have a great deal of practical power over online expression‚ not only can they be co-opted by government as agents of state censorship but they also have the capacity to act as censors in their own rights, as Google did in their unilateral action to block access in the Middle&nbsp;East."Oddly enough, this issue surfaced first in relation to Amazon, which most people think of only as a retailer, but which also provides cloud-computing services that make it an intermediary. During the "Cablegate" controversy, when WikiLeaks came under sustained cyber-attack, the site was moved to Amazon's EC2 cloud service on the grounds that the company's infrastructure could withstand any level of attack. But the relief offered was temporary becauseAmazon summarily ejected WikiLeaksfrom its servers following outraged statements by some US politicians, notably Senator Joe Lieberman and vice-president Biden. Amazon claimed that it had ejected WikiLeaks simply because it was violating its service's terms and conditions.Oh yeah? The Obama administration knew that a direct order to Amazon would not have survived a First Amendment challenge. But they guessed that the same effect could be achieved through a public statement by an official, executed by "voluntary" action of a private company.What this means, as the legal scholar Yochai Benklerhas pointed out, is that the safeguards to free speech ensured by the first amendment to the US constitution might not count for much in a public sphere built entirely of privately owned infrastructure.Facebook – or YouTube, for that matter – may look like public spaces but when it comes to the crunch they offer no more freedom of speech than the average shopping mall.
If ever there was a perfect match of game and hardware, it has surely come in the form ofLittleBigPlanetand the PlayStation Vita and, while it may not have the most imaginative of titles, the two do come together to present a wealth of good ideas and enchanting characters.The reason this fourth release in the LittleBigPlanet series is so well suited to its new host device is simple. The game is a platformer – if you're unfamiliar, think Mario's early adventures as a reference point. What distinguishes the LittleBigPlanet games from Nintendo's plumber, however, is that most levels offer two layers of scenery laid over each other, presenting a seemingly 2D world, but with a foreground and background between which protagonist Sackboy can move.Meanwhile, the front and back of the Vita are touch-sensitive; a fact that lets players prod and push the game's scenery with their fingers between the two planes of movement. The result is some thrilling level design, and an intuitive control system that is only rarely clumsy.Accompanied by magnificent music and an ambitious level creation tool,&nbsp;itLittleBigPlanet's design rivals the series's best. It may feel familiar to those that have enjoyed Sackboy's company before, but is nonetheless a delight to play, making full use of the platform&nbsp;on which it has most assuredly now found a&nbsp;new home.
The release of theiPhone 5and the new iPod Touch bring with them the launch of Apple's new operating system iOS6 and a host of new app possibilities.The map app has been given a noticeable revamp, with Google dumped in favour of Apple designed navigation. Working withTomTom, it has a clean look, with spoken turn-by-turn navigation and traffic updates. The beautiful 3D flyover views being shown off in the ads aren't available in the UK yet, but the integration with all of the iPhone's features is now prioritised. For example, Siri, the voice-control app, which has been vastly improved, now offers a local search where you can simply ask it to&nbsp;recommend a bar or restaurant.The camera app has also been improved. It is quicker to take pictures and has a panorama mode, to capture up to 240 degrees of landscape. The device then stitches together multiple images to create one impressive panoramic shot.The iPhone 5 will also be the first to offer 4G, making high-speed mobile downloads available for the first time. EE, Orange and T-Mobile's parent company, will be the only network offering the service later in the year. For those keen on multiplayer gaming or watching streaming video it will be a compelling reason to switch and, combined with the improved processing power, will offer game developers plenty of exciting opportunities in the future.
With its exuberant mix of cartoonish graphics, adolescent humour and preposterous violence,Borderlandswas the surprise hit of 2009. But wouldn't the inevitable sequel just be more of the same politically incorrect shoot-and-loot action? Well, yes it is and thank goodness for that.Borderlands&nbsp;2has, quite rightly, decided to stick to its guns. It's just made the guns better (and the gameplay slicker).The single-player game is significantly longer, even without the countless hilarious side missions, and takes place all over the planet Pandora, which now seems to have added glaciers and green fields to its previously unending deserts.Once again, the highlight is the multiplayer. Two people can play on the same split screen, but four (online) players will have the most fun – the fun of a Commando deploying a nuke-launching gun turret; the fun of charging into battle with a bazooka in each hand, as an aptly named Gunzerker; the fun of popping up behind your foes as an Assassin, the game's new boy. And although someBorderlandsveterans may not agree, the fun of being a Siren that isn't totally invulnerable… Roll up. Roll up. It's all the fun ofBorderlands 2. Who wants some?
F1 2012, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Winning races in Ridge Racer involves sequences of ludicrous, screaming power slides, while in Burnout you're actively encouraged to crash into and destroy other vehicles.In F1 2012, these activities would be respectively foolhardy and grounds for instant disqualification. In videogame terms, this is racing for pencil-necks, emphasising braking distances and knowledge of the sport's myriad rules over nitrous-fuelled abandon. But it's still a sport about driving savagely fast cars and F1 2012 is the first game to convey an impression of their horrifying speed and dangerousness. After a perfectly pitched tutorial, you start a career that pits you against the familiar axis of Vettel, Alonso and Hamilton in championships that become increasingly tense. The ability to rewind time several times per race alleviates frustration; it looks great throughout, and the sense of accomplishment on winning is palpable. Best F1 game ever.Codemasters, £24.99–£39.99Borderlands 2, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Borderlands 2 welcomes you back to the mutant-infested desolation of planet Pandora with a big, goofy sense of humour. "Don't have too much fun," say weapons vending machines as you leave and an early mission temporarily changes the name of one of the game's beasts from "bullymong" to "bonerfart". That lack of sophistication is about right for a game with 2m guns and a lunatic cornucopia of lethal accessories before you've even got started on the vehicles. Your choice among four character classes heavily influences how you approach the game's chaotic gunfights, which are at their most potent in a group of four human players; fighting solo against waves of brutal robots and freaks can be a tense and lonely experience. Its cel-shaded looks complement a cartoon-style plot but action is marred by the need to stop and squint at every gun you encounter to see if it's a tiny bit better than yours.2K Games, £39.99–£49.99Games newsNintendo's new console,Wii Uwill be released on 30 November in time to occupy the painfully expensive top spot in Christmas lists. Its HD graphics, touchscreen controller and compatibility with the current crop of Wii peripherals, along with fascinating-looking London-based undead game,ZombiU, make that demand on Father Christmas highly likely …Meanwhile, games out this week include footy paragonPES 2013(3DS, PC, PS2, PS3, PSP, Xbox 360, Wii) that brings better AI, goalkeeping and passing to formats both living and near-dead; wacky, contraption-loving farm simulator,Funky Barn(3DS);One Piece: Pirate Warriors(PS3); andWorld Of Warcraft: Mists Of Pandaria(PC, Mac) which adds new character classes, the ability to get characters up to level 90, and the Pandaren, who – as the name suggests – look like bipedal, jacket-wearing pandas.
The chief executive of Twitter, Dick Costolo, has said the company will continue to fight legal challenges brought against its users by officials who want access to their archived tweets.Costolo said Twitter found itself in an invidious position in the case of Malcolm Harris, an Occupy Wall Street protester whose tweets were sought by prosecutors in New York.Speaking at the Online News Association's annual conference in San Francisco, Costolo said: "We strongly believe it's important for us to defend our users' right to protest the forced publication of their private information."He said the company had spent a large amount of its money and the time of its top in house legal resources to fight the Harris case. Earlier this montha court in New York ordered Twitterto turn over three months' worth of Harris's tweets relating to protests on Brooklyn Bridge in New York last year.The court allowed for the information to be sealed until an appeal is heard. Costolo said Twitter was disappointed that it was forced to hand over the information in advance of the appeal, even in sealed form. "We have been put between a rock and a hard place," he said.He acknowledged that Twitter faced wrangles over free speech all over the world and it did not have a "one-size-fits-all solution". He said: "There are things you can't say about Attaturk in Turkey because they are illegal but people hop on Twitter and say these things."Costolo also addressed concerns associated with changes made to Twitter's API in recent months, which have provoked howls of criticism from within the developer community. "We haven't done as good a job of communicating the 'what' and 'why' as we should have done ... I think that has hurt us," he said.He said Twitter would continue to develop new features, including the ability for users to download all their tweets. That would be available by the end of the year, he said – although he conceded that it was easy for him as CEO to make this promise. The engineer working on the project might have another view, he joked.
We've lived where we do for more than five years now, but don't really know anybody round here. Well, we didn't until recently; then a couple of things changed that. First we had ourselves a baby, and suddenly we knew half the street. Then I got a Renault Twizy for the weekend, and suddenly we knew the other half.I think I've made more friends through the Twizy in a couple of days than I have with the baby in six months. It's like one of those tests magazines sometimes do – what's a&nbsp;better pulling tool, a baby, a puppy or a Twizy? I'm not sure about actually pulling (and anyway, I'm not interested obviously, being very happy with the mother of the baby), but a Twizy is a good ice-breaker.Everyone wants to stop and chat. What the bloody hell is that, they want to know – a vacuum cleaner, a&nbsp;printer cartridge, a roller skate,Wenlock? (From behind, it does look&nbsp;a bit like Wenlock, or possibly Mandeville.)What it is is Renault's new urban electric vehicle, with room for two (the passenger goes behind), a range of about 60 miles and a top speed of 50mph. You can't really call it a car – it doesn't have windows, and even the doors are optional. It's a go-kart, basically, with a roof. It's a bit like a&nbsp;go-kart to drive, too, quick around the corners and fun, if a bit firm on the bumps. Ow!I make more new friends on the road. As a famous motoring journalist, I've driven a lot of fancy cars, but none has created a stir like this. It's like being a celebrity. And the response is almost universally positive. It's like being a celebrity people actually like. It's like beingClare Balding, I imagine.There are problems; the usual ones associated with electric vehicles. If you don't have off-street parking – as most people don't in cities, where these cars belong – you can't charge them at home. I can't charge at work, either, so I'd have to go somewhere else, and sit around for three and a half hours while it charges up. Which is clearly useless. I can't even figure out where these places are, because the map of charge places I download is also useless. Suddenly the lovable Twizy is looking like an expensive toy.There's another problem. It starts to rain, proper British rain. It's not so bad for me up front, but 'er indoors (well, outdoors) in the back, trying to balance two shopping bags on her knee, is getting soaked. The omission of windows is starting to look like an error. Fine on the Promenade des Anglais in Nice maybe, not fine in Angleterre. And it's not even winter. Luckily, we left the baby with one of our new friends.Renault TwizyPriceFrom £6,690Top speed50mphAcceleration, 0-60mphNoRange60 milesCO2 emissions0Green rating9/10Cool rating9/10Practicality rating2/10
A machine that recreates the weather in Jakarta, an iPad app showing you what's on the opposite side of the world and a blow-football game where you scream rather than puff were some of the audacious projects created at Digital Sizzle, the recent "art meets tech" 48-hour hackathon at in Mozilla's London HQ, in association with theObserver. These and other results involving anything from lasers to goldfish will be exhibited forone night onlyat the Whitechapel Gallery on 26 September 2012. The organisers3Beardshave five pairs of tickets to give away to the party at the event. To enter, answer this question: which band released their new album by inviting one fan to share it on the internet? Email answers tonew.review@observer.co.uk, with the subject 'Hackathon'.
Record queues outside Apple stores in nine countries on Friday suggest the iPhone 5 will be a blockbuster. The new model will be available in 100 countries by the end of the year, in what the company is calling "the fastest phone rollout ever". But the tills are ringing not only in Apple's sleek glass and steel retail spaces but at the many smaller businesses in its long supply chain.A successful iPhone 5 will send ripples around the world, from the vast production lines of Foxconn's Chinese assembly plants to the Texan chip foundries owned by Samsung, an arch rival but also a major supplier. Apple's 2011 list names some 150 companies with which it spends money on materials, manufacturing and assembly, but there are many more who profit, such as those that licence their intellectual property.The fortunes of five UK companies are known to be closely tied to Apple's. Of these only Volex and Laird Technologies feature on the supplier list, but chip designers ARM Holdings and Imagination Technologies, and semiconductor wafer maker IQE have profited indirectly, and handsomely."If you have exposure to Apple you are doing really well, if you don't it's more challenging," says Numis technology analyst Nick James. "ARM and Imagination have been standout stocks and that is at least partly driven by their exposure to Apple globally."ARM HoldingsARM designs but does not make computer chips. Originally created as a division of Acorn Computers in Cambridge, it owes its very existence as a standalone business to Apple. In the late 1980s, Steve Jobs started working with Acorn on chip designs for the Newton, a tablet computer resembling today's more basic e-readers that was a little ahead of its time.The work was so important that ARM was spun out of Acorn, with Apple taking a stake – although it sold its shares in the 1990s when the Cupertino firm was facing bankruptcy. Today its designs, popular because of their power efficiency, are in use in 90% of smartphones and 28% of all electronic devices, from car-part sensors to digital cameras.Companies using ARM's chip architecture pay a licence fee, and a small royalty on each chip or wafer. The iPhone 5 is likely to contain several, including the A6 processor which speeds up functions such as loading apps and web pages.Analysts estimate around 10% of ARM's £490m-a-year revenues come from Apple products.Imagination TechnologiesThis Hertfordshire-based company was founded in 1985 and designs 2D and 3D graphics, video and audio technologies. Like ARM, its blueprints are licensed to semiconductor manufacturers. As a sideline, it also manufactures the Pure range of digital radios.Apple owns a near 9% stake, while chipmaker Intel holds nearly 15%.Headed by Iranian-born Hossein Yassaie since 1998, Imagination's designs are to be found in games consoles, cameras, radios and set-top boxes, as well as the latest iPads and the iPhone 5. Analyst Eoin Lambe at broker Liberum Capital estimates 30% of Imagination's £128m annual revenues are attributable to Apple products.The business shipped designs on 325m chips during the last financial year, and has set itself a target of 1bn a year by 2016. But its share price has fallen in recent days."While Apple is a fantastic customer to have, Imagination need to diversify," says Lambe.Laird TechnologiesEstablished as a Liverpool ironworks in 1824, Laird built the first iron ship for the British government. Today it makes the metal casings that protect the internal workings of mobile phones from heat and from electromagnetic interference from other phones.Laird built ships and trains until it moved into computer components in the 1980s. Today it employs 9,000 people, has revenues of £590m a year and has headquarters in London. Its two main business lines are mobile phone antennas – Nokia was a major customer – and electromagnetic shields.Its customers include Cisco, Dell and Chrysler, but the largest is Apple. According to Espirito Santo bank, Apple accounted for 16% of first-half revenues, with half of that coming from the iPhone.IQEWith its headquarters in Cardiff, IQE uses nanotechnology to create chip wafers – some of which can consist of up to 300 individual layers, each as little as two atoms thick. These layers contain semiconductor materials such as aluminium, arsenic and gallium, arranged in perfect crystal lattices. Their precise construction is used for chips that need to operate at high speed on low power. These chips are found in 3G and 4G internet phones, helping to run the radios that communicate with the base stations, at speeds that can switch on and off several thousands of million times a second.IQE, which listed in London in 1999, reported revenues of £75m in 2011. Espirito Santo bank says 75% of its revenues are from its phones division, but because it also supplies chip makers like TriQuint Semiconductor and Skyworks Solutions – who in turn supply Apple and other companies – its dependence on iPhone sales is difficult to estimate.VolexDesigning power cables and USB leads for Apple's laptops, iPhones and iPads has cost Volex dearly this year. The 120-year-old London-based company, in which billionaire financier Nathaniel Rothschild owns a 24% stake, racked up £3m in costs redesigning its products after Apple decided to do its bit for the environment with a move towards halogen-free power cables, which are less toxic when disposed of.Then Apple announced the iPhone 5 would have a smaller connector, and days later Volex issued a profit warning which sent its shares to their lowest point for four years.Broker Charles Stanley estimates around 30% of Volex's £320m annual revenues come from Apple, its largest customer.
Is it possible to fall in love with a brand? "Not when you're 60-odd," Gerard told me. "Maybe when you're young." He needed an iPhone 5 because he'd just bought an Audi A6 and they're only compatible with a phone that has a milled aluminium finish. It seemed so laden with cultural significance, that sentence, that I thought it might be a joke, but apparently it's true. He is not your typical iPhone 5 early-adopter.Outside Apple's flagship store on Regent Street in London, a snake of young men (plus two or three young women) stretched right back to the poky patch of grass on Hanover Square. I met nobody who'd been there longer than 14 hours, but nobody who'd had any sleep, either. Knackered, pink-eyed, and mildly hysterical, they were brandishing their little cards – strictly two per customer – each of which, plus a fistful of cash, entitled the bearer to one iPhone&nbsp;5 once they got inside the building.Kaiser, 34, was going to get a 64GB model in black. It would cost him £699. "I'm a real Apple fanboy," he said. "Last time they brought out a new phone, I had a man from my office queue for me. But queuing overnight for a new phone is on my bucket list. I don't want to offend anyone here, but Apple would be my church. This is my Sunday worship."Everybody in the queue was buying a phone for themselves, and nobody was buying one for anybody else. When you asked them who the other ticket was for (they all had two), they unfailingly said "my dad". But there was something under the surface, some anxiety that if your bid was found to be inauthentic, you'd be shoved out of the queue with nothing. Mohsin, 22, half-shouted, "Yes it's for me! Why wouldn't it be for me?" Who's the other one for? "One's for me, one for my dad. It is my dream to buy it, I must buy it." It's true that everybody was very tired.Nasir, Imran and Feraz had arrived together; their friend Shahid, through some accident that I never comprehended, had managed to get ousted from the queue and was left standing beside it, his tickets confiscated, his face childlike with sorrow. He kept shuffling along, next to his in-queue friends: it was better to exist in a limbo, where you were at least parallel to an iPhone purchasing opportunity, than to go home.  Feraz was quite lively, and saying philosophical things such as "what's the point of having a new thing, if you don't have it on the first day?"Nasir had a more analytical bent, and explained: "The big thing is that they didn't launch them in [south] Asia; they just launched in the UK and Hong Kong. So in Asia they'll be around £600.""But they're £529 here.""That's still £70, if you have seven or eight phones…" He tailed off, with an expression that said, "Of course, this is entirely hypothetical."If they're not all buying for themselves, it's possible that they are young entrepreneurs with good global contacts, trying to make £500 between them. What I find a bit depressing is the other rumour – everybody is just being paid to queue for somebody else. Nobody owned up to this, though plenty of people denied it, affronted. It sounds like fun, this queueing experience (more fun in New York, apparently, where they were giving out Starbucks coffee, in some kind of corporate megalith mash-up).But it's a bit Victorian, when some people have so much more money than others that they get grown men to stand all night in line for some piece of tat that is basically the same as the thing they've already got and could buy for themselves, online, if only they were prepared to defer this modest gratification for a short amount of time.Blethering on about equality, of course, ends up with having to move to France (where, to coincide with the launch, the Apple store workers went on strike. You have to hand it to the French).Waseem, 36, had arrived at 9pm the night before, and like many people, was annoyed at the poor queue management (there appears to have been some situation in the middle of the night where, unsupervised, the queue etiquette broke down and a load of people pushed in). With theJimmy Kimmel videofresh in my head (he shows people a "new iPhone 5", which is actually an old iPhone 4, and they all go, "ooh, it's so much lighter! And faster! And I think the screen is larger"), I ask Waseem what he thinks will be so good about this phone. "It' a new phone, that's what's so good about it." (Thinks for a second.) "Hopefully it will have some new features."If they're all on the level, and they're all buying for themselves, then they're all mad, is what I concluded, crossing the road. And I ended up in Banana Republic, buying a pair of jeans that were almost identical to the ones I was wearing, as if in a trance.
It's time for our weekly roundup of the best new iPhone and iPad apps, following a bustling week on the App Store.As usual, games aren't included, because they get their own separate post. This week'ssmartphone and tablet games roundupincludes iOS titles like Street Fighter X Tekken Mobile, Lili and Rayman Jungle Run, so it's worth a read.On with the (non-games) iOS apps show. Oh, but before we do, this week's 20 Best Android Apps roundupcan be found here.Toca BandChildren's apps publisher Toca Boca has hit a home run with its new musical app, which gets children to play a song by dragging and dropping colourful characters, and thus triggering loops and samples. Armed with a maddeningly-catchy tune (already separatelyavailable on iTunes and Spotify), it's joyful fun for children and parents alike.iPhone / iPadAmazon Cloud PlayerAs on Android, this isn't a new app, since it's been out in the US for a while, but it's brand new to the UK. Amazon launched its Cloud Player service earlier in the week, enabling people to play songs they've stored in Amazon's music locker service or bought from its MP3 store. The iPhone client is a solid first effort, including downloading as well as streams.iPhoneScapeMusicians Brian Eno and Peter Chilvers previously worked together on innovative music app Bloom, but Scape is their follow-up. Promising to "make music that thinks for itself", it's a "new form of album" that gets you to play with the music and its elements, without any actual musical ability required. 15 scenes (or "Scapes") are included, providing plenty of variety.iPadSkitch for iPhoneEvernote's Skitch app has been available on iPad for some time, but now it's out for iPhone too. It's a scribbling tool for annotating pictures and photos, then sending them to people via email or Twitter. It can also be used in presentation scenarios to scribble on a big screen via AirPlay. And, of course, all your doodlings can be saved to your Evernote account.iPhoneBrushes 3Taptrix's Brushes series of painting apps have a good reputation, and the third looks set to continue that. It's a freemium app too: the basic version is free, then an in-app purchase unlocks all the layers. The app can be used to create digital paintings at resolutions up to 2048x2048, with a wide variety of brushes and export options.iPhone / iPadFinding Nemo: Storybook DeluxeGood news for parents whose kids can't get enough of Disney's fishy classic. Just in time for its 3D reworking, Finding Nemo has been turned into an iOS storybook-app, using voice narration from the original actors, and adding puzzles, painting and a mode where your child talks to Dory the whale, and hears their words translated into whale language.Letters with PoohTalking of familiar Disney characters... The company's new Winnie the Pooh app isn't a book: it's an educational tool. Focused on the alphabet, it teaches children to recognise, write and say their letters, with digital stickering and plenty of honey wrapped around the core activities.iPhoneBlood Ivory - A Special Report25,000 elephants were killed last year for their ivory, according to National Geographic. To raise awareness of issues around the ivory trade, it's released a free iPad app presenting its report, with additional video and interactive maps.iPadPaddy Power Premier LeagueBookmaker Paddy Power's new release is a second-screen app focusing on the English Premier League, providing scores, stats, news and team profiles. The clever feature comes when users point their device at the TV when watching a match, and tap a TV Bet button to get betting odds on that game.iPhoneFantasy Premier League 2012/13Apps seem to be turning up in pairs this week. This is the official iOS app for the official Fantasy Premier League competition in England, which apparently has more than 2.5m players. The app helps players pick their teams, check their points totals and make transfers.Dr. Seuss BookshelfPublisher Oceanhouse Media has turned pretty much every Dr. Seuss book into an app since the launch of Apple's App Store. Now it has a separate app to keep track of them all, providing one place from which to launch the apps that people own, as well as recommendations for the ones that they don't.iPhone / iPadLivestream for ProducersLivestream is one of the companies helping people – including music artists and webcasters – to broadcast live video online. Its Livestream for Producers app takes the idea mobile, streaming from iPhones and enabling its producers to post photos and text updates, as well as moderating comments.iPhoneUnison AppPublic service trade union Unison has launched its official app for iPhone, which aims to be one place for members and non-members alike information on their workplace rights, as well as its campaigns. Non-members can also use the app to sign up.iPhoneNewzSocialA "socially curated news magazine" like NewzSocial faces lots of competition from, well, other socially curated news magazines. Flipboard, for one. This wants to get people creating their own topic-based news channels pulling articles in from the web, and then sharing those channels with their friends.iPadPregnancy by BountyBritish parenting club Bounty is also taking to the App Store with an app for pregnant women, explaining the process, providing a journal for them to track their own pregnancy, a due-date calculator and sponsored tips and videos.iPhone / iPadICC CricketIn perfect time for the World Twenty20 tournament, this is the official app of the International Cricket Council. It promises news and scores, as well as live ball-by-ball commentary via text and audio, plus video highlights. The video and audio are unlocked using in-app purchases, as is the Hawkeye feature.iPhonePHLIPThis could have easily slotted into the games roundup, but it's more of a puzzle really. Aimed at "children and inquisitive adults of all ages", it gets people to take a photo of something nearby, then turn it into a rotating tile-puzzle for someone else to solve. Inventive and fun.iPhone / iPadTunePadIt's not just Brian Eno looking to get iOS users making beautiful music. TunePad is the work of developer GearSprout, and is the latest grid-based music tool on the App Store, blending beats and melodies by drawing on the screen. A "Tune Pack" is available through in-app purchase, with more presumably to come.iPhone / iPadVisuamusioAnd here's more music-making, courtesy of Wow.inc. This is as much focused on visuals as music, as you drop geometric shapes onto the screen to create different sounds and melodies.iPadSpoonbill for App.netThe App.net clients are flowing onto the App Store, with Spoonbill the best-looking way so far to access entrepreneur Dalton Caldwell's Twitter-alternative. A lot of effort has clearly gone into the user interface, including keeping things clutter-free. It reminds me – not in looks, necessarily, but in ethos – of early Tweetie, the app that went on to be bought by Twitter as the basis for its official iOS app.That's our selection, now how about yours? What new iOS apps have you been enjoying this week, and what do you think of the ones above? Post a comment with your recommendations.
Between now and 30 November, Nintendo has a monumental task on its hands. When it launches, the Wii U will be the first new video games console for six years, and while there may still exist a small hardcore of gamers who find the arrival of any new console exciting, the changing, mobile phone-skewed landscape of the modern games industry dictates that Nintendo must do more to ensure the Wii U is a success from day one.And its sheer quirkiness – embodied by the tablet-like GamePad controller – renders the Wii U somewhat baffling until you get your hands on one. So the Japanese games giant is embarking on a furious round of buzz-generation, the key component of which will be roadshows traversing the UK.But before those kick-off, Nintendo took us to its European headquarters in Frankfurt for hands-on experience of the vast majority of the first wave of Wii U games.Killer titlesWhat every new console needs is a selection of so-called killer games, which are so irresistible that people buy the hardware just so they can play them.Such games, inevitably, are in short supply at launch, since achieving the requisite blend of quality and originality simply won't happen overnight.However, among the Wii U's launch titles, a couple stood out as must-have games with the potential to shift hardware unite.ZombiUChief among them is Ubisoft's ZombiU. Exclusive to and custom-designed for the Wii U, this created quite a stir at the E3 Show, not least when Nintendo's US head honcho, Reggie Fils-Aime – an already somewhat scary-looking guy – spent an inordinate amount of time at Nintendo's press conference using it to zombify his own face.Zombie games aren't exactly in short supply, but hands-on time with ZombiU's single-player game swiftly established that Ubisoft has cleverly managed to find a new spin on the genre – and one that makes great use of the Wii U's unique abilities.Perhaps its most surprising aspect is its sheer rigour – which is so extreme that it brings to mind From Software's fearsomely hard but deeply satisfying RPGs Demon's Souls and Dark Souls.In the single-player game, you start each mission from a safe house, and must safely navigate to the next one, traversing London (where the game is set) in the process. In the interest of realism, you only get one life – at least as far as, if you die, you respawn at the safe house as another person.And if you die at the jaws of a zombie, the character you were playing becomes a zombie too. Which means that, in your new guise, you need to get back to where you previously died, with the minimum amount of equipment (a pistol, without much ammo, and a cricket bat), to kill your zombified previous self and retrieve your backpack containing all the useful weapons and items you had previously collected.The zombies themselves are pretty uncompromising – they can climb, and will attack you if you're fiddling with your backpack. So you have to adopt a tactical approach to despatch them.The Wii U's GamePad operates as a great inventory-arranger, as well as a sniperscope and a sensor for finding hidden objects.ZombiU is gloriously atmospheric – perhaps the truest survival-horror game yet – so it's no surprise that it will be available bundled with the Wii U at launch.NintendoLandOne thing that ZombiU emphatically isn't, though, is the sort of game that your granny will be able to pick up and play – and the Wii's success was built on such games. Which makes NintendoLand a vital title for the new console.If,as Jonathan Ross said in the Guardian, the Wii U is "the Wii on steroids", then NintendoLand is Wii Play on steroids. Although it's not as instantly graspable as Wii Play's mini-games.Instead, it's a collection of 12 mini-games, each bearing the theme of one of Nintendo's great franchises. In subtle ways, they've been created to showcase the GamePad's different abilities, and the opportunities for new styles of gameplay that it throws up when used in conjunction with Wii Remote controllers.Thus Mario Chase, for example, puts the player with the GamePad in a colour-coded labyrinth, essentially playing hide-and-seek, while four people, using Wii Remotes, collaborate in order to catch him or her. It's raucous and fun.A couple of previously unseen NintendoLand mini-games surfaced in Frankfurt. Perhaps most notably Pikmin Adventure, a co-operative take on the much-loved Pikmin blueprint, in which the GamePad player takes on the role of Captain Olimar, and two others can essentially play as Pikmin, attacking enemies or, when appropriate, being herded up by Olimar to attack the same enemy or be chucked to otherwise inaccessible places.Balloon Trip Breeze, loosely inspired by the ancient NES game Balloon Fight, is a clever wind-propelled platform effort, controlled entirely by the GamePad's stylus and touchscreen.Metroid Blast, meanwhile, puts players with Wii Remotes on the ground, and whoever wields the GamePad on a floating platform – its shoot-em-up gameplay and bland environment seemed a bit bland compared with its full-sized predecessors.The Legend of Zelda Battle Quest, in which two people wield Wii Remotes as swords, while the GamePad player fires arrows (often at elevated targets, in order to solve puzzles and acquire extra health), was fun to play, despite its on-rails nature.NintendoLand, then, is undoubtedly a bit patchy, but at least shows off the Wii U's ability to generate new types of gameplay, involving groups of players.The other first-party Nintendo title on show was New Super Mario Bros U, which won't need much by way of introduction for Nintendo-heads.We enjoyed playing it co-operatively, with two players controlling Mario and Luigi using horizontally-held Wii Remotes, while a GamePad player helped them out by drawing platforms to help clear otherwise insurmountable gaps, and by tapping on enemies to distract them. That co-operative dynamic was surprisingly satisfying, although in look and feel terms, New Super Mario Bros U is virtually indistinguishable from its myriad siblings, so it's debatable whether it can be considered a platform-shifter.Third-party gamesNintendo's Frankfurt showcase featured a pretty sizeable roster of games from third-party publishers – although there was a void at its heart, in the shape of the Wii U version of Call of Duty: Black Ops II.Just the fact that a the Wii U has the under-bonnet power to run a full-blown Call of Duty game represents real progress for Nintendo, and if it has any unique features, Black Ops II will surely be a key launch title. Activision will no doubt unveil it with a fanfare before long.Power-wise, the Wii was so weedy that it couldn't even dream of running Xbox 360 and PS3 games, but because the Wii U is in their general polygon-shifting ballpark, it will at least have significantly more third-party support than the Wii. Although early adopters will have to root out the truffles from among plenty of mouldy undergrowth.Big names line upPerhaps the most impressive third-party title on show was Assassin's Creed III, which certainly demonstrated that the Wii U is at least on a graphical par with the Xbox 360 and PS3.We played a maritime warfare mission, using the GamePad to pilot a ship and order gunners to fire specific types of shot at enemy vessels. It was difficult to detect many design concessions specific to the Wii U, although the GamePad's screen will come in handy for displaying the map and managing inventory items.But despite that, Assassin's Creed III is such an attractive game that it may help the Wii U sell more units.Another Ubisoft game, Rayman Legends, made much more overt use of the Wii U's specific capabilities. The sequel to the glorious Rayman Origins, it will provide plenty of its predecessor's endearingly bonkers side-scrolling platform action, which in itself will be a major draw, but we were able to play two levels specific to the Wii U, feature asymmetric co-operative gameplay.In the first, one player controlled Rayman with a Classic Controller (although you could use a Wii Remote and Nunchuk), while the other assisted by manipulating the environment, using a stylus, on the GamePad.Thus, you could tickle enemies, laying them open to attack, swipe ofver plants or pull them out of the ground for bonus points or, crucially, pull beams around and even manipulate giant wheels using the motion-sensing.The other level was a rhythm-action one, in which the Classic Controller player had to run through the entire level, timing jumps and attacks to precision while, again, the GamePad player cleared a path by distracting enemies and hitting time-stamps.Surprising gemsProof that the Wii U's launch can be used to breathe new freshness into a flagging franchise came from a surprising source: Ninja Gaiden 3: Razor's Edge.When it arrived on the current-gen consoles early this year, it didn't meet with approval from Ninja Gaiden fans, who reckoned it had been dumbed down. But the much-loved Team Ninja has taken those criticisms on board, and come up with a major reworking for the Wii U, which features a whole new playable character called Ayane – an anime-influenced babe with pink hair and an eye-catching quick attack accompanied by pink motion-blur.On the Wii U, Ninja Gaiden 3 will once again feature the fierce difficulty-levels of the earlier games, as well as character advancement and greater emphasis on Ninpo – ninja magic to you and I. Many of the game's annoying Quicktime Events have been removed, too, and while there's light use of the GamePad's touch-screen, Ninja Gaiden 3: Razor's Edge mainly profits from the time Team Ninja has had to sit back and reflect on what it made on the PS3 and Xbox 360.And the restThere were some eShop games on show, suggesting that the Wii U will be the first Nintendo console that attempts to rival Xbox Live Arcade and the PlayStation Network – the RPG Trine 2 and cute, minimal puzzler Toki Tori 2 showed that the Wii U's eShop will support games of all shapes and sizes.But there were some notable disappointments on display, too. Especially Mass Effect 3. We were wildly excited about the prospect of playing BioWare's RPG on a Nintendo console, but disappointingly little had been done to it, apart from the addition of a single-use rocket-launcher, which lets you take out six enemies at once, all the DLC and the Director's Cut ending.Darksiders II was more compelling, at least: it, too, includes all the DLC, and makes excellent use of the GamePad touch-screen, making its overcrowded inventory much more accessible.Is that enough?No console has ever launched with a truly satisfying portfolio of launch games – and it's easy to argue that the Wii U could really do with an absolute must-have at launch – a Zelda or Super Mario game, say. But they will come eventually, and on balance, the Wii U's launch line-up is pretty good, and perhaps better than we could have expected.At least this time around, the big cross-platform franchises are coming to the party, and ZombiU, NintendoLand and Assassin's Creed II have the potential to drive sales of the consoles itself.Plus there are some solid back-up titles like Rayman Legends, Ninja Gaiden 3, New Super Mario Bros U and Darksiders II. The Wii U will have a critical mass of games from the off, just about, and few consoles can boast that.But now, the ball is in the court of Nintendo's marketing department, which needs to generate a Europe-wide buzz, and do so quickly.
It's been a very busy week for new Android apps on the Google Play store, so this weekly roundup is back up to 20 apps.As ever, games are not included, as there is a separate weekly post for new mobile and tablet games.The latest oneincludes a number of Android games: Sky Gamblers: Rise of Glory, Bingo Blitz, Labyrinth 2, Monster Warlord, Prince of Persia Classic, The Curse, Critter Escape and Judge Dredd vs. Zombies.The weekly Best iPhone and iPad Apps post will follow later in the day. For now, here are the 20 most notable new Android apps from the last seven days:Chameleon LauncherChameleon Launcher's developer raised more than $66k on Kickstarter earlier in 2012 to make its "better Home Screen for your Android tablet", and now it's out in the wild. It aims to put a better-looking spin on Android's default widget system, with several of its own and an API for developers to create others. It's built for tweaking too: users can create several different home screens, and set "context rules" to switch between them in different times and locations.Amazon MP3Not, admittedly, a new app, but it now has a new service for Brits. Amazon launched its Amazon Cloud Player in the UK this week, enabling people to play the songs they've stored in their music locker. New purchases from the MP3 Store are also automatically added to the Cloud Player.Talking GingerThe popularity of Outfit7's Talking Friends apps can be gauged by the fact that Talking Ginger has more than 500,000 installs on Android a matter of days after its release. As with other apps in the series, its animal hero will speak your words back to you, with a focus on his bedtime routine designed to appeal to children.St John Ambulance First AidSt John Ambulance has launched an official app for Android phones providing its latest first aid and emergency advice, complete with illustrated guides and voice instructions for use when a situation arises. The organisation is keen to stress that it's not a replacement for a full course or first-aid manual.GWR2013 Augmented RealityThis year's Guinness World Records book comes with its own augmented reality companion app, used to bring sharks, slam-dunking parrots, bird-eating spiders and world's shortest men to life and jumping out of its pages.Scosche RHYTHMThe latest fitness app for Android is designed to be used with a physical accessory, namely Scosche's RHYTHM Armband Pulse Monitor. The idea being that you wear the armband while running, and the app tracks your vital signs and makes them available for later analysis. Music features and "motivational voice prompts" are also provided.eMusicSubscription music service eMusic launched an Android app in the US earlier in 2012, but now it's been made available in the UK. Anyone can use it to listen to the music already stored on their phone or tablet, while also getting recommendations on new songs they might like. Paying eMusic subscribers can also download music from the service itself.ICC CricketJust in time for the World Twenty20 tournament, the International Cricket Council has released an official Android app. Its focus is on news and team information, but also ball-by-ball text commentary during matches, live audio and video highlights during the tournament.AudioidGet in a right 808-state with this "electronic music rhythm composer" for Android devices. It's launching with a digital version of the famous TR-808 drum machine, with a TB-303 bass-synthesizer to come in a future update. Expect plenty of effects, sounds and "linear and logarithmic knobs and bars". Which is always nice.Bloomberg Radio+Bloomberg continues to be one of the most active broadcasters when it comes to launching apps for multiple platforms. Its latest Android app brings its radio station to mobile devices, streaming live audio round the clock, while also making shows and interviews available on-demand. Cleverly, it also shows you charts and data while they're being talked about on-air.TriggertrapAre smartphones killing off standalone cameras? Not SLRs yet. In fact, this Android app is designed to work with an SLR camera, triggering it using modes including timelapse, long-exposure and Star Trail. A separate hardware dongle is required for the actual connection between your Android device and the camera, though.GeotracksIn a high-profile week for all things mobile and mappy, Geoloqi has released its GPS logging and location-sharing app. Its focus is something we've seen before – the ability to share your location with friends in real-time. It's been made using Geoloqi's API, which it's touting to other developers, so this is as much a showcase for that as a standalone app.Distress SignalBilling itself as "the complete mobile emergency solution", this app wants to help people contact the local emergency services, even if they're not in their home country. The idea: it sends an emergency text with the user's current location to the emergency services, translated into the local language. The service currently works in a few countries: the UK, Ireland, China, Hong Kong, New Zealand, Philippines and Iceland, but a wider rollout is on the way.Sig. Gen.Another musical toy here: an audio signal generator that's actively trying to look "as if it were knocked together in a garden shed". It's a big knob, basically, which can be twisted to make noises, including chords and scales.NuffnangXWe can't shy away from this: the name isnot good. NuffnangX is also getting a mixed reception on Google Play for the quality of its initial release, but the idea behind it is interesting: a way to find and follow blogs by browsing one-line summaries, while also commenting on them – if the blogs support the NuffnangX technology.Michael Johnson Motiv8Fresh from his TV commentating stint at the Olympic Games, former athlete Michael Johnson has brought his fitness app to Android. It follows the pattern laid down by others in the genre, tracking your runs while playing music from your collection. The twist being that Johnson himself provides vocal encouragement along the way.InsomniacDig out your neon trousers and celebrate the launch of Insomniac's official Android app. The company promotes music festivals and events in the US, including EDM-favourite the Electric Daisy Carnival. Its app provides information and content based on all its events, including photos, videos and its own streaming radio station.MyShelfLaunching a new app to store notes, pictures and links? A tough challenge, given the popularity of Evernote. Even so, MyShelf is having a crack at it, with the promise that it exchanges data across devices without ever storing it in the cloud, using Wi-Fi or USB.Pray With MeThis app has a very specific focus: "A personal vocal assistant designed to help with perfecting the pronunciation of the Arabic verse for the 5 daily prayers (salat), while the user is actually performing salat". It includes several recordings to help users get the pronunciation right, with a percentage of revenues going to charities.Stay.com City Guides, Offline MapsMore maps here from Stay.com, which is touting the idea of "social travel guides" – something we've seen from other startups like Gogobot. In this case, there's actually a dual focus. The app helps people create collaborative travel plans with friends, while also plotting everything on an offline map for non-wallet-shrieking usage abroad.That's our selection, but what have you been using on your Android device this week? Make your recommendations, or give feedback on the apps above, by posting a comment.
The covert cyberwar being waged in the Middle East and north Africa – particularly against Iran and its allies – is even more sophisticated and widespread than had previously been understood, according to new research.Two leading computer security laboratories –Kaspersky LabandSymantec– have been studying a series of powerful cyberweapons used against targets including the Iranian nuclear programme andLebanese banksaccused of laundering money for Iran and its ally Hezbollah. They arenow convinced that all were probably created by a national government or governments working together.They have also identified key similarities in the weapons' computer coding suggesting some – if not all – were worked on at different times by the same or related groups of programmers.Suspicion over the most likely culprit has centred on the US and Israel – not least afteranonymous briefings to the Washington Postby an unnamed former senior US intelligence official this year.In June the New York Times disclosed that one of the weapons identified in the last two years – Stuxnet, a sabotage program used to attack Iran's nuclear centrifuge in 2010 – was part of a joint US-Israel cyberwar plan,codenamed Olympic Games, targeting the Islamic republic, which suggests that the other cyber weapons could be part of the same wide operation.The latest disclosures follow forensic analysis by Symantec and the Moscow-based Kaspersky Lab of two command and control servers used by a sophisticated espionage worm named Flame, which was discovered by Iran this year stealing data from its computers.Analysts believe from studying fragments of Flame that it was only one of four similar weapons being used simultaneously, the other three of which have not been identified.Equally intriguing was the discovery that Flame and Stuxnet are related, with an early version of Stuxnet appearing in Flame as a plug-in."The Flame malware, including all of its components, was very large and our ongoing investigation revealed more and more details since that time,"Kaspersky Lab and Symantec said in a statement this week, after being commissioned by the International Telecommunication Union to study the new cyberweapon. "Flame was so advanced that only the world's top cryptographers could be able to implement it."They added: "In June we definitively confirmed that Flame developers communicated with the Stuxnet development team, which was another convincing fact that Flame was developed with nation-state backing."According to the researchers Flame itself was a huge operation.Kaspersky Lab's Alexander Gostev said estimating the scale was problematic but researchers had been able to discover data intended to be kept by one of several command-and-control servers. "Based on this we can see that more than five gigabytes of data was uploaded to this particular server a week, from more than 5,000 infected machines. This is certainly an example of cyber-espionage conducted on a massive scale."According to the researchers' analysis: "During a period of just one week (25 March-2 April) 5,377 unique IPs were seen connecting to the server, the vast majority in Iran: 3,702. What is also surprising is the large number of IPs from Sudan: 1,280."Our previous statistics did not show a large number of infections in Sudan, so this must have been a dedicated campaign targeting systems in Iran and Sudan."If just one server handled 5,000-plus victims during a one-week period and given several servers were available, we can estimate the total number of victims for Flame is probably higher than previously estimated, exceeding 10,000."Flame is the latest to be identified in a series of related cyberweapons targeting Iran since June 2010, when the existence of Stuxnet was disclosed – including Duqu, an espionage program first detected last year, and Flame and Gauss this summer.Vitaly Kamluk, chief malware expert at Kaspersky Lab, said that it had considered three possible sources of such programs."It is not the sort of cyberweapon you see developed by criminals looking to access bank accounts nor is it the sort of weapon used by activists to make a political point. Those often use very available tools to write the programs."Last week's report said the data stolen by Flame was encrypted "in such a way that only the attackers can read it through strong public key cryptography. These features are not normally found in malware created by everyday cybercriminals, reaffirming our initial conclusions that Flame is a nation-state sponsored attack."Kamluk added: "Flame was massive and complex and we have identified the nicknames of at least four individuals involved in developing it."He said considerable effort had been put into disguising the program, not least in how it had been designed to attack a small and specific set of targets rather than spread rapidly across the internet."The discovery of Stuxnet, Duqu, Gauss and Flame is changing our entire view of cyberwarfare."Nor does it seem likely that – even with the new discoveries – the cyberwar plan has been slowed. There is evidence that some aspects of the latest cyberweapons have yet to be launched, recalling the claim to the Washington Post this summer by its anonymous former intelligence source."This is about preparing the battlefield for another type of covert action," the source said then. "Cyber-collection against the Iranian programme is way further down the road than this."
Bad publicity around Apple's new Maps service – which has displaced landmarks and even towns – has not discouraged eager shoppers from creating the UK's largest-ever retail queue to buy the iPhone 5 outside the company's Regent Street store in London.A total of 1,297 people were queueing as the doors opened at 8.01am, according to researchers from 63336, a question-and-answer service that has monitored the queues for Apple launches over the past few years.That beats the previous record, also set by Apple, with the iPhone 4S in October 2011, when 778 people were queueing as the doors opened.It wasn't only London. As many as 1,000 people were waiting outside the Apple Store in the Bluewater shopping centre in Kent, some having arrived at 2am to create the biggest queue ever seen there. The store opened at 8am, two hours earlier than normal.Robert Goodman, Bluewater's general manager, said: "That today has created a new record in terms of the number of people is a testament to both the unique appeal of the Apple brand and Bluewater's reputation as the place to buy the latest and greatest products."The huge queues were in stark contrast to the criticism aimed at Apple on social media sites and by commentators over the functionality of its new Maps product on the iPhone 5, and in the software now being rolled out to all its phones released since 2009.Apple has beenwidely criticised for the poor quality of the mapping datain the new iOS6 software powering the iPhone 5, and which has been made available for existing iPhones back to 2009's iPhone 3GS.Rather than using Google's mapping software, as it has done since the original iPhone in 2007, Apple has dumped the search giant's data and is now using a combination of data from satnav company TomTom and its own sources – leading to errors such as relocating London to Ontario, losing Paddington station, turning Helsinki railway station into a park and turning a 35-acre Irish greenfield site called "Airfield" into an airport.In a statement on Thursday night, Apple said: "We launched this new map service knowing it is a major initiative and that we are just getting started with it. Maps is a cloud-based solution and the more people use it, the better it will get. We appreciate all of the customer feedback and are working hard to make the customer experience even better."None of the criticism about the maps seems to have punctured enthusiasm among the growing number of people who own Apple iPhones and iPads to download the software – with internet providers showing a huge spike in traffic as people began installing iOS6 on Thursday night – and, in some cases, to buy the phones at retail.Buyers of the phones will face the challenge that the iPhone 5 does not work with existing SIM cards, but requires a new "nano-SIM" whose specifications were only agreed earlier this year.Helen Wright, general manager of 63336 said: "We honestly felt that Apple queues were starting to shrink with pre-orders taking over and without the allure of Steve Jobs' cult following. In fact, the queue for the iPad 3 was a few hundred smaller than the 4S. Today's queue, on the other hand, is almost double that of last year's iPhone 4S."
It was a case of worst possible timing as BlackBerry maker Research In Motion (RIM) confirmed it had suffered a significant outage across Europe on Friday morning, just as the iPhone 5 was launching to the now familiar queues in Apple stores around the world.Vodafone customers across Europe, the Middle East and Africa experienced difficulties with BlackBerry Messenger, email and the internet for more than four hours from 8am (BST), with owner RIM admitting that difficulties with its smartphone continued until about 12.30pm.The companytweeted: "Some users in Europe, Middle East and Africa are experiencing issues with their BlackBerry service." And an hour laterit tweeted again: "We are investigating and apologise for any inconvenience."Service was fully restored about 12.30pm, four-and-a-half hours after the BlackBerry service went down, the company said."Our apologies to any customers impacted by the BlackBerry service issue today. We can confirm that services have been restored and are now operating normally," RIM said in a statement.The glitch was only affecting Vodafone users, a RIM spokeswoman in London said. "We are currently experiencing a BlackBerry service issue impacting some users in Europe, Middle East and Africa. All relevant support teams are working to resolve the issue. We apologise to any customers who may be affected."The outage was not expected to be as damaging as the one RIM suffered last year when BlackBerrys were hobbled for several days.But the timing is far from ideal as Apple continue to lap up worldwide publicity with the much-hyped launch of its iPhone 5.In a now familiar global ritual, Apple fans queued outside shops from Sydney to Tokyo to pick up the tech juggernaut's latest iPhone.Eager buyers formed long lines on Friday at Apple stores in Australia and Japan to be the first to get their hands on the latest version of the smartphone.In Hong Kong and Singapore, buyers had to sign up online for the chance to pick up the device at a prearranged time.The first customers in Hong Kong were greeted by staff cheering, clapping, and chanting "iPhone 5! iPhone 5!" and high-fiving them as they were escorted one-by-one through the front door.Apple's new smartphone is also being launched in the US, Britain, Canada, France and Germany. It will go on sale in 22 more countries a week later.The iPhone 5 is thinner, lighter, has a taller screen, faster processor, updated software and can work on faster fourth generation mobile networks.The iPhone 5 has become a hot seller despite initial lukewarm reviews and controversy over its decision to dump Google Maps from its standard collection of pre-loaded apps and replace it with its ownmap app which has been criticisedfor losing towns, moving zoos and renaming key locations such as Paddington railway station in London.Apple received 2m orders in the first 24 hours of announcing the iPhone 5 release date, more than twice the number for the iPhone 4S in the same period when that phone launched a year ago, and analysts estimate it will ship as many as 10m by the end of September.The controversy over the decision to drop Google Maps is threatening to overshadow the launch as complaints flood in from users. Google is said to beworking on a separate map appthat iPhone users can download.
As part of theLondon Games Festival, The Guardian will be hosting an event on 2 October, aimed at budding games journalists – or those just interested in writing about entertainment in the digital era. It'll also be useful for indie games developers who want to find out what makes journalists tick, or perhaps just want to throw rotten vegetables at us while yelling insults.Taking place in the Guardian office at Kings Place, our panel discussion will feature me and fellow Guardian games contributors Simon Parkin and Christian Donlan, who also write for the likes of Eurogamer and Edge Magazine. We'll be joined by IGN features editor Keza MacDonald and another couple of veteran writers, bloggers and video presenters.We'll look at the tricky business of getting into writing professionally, as well as providing a few tips on style and getting your ideas commissioned. And it's all free!Tickets are available on a first come, first served basis. You can applyright here.
Another week, another bunch of exciting game-themed events for you, this time taking in modified arcade cabinets, massive exhibitions and The Guardian's own Dishonored evening.Get involved!David Blandy – OdysseysWhen:21-23 SeptemberWhere:Phoenix gallery, BrightonWhat:Blandyis an artist who uses adapted arcade cabinets, film projections, lego and comics to explore notions of culture in the digital age. This retrospective exhibition features several of his re-worked coin op cabinets including the new Battle of the Soul: Rhythm Action Game. Blandy employs the wonderful Dreamcast-based Naomi cabs and hacks well-known titles to explore his own themes. As he explains, "Duels and Dualities was made using the DIY fighting game programme, Mugen, recreating characters from my art performance videos as fighting game characters. I used versions of characters from the SNK King of Fighters and Capcom Streetfighter series as templates, altering the sprites and special moves until they made sense for the alterego. Instead of a fireball, Lone Pilgrim fires glowing vinyl records from his hands, and shouts "Soul Power". This weekend is your last chance to try these out, so get down there.Wild Rumpus 3When:27 September, 7pm - midnightWhere:Cargo, 83 Rivington Street, LondonWhat:This regular video game-themed club night provides the best in offbeat, indie and experimental titles, all with a multiplayer focus. "Come scale the mighty cliff face of dancepads in MEGAGIRP," says the press release. "Strap an Atari 2600 controller to your crotch and get ready to duel in Swordfight and be prepared to make new enemies as you take on others in Barabariball, Kompendium &amp; UPROK". Tickets (availablehere) are a fiver each, and these nights are always amazing fun. Frankly unmissable (by the sounds of it, for Swordfight alone).London Games FestivalWhen:27 Sept - 28 OctWhere:various venues, LondonWhat:After a break last year, the London Games Festival is back, taking in a range of events around the capital – and the Guardian is a media partner! As usual, it encapsulates a series of self-contained treats including the excellentEurogamer Expo(27-29 September, Earls Court) (boasting hundreds of playable games, many getting their first ever public airing), Future's Golden Joystick Awards (26 October) and the always fascinatingMCM London Comic Con(26-28 October). Plus, there's a bunch of newly announced additions:27 Septmber: Games Invest, Earl's Court27th - 28th September: BAFTA Young Game Designers Workshop2 October: The Pocket Gamer Mobile Mixer, O'Neils Earls Court2 – 3rd October: Apps World, Earl's Court5 October: ExPlay Games Jam, The Science Museum15 – 18 October: Power to the Pixel, BFI Southbank25 – 26 October: TV Hackfest, Ravensbourne CollegeYou can find out more about all of those,right here.An evening with the makers of DishonoredWhen:3 October, 18:45Where:The Guardian, Kings Place, LondonWhat:Meet the artistic directors behind Bethesda's astonishing steam punk adventure game and find out about their four-year quest to create the atmospheric world of Dunwall. Art director Sebastien Mitton and visual design director Viktor Antonov will talk about how they imagined and built the city and its unique retro futuristic architecture. Their chat will be followed by a Q&amp;A session with me, and afterwards, guests can view some of the game's original artwork. There will also be drinks and food! All for £8!Play ExpoWhen:13-14 OctoberWhere:EventCity, ManchesterWhat:Originally a retro gaming event, Re-Play has moved to EventCity in Manchester and is now offering four different themes: re.play, now.play, pro.play and cos.play. So you'll get a huge range of vintage coin-ops to play, as well as discovering some of the big Christmas releases for 2012 (the likes of EA, Konami and Namco will all be there). And you can do it all dressed as Link! If that wasn't enough, the founders of the iconic Britsoft developer Bitmap Brothers will be doing a talk. Dig out your copies of Speedball and Chaos Engine and get down there. Tickets are £13.20 for the weekend, or £8.80 for a day.GameCity 7When:20-27 OctoberWhere:various venues, Nottingham city centreWhat:The annual games event that I will go ahead and call 'utterly unmissable to anyone who has even glanced with ardour at a video game' is now a week-long odyssey, taking in the usual selection of inspiring talks, indie game expos and amusing evening shenanigans. This year Peter Molyneux will be taking over for a whole day and you can expect lots of insight and indiscreet comments about working for Microsoft. Gamesblog will there too, albeit in a reduced capacity, hosting one of seven different mornings at the Broadway Cinema cafe. We might well find something else to do as well, if the organisers let us.ExPlayWhen:31 October -2 NovemberWhere:The Assembly Rooms, BathWhat:Now into its second year, ExPlay is boutique conference aimed at small studios and game design students in the West of England. It features a bootcamp to guide start-ups through their first project as well as loads of interesting talks and discussion events. It was in Plymouth last year, but now its moving to Bath, and is being sponsored by Edge magazine, which will be hosting a quiz on the last night. And you get to visit the lovely Assembly rooms, where Jane Austen no doubt discussed the state of indie game development in Somerset, while supping tea and observing the stultifying cruelty of Georgian society.Launch conferenceWhen:13-14 NovemberWhere:Birmingham Science Park, AstonWhat:Aimed at developers, start-ups and students, this friendly and diverse conference showcasesG the most interesting work coming out of studios and academic institutes in the Midlands. There's a huge range of speakers including Rod Cousens (CEO of Codemasters and all-round industry veteran), Trevor Williams (co-founder of Playground Games, the developer of Forza Horizon) and Jo Twist (CEO of UK games industry trade body, UKIE), plus, I'll be there talking about games journalism! This is a really valuable event for wannabe developers in the region, with lots of access to movers and shakers in the region.
Friday, finally. What are you up to? I'm playing Fifa 13, of course...
Europe's antitrust chief has publicly warned Google that it could face charges of breaching EU rules, and be fined, unless it does more to ease concerns that it used its search clout to block rivals.EU competition commissioner Joaquin Almunia said that so far concessions from Google – which is in talks with the European Commission to resolve complaints from competitors, including Microsoft, which claim it is abusing its dominant position in the search business – had not gone far enough.His warning,made in a speech to Fordham University in New York, ratchets up the pressure on Google by making public the EC's willingness to move to a more confrontational approach to the negotiations, which have been going on since July.If the case moved to the courts and the EC showed that Google had broken EU antitrust laws through the abuse of a dominant position, Google could be fined 10% of its worldwide revenues – which for 2011 amounts to €2.9bn (£2.3bn).More importantly, Google would be put into a legal straitjacket that would control how it could in future use its search results – rather as Microsoft, which previously fell foul of the EC over the dominant position of its Internet Explorer browser, now finds itself.In Europe, Microsoft is obliged to offer abrowser choice screenthat lets users choose which of a number of browsers they wish to be the default on their PC.Speaking about the Google negotiations, Almunia said in his speech: "We are not there yet, and it must be clear that, in the absence of satisfactory proposals in the short term, I will be obliged to continue with our formal proceedings."If effective solutions were found quickly and tested successfully, competition could be restored at an early stage." He said that his staff was in technical discussions with Google to assess in-depth the solutions presented to his office.Observers of the negotiations note that so far interested parties, such as those who first complained to the EC in 2010 alleging that Google was abusing its dominant position in the search market, have not seen any market testing of potential solutions. That seems to indicate slow progress.By going public with his unhappiness over the progress of the talks, Almunia seems to be raising the stakes in the discussions.Google was given, and met, a 2 July deadline by Almunia's office to respond to a statement of concerns about the way in which it orders search results to include its own products such as YouTube or Google Shopping, about the scraping of content from third-party sites, the export of advertising campaigns from Google's system and the placement of rival advertising on Google properties.Crucially it did not say what, if any, concessions it had offered, especially over the ordering of search results.Almunia has said he wants the proposals to be valid worldwide. The US Federal Trade Commission is also considering whether to open a similar case against Google, especially relating to the placement of its own products in search results."We continue to work co-operatively with the Commission," said Google spokesman Al Verney.• Almunia, who is investigating several patent disputes involving Google's Motorola Mobility (MMI), the world's biggest mobile phone maker Samsung and the world's second-biggest telecoms equipment maker Huawei, has urged the industry to resolve patent spats by itself rather than involve regulators where possible."I expect the leading companies in the sector not to misuse their intellectual property rights," he said. "It is high time they look for negotiated solutions – I am tempted to call them peace talks – that would put an end to the patent wars."He emphasised that there was a growing consensus on both sides of the Atlantic on the damage that the misuse of standard-essential patents (SEPs) could do to competition".Both Samsung and MMI are being investigated for using SEPs – which are meant to be licensed without prejudice to all comers – as weapons in patent battles which involve Apple and Microsoft.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team'Sub-arctic' atmos at RIM UK as jobs apocalypse looms &gt;&gt; The RegisterEmployees were called into a meeting on Tuesday afternoon and told of the redundancies, a Register source said, adding that the cuts are deeper than expected and had fallen across both the consumer and enterprise teams.Our informant described the atmosphere in the Slough HQ as "sub-Arctic".In a back-of-the-beer-mat (BOTBM) calculation, the Reg reckons that if 5,000 jobs are to go at RIM this year, and 3,000 went in North America in August, then circa 1,000 to 1,500 people are likely to be facing redundancy in Europe.Depressing.Google updates Android Maps app as Apple moves on &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comGoogle Maps will sync across devices. Say you are making lunch plans in the morning and you search for a restaurant on your desktop computer. Later, as you are walking to the restaurant, you pull out your phone to look up its location on Google Maps. If you were logged in to Google on your desktop computer earlier, as soon as you start to type in the Google Maps search box on your phone, it will suggest the restaurant and other locations you have previously searched for on your computer or phone."Typing on a phone is slow, and our goal is to reduce the amount of typing as much as possible," said Brian McClendon, vice president of engineering for maps at Google.Wrong turn: Apple's buggy iOS 6 maps lead to widespread complaints &gt;&gt; The VergeSources tell The Verge that Apple began work on the iOS 6 maps system nearly five years ago -- not coincidentally when Google launched Android -- and the company has had to buy smaller mapping companies and piece together maps from several vendors to even get this far. That's why the US maps are better than the international ones: Apple's using TomTom data in the US, but other services abroad. It's a patchwork, and the rough edges are clear compared to Google's offering. The search giant has been refining its maps for years now: not only has it been running its quirky StreetView cars all over the world, it's been collecting location data from millions of iPhone and Android users to gain even more precision. Apple's just getting started.Where is this shop? &gt;&gt; Nokia MapsNokia's award-winning maps contain errors too. (Unless it's aMountweazel.)May 2011: Google renews maps deal with Apple, plus other tidbits from Schmidt's D9 appearance &gt;&gt; MacstoriesMay 2011:Last night the annualD9 conferencekicked off with an interview with Google's Executive Chairman, Eric Schmidt. It led to a number of interesting revelations, perhaps of most significance is that he revealed Google has "just renewed [their] Map and Search agreements with Apple".The renewal of the Maps agreement confirmsrumors we reported on last weekwhere it was suggested that although Apple is looking to improve the iOS Maps application, it would not replace the Google service that powers it. Speculation aboutApple launching their own Maps servicewas ignited last month after Apple posted thelocation tracking Q&amp;A post, which talked of a crowd-sourced service to improve traffic information.So the iOS6 change has been in the works for a long time now.The Amazing iOS 6 Maps &gt;&gt; TumblrSimply brilliant and hilarious.Google Transit directions for iOS6 by Simon Maddox &gt;&gt; GithubSimon Maddox:Miss transit directions in iOS 6? Want to go back to Google?This should help. It's a simple app that registers as a routing provider worldwide.When you choose it as your routing app, Google Maps will open in Safari with the appropriate directions.Unwired Planet files patent infringement suits against Apple, Google &gt;&gt; RTT NewsIn two separate complaints filed in Reno, Nevada, Unwired Planet charges Apple with infringing 10 of its patents, and charges Google with infringing 10 different patents. Together, the two cases charge infringement of a total of 20 patents related to smart mobile devices, cloud computing, digital content stores, push notification technologies and location-based services such as mapping and advertising, the company added.Google Maps &amp; label readability &gt;&gt; 41LatitudeI've found that there are three unique effects that Google applies to the text of its city labels, and that these three effects seem to greatly enhance their readability...You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Announced three years ago, Metal Gear Rising: Revengeance was originally in development at Kojima Productions before the team gave up on making a cogent game out of the central sword-slashing interface. So in stepped offbeat studio Platinum Games and the project was saved.The result looks to be a super violent action romp, filled with cyborg assassins and robot killing machines. Players control Raiden's sword in naturalistic slow-mo arcs, chopping up enemies like shop window dummies made out of salami. There is blood everywhere, there is fighting on the top of moving trains, you can rip spines out. If it all sounds like hyperkinetic madness, ti should't come as a surprise that the producer is Atsushi Inaba, the man behind Viewtiful Joe and cult Capcom actioner, God Hand.Anyway, check this out and let us know what you think.
So who decided that the iPhone and iPad would no longer have Google's map data – Apple or Google? "Duh – not Google," a well-placed source at one of the companies told me on Thursday afternoon. Which means that the pain that Apple is now feeling, as peoplelambast it for flaws in its maps offering, is entirely self-inflicted.Google, I hear from roundabout sources, is enjoying the bad press Apple is suffering. It would be surprising if its mappers could resist some schadenfreude, since they are very proud of their work; having it rejected wholesale must be galling.The same sources say that Google is preparing a Google Maps app for iOS6, which will appear in time. No official statement has been made and there will inevitably be questions over whether Apple will approve it in the App Store. (Apple might not, on the basis that it "competes with existing functionality", but would invite a further backlash if it did.)But if Apple knew that the experience with its new Maps data would be bad, why do it? Developers have been grumbling for months that there are missing details from the new non-Google maps, whose principal source seems to be Dutch company TomTom – although its app shows that it, at least, is able to provide detailed information, andknows where Dudley is. The maps have evolved as the iOS 6 software worked through its beta stages over the summer, addingdetail with each update. However they're still not as good overall as Google Maps.(Personally, when reviewing the iPhone 5 running iOS6 over the course of the past week, the issue of how the maps looked didn't arise, because in the rural location where I live there isn't much detail anyway. I tested the satnav facility – specifically the turn-by-turn navigation – over a number of medium-length journeys and found it good, able to generate a route dynamically when a road was closed, and offer multiple routes between locations. I didn't use it to try to find a spot in an unfamiliar city. Perhaps that would have given more clues.)But mapping is now a key function in smartphones: for the weary or lost traveller, it has become the essential way of finding somewhere or something. No more fumbling for paper maps; no more (or not much) querying passers-by who might anyway speak a different language for directions.So getting it wrong is on a par with having a phone that loses connectivity when you're holding it wrong – the latter of course being a problem Apple  struggled with over the iPhone 4 in 2010. "Antennagate" (which Steve Jobs thought, wrongly, was a smear) arose out of the company's secretive nature: it couldn't let people be seen testing the phone in public, so never got enough feedback to know that the aerial design could do strange things near the human hand. By the time it did, it was too late to change.However given the rumblings among developers about iOS6 since the first betas were launched, why did Apple go ahead with dropping Google? Therumours that it would have been around since May 2011. Apple has been quietly buying mapping companies to build up its strength.Why, though, buy companies when you can just use Google's? This isn't like the iPhone 4 antenna design; this is an entirely intentional move. The only logical reason is that Apple is trying to cut yet another tie to a company, and data, which it doesn't and cannot control; to reduce its dependency on a third party. And if users suffer in the short term, Apple is prepared to put them through it, because if there is one dogma that lies deep in Apple's corporate DNA, it is that it must control its own destiny. And apparently dumping Google as a partner is what its managers feel they must do to prevent that rival in the future deciding what it can or cannot do. Apple appears to have decided that Google might, one day, hold it hostage over mapping, and decided to avert that day.You don't have to look far for the previous example where Apple's actions seemed retrograde. When the original iPhone launched without support for Adobe's Flash player, people were aghast. The suggestion that Apple would cave in and support Flash resurfaced again and again; but Apple had decided that Flash was bad news on mobiles. Its testing had found that it made the browser liable to crash, slowed it down (because the mobile processor struggled to run the code) and anyway meant that Apple would be forever yoked to Adobe – reliant on it to update Flash, which would happen at Adobe's rather than Apple's pace.The expectation that Apple would cave in grew even greater as Android rose in importance, and did support Flash, although nobody was ever able to say that it offered a great experience. Meanwhile, many sites began offering video in formats the iPhone could use; Steve Jobs had already persuaded Eric Schmidt at Google to offer YouTube's content in the H.264 format that it could play, and others followed suit. The final act came last year, when Adobe announced that it was giving up the development of Flash for Android; Apple had prevailed.Maps though are even more important than playing video and so Apple's actions look even more bizarre. Is it really threatened by Google's strength here? Clearly, yes. The other smartphone platforms are RIM's BlackBerry, which like Apple uses TomTom, and Microsoft's Windows Phone, whose mapping is now powered by Nokia – finally getting the benefit of it €6.5bn (£5.6bn) acquisition of Navteq in 2007.Google has spent almost a decade building up its mapping business to reach the point where it is seen as the gold standard for online cartography, enhanced by satellite imagery and its own Street View data to create a picture of the world that is more accurate and detailed than anything that has ever existed. If you somehow had the resources, you could at least create a replica of pretty much the whole planet from the data on Google's servers – true, you'd only have the shells of the buildings, but it would suffice.Yet Apple doesn't want it. Indeed, it kept certain of the functionality of the Google Maps systems out of iOSGoogle however wouldn't license turn-by-turn navigation to Apple under theterms of the Google Maps API. AsArs Technica points out, "Google restricts those making apps from its APIs from offering real-time navigation or route guidance in their own apps".Meanwhile turn-by-turn navigation has been available for years on Android phones, as well as the ability to turn the onscreen map around to orient it to what you're seeing, instead of having to turn yourself.Apple clearly thought those were necessary to have in order to compete with Android, and with Nokia's Windows Phone (which gets Nokia-owned Navteq directions). They've arrived now on iOS 6 along with all the annoyance.Yet Apple is slowly, carefully, updating the maps it has. While some of the satellite pictures show bizarre artefacts (collected onThe Amazing iOS6 Maps TumblrwithBattersea Bridgebeing a particular favourite, looking more like theTacoma Narrows bridgebefore it fell apart), they're all just bits of data that Apple will implacably try to improve on.Apple isn't a stranger to launches and products going wrong. I recall trying out the iPod nano in September 2005, and noticing that the screen scratched easily, a fact that was widely reported and seen by some as indicating that Apple's reign at the top of the music player tree was over. Instead, it sold more than ever. Then there were iPod batteries that died; the iPod kept selling. The iPhone's price was cut by $200 weeks after launch; Steve Jobs offered $100 in vouchers, but no apology. The list is long, and yet somehow Apple keeps coming out of the other side of it.Whether this will be the one that finally makes the difference is impossible to tell. Some people may decide that they like having the satnav function, and discover that the maps are OK. Others may be put off altogether, and choose a different phone (expect Nokia to capitalise on this). It is a setback. But for Apple, dumping Google has brought the certainty that it can decide what its maps do. For bitter customers who feel that's not good enough, there aren't many options except to useGoogle Maps in the browser, or count the hours until the iOS app is released. It might be a while.(Updated to point out that Google precluded Apple from using turn-by-turn navigation under the Google Maps API.)
Taiwanese smartphone maker HTC has gone head to head with rival Nokia by unveiling two new brightly-coloured handsets that have been chosen as "signature" Windows Phone 8 phones by Microsoft.HTC, which has been struggling with falling revenues as it competes in the Android handset market with dominant maker Samsung, said that the phones will be available from November across multiple carriers around the world.The two HTC handsets – the Windows Phone 8X and the Windows Phone 8S – will pit it directly against Nokia, which earlier this month also launched two colourful Windows Phone models.Both companies have been held back from putting their handsets on sale or announcing prices at once because Microsoft has not formally announced the Windows Phone 8 software; that will not happen until the end of October, alongside the launch of the new Windows 8 desktop and tablet operating system.Like Nokia, HTC is under pressure to generate strong sales from its next round of phones after losing significant ground to Samsung and Apple, which together make up half of all smartphone shipments worldwide.With Apple boasting 2m pre-orders of its new iPhone 5 before it hits store shelves on 21September, Reticle Research analyst Ross Rubin said it will be challenging for HTC to catch up.But HTC, which has generated most of its sales from phones based on Google's Android software in recent years, will be able to count on marketing help from Microsoft.The new devices will be marketed as the "signature" Windows Phone 8 smartphones, Jason Mackenzie, HTC's global head of sales, told attendees at the company's New York launch event, at which Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer also came on stage. "Consumers are going to love these phones, and we're committed to reaching them in a manner that's clear and direct," Ballmer said.But that clearly annoyed Nokia, whose sales and marketing chief Chris Webertweetedthat "it takes more than matching colour to match the innovation of the Lumia 920" – referring to the recently announced high-end models in multiple colours announced by his chief executive Stephen Elop in New York.Shares of HTC climbed as much as 2% in early trading in Taipei.Some fund managers were wary of the sales appeal of HTC's new Windows phones in the fourth quarter, despite their good designs and form factors, as the market share of the Microsoft's operating system remains small."Even with the rumored new Android models coming up, HTC's performance will be so-so this year, because its phones are still lagging behind Samsung," said Michael On, a managing director of Beyond Asset Management in Taipei, which does not own HTC shares.The success of HTC and Nokia Windows Phone 8 devices this holiday shopping season will be crucial to Microsoft, which has been left far behind by Apple and Google in the smartphone software market in the last several years.Gartner analyst Michael Gartenberg said HTC and Nokia were smart to distinguish the appearance of their devices from Apple's iPhone with bright colours, as it could make them stand out to customers who want an iPhone alternative. "The best thing about these device ranges is that neither looks like an iPhone," said Gartenberg, adding that competition between Nokia and HTC will also help to generate some publicity around Windows Phone 8 software.Taiwan's HTC was able to share more signs of success at its device launch event in New York than did Nokia at its phone launch here earlier this month.While Nokia did not name any customers for its latest Lumia phones, HTC said that together its two new phones would go on sale at 150 operators in 50 countries around the world.For example, it said that either the 8X or the 8S will go on sale at three of the top four US mobile operators – Verizon Wireless , AT&amp;T Inc and T-Mobile USA .Until now, HTC has been betting on its One series of phones, but so far this year their sales have failed to keep pace with the growth in shipments of Apple's iPhone and Samsung's Galaxy range.Up to the second half of 2011, HTC, a former contract smartphone maker, had built a strong brand around the world with phones based on Android software.But it suddenly suffered a sharp decline in its fortunes, as first Samsung and then Apple moved into overdrive. HTC's profits more than halved in the second quarter of 2012 compared with 2011, and it also warned of a revenue decline of as much as 23% in the third quarter from the previous three months due to macroeconomic problems and competition.The smartphone maker is set to announce third-quarter results on 5 October.
The iPhone 5 doesn't go on sale until Friday – but already rival Samsung says it will add it to a series of lawsuits over Apple equipment in the US, alleging that it infringes a series of patents.The South Korean company said in a US court filing that "Samsung anticipates that it will file, in the near future, a motion to amend its infringement contentions to add the iPhone 5 as an accused product."The move is the latest in a continuing round of lawsuits between the two companies, which together control about half of the world's smartphone market. It comes after Apple booked orders for more than 2m of the new iPhone 5 in the first weekend.Samsung and Apple are locked in patent battle in 10 countries and the stakes are high as the two vie for top spot in the booming smartphone market. In late August Apple won a court battle in which it was awarded $1bn in damages against Samsung, which had been accused of infringing a number of software patents used on the iPhone, as well as its "trade dress" – the visual elements that make it unique. The jury in the case turned down all of the patent counterclaims by Samsung.Samsung has indicated that it will appeal the jury's ruling and the fine.Apple meanwhile is seeking to block the sale of a number of Samsung phones and tablets in the US, including the Korean company's flagship Galaxy S3 smartphone.Both companies are also raising marketing spending to promote their latest products ahead of the crucial year-end holiday season."Based on information currently available, Samsung expects that the iPhone 5 will infringe the asserted Samsung patents-in-suit in the same way as the other accused iPhone models," Samsung said in a statement.It also said in a separate statement on Thursday: "Apple continues to take aggressive legal measures that will limit market competition. Under these circumstances, we have little choice but to take the steps necessary to protect our innovations and intellectual property rights."Apple Korea reiterated its position that it was the victim of copying, not vice versa."At Apple, we value originality and innovation … We make these products to delight our customers, not for our competitors to flagrantly copy."Apple's victory over Samsung was also a blow to Google, whose Android software powers the Samsung phones and tablets that were found to infringe Apple patents.Samsung, the biggest Android phone maker, received a second US legal setback last week when a judge at the International Trade Commission said in a preliminary ruling that Apple did not violate patents owned by Samsung.The Korean firm was the world's top smartphone maker in the second quarter of 2012, shipping more than 50m phones, nearly double the Apple's 26m iPhone shipments.
It's time for our weekly roundup of the best new mobile games for smartphones and tablets, beefed up to 20 games this week since it's been a busy seven days.These are all new releases, although some may have been released before on another platform to the one listed – for example, Sky Gamblers on Android is a port of the existing iOS version.On with the show:Street Fighter X Tekken MobileThe two famous fighting franchises collide on iOS this week, just as they have on consoles. Publisher Capcom is keen to stress that this game has been made for touchscreen devices though, with new controls and an exclusive "Gem Roulette" power-ups feature.iPhone / iPadSky Gamblers: Rise of GloryNamco Bandai's spiffing-looking dogfighting game (as in planes, not dogs) has been restricted to the Xperia handsets of Sony Ericsson – now Sony – until this month, when it's been made available for other Android devices. A solo mode lets you get the graphics-gazing out of your system before trying your hand in the multiplayer mode.AndroidLiliBitMonster's adventure-RPG is picking up a lot of buzz among iOS gamers and specialist sites, with startling Unreal Engine-powered visuals and the promise of a free-roaming world with lots of characters and quests. One innovation is a difficulty mode designed specifically for kids, too.iPhone / iPadRayman Jungle RunIt's a big week for big console brands on the App Store, as Ubisoft's Rayman made his way onto iOS. It takes the limbless hero back to his 2D platforming days, with 40 levels and bags of quirk.iPhone / iPadBingo BlitzBelieve it or not, bingo is currently one of the most lucrative genres for the mobile and social games industries, with play-for-fun-yet-also-pay games taking Facebook and iOS by storm. Buffalo Studios' Bingo Blitz is one of the most popular examples, and now it's drawing lines on Android too.AndroidContre JourBeautiful puzzly-adventure Contre Jour has made the leap to Windows Phone, following lots of critical acclaim on iOS. Superbly crafted, if a little unsettling at times, it's also fully plumbed into Microsoft's Xbox Live community.Windows PhoneLabyrinth 2Illusion Labs' Labyrinth 2 is a pleasingly traditional constructional-puzzler with bumpers, balls, doors, magnets and other objects all at your disposal to foil itsbrain-taxing levels. There's also the facility to create and share your own levels, if you're so-minded.AndroidBest of British: Summer SportsBoB: Summer Sports sprang out of a wizard wheeze from a group of independent games developers in the UK. Created in 48 hours at a hack event, it's a collection of sports mini-games, with an emphasis on playability and a nice line in surreal humour.iPhone / iPadLunar Silver Star Story TouchOne of the fun things about modern-day app stores is their global nature, which is speeding up the process of bringing games to the West from Japan that would formerly have required grubbing about in import shops. Lunar Silver Star Story Touch is a conversion of a Japanese RPG with all the questing, battling and slightly-baffling plotlines that fans of the genre would expect.iPhone / iPadDemons' ScoreTalking of Japanese games... This is the work of Square Enix, which is encouraging players to "Get ready for the off-the-hook break beat action. Surrender to the rhythm and tap like hell." It's crying out for a Brian Blessed-voiceovered TV ad. In the absence of that, this is a music rhythm game where your in-time tapping duffs up giant demons, a bit like Infinity Blade crossed with Tap Tap Revenge.iPhone / iPadMonster WarlordNow something from South Korea, in the form of Monster Warlord. It's the latest freemium card-battler game, which as the title implies involves all manner of monsters. There are hundreds of beasts to collect and combine, with a clan system to spice up the online multiplayer elements.AndroidCrafty CreaturesIs the sudden popularity of "crafting" in a range of games all down to Minecraft? This game from Chillingo takes the idea into a puzzle game, getting players to make levels and creatures before playing them, and also sharing them with others. Like LittleBigPlanet meets Cut the Rope, a bit, and intriguing with it.iPhone / iPadGuardian CrossAnother new release from Square Enix, which is putting a lot of effort into testing out new games and genres on mobile devices in 2012. Well, I say new genres: this is another card-battler, except here the monsters are based on some familiar faces (and claws) from the Final Fantasy games. Moogles, mandragoras and more lie in wait.iPhone / iPadPrince of Persia ClassicFor something more nostalgic, how about a faithful Android port of Prince of Persia, Ubisoft's princely platform game from back in the day? The faithfulness stops at the graphics though, which have been beefed up for modern-day smartphones. Also good for fans are the multiple modes, including Time Attack and Survival.AndroidTownsmenOut on Android a few weeks ago, HandyGames' Townsmen has now set up house on iOS too. It's actually one of the most long-running mobile game brands, having made its original debut in the days of Java handsets. You're building a city, managing its economy, and completing challenges to make it a bustling metropolis.iPhone / iPadHotel Transylvania DashHere's an interesting partnership: casual games publisher PlayFirst and Hollywood studio Sony Pictures Animation. They've teamed up to make a new version of the former's Hotel Dash game (think Diner Dash, but... Well, you can guess) featuring undead characters from the upcoming Hotel Transylvania movie. File alongside similar reskins for Brave (Temple Run), Hop (Doodle Jump) and Rio (Angry Birds).iPhone / iPadThe CurseThe Curse is aproperpuzzle game: one for veterans of the genre who like something to really get their teeth into. 100 levels are included, blending logic, memory and reaction puzzles, with its cryptic challenges ensuring you won't blast through them too easily.AndroidRecess RiotSuper Mega Worm remains the all-time awesomest mobile game about giant worms leaping out of the ground to eat people. Now its developers have something new: pixelly jumping and dodging in the playground, as you leap over ropes and duck a collection of balls. No giant worms, alas, but don't hold that against it.iPhone / iPadCritter Escape!This really is a good time for interesting indie games coming out on Android. Stealth adventure Critter Escape! sees you sneaking through 120 levels to escape, with the help of power-ups and the hindrance of puzzles.AndroidJudge Dredd vs. ZombiesZombies certainly don't shirk a challenge on mobile, turning up to fight against plants, Call of Duty soldiers and now Judge Dredd himself. Tying in with the new Dredd 3D movie, this sees the not-so-good Judge proving his law-amming credentials by laying waste to hordes of the undead.AndroidThat's our selection, but what mobile games have you been playing this week? Give your recommendations, or feedback on the titles above, by posting a comment.
My father's elderly Windows XP laptop needs replacing. Its hinges are damaged, the case is cracked, the power connector makes poor contact, the battery lasts almost no time at all, and a couple of the key tops are missing. The trouble is, he doesn't want to change to Windows 7 as he is easily exasperated when he can't do what he wants. He has used my Windows 7 machine once or twice, under duress, and was frustrated with it. He can see no advantage to switching to Windows 7, other than changing his machine.His uses are quite mundane – word processing, web, iPlayer and family photos – and it really is used as a laptop: ie, on his lap on a couch. Any thoughts?SotiresMost people who have been using computers for two or three decades have already made larger jumps than the step from Windows XP to Windows 7, which actually requires very little relearning. Your father may have progressed from, for example, a Sinclair Spectrum or Acorn BBC Micro to an Amstrad PCW or to a PC running Microsoft's MS DOS. Even people who have only used Microsoft Windows have seen significant shifts from Windows 3 to Windows 95 (DOS-based) to Windows 2000 and XP (NT-based). Experience shows that it's foolish to try to hang on to the past. Even if you don't want to be an early adopter, you still have to keep moving.In fact, sensible people moved from XP to Windows 7 as quickly as possible. This gave them up to eight years on XP (2001-09) followed by at least six years on Windows 7 (2009-15). As it is, your father has missed the advantages of having Windows 7's increased 64-bit power, greater stability, greater security, much better software for web browsing, email and photos (in Windows Live Essentials), and generally smoother operation for the past three years. And by the time he upgrades, Windows 7 may already have been replaced by Windows 8, which is a much bigger jump than the one he faces now.You can, of course, still buy laptops running XP. These may be second hand, refurbished, or new, but they all suffer from the drawbacks of old hardware. These include much slower processors, too little memory (typically 1GB; rarely 2GB) and tidgy hard drives. Windows XP officially (not literally) was taken off the market on 30 June 2008, so most of these old laptops will be at least five years old. Hardware has advanced on a lot since then, and so has almost everything else. Today's websites, photos and movies are much bigger than they used to be, and you need a lot more processing power to handle them.I did a bit of online window shopping for XP laptops, and I couldn't find anything worth buying at a decent price. Yes, there's plenty of junk in the £100-£175 range, but prices of sturdy and reasonably quick XP laptops – ones that look likely to survive another two or three years – are not that much cheaper than new ones. Meanwhile, prices of new XP laptops can be higher than Windows 7 machines. You can even find them in the £600 to £1,500 range, which is crazy.You might find a good second-hand XP laptop locally, but be prepared to haggle over the price. People who paid £1,000 or £1,500 for their old laptop may not appreciate that far better machines are now available brand new for £250 to £300, complete with a guarantee. Even if you can pick up a good laptop for £100-£150, you may have to install extra memory to reach the minimum 2GB, and the battery will be shot. Worse, you won't know whether or not the hard drive is in good condition, or whether it's riddled with viruses, or spyware.I certainly wouldn't buy any XP laptop unless it came with the correct Windows system disc or an intact recovery partition that can be used to restore the operating software to its factory condition. It must also have a legibleWindows COA (Certificate of Authenticity)sticker.If you take the second-hand route, aim for a name brand (IBM, Toshiba, Dell etc) business machine with an Intel Core 2 Duo processor from the T or P series, as these tend to be reasonably nippy. Bigger numbers are usually better, and the 2.8GHz Core 2 Duo P8600 Processor used in laptops like the ThinkPad X200 still has legs. In fact, your dad could get a P8600 in a new Dell Latitude E6400 running XP for only£578.99 from Play.com. However, he could also get a slimlineCore i5-powered Ultrabookfor that price.XP on Windows 7There are another two options that you could discuss with your dad, if he's willing to bend just a bit. These are to run Windows XP on a new 64-bit Windows 7 laptop, or to make Windows 7 look and (up to a point) work like XP. Unfortunately, both of these need quite a bit of geekery.Like your dad, some slow-moving organisations wanted to stay with Windows XP as long as possible, so Microsoft gave them the option to run a free copy of XP under Windows 7. This requires the use of Windows 7 Professional, not the home version, and a computer with hardware virtualisation technology built into the processor. You will have to check the chip to make sure it offers Intel's VT feature. This means looking it up in the Ark atark.intel.com.With the right kit, go toMicrosoft.comand download and install a VM (virtual machine) in Windows 7, then download and install Windows XP in this virtual PC.Windows Secretsand other sites have guides online.It is much cheaper to use the VM than to buy and install a retail copy of Windows XP to replace Windows 7. (The copies of Windows that manufacturers ship with laptops are bought under cheap deals that tie them to the machine on which they are shipped. Your dad can't transfer the copy from his old laptop. Retail copies, which are sold and supported by Microsoft, can be moved.)But perhaps the best idea is to buy a new laptop running Windows 7 and adjust the settings so it looks quite a lot like Windows XP. As always, increasing the resemblance requires an increasing amount of work, but you can start with the simplest option.The next time your dad uses his guest account on your Windows 7 laptop, right-click on the desktop, select Personalize from the bottom of the menu, and select Windows Classic from the set of Basic and High Contrast Themes. This makes Windows 7 look a lot like Windows 98/2000, not like XP, but it could suit your father. (Microsoft provided exactly the same Classic theme in XP to help businesses to adopt it. At the time, people were complaining about having to move to XP, just as they are now complaining about having to move off it. I expect they're the same people.)You can try this yourself. You probably won't like the Windows Classic theme, but you can always switch back to your preferred theme. To make this simpler, save your current theme under a new name and it will appear in the My Themes section.If Classic isn't enough, XP-lovers can download and installan unofficial clone of Microsoft's Luna theme(used in XP) on Windows 7. Since this is not Microsoft signed code, you will also have to install aa theme  patcheras well.To simplify things, someone has put together a 9.4MB7_to_XP_pack.rarfile that contains many of these files. (You will needWINrarto unpack it.) There are lots of YouTube videos that show you how to do it, andthisis one of the least bad examples.To make Windows 7 work a bit more like XP, not just look the part, you can also install theClassic ShellorCSMenuto bring back the old Start menu. Windows XP proved this worked badly, because it's hard to find anything in dozens of randomly arranged nested menus, and nobody can be bothered to sort them into a proper structure. Vista and Windows 7, by contrast, are search-driven operating systems: you find programs by typing a few letters into the menu's search/run box. (XP users can get the same kind of feature by installingLaunchy.)Most of these changes downgrade Windows 7, so they are only for cranky users. However, one that will appeal to most new Windows 7 users is to show hierarchical folder views. To do this, go to Windows Explorer's Tools menu, open the Folder Options property sheet, and click the two check boxes marked "Show all folders" and "Automatically expand to current folder".To be frank, doing all this involves more time and effort than simply accepting Windows 7 and doing the small amount of relearning required.Perhaps you could convert your dad to this point of view by showing him how to use the menu's search/run box. There must be several things your dad doesn't know how to do in Windows XP, so get him to search for one of those in Windows 7. If not, just type in the word "change" and pick an option. Windows 7 provides lots of help and hand-holding, and again, it's usually quicker and easier just to tell Windows 7 what you want than to find it in Windows XP.Windows 7 is, as mentioned, search-driven rather than menu-driven, and it doesn't require you to remember where to find all those minor adjustments that you hardly ever use. This is also true of the web. It's hard to let go of outmoded paradigms, but if your dad plans to outlive Windows 9 (2015), Windows 10 (2018), Windows 11 (2021) and so on, he should start moving now.
For me there is really only one way to play Fifa: as the manager of a League Two club such as Morecambe and with as much hope of making it to the Champions League as I have of being scouted for Barcelona while doing keep-ups in the garden with an old balloon. I can't play as Man City or Chelsea, or even Swansea or QPR. I need the full heroic narrative. I have to start in the fourth tier, working with players whom I can imagine still make a little extra cash doing roofing for their aunts in the off-season.This has been my routine since at least Fifa 10. I come into a club fighting relegation from the lowest league in the game and, little by little, investing in scouts here, hiring hoary old free agents there, I usher them back up the table and into the next league, and then the next. Until one day, against all odds, several life-weeks and many game-years later, Morecambe are sitting at the top of the Premier League on the final day of the season, preparing to take a shot at being crowned champions of Europe.At this moment in each of the past three years of my life, I have felt an odd mixture of intense pride and crushing regret, an emotional cocktail familiar to gamers everywhere. Luckily, as of Fifa 13, there will be a whole new chapter to the story: at around this moment, the FA will come knocking, asking: "Would you like to manage the England football team as well?" To which I, along with every other football gamer in the country, will answer: "Duh." Regret will have to wait until after the World Cup.Of course, every new instalment of a sports franchise needs to offer something that previous versions haven't, and international management, while a welcome addition, is no great revolution. But what sets Fifa 13 apart is that the chance to manage England is just one short item on the very long list of new features worth getting excited about, both on and off the pitch.On it, perhaps the most noticeable is the new first-touch control system. One of the great flaws of past games was watching even the least gifted of players stop a curling crossfield pass at chest-height with a single poke of their boot and jog off with the ball glued to their feet. First-touch control abolishes sticky-boot syndrome. Unskilled players receiving powered passes at full sprint can expect to lose possession a lot. Meanwhile, those who keep control of the ball will find that they have a few more options than in the past: lateral dribbling allows the player to take the ball around defenders without losing sight of the goal, while the new close-control system makes it easier to nutmeg, shimmy and generally showboat your way past the opposing back four. If you prefer to carve them open with a killer pass, you'll find your team-mates now make more intelligent attacking runs, finding space more often, and much earlier.The player-impact engine – previously capable of some hilarious player pile-ups – has now got its act together. Its questionable physics looks sorted, and players can jostle for possession when chasing down a pass, giving your defence a more robust and combative feel. Free kicks, too, have had a healthy makeover, and two or three players can now square up behind the ball and make dummy runs, or lay it off for one another to shoot.If you're all about management, you'll find a host of improvements in career mode. Player swaps and cash-plus-player deals add new options to the transfer market, while other clubs no longer sell their best players, and decide who to buy and who to offload far more intelligently. In fact, just about every aspect of the game has got smarter: your own players make sensible requests for game time, showing an awareness of their status in the team, while commentators know much more about your side's position in the league, and read out the latest scores from games being played elsewhere. In short, Fifa 13 looks set to be the most complete and immersive footballing experience yet.It will also make it easier than ever to sign up with Shrewsbury and wake up six months later with a shelf of trophies and a social life in tatters. What's worrying is that this time you might have no regrets at all.Fifa 13 is on sale from 27 September.
Within minutes of the launch of the iOS6 operating system, which comes preloaded with Apple Maps, users were reporting problems.What had happened to Paddington station? Had Sears Tower in Chicago shrunk overnight?Users have been busily posting examples on Twitter and other social media. Share the glitches and problems that you've spotted in the comments section below, or tweet@guardianwith your examples. We'll update this article with the best that we receive.Here are a couple of unfortunate cases posted on Twitter. First up, a zoo in the middle of tourist Dublin?@guardianDublin zoo in the middle of temple bar :facepalm:#apocolappstwitpic.com/awkwrf&mdash; Conor O'Byrne (@conorobyrne)September 20, 2012Some sudden new infrastructure reported in south London:@guardianthe three new petrol stations which appeared over night!twitter.com/AJH_Worksuppor…&mdash; AJ Harland (@AJH_Worksupport)September 20, 2012A town in Wales goes walkabout:@guardianthe town of Pontypridd has been moved 6 miles NW, and dumped on top of where Tonypandy should be#iOS6mapstwitter.com/AlunRhydian/st…&mdash; Alûn Davies (@AlunRhydian)September 20, 2012And a spot of trouble in Wivenhoe:What happened last night? Wivenhoe is now in the river and Rowhedge has crossed over the river.#whoknew#iosmapstwitter.com/trevorappleton…&mdash; Trevor Appleton (@trevorappleton)September 20, 2012@guardianquite a few restaurants, bars and cafés in my area that simply don't exist anymore still on the map#iosmaps&mdash; Michael Chapman (@raczilla33)September 20, 2012@guardianUm, garages that closed 5 yrs ago, absence of new roads, incorrect positioning of POI, no rural placenames. More?#iosmaps&mdash; FirstOptionSolutions (@FOSolutions)September 20, 2012Spielo:Just worked out why it can't find Paddington Station: It's because the station is called "London Paddington", not "Paddington". If you search for the actual station name, it finds it. Definitely not good enough, but it's useful to know a little about what the app is doing at least...cutta:London seems to consist of neighbourhoods from Victorian times. Candlewick and Walbrook in the City for instance. Plenty of other weird and wrong labels too.And another example of Apple Maps inspired existential ennui:@guardianIt's decided the small town I live in is actually on a tiny deserted island 10 km west of here#iOS6maps&mdash; Tsana Dolichva (@Tsana_D)September 20, 2012We'll be updating this blogpost as we receive further examples.
Apple is facing its first significant failure in years with anger over the mapping service introduced this week for iPhone users.Within minutes of the launch of the iOS6 operating system, which comes preloaded with Apple Maps, users were reporting that London had been relocated to Ontario,Paddington station had vanished, the Sears Tower in Chicago had shrunk, and Helsinki railway station had been turned into a park.Dublin, meanwhile, has beengifted a previously undiscovered airport. The Republic's justice minister, Alan Shatter, in whose constituency the imaginary airport has been located, has already made arrangements for Apple to be informed of the error.Airfield, a 35-acre greenfield site with working farm, formal gardens and cafe, has been designated as an airport by the Apple database, which has labelled it with the aeroplane icon it uses for genuine aircraft landing spots.In a statement Shatter said: "Clearly the designation is not only wrong but is dangerously misleading in that it could result in a pilot, unfamiliar with the area, in an emergency situation and without other available information, attempting a landing.""Sears Tower"#ios6mapstwitter.com/stringbot/stat…&mdash; Josh Davison (@stringbot)September 20, 2012The minister helpfully suggests alternative icons which could reduce the risk of an aircraft landing unexpectedly in his constituency.The imaginary Railway station park in Helsinki on#ios6maps.#loltwitter.com/tlaturi/status…&mdash; tlaturi (@tlaturi)September 20, 2012"In context of Airfield there are a variety of possible alternative images that could be utilised such a cow, a goat, a sheep, a flower or any indeed other type of plant as Airfield operates a nursery. An aircraft is an entirely inappropriate flight of imagination."Those searching for the Sears Tower in Chicago are shown a satellite image of a neighbouring, much smaller tower. The area covered by tracks and platforms at Helsinki railway station has been mistakenly coloured green, to resemble a park.Search for London, and the first location that appears is not London, England, but London in Ontario, Canada. Users who requested Paddington station were shown Paddington Street in London. Although later searches showed the fault had been fixed, initially the mapping service was unable to plant a pin on one of London's main railway stations. Tokyo station, one of the world's largest train terminuses, has also disappeared.British users reported whole towns missing or relocated. Shakespeare's birthplace, Stratford-upon-Avon, was nowhere to be found while the Welsh town of Pontypridd had been transplanted six miles north-west and placed where Tonypandy should be. Eccentric spellings have also appeared, such as Duncaster for Doncaster, while Ukrainians were surprised to find their capital city has been renamed Kylv.Apple has so far refused to comment. Carolina Milanese, technology analyst at research firm Gartner, said: "Apple needs to resolve this very very quickly. I think they need to say something. This is not the quality people were expecting."Apple Maps replaces Google Maps as the default map service on the latest version Apple's iPhone and iPad software. And because Google has not yet created a standalone mapping app that can be downloaded to the phone, those updating their software to iOS6 will be left without Google Maps.Apple revolutionised first the music industry and now personal computing, but its foray into cartography looks likely to be less of a success. The service was created in collaboration with directories business Yelp and TomTom, the satellite navigation device maker, which has provided the turn-by-turn navigation technology and some of the mapping data.It draws on many other sources, including OpenStreetMap, Ordnance Survey and satellite images from Nasa. A spokesman for TomTom told the BBC its maps provided only a foundation to the service: "The user experience is determined by adding additional features to the map application such as visual imagery. User experience fully depends on the choices these manufacturers make."John Walton of the website Australian Business Travellerobserved that at least some locations were correctly mapped: "If being able to navigate is important to you in the near term, we'd recommend that you consider not upgrading to iOS6. The only way that iOS6 Maps is an improvement is if you're looking for an Apple Store. These are more prominently displayed than just about anything else in the cities where they appear."
Technology companies could be given a fast track to the London Stock Exchange (LSE) under new regulations being proposed by the government to try to snare the would-be Googles and Facebooks of the future.David Willetts, the minister for universities and science, said that the government has been working with the LSE to propose a "new route" for companies from the UK and the rest of Europe to raise cash on the stock market. Among the changes will be reformed rules concerning eligibility, reporting and the "free float" – the proportion of shares held by investors that can be traded.Willetts told an audience of venture capitalists and startup entrepreneurs in London that the government was determined to make sure that as many of the new crop of innovative European hi-tech companies seeking to float in the next few years do so in the UK.Although London already offers the Alternative Investment Market (Aim) as a sub-market of the LSE, a number of companies and investors feel that it does not have the prestige of a listing on the main index. The AIM is a self-regulated market with low admission requirements, but it has been criticised for having a "casino" environment for trading.Willetts said that the reformed rules being proposed "will ensure that the needs of dynamic businesses – particularly internet and technology companies – and their investors are met".Research by the independent analysis and investment organisation Nesta suggests that, between 2006 and 2009, more than 800 companies received investment from UK venture capital funds and 2,700 companies received investment from European funds. In all, 10% of firms that received investment from UK or European funds between 1990 and 2005 went on to make an initial public offering.Willetts said the proposals would be aimed at mid-sized, high-growth businesses, which are currently under-represented on the UK's stock markets. Xavier Rolet, chief executive of the LSE, said: "There is a direct and proven link between IPOs and job creation. Attracting both entrepreneurial businesses and the investors that support them to the UK is key to driving growth and generating jobs."Neil Rimer of the venture capital company Index Ventures said: "It's great news for entrepreneurs everywhere that London is stepping up and not just being a great place to start a company but to build huge sustainable businesses. Our hope is that today's good news from Downing Street will encourage more high-growth companies created in Europe to go big and stay home."For venture capital companies, an easier route for companies in which they have invested to float on the stock market, and hence repay their capital, would be a boon — and could lead to a virtuous circle in which venture capital is more quickly and possibly better rewarded than at present. A constant complaint from UK-based startups is that it is difficult to access venture capital, while the investors complain that it is hard to find companies with sufficiently clear paths to a flotation that would bring a payback.Willetts's move follows lobbying by both startups and investors, and concern that the US could prove a more attractive location for flotation, especially after President Obama lowered the regulatory burden for growth companies wanting to gain listings on US public markets.The government says it will also investigate whether current regulatory rules are putting investors off funding growth companies, and will work with the LSE to widen the availability of equity capital for both UK and international businesses looking to make the UK their global base.Stefan Glaenzer, co-founder of Passion Capital, said: "This is great news for technology entrepreneurs and investors across Europe. It's vital that we enable more European companies to IPO in London, as this will not only create vital new jobs and investment, but it will also help more European companies grow into world-beaters. We need to create digital companies who end up on the buy side and not sell out. An IPO is not a sellout, it's the beginning of the next phase."Reshma Sehoni of Seedcamp said: "Seedcamp and others have done a lot of work to support early stage tech companies in Europe. It's great news that the government is announcing these proposals to make it more attractive for technology companies to IPO in London. The quality of the entire business ecosystem will improve if the UK remains globally competitive, and particularly so with the US, so that we retain more of our best tech companies and all the jobs and revenues that they create."
It's easy to tell when the new Pro Evo is due: I've just about mastered the previous one.It's probably best to start with a confession. Just like certain allegiances – politics, football teams, that friend your wife really doesn't like – defy all logic, so is my love for PES. There have been years I've flirted with Fifa and yes, grudgingly, I must admire its glossy appearance, official licenses, player animations and clever touches. But it's a dalliance and it's PES that I'll return home to.You can take the mick all you like (and with teams such as Merseyside Red and West Midlands Village there's more than enough material), you can argue that the old Fifa complaints – it's too easy / it's all about the glory goals – no longer hold water. When it comes to repeat play, you're still more likely to find me grinding out the results in PES than any other game.It'll be over to Keith in due course to present the case for Fifa 2013. This week you've got me and my attempts to judge PES 2013 fairly (which I'm sure will be analysed and pulled apart in the boxes below in a just a few seconds' time).So, let's start with that four-out-of-five score. If we did marks out of 10 or offered halves, this would be a 70% title or thereabouts so, given my allegiance (and general glass-half-full take on life) I'm rounding up. Sue me.In truth, there's a lot to back up the score. This incarnation of PES feels more solid than the past few years, particularly in defence, where new touches such as shadowing and simple face-on tackles mean you don't always have to slide in and risk yellow cards and the console's team somehow bursting the net with a 45-yard free kick that you will never replicate.As for the bells and whistles, there are some excellent additions. There's a full range of passing available and shooting is more controlled than ever – the duration of the respective button press controlling height and power. And the new tricks – flick ons, instant control, turning defenders – are very welcome.There is a full training module available which you will need: these moves require a lot of practice to drop them into a full game (and the sort of manual dexterity that occasionally feels like you're playing Pro Evolution Stenographer) but when they come off, and you've fizzed a ball across the pitch, flicked the ball over a defender and embarked on a mazy run finishing with a carefully placed chip into the top corner, you'll punch the air.Or the wall when you've pressed the wrong button, hit a shot that's closer to the corner flag, got the timing all wrong, conceded the winning goal with the last kick of the game or just feel that the console has deliberately ignored your button pressing (yes, it's a thing).It would be interesting to see a Top 10 of games that have resulted in controller flinging and property damage; I suspect that PES would be high on the list. Sometimes you can play brilliantly and lose. Sometimes you can go from being a master of the button presses to getting it all wrong – Messi to messy – in the space of a few seconds. But hey, that's football.A big change is the lack of league competitions, but that's pretty much taken care of under the positively tweaked Master League function. There's also some new music and new commentary but not enough of either that they won't get very annoying very quickly.Graphically, things have improved with some impressive player likenesses, particularly in their movements. Konami claims to have improved the goalkeeping too. Hmm. On the evidence of the many games played so far, if they have worked with real keepers it appears to have involved Heurelho Gomes.Once again, the late transfers aren't reflected in the game, and will require a data download (or not if you're a Tottenham – sorry, North East London – fan eager to hold on to Modric for another season) although that wasn't available at the time of review.Is this the Pro Evo to convince Fifa fans to switch? No. Is it an improvement on the last couple of years' PES incarnations? Yes. Will I be loving it and hating it and still playing it until PES 2014 comes out? Absolutely.• Game reviewed on PlayStation 3
It's Thursday, what are you up to today?
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhatsApp is broken, really broken &gt;&gt; filepermsSecurity-wise, that is:The authentication is a security nightmare. On Android, the password is a md5 hash of the reversed IMEI number... On iOS devices the password is generated from the devices WLAN MAC address:The username is the users mobile phone number - an attacker would probably already know the number.The IMEI can be obtained if you have physical access to the phone or if you control an app installed on the users device. The WLAN MAC address can be found using a network sniffer. Congratulations, you can now take over a users WhatsApp account.Unfortunate.Dice swallows Slashdot, SourceForge, Freecode in $20m deal &gt;&gt; The RegisterDice Holdings, which runs a number of job-listing sites including Dice.com, has acquired open source code-hosting repository SourceForge, software-index site Freecode, and tech-news discussion site Slashdot from parent company Geeknet, in a deal valued at $20m.CmdrTaco would be turning in his.. oh, he's still very much alive.The Next Big Thing is Already Here &gt;&gt; YouTubeSamsung takes aim at the iPhone 5. Cleverly done. (Strange that the queue is outside a shop selling Android stuff but... details.)Apple's iPhone commandeered at hacker contest days before new release | Ars TechnicaThe iPhone hack [against a developer version of iOS6; it's not clear if the GM is vulnerable] was accompanied by an Android exploit that successfully penetrated the Galaxy S3 running Android 4.0.4. According to a blog post published by MWR Labs (the company that spawned the winning attack), it used a new feature known as Near Field Communication to upload a malicious file to the device. The file was then able to bypass security mitigations including address space layout randomization, data execution prevention, and application sandboxing so it could eventually execute.(Thanks @rquick for the link.)CWeberatNokia: It takes more than matching ... &gt;&gt; TwitterChris Weber is Nokia's head of sales and marketing, and has some thoughts about HTC's Windows Phones:It takes more than matching color to match the innovation of the Lumia 920.Iconic &gt;&gt; Coyote TracksYou don't need to see the name plate on a Ford Mustang or a Corvette or a Porsche 911 to recognize one. Or a Coke bottle. Or, once you've seen one, a Tivoli Audio tabletop radio. Or a McIntosh amp.These products have a design language that's become part of their brand identity. That language is not only important to the companies, it's important to their customers. When you go to a Mustang show--and think about the fact that there are Mustang shows--you'll see few if any cars from the 1980s, when Ford abandoned the Mustang design language and made cars that, well, didn't look like Mustangs.Note what he says about Coke bottles later.Windows Phone 8X by HTC - hands-on preview &gt;&gt; All About Windows PhoneSee if you can spot what this piece - for which they've definitely got their hands on the phone - is missing. Clue: find the extra letter in the headline.Thread: Un-Web 2.0 &gt;&gt; Dave WinerIf the Web is Small Pieces Loosely Joined, Web 2.0 is Small Pieces Trapped In A Silo.In Un-Web 2.0 you get full control of your data, and the services just get pointers to it, or copies of it. The originals live with you. Pointers are much preferable to copies because then you can keep updating the content after it has been incorporated in someone else's content tree.Food for thought. :-)No Place Like Home GPS shoes &gt;&gt; Dominic WilcoxDominic Wilcox has created a fully functional prototype pair of shoes that will guide you home no matter where you are in the world...Were we alone in adding "..or how drunk" to that sentence?How to control a BlackBerry Enterprise Server with just a PDF &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityGraham Cluley:Sorry, I'm not actually going to tell you how to do that.But Research In Motion (RIM), the company who make the BlackBerry smartphones beloved by corporate workers worldwide, has warned of a vulnerability in the way its devices handles PDF files which could allow hackers to remotely execute code.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Google's intervention to stop Acer launching a smartphone with search rival Alibaba's "forked" version of Android is reportedly causing tension with Taiwanese and Chinese handset makers - and might even threaten Android's unity in China.The search giant lobbied Acer last week to halt its scheduled press showing of a new smartphone aimed at the Chinese market, pointing out that membership of theOpen Handset Alliance- the group of companies forming the device, carrier, semiconductor, software and "commercialisation" sides of the Android ecosystem - forbids Acer from making devices that offer forked, or incompatible, versions of Android.Acer cancelled the launch abruptly, leaving Alibaba fuming publicly at Google's actions. John Spelich, Alibaba's international spokesman,told CNetthat "Aliyun is different" from Android - dismissingremarks aimed at him by Andy Rubin, head of Google's mobile efforts including Android, saying to Spelich that "Aliyun uses the Android runtime, framework and tools. And your app store contains Android apps (including pirated Google apps)."The upshot has been that Acer has withdrawn from the partnership with Alibaba, at least for now. But Digitimes, the Taiwan-based news site for the IT supply chain there and in China,saysthere is unease on the part of a number of ODMs (original device manufacturers) who would otherwise aim to benefit from making both Android-compatible and forked versions - the latter principally aimed at China.Some of the China-based smartphone vendors which are building Android-based phone and have adopted locally developed application might shift to forked versions because "the loss from forgoing Android may be small," the site reports, quoting its supply chain sources.With Alibaba, one of the biggest web destinations in China, seeking to build its own fork of Android - rather as Amazon has done in the US - Google might face a challenge from its own creation in the market where it needs unity.Rubin indicated some of Google's concern, sayingin a Google+ postthat "We were surprised to read Alibaba Group's chief strategy officer Zeng Ming's quote 'We want to be the Android of China' when in fact the Aliyun OS incorporates the Android runtime and was apparently derived from Android."But Ming's meaning is clear - that Alibaba wants to dominate the Chinese smartphone OS landscape just as Android does the world's.However for Google, it is important to keep Android unified around the OHA in China so that it can continue to serve Android handsets - whose activations are now running at over a miilion per day - with search results and, in time, garner advertising revenue. If Android splits into multiple competing varieties which do not all use Google for search, maps and other key functions, Google will have lost out.The next paragraph of the Digitimes report carries a heavier warning to the company about the risks inherent in the market: "Among China-based smartphone vendors, only Huawei Technologies, ZTE, Lenovo, Haier, Oppo and a few others joined the Open Handset Alliance, the sources noted. As China is the largest smartphone market around the world, Google had better pay attention to [the] response from web service operators, smartphone vendors and consumers, the sources pointed out."The challenge for Google is that China is the fastest-growing smartphone market in the world, and expected to be the world's largest - ahead of the US - this year.Android powers a huge number of the smartphones sold there: according to figures provided to the Guardian by research company Gartner, in the second quarter of this year 80% of the smartphones sold in China ran Android - or 30.6m out of 38.2m, going by the shipment figures provided for the same quarter by another research company, Analysys International. That means that Android is far more used in China than broadly around the world, where it made up 65% of shipments in the second quarter according to Gartner.Analysys said that China's smartphone business more than doubled year-on-year, up 127%, and increased sequentially by 22.5% - much faster than the world market, where year-on-year growth was only 43%.Forecasts suggest that the Chinese smartphone market willtotal 430m in 2012, led by Samsung, with Apple in second place - but with Android handsets from Samsung, Huawei, ZTE, Lenovo, Coolpad, Motorola, Xiaomi, HTC and dozens of others making up most of the balance.While Google is benefiting enormously in China from the dominance of Samsung, and the presence of other OHA members, a growing number of "white box" handset makers are focussed almost entirely on the Chinese market - and so will gravitate to the biggest app markets, even if they are not completely compatible with Google's Android. There are already multiple Android app markets in China, with varying degrees of legitimacy.Alibaba's efforts with Aliyun, which exploits the open nature of Android to build its own OS version and app store - in the same way as Amazon has - point to the power that strong local brand names have.The attraction of those app markets could as they grow drive a wedge between OHA members keeping world compatibility, and the local players with a keener focus on their home market, which will soon be the world's biggest.In time, that could mean that the emergence of a successful China-only app market based around a fork of Android that might be so enticing - and lucrative - that it would pull one or more of the OHA members to abandon the group, or at least weaken its unity - as nearly happened with Acer.In his Google+ post, Rubin lobbed some barbed comments at Alibaba, apparently warning it off courting Acer: "if you want to benefit from the Android ecosystem, then make the choice to be compatible. It's easy, free, and we'll even help you out. But if you don't want to be compatible, then don't expect help from OHA members that are all working to support and build a unified Android ecosystem."
Legendary writer Philip Roth – author of Portnoy's Complaint, The Plot Against America and many other novels –had to publish a letter in The New Yorkerin order to correct an entry explaining his motive in writing his novel The Human Stain, so that Wikipedians would believe him. This fact – which made headlines earlier this month – has been bandied about online as more evidence of the topsy-turvy world of an amateur encyclopedia that anyone can edit, more proof that there's something fishy about the whole internet experiment.But of course, it's not that simple. With Wikipedia, it never is. To understand why Mr Roth had to write hisilluminating and fascinating letterin order to correct the record on Wikipedia, you first have to understand how Wikipedia works. How it is that something unprecedented has come to pass: that the world's leading reference work is a collective endeavour, undertaken by thousands, sprawling and brawling, and conducted without deference to individual authority.Brian Eno recounts his friend Peter Schmidt's advice to succeed by "not doing the things that nobody ever thought of not doing". That is the heart of Wikipedia. Encyclopedias have always been the product of authority. First, a publisher establishes an editorial board. Then the editorial board reviews the available experts in a wide variety of subjects. Experts are then commissioned to write on the areas of their expertise, and the result is reviewed by the editors, by peers, and by fact-checkers to ensure its accuracy.Authority flows from the top down: we trust the authority of the publisher because it has a track record for producing worthy books, or because it has attracted investment from capitalists who do due diligence before they throw their money around. The authority of the publisher is conferred on the editorial board, who then spread it over the writers and fact-checkers and so on. It's a web of known people vouching for one another and affirming the correctness and wisdom of all.This is not the sort of thing one is able to readily do on a wiki, especially a wiki that is open to the broad public. It's hard to get large groups without any defined membership to agree on which experts are worthy and which ones are cranks. Even if this task can be accomplished, it's nothing compared to the difficulty of proving to the satisfaction of all participants, through all time, that a given user claiming to be the worthy expert that everyone trusts really is that expert.In other words: Wikipedians not only have no way of deciding whether Philip Roth is an authority on Philip Roth, but even if they decided that he was, they have no way of knowing that the person claiming to be Philip Roth really is Philip Roth. And even if Wikipedians today decide that they believe that the PhilipRoth account belongs to the real Philip Roth, how will the Wikiepdians 10 years from now know whether the editor who called himself PhilipRoth really was Philip Roth?Wikipedia succeeds by "not doing the things that nobody ever thought of not doing". Specifically, Wikipedia does not verify the identity or credentials of any of its editors. This would be a transcendentally difficult task for a project that is open to any participant, because verifying the identity claims of random strangers sitting at distant keyboards is time-consuming and expensive. If each user has to be vetted and validated, it's not practical to admit anyone who wants to add a few words to a Wikipedia entry.(Which is not to say that Wikipedia doesn't care about identity. If you sign onto Wikipedia as HoneyBadger666 and spend 10 years making good edits to Wikipedia entries and generally being a conscientious user, this fact is significant in adjudicating the disputes you have with other users. But Wikipedia knows how to verify the HoneyBadger666 pseudonym: if you have the password for that account and if there aren't obvious signs that the account has been hacked, then the words posted from that account are taken to have originated with the account's owner. Knowing who the account's owner is isn't important – all that matters is what that account owner has done for Wikipedia.)But if the objective identity of internet users is hard to verify, the objective existence of a published assertion is easy to demonstrate. If I want to prove to you that the the Guardian published an article on 11 September describing Roth's dispute with Wikipedia,I just need to embed a link to the story.Wikipedia strives to confine its assertions to facts about facts, as in: "Fact X was reported by reputable source Y." This still leaves Wikipedians arguing at great length about which sources are reputable. But once consensus emerges that the Guardian is a reputable source of news, it's clear to everyone where the Guardian's website lives. No one has to argue about whether a website called TheRealGuardianNoHonestly.com is the Guardian's website.The hard problem of identifying the origin of a fact is solved by the relative ease with which high-profile, reputable sources can be identified. Wikipedians can be moderately sure that deceptive, lookalike sites will be policed by their victims, who will have recourse to trademark and fraud laws in order to fight deceptive practices and ensure that fake sites don't become stable and highly ranked by search engines.Authority matters to Wikipedia, but it is outsourced. Reliable sources are Wikipedia's authorities, and it must be so, because the location of reliable sources and the utterances they make are things that people who don't know each other but work together on the Internet can point to and agree upon.Which takes us back to Philip Roth. It's impossible for Philip Roth to prove that he is Philip Roth to all Wikipedians. It's impossible for Philip Roth to prove to all Wikipedians that he is qualified to speak about his work – many writers aren't. Ray Bradbury believed Fahrenheit 451 was a novel about the evils of TV, not the evils of censorship – something that many readers and critics would dispute.The reason critics exist – as opposed to confining all critical writing to authors' own commentary on their works – is that authors don't always know what they're doing. I certainly don't always know what I'm doing when I write my novels. If I did, writing them would be a lot less satisfying and a lot less fun.But Wikipedians can agree that the New Yorker is a reputable source of facts about literature. When the literary editor of the New Yorker publishes Philip Roth's assertions about his own work, that editor is both verifying Philip Roth's identity – something that's as easy for an editor at the New Yorker to do as it is difficult for all of Wikipedia to do – and asserting, as someone in charge of a reputable source, that Roth's commentary on his own work is reliable.It's not perverse for Wikipedia to insist that authors must publish essays in reputable forums if they want to correct the record on their own work. It's the only way a system like Wikipedia can work. It's not indifference to Philip Roth's authority that drives Wikipedia to snub his own edits to his literary record; it's deference to the New Yorker's authority. Wikipedia can only answer internet-shaped questions, like: "Was assertion X made on website Y?" For questions of real-world identity and personal authoritativeness, Wikipedia relies on the rest of the world to supply the credentials.
The day after Apple unveiled the iPhone 5, I noticed a sardonic tweet from one of the people I follow:Don't call yourself an entrepreneur if you haven't yet formed your next startup, Panoramagram.&mdash; Kontra (@counternotions)September 13, 2012I laughed at the time – obviously, it's a reference to Instagram, and Facebook's acquisition of what seemed to many a useless company for $1bn – but once I had my hands on a review unit of the iPhone 5 and began using the Panorama function in the camera, I began thinking that actually there was some truth to it.Now, taking panorama pictures isn't new to the iPhone – it's been available through apps for some time – and isn't exclusive to Apple; Samsung in particular and Android in general, and Nokia too, have had implementations of panoramic picture-taking for some time.But there's a key difference between what Samsung offers, for example, through its Galaxy range, and what the iPhone 5 (and later on Wednesday, with the iOS6 update, iPhone 4S) can do.With Samsung, you choose the panorama setting: you take the first photo and then get a green onscreen "target" with which to frame the next picture. You stand in the same place and move around, and once you've finished it stitches the photos together.Panorama photo of Trafalgar Square taken with Samsung GT-I9300 bythew00don Flickr. Used with specific permission from the copyright holder.That givesresults like these(linked on Flickr, some used with permission above and below). It's noticeable in pictures likethis one of Trafalgar Squarethat there's unevenness and even a hint of "fisheye" distortion – where objects in the middle of the range are compressed relative to the edges.Panorama photo of Buckingham Palace taken with Samsung GT-I9300 bythew00don Flickr. Used with specific permission from the copyright holder.Or there'sthis one of West Lincoln(CC-licensed, but NC – so again can't feature it here, only offer the link) – where again there's some evidence of the stitching in the angle of the tower in the right-hand distance.That's not to say those are bad panoramas – in fact, they're very good. But I suspect the requirement to stay in one place is limiting.By contrast, the iPhone 5 (and 4S) Panorama function lets you move around as you take the picture. You can move the camera up and down (though it creates problems for the system) or towards or away, or even – see below – around. It's the sort of thing that I think is going to be hugely attractive to photographers looking to create an alternative view of things. Expect too that there will be accessory makers building devices to carry phones, or the equivalent ofSteadicamsthat will be able to move the phone really fast to build all sorts of different views of the world.Once again, it's not that Apple is first with a panoramic setting. But including it in the iPhone 5, and back-loading it to the iPhone 4S (as will happen with iOS6), means that suddenly a lot more people are going to be generating them.Here is a collection of Panorama photos that I took using the review unit from Apple. (CC-BY licensed, which is why they're shown here)The originals are on Flickr; they're best viewed on a large screen if you can.Here's one that really has a panorama,taken in a rural setting. Notice that there's no "fisheye" effect in the middle:Photo bycharlesarthuron Flickr.Some rights reservedHere's oneinside a car, so a much more restricted field of view. Here, there is some distortion, because the objects aren't all equally distant:Photo bycharlesarthuron Flickr.Some rights reservedOf course, once you start thinking about it, the fact that you don't have to stay in one place means that you can do some interesting things with the Panorama. Such ascircumnavigating my (long-suffering) colleague Helliene Lindvall's head:Photo bycharlesarthuron Flickr.Some rights reservedAlternatively, you canmove the phone extremely slowly, so that you get the maximum exposure. In this case I moved the phone/camera as slowly as possible, taking about two minutes to move a distance of about 1m.Photo bycharlesarthuron Flickr.Some rights reservedOh, and since you're wondering – panoramagr.am has already been registered by someone. Though not, apparently, for iPhone photos. We'll see.(Updated: added photos from @thew00d from Flickr with permission.)
Sony is to launch a new smaller, lighter version of the PlayStation 3 console.Half the weight and volume of the original machine, the update will be available in two specifications: one with a 500GB hard drive, which launches on 28 September, and the other, a budget version, arriving on 12 October with a 12GB flash memory.Originally launched in 2006, the PS3 was redesigned in 2009 and has now sold in the region of 66m units worldwide.The new version retains the curved styling of its predecessors and once again features a Blu-ray drive for playing high definition movies as well as games.Owners are also able to use the hard drive to store photos and videos as well as digital games. Buyers of the limited 12GB flash version will be able to attach an external hard drive to boost capacity if needed.Like Nintendo, Sony will allow stores to set the retail price for the new super slim consoles. However, the 500GB model will retail at €299 (around £240), while the 12GB option, which is exclusive to Europe, will come in at €229 (around £180).Sony will also be making a range of bundle deals available in the run up to Christmas featuring titles such as Fifa 13 and Assassin's Creed 3, as well as the company's Wonderbook augmented reality reading peripheral.Launching a refreshed machine with an "entry-level" option just before Christmas will suggest to many in the industry that this is the seven-year-old console's last hurrah before the announcement of a follow-up at the E3 games conference in Los Angeles next June. Rival manufacturer Microsoft is also expected to reveal its successor to the Xbox 360 at the same event.Sony announced the new machines at its press conference proceeding the Tokyo Game Show on Tuesday night.The company also confirmed that its PlayStation Mobile platform will launch on 3 October. The service offers PlayStation certified games on compatible Android handsets and tablets.
It's coming, but developer 4J Studios won't say when exactly. The Scottish studio tasked with converting PC phenomenon Minecraft to the Xbox is currently working on update 1.8.2, set to be the biggest addition to the game since it arrived on the console back in May. And with over three million fans now waiting for the refresh, the studio is teasingly releasing new details over Twitter and YouTube.Among the key features to arrive next will be a host of extra mobs, the living creatures that inhabit Minecraft's procedurally generated worlds. The rare yet dangerous Cave Spiders, the sneaky silverfish and the dark, sinister Endermen will all be roaming the environment. There will also be a bunch of new foods, including apples, melon and fresh chicken – for the farmers among you. Animal breeding, however, is unlikely to be a part of this build, while enchantment and XP - the elements of the PC version that have given it more of an RPG feel – will also be arriving later.The most keenly anticipated feature however, will be the long-awaited implementation of the Creative Mode, which gives players total freedom to zoom about the landscape building vast structures from limitless resources. PC owners have utilised this option to build immense marvels of virtual architecture, including the Starship Enterprise. The Xbox version will include the Superflat landscapes that facilitate easier construction.Talking about the conversion process, Paddy Burns, CTO of 4J Studios, told us about how console gamers are now helping to shape the update process. "We are getting great suggestions from Xbox players both on Twitter, and on the forums," he says. "Sometimes their ideas are so obviously right that we can't figure out why we didn't think of them! We have been changing various features within the game based on their feedback, and adding new features and options that have been suggested and debated between lots of forum users. Every now and then we even pitch in on the forums just to let them know we are following all the discussions and suggestions on there!"The big question now, is when we can expect to see the update. "We're still finishing things off, and fixing bugs the testers are finding," says Burns. "It won't be too much longer before we're ready to hand it over to the Microsoft Certification Testing team. We will be letting people know when we've handed over to the Cert Test team, and then we all wait with our fingers crossed..."
With its open, stealth-based gameplay and beautifully realised steampunk setting,Dishonoredis one of the most hotly anticipated games of the year. And whispers coming from game critics who've played the finished code suggest that it is going to be every bit as astonishing as we've all hoped.To mark the launch on 12 October, the Guardian has teamed up with publisher Bethesda to arrange an absolutely unmissable event. On3 October, the game's art director Sebastien Mitton and visual design director Viktor Antonov will be coming to the Guardian offices to talk about the design concepts behind the stunning visuals.After a presentation on the art of Dishonored, I'll be holding a Q&amp;A session with the duo followed by audience questions.And that's not all. Those attending will also be able to browse a gallery of concept art and designs taken from throughout the development process. And visitors will get the chance to win an exclusive piece of art, created especially for the night by the Dishonored team.This is a unique chance to meet the creative minds behind the biggest original game of 2012. The event will take place in the Scott Room at Guardian HQ in King's Cross.Doors will open at 6.45pm and the event will start at 7pm sharp. Food and drink will be served after the presentations and tickets costs £8.With only 80 places available, you'll need to move fast. You can book your placeright here.
Yahoo has completed a long-awaited $7.6bn (£4.7bn) deal to sell back its 40% stake in China's Alibaba Group, generating a windfall that could help ease the pain of Yahoo shareholders who have endured the company's foibles during the past few years.After Yahoo distributes most of the proceeds to its shareholders, its newly hired chief executive, Marissa Mayer, will still have an extra $1.3bn to finance acquisitions or hire new talent as she tries revive the company's revenue growth.Tuesday's resolution comes four months after Yahoo and Alibaba Group Holding Ltd outlined the details of a complex transaction that has taken more than two years of on-again, off-again negotiations to hammer out. The deal will give Alibaba – a privately-owned company which owns China's version of eBay and a number of e-commerce sites –  greater autonomy as it looks toward a stock market flotation in the next three years.But it is also rewards Yahoo for one of the few moves that has gone right for the troubled company in the past few years. It paid $1bn for a 40% stake in Alibaba in 2005, and is now reaping a huge return.Alibaba is paying $7.1bn in cash and stock to buy back half of Yahoo's holdings. Another $550m is being paid to Yahoo under a revised technology and patent licensing agreement with Alibaba. After taxes, Yahoo estimates it will pocket about $4.3bn, to add to the $1.9bn in cash the company had as of 30 June.Yahoo plans to spend about $3bn of the Alibaba proceeds buying back its own stock in the upcoming months, leaving Mayer with some financial flexibility to pay for other items on her turnaround agenda."This yields a substantial return for investors, while retaining a meaningful amount of capital within the company to invest in future growth," Mayer said in a statement.The decision on how to handle the proceeds may have reflected a compromise between Mayer and Yahoo's board.Before hiring Mayer away from Google in July, Yahoo had pledged to distribute virtually all of the proceeds from the Alibaba sale to its shareholders.But the company wavered from that stance last month when it filed regulatory documents disclosing that Mayer was considering holding on to the money to help carry out her vision for Yahoo. Without providing specifics, the documents said Mayer was mulling possible acquisitions.Analysts think Mayer may try to make a big splash by putting together a takeover offer for one of the hottest websites, such as online scrapbook Pinterest or check-in service Foursquare, in order to enhance its offering to users. The latter was previously the subject of rumours of a Yahoo takeover in 2010 when the company was headed by Carol Bartz, but nothing came of it.Another big payoff looms for Yahoo when Alibaba goes public, an event expected by the end of 2015. Alibaba has the right to buy back half of Yahoo's remaining 23% stake before the IPO. Yahoo then could choose to sell its remaining Alibaba stock after the shares begin trading.Alibaba currently has a market value of about $40bn, based on the prices paid for the stock the company recently sold to raise enough money to finance the Yahoo deal. Yahoo, in contrast, has a market value of less than $20bn, and is seeing its revenue base eroded as Facebook and Twitter suck up the advertising revenue it had relied on.A big chunk of Yahoo's value remains locked up in Alibaba. Based on Alibaba's market value and the preferred shares it just picked up, Yahoo is still sitting on Alibaba stock worth about $8.9bn. That amount will increase if Alibaba is able to continue to thrive as more people in China get online access."The completion of this transaction begins a new chapter in our relationship with Yahoo," Alibaba CEO Jack Ma said in a statement.While Alibaba has been growing, Yahoo has been shrinking. The contraction has occurred even as the advertisers that provide most of Yahoo's revenue have been spending more money on the internet. Most of that online marketing has been flowing to internet search leader Google and, to a lesser extent, Facebook.Yahoo's financial funk has depressed its stock for years, increasing the pressure on the company's management to extract money from its Alibaba investment to reward its shareholders.Since beginning its discussions with Alibaba in 2010, Yahoo has had five CEOs, including two interim leaders. The deal had already been agreed upon in May, while Yahoo was being run by Ross Levinsohn, who left shortly after the company hired Mayer in July.Although Mayer is highly regarded in the internet industry, investors still seem sceptical about whether she can find a way to energise a company and staff that has seemed stuck in a downward spiral for years – and to pump up a stock that has been stuck below $20 for the past four years. The stock was trading at around $35 when Yahoo invested in Alibaba seven years ago.Yahoo shares added 22 cents, or 1.4%, to end Tuesday's session at $15.90. About the same level where the shares stood when Mayer took the helm. The technology-driven Nasdaq composite index has climbed 10% during the same period while the broader Standard &amp; Poor's 500 has risen by 8%.Buying back stock could boost Yahoo's stock by reducing the company's outstanding shares. With fewer shares trading, it will be easier for Yahoo to increase its earnings per share – one of the yardsticks that investors rely on to evaluate a company's value.
