Bill Gates kicked off proceedings last night with his last keynote as a full-time Microsofter; seeBobbie Johnson's reporton the celebrity cameos (Slash, Bono, etc) and product announcements during the speech and his handbag-sizedGates- biog.Those announcements in brief:•Microsoft and NBC Universalare partnering on coverage of the Olympics, with NBC providing video coverage for MSN that can be accessed live and on-demand. The service will be branded NBCOlympics.com and built using Silverlight.•ABC and DisneyTV shows will be added to the Xbox Live video offering, some of which will be in HD. Shows include Ugly Betty and Lost and movies including Legally Blonde and Rocky will be added, as well as additional titles from United Artists.•Xbox sold 1.7m at Christmas, Microsoft said - putting Xbox 360 "Xbox 360 on track to register the biggest year in video game history as U.S. consumers spent more on the Xbox 360 platform in 2007 than on any other gaming platform".•Zune will launch in Canadain the Spring. More than 1.5 million people have joined the Zune social networking service, said Microsoft.•100m Vista licences have been sold, said Gates, wheeling out a couple of 'fashion' laptops as examples of how PCs will remain what Microsoft described as "a central catalyst for the advances of the digital decade'.•One million set-top boxes now use Mediaroom, Microsoft's IPTV technology, and a new service called DVR anywhere will launch, allowing users to watch pre-recorded shows on multiple home TVs.•Speech, vision and touch are the futureof interfaces. The Tellme mobile service, already launched with AT&amp;T and Sprint, gives location-relevant search results and will be built in to future versions of Windows Mobile. Sync, the voice-activated entertainment system, is already being deployed in Ford cars.Wired,Engadgetand half the rest of the web were live blogging the keynote, but our Bobbie will also be filing some video soon from Gates' speech.There are four more keynotes this week from Intel's president and chief executive Paul Otellini, Comcast chairman and chief executive Brian Roberts, General Motors' chairman and chief executive Rick Wagoner and Gary Shapiro, president and chief executive of the Consumer Electronics Association. More follows, as they say.Update:Bobbie Johnson's videoon the Gates keynote is now live.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:CEStechnorati tags end
Japanese electronics giant Toshiba may have been dealt a fatal blow in its attempt to win the battle for high-definition DVD.According to announcements at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES), the world's largest technology industry exhibition in Las Vegas this week, several major movie studios are ditching Toshiba's HD-DVD format. New Line Cinema has joined Warner Bros in revealing that in future it would only be supplying its movies in Blu-ray format – the competitor to Toshiba's format.The news means that just two of Hollywood's major studios have retained support for HD-DVD, which is mainly supported by computer companies such as Microsoft. The Blu-ray consortium - which consists of a wide range of entertainment companies as well as manufacturers including Sony and Apple - now has the potential to become the de facto standard for next generation DVDs.The two formats – which both offer higher capacity discs that are able to hold larger, high-definition video files - are incompatible with each other. Last year the two camps went head to head, and many consumers have been dissuaded from buying high-definition DVD players thanks to confusion between the two.Bitter pill to swallowIt was immediately clear, however, that the announcements had serious implications for the HD-DVD group, with Toshiba cancelling a planned press conference at CES in the wake of Warner's news. Senior officials said that the predictions of the format's demise were proving a bitter pill to swallow."It's difficult for me to read the comments of the pundits that HD is dead," said Jodi Sally, a vice president of Toshiba. "But we've been declared dead before."According to Toshiba's estimates, the US market for next-generation DVD players is split down the middle, with a little more than 49% of HD-DVD players sold in the run-up to Christmas and the rest being Blu-ray."We were particularly disappointed that the decision was made in spite of the significant momentum HD-DVD has made," said Akio Ozaka, head of Toshiba America Consumer Products.But Sony has hit back at the suggestion HD-DVD was doing as well as Bu-ray, pointing out that the statistics do not inlcude its PlayStation 3 games console, which can also play Blu-ray discs.The scrap between the two groups kicked off exactly a year ago at CES. This year's show is expected to attract more than 140,000 visitors and industry insiders by the end of this week.
ThursdayPredictions for 2008The 20 other games to look forward to in 2008: Part 1FridayChristmas gaming 2007The twent other games to look forward to in 2008: Part 2
Coverage of CES online is almost as vast as the conference itself but fear not - we'll be sifting out the highlights on the tech blog this week, for your convenience.Varietyhad a nice opener about how openness is the big issue at CES this year. The piece cites Google's operating system for mobile phones, Facebook's developer platform and the forthcoming developer platform for iPhone as examples of the move away from closed, proprietary systems.Also worth watching:• The potential of 3D TV• Development of video-sharing site Hulu (which some have rated better than Joost)• The battle between HD and Blu-ray• Whether anyone will develop decent mobile video• Services that integrate product with service as well as iTunes and iPod, or Amazon's Kindle• A broader audience for video games, building on the success of Rock Band and Guitar Hero• Whether web-powered set-top boxes, like Akimbo and Apple TV, can make the mainstream• The growth of micro-projectors and flexible screens for mobile devicesI'll report back with any evidence of the above, plus anything else that looks shiny. More follows, as they say.technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:CEStechnorati tags end
1955– Born William Henry Gates III to a wealthy and influential Seattle family.1968– Shows an aptitude for mathematics and science as a schoolboy, and is allowed to skip maths classes to learn simple computer programming techniques before going on to Harvard to study for a pre-law degree.1975– Drops out of Harvard to launch new partnership with school friend Paul Allen, called Micro-soft. The duo initially start by making programs for popular home computers.1980– Moderately successful, Microsoft is approached by IBM to produce operating software for its new PC computers.1985– Microsoft launches the first version of its graphical operating system, Windows, which brings more success and by 1989 becomes the company's central product.1986– A stock market flotation makes Gates and Allen rich, along with several of their colleagues.1989–  Windows is supplemented by a new series of productivity programs called Microsoft Office. (By 2007 around 90% of the world's computers were running Office.)1993– Microsoft's increasing success pushes Gates's wealth into the stratosphere, turning him into a billionaire. Forbes magazine names him the richest person in the world - a position he retains until 2007, when he is surpassed by Mexican telecoms magnate Carlos Slim Helu after giving away much of his fortune to charitable causes.1997– Microsoft's moves into the burgeoning internet market are met with resistance, as the US Justice Department files an antitrust claim against the company, accusing it of using its market dominance to force people into using its Internet Explorer browser and unfairly crushing its competitors.1999– With Microsoft shares rising rapidly at the height of the dotcom boom, Gates' wealth surpasses $100bn.2000– A ruling by a US court calls Microsoft an "abusive monopoly" and suggests that the company should be broken into two separate entities, though that decision is overturned a year later.2006– Still aged just 51, Gates announces that he plans to step down from activities at Microsoft in two years' time to concentrate on a new career as a full-time philanthropist.2007– Billionaire investor Warren Buffet pledges $1.5bn a year to the Gates Foundation, the largest philanthropic gift in history.
Xbox owners who only recently forked out for the 360 Elite can breathe easier today - rumours that Bill Gates would unveil a 360 "Ultimate", complete with inbuilt HD-DVD, wi-fi and a quieter fan, at theCES showwereunfounded. In fact Gates barely mentioned games in his keynote, with the biggest announcement centered around the 10 million users that have now signed up for Xbox Live. Unlike last year, Microsoft didn't announce any new titles. Yes, CES is a general consumer tech show and not an E3-style game event, but considering the increased competition that PS3 will offer the 360 this year, plus the less than stellar performance of some of Microsoft's recent PC games - Shadowrun? Halo2 ? - the lack of news was surprising. You can bet that Sony won't be so coy with their announcements in the coming days.
A UK search engine where users make money for charity every time they look something up is hoping to triple the amount it raises this year, thanks to US expansion and new tie-ups with big companies.From every pound raised through searches,Everyclick.comgives 50p to whichever UK charity a user chooses. It has raised more than &pound;360,000 since its launch in 2005 and in the next 12 months it wants to make another &pound;1m.Comparing her creation with online phenomena such as Facebook that found a mass audience in 2007, Everyclick chief executive Polly Gowers predicts her site will gain new armies of fans in 2008. "This is a free lunch because it doesn't cost anyone anything," says Gowers. "It works. You search the web and it generates money."Gowers and a small team set up the site with funds from remortgaging her house. She got the idea after working at a web marketing company opened her eyes to the fundraising potential from searches. The business model is known as "wugging" or "web-use-giving", something also used by fellow UK company Magic Taxi. The money is generated basically through advertising carried by the site.Everyclick has fought hard to gain ground in a space dominated by the likes of Google and Yahoo! by asking schools and businesses to consider making it their default search engine. The attraction for schools is that with more than 170,000 charities available they can support their own parent-teacher association, local sports ground or village hall.More than 1,000 businesses are looking at ways of using the site as part of their corporate and social responsibility briefs, says Gowers.Small charities can also encourage supporters to use the site to fund specific projects, such as humanitarian charity Hope and Aid Direct's recent dispatch of two lorry-loads of food and clothing to eastern Europe.Although Gowers says marketing on a tight budget has been tough, it is now the UK's eighth most popular search engine and number 18 in the world, according to data from Hitwise. Nielsen Online has a lower UK ranking for the site but still puts it within the top 20.Business has been booming in online advertising, with the fastest growth in the so-called search area - sponsored listings that advertisers pay for when a consumer clicks through to their site.In a multibillion-pound market, even if Everyclick meets its total fundraising target of &pound;1.36m by the end of this year that will not even be 0.5% of the world's search market, says Gowers. She has a 2% target for the end of 2009 and is hopeful web search habits will change.One of the few criticisms Everyclick has met is that users cannot give to US charities. However, Gowers hopes 1.7m US charities will be added by the spring.In the meantime, Everyclick is launching an application on Facebook, which will allow users to incorporate their Everyclick page into their profile page on the social networking site."How well this works is down to how many people know about it," says Gowers. "Our job is to make sure this doesn't remain the best-kept secret in England."
Las Vegas is best known as the world's favourite gambling hotspot, but it is gadgets that are on the cards today at the Nevada city as the annual Consumer Electronics Show opens.The great and good of the hi-tech industry have gathered to display their products and outline their visions of the future, with everything from robots and cars to iPods and TVs on show.One of the main attractions is the world's largest television, a 3.8-metre (150in) high-definition screen which weighs a quarter of a tonne and is big enough to depict people full-size. The screen, from Panasonic, comes with a price tag of £50,000.Sales made by companies in attendance are estimated at more than $100bn (£50bn) a year, with acres of conference space next to the Las Vegas Strip boulevard dedicated to the displays. Computers, internet services, music and video are heavily represented, as well as a string of more esoteric devices and emerging technologies.By the time the exhibition closes at the end of the week, more than 140,000 people will have been through the doors. Industry luminaries including Microsoft's Bill Gates, the chief of Sony, Howard Stringer, and co-founder of Yahoo Jerry Yang are in town to comment on the future of technology as the sector prepares for potentially difficult times.With a credit crisis looming and potential recession on the lips of economists, exhibitors may need some buoying. Last week the British retail group DSG issued a profit warning after the Christmas sales, and the video game industry has suggested there may be rockier times ahead.Although sales of games consoles rocketed in 2007, they are expected to shrink over the next 12 months, with Microsoft, Sony and Nintendo battling for dominance in the $30bn market. Conference organisers said the slowdown in hardware sales could be offset by demand for games."Software had phenomenal growth, riding the wave of hugely successful title launches such as Halo 3, Guitar Hero 3 and Rock Band," said a spokeswoman for the Consumer Electronics Association, which stages the exhibition. "In fact, the focus for 2008 will be in the software category, where CEA estimates a 26% increase in sales [compared with 2007]."Sections of the exhibition focus on green technology as the industry tries to dispel bad publicity over resources and power use. Environmentalists say there is still a long way to go. "Buying some carbon offsets and biodegradable forks hardly begins to address the environmental impacts of this industry," said Robin Schneisder, of the Electronics Take Back Coalition, an American activist group. "Most electronic gizmos are loaded with toxins, have short lifespans and are not designed for recycling."
Social networking websites are not just a time-wasting diversion for office workers but can increasingly be a way of running a money-making business, according to a report commissioned by MySpace from the trends research consultancy, The Future Laboratory.Nearly 3 million people in Britain have made money from their page and millions more are set to do so in 2008, according to the report, 'MySpace08', published tomorrow.The report says: 'MySpace has been the incubator of teen and twentysomething "culturepreneurs", a new generation of business-minded culture obsessives who generate income from arty pursuits - club nights, fanzines, handmade jewellery, street theatre, stand-up, indie clothing lines, films, street art, DVDs - that have previously been notoriously poor sources of revenue.'The Future Laboratory spoke to 2,500 people, and calculates that thanks to social networking:&#183;2.3 million people have found love.&#183;6.5 million people have discovered a new band, artist or pop star.&#183;777,810 people have started a new business.Women are more likely to network, averaging 22.5 hours online a week, against 20 hours for men.
Engadget: Bill Gates in a less familiar role.Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates gave his 12th and last keynote speech at the opening of the Consumer Electronics Show, and earned prolonged applause for sending himself up in his annual spoof video.The idea was that as he was leaving the [Microsoft] office, he was looking for alternative employment. He tried out as a rapper for Jay Z, called Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama to see if they wanted a running mate, then tried Al Gore, Bono, Steven Spielberg and various others.In the Bono skit, Gates phoned in the middle of a U2 concert to demonstrate his expertise. Bono told him: "We're full up in the band. All positions are filled. I know... I know... I can't just replace Edge because you got a high score on Guitar Hero."For Spielberg, he used material from previous spoof videos, including X-Men and The Matrix.Usually the spoof is excluded from the webcast and video feed (probably, I'd guess, because of rights issues with some of the famous people involved). This year, however, at least some cameras kept rolling, so it should appear on YouTube soon. It's worth a look.There wasn't much futurism, but Gates's three not-very-original points were that (1) we were going to get hi-def everywhere; (2) you'll have access to your data on all your devices, because it will be stored in 'the cloud'; and (3) we'll start to appreciate the power of natural user interfaces such as touch and voice. He mentioned the iPhone andFord Syncas examples: "The reaction to those has been very dramatic."Robbie Bach from the Entertainment Division plugged Zune -- the latest ones have been so successful, Microsoft would sell them "outside the US", ie in Canada -- and Xbox, where he said the spending on Xbox 360 games was bigger than Wii and PS3 combined. They're probably dancing in the streets inDawson Creek.The close was going to be a face-off between Gates and Bach at Guitar Hero 3. To be sure of winning, Bach produced a ringer:Kelly "TipperQueen" Law-Yonefrom Team Pandemic, and she was amazing. Gates, however, had a ringer of his own: Slash, the former lead guitarist from Guns N' Roses, playing Welcome to the Jungle for real.For lots of photos and a minute by minute account that includes the boring bits, see Ryan Block's live blogging atEngadget.There's also apress release, and Microsoft will publish a transcript when it's done.
"Great idea. Shame about the mediocre computer" saysThe Economistin reviewing the Linux-based XO laptop from the One Laptop Per Child project.So what's wrong with it? The keys are too small, it's too slow (which we already knew), and the software has bugs that cause occasional crashes. The Economist mentions four main areas, starting with:First, the implementation of the technologies is terrible. In their zeal to rewrite the rules of computing for first-time users, OLPC shipped machines with a cumbersome operating system. For example, adding Flash to do something like watch a YouTube video requires users to go into a terminal line-code and type a long internet address to download the software: it seems impossible to cut-and-paste the address. Major PC vendors spend millions in research and development to enhance a computer's usability; OLPC tried to reinvent the wheel and came up with an oval.The other OLPC news at the moment is that Intel has left the OLPC board, which it had recently joined. Intel had told its staff not to compare the OLPC to the Intel Classmate PC design, but the deal "was undone last month in part by an Intel saleswoman: She tried to persuade a Peruvian official to drop the country's commitment to buy a quarter-million of the organization's laptops in favor of Intel PCs," saysThe Wall Street JournalThe New York Times.Wow, competition. How un-American is that! No wonder Nicholas Negroponte is outraged.He told the NYT: "It's a little bit like McDonald's competing with the World Food Program."Update: A comment below prompted me to look up Lee Felsenstein, whom I met a few years ago in connection with Make. His response to OLPC issues is worth reading:Problems with the $100 laptop.
Mercedes C-Class 220&pound;27,292Miles per gallon: 46.3Seats: 5Good for: Flash HarrysBad for: Crash DummiesIf you're reading this over breakfast, idly biting into another almond croissant while you ponder which route you'll take to your mate's house/country pub/rugby pitch, keep this in mind: today, like every other day, nine of us will die in a road accident. If you are a man, aged between 18 and 25, and you're going to be driving on a rural road, take extra care, because you have a greater chance of being one of those nine than the rest of us. The director of the Institute of Advanced Motorists, Neil Greig, says this is because 'rural drivers need to travel further to reach their destinations, and emergency services have further to go to attend accidents'. Paul Smith, founder ofSafeSpeed.org.uk, says it's actually because 'British drivers are getting significantly worse and rural roads expose shortfalls in skills and attitudes'.Over the New Year, I'm not proud to say, a rural road cruelly 'exposed a shortfall in my own skills and attitudes'. It was a situation we've all been in. We were late for lunch at my mother-in-law's and rather than phoning ahead and saying something simple like, 'Sorry, we'll be a bit late', I decided to risk the lives of my family by driving too fast on a wet road. Coming up a gently banking righthander my car started to aquaplane. We should have ended up in the ditch. But the Mercedes sport coupe I was driving had other ideas. More precisely, its ESP system decided to save our bacon.This doesn't mean Mercs come fitted with Extra Sensory Perception, though the system is so clever it sometimes seems that way. ESP in this case stands for Electronic Stabilisation Programme. Sensors located all over the car feed details about steering angle, wheel angle, yaw rate (spinning) and lateral acceleration (side to side movement) into the car's brain. When the central computer detects that any of these are wrong it takes action to automatically correct them by applying the brakes, thousands of times a second, to each individual wheel and automatically adjusts the engine's output. Mercedes invented the system in the Nineties and all of its cars now have it fitted as standard, with many manufacturers following suit.Modern car safety falls into two categories: active and passive. The first includes airbags, crumple zones and high-strength occupant cells which protect you when you have an accident. The second are clever developments that prepare a car before a crash. Mercedes' engineers realised that in the two or three seconds before an impact, the 'Oh Jesus' moment, there were things they could do to minimise damage, like a falling cat bracing itself before it lands. So while the ESP system does all it can to bring the vehicle back under control, it also instructs the car to prime all its airbags, pre-tension its seatbelts, activate its head restraints and to cross its fingers ...In my case, in a split second - a split second which could have been life-changing - the ESP worked magnificently and we didn't need to test the 'active' crash capability.'Sorry, we're so late,' I said shakily as we arrived. 'Don't worry,' came my mother-in-law's reply. 'I was late putting in the lamb anyway ...'.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Couch potatoes might no longer have room for the couch. Stand well back for the world's biggest television, a 150-inch plasma screen that towers six feet high and stretches 11 feet wide.The monster is to be launched tomorrow by Panasonic as one of the star attractions at the Consumer Electronics Show, or CES, in Las Vegas. It reportedly weighs more than 500lbs and is expected to cost about &pound;50,000. Although it can show footballers in actual size, you would need to sit more than 30 feet away to watch it in comfort.Two years ago Panasonic demonstrated a 103-inch TV at the CES. Last year Sharp went bigger with an LCD flatscreen measuring 108 inches. Panasonic insists that the 150-inch set is not merely a novelty show-stopper but intended for sale.Jeff Samuels, a spokesman, said: 'Because we were hoping to keep this as a surprise to be introduced on 7 January we have very little information about it, other than that it exists and will eventually be a viable commercial product.'James Beechinor-Collins, editor of Republic Publishing and co-founder of the gadget websiteElectricPig, said: 'This will be the Formula 1 car of TV. It's pushing the boundaries of technology and it's only this way they can improve effectiveness and efficiency. But how many people are going to buy a 150-inch TV for &pound;50,000? These things are always about awe and wonderment. Once you get TVs that are 80, 90, 100 inches, you're compelled to go and see them.'He added that the general guidance for watching a TV is to check the size then sit at a distance that is two-and-a-half times away. 'If you're too close, the picture isn't very good and you end up playing TV table tennis.' By this formula, a 150 inch TV requires a viewing distance of 375 inches. 'I don't know of any 31 feet living rooms,' said Beechinor-Collins.Experts have warned that the trend for jumbo-size screens and home cinemas will result in more energy consumption and carbon emissions. Plasma sets can use up to four times as much electricity as the old-style cathode-ray tube models. Joseph Reger, chief technology officer at Fujitsu Siemens Computers in Munich, said: 'A 50-inch TV consumes about 300 watts today. If the Panasonic is three times bigger, the energy consumption is likely to be a magnitude higher. I would expect at least 2,000 watts of this beastie, maybe 3,000 - that's huge.'
The New York Times is reporting that Warner Brothers, the last of the big studios not to have decided, isgoing with Sony's Blu-ray format.Which could be the end for HD DVD unless it comes up with something good - a reversal by a Blu-ray studio, say, or Warners letting it in the side - in the next couple of months.But as the story notes,"The overwhelming industry opinion is that this decides the format battle in favor of Blu-ray," said Richard Doherty, research director at the Envisioneering Group, a market research firm in Seaford, N.Y.HD DVD is still breathing. NYT:Two major studios, Paramount Pictures and Universal Pictures, have deals in place to continue releasing their movies exclusively on HD DVD, as does DreamWorks Animation. Warner Brothers, part of Time Warner, will also continue to release its titles on both formats until the end of May.But by supporting Blu-ray, Warner Brothers, the largest player in the $42 billion global home entertainment market, makes it next to impossible for HD DVD to recover the early momentum it achieved.The reason this makes such a difference to this format war is that Warner is so big in film. This now gives Blu-ray about 70% of the market - Walt Disney, 20th Century Fox, MGM, Lionsgate and Warner and, uh, Sony are all on the Blu-ray side. Warner Brothers has some of the bigger releases in 2008, including "Speed Racer," the Batman sequel "The Dark Knight" and the sixth Harry Potter instalment."This doesn't necessarily kill the HD DVD format, but it definitely deals it a severe blow," said Paul Erickson, an analyst at the NPD Group's DisplaySearch. "When a consumer asks a store clerk which format to buy, that clerk is now going to have a hard time arguing for HD DVD."Just a reminder of what we suggested way back in March 2007:Is the PlayStation 3 a Trojan horse to help sell Blu-ray films?With millions of PS3s out there, Warners clearly didn't want to be stuck backing the wrong (Trojan) horse.Now the only question is: will anyone buy the discs, which are more expensive and (so far) can't be easily ripped in the way that DVDs can to more transportable formats?
Could Audi possibly live any larger? First it rolls out the R8, a top-whack, growling supercar (partly, in fact, a Lamborghini Gallardo), whose ambitions stop at nothing short of replacing the Bentley Continental in the affections of Premier League footballers everywhere. No sooner have we finished quivering in the R8's turbulence, and trembling openly at the size of its price tag, than Audi bring on the A5 and its powered-up sister, the S5, a four-seat grand tourer that says, "Ambassador, you are spoiling us", quicker than a tray of Ferrero Rocher ever could.Long, low, broad and imperious, the A5 is designed to make people stop wanting a less expensive BMW 3 Series coup&eacute;, in a nose-thumbing kind of way. The S version drops its weight even closer to the ground, comes with four exhaust pipes instead of two, and features a set of 19-inch alloys that could double as outsize lemon juicers.All this luxurious weight is distributed pretty evenly on to both axles. Jump on the accelerator, therefore, and there is little chance of your S5 rearing up on its back wheels like a panicked horse. Instead, it powers away as if plugged into its own personal slot in the road.Being an Audi, the car's behaviour is, by default, mature and sensible. Sliding the S5 sideways down a thickly wooded slope or seeing what happens if you jam on the handbrake at 70mph - these are the kind of activities on which the four-ring badge seems to cast a chilly, scornful look. The S5 doesn't so much overtake other cars as patronise them until they slow down. Feedback from the steering wheel would be a bit vulgar and an unwanted intrusion on the cabin's expensively achieved peacefulness, so there isn't any.Here, Audi's magnificent stoicism somehow continues even into the extraordinarily plush and yet oddly buttoned-up interior. Most coup&eacute;s are styled inside to resemble a bachelor's shag-pad; by comparison, the red leather seating in the S5 seems almost ministerial.The bad news about the rear part of the cabin is that there isn't much of it. The provision of moulded cup holders to each side of the rear seats is extremely thoughtful. However, if you're thinking of doing any drinking back there, you'll probably be needing your head, and the S5 isn't really designed to accommodate rear passengers who want to bring their heads along with them - or, at any rate, not full-grown adult passengers with full-grown adult heads. The sexy, low-slung roofline is slung too low for that.Oh, and the rear windows don't open. And there's a big, thick B-pillar, meaning you can't see an awful lot out of those non-opening windows. All in all, the back of the S5 may have to be declared, however reluctantly, a kids-only zone. Kids love being cramped and airless, and not being able to see anything. Or so you'll be telling them, anyway. "And look," you can say, "you've got your own cup holder. So stop complaining."You, on the other hand, will be up front, aloft on your almost infinitely adaptable leather banquette, feeling the deep tone of the car's mighty V8 engine reverberate ever so carefully in your chest cavity and sensing a moment of fabulous condescension towards a fellow road-user coming on. An expensive sensation, all in all - yet kind of worth it.
How can I stop my home wireless internet connection being used by others, and how can I tell it's secure?Protecting your connection not only prevents criminals from stealing your personal data, but it also stops neighbours from piggybacking on your connection and slowing it down. Basic protection is simple: first, change the name of your network and the passwords you use to administrate it - if you leave your network name as, say, 'BT Homehub', hackers can find out the default passwords with a quick internet search. You can also stop your network from broadcasting its name (the so-called SSID), which will make it invisible to most ordinary surfers. Beyond this, many people opt for extra password protection. The basic level, WEP, is the most common, but the FBI has shown that such passwords can be easily cracked. Most security firms recommend using the longer, more complex WPA password option instead. If you really want to lock things down, limit access to designated machines by specifying a list of computer ID numbers (known as MAC addresses) that are allowed to use your Wi-Fi. How you do these things depends on the equipment you have, so look at the documentation that came with your wireless router.
The cost to the taxpayer of abandoned Whitehall computer projects since 2000 has reached almost &pound;2bn - not including the bill for an online crime reporting site that was cancelled this week, a survey by the Guardian reveals.The failure of the multimillion pound police site marks the latest chapter in the government's litany of botched IT projects, with several costly schemes biting the dust. Major blunders overseen by Downing Street have included the Child Support Agency's much-derided &pound;486m computer upgrade - which collapsed and forced a &pound;1bn claims write-off - and an adult learning programme that was subjected to extensive fraud.Top of the ministries for wasting public money is the Department for Work and Pensions, which squandered more than &pound;1.6bn by abandoning three major schemes - a new benefit card which was based on outdated technology; the upgrade to the CSA's computer which could not handle 1.2m existing claims; and &pound;140m on a streamlined benefit payment system that never worked properly.The Guardian's survey of abandoned projects is not exhaustive and the total of &pound;1.865bn is likely to be a considerable underestimate of the actual cost to taxpayers because neither Whitehall nor the National Audit Office, parliament's financial watchdog, keep definitive lists of which schemes go wrong.Neither does it include  the major modifications required to fix new systems that have failed to perform as required. One example is the pilot work done on the new &pound;12bn NHS computer system - where outdated technology was installed at Bexley Hospital in south London, and has had to be replaced after it was found to be "unfit for purpose". Another is the huge modification required to the new computerised single payments system for farmers run by Defra's Rural Payments Agency, where the government has had to set aside some &pound;300m to meet possible EU fines for wrong payments to thousands of farmers.The abandoned police site, which was launched in 2003, allowed the public to report non-urgent crimes and provide photographic and video evidence through the internet. The system - linked to police forces around the country - then prioritised the information and distributed it to the correct forces.It was being used to report around 30,000 crimes a year but began to falter when defence technology company, Qinetiq, was brought in to build a replacement in 2005. Costs began to spiral and the new system was deemed to be unfit for purpose, resulting in suspension of the service last March and final closure in December. The deal is now subject to a legal dispute, with Qinetiq claiming that it has completed the work it was contracted to do. The National Police Improvement Agency, which manages IT systems for the police, would not say how much money had been spent on the portal, but documents obtained under the Freedom of Information Act showed that running costs had risen above &pound;5m a year in 2006.The replacement system was not fit for live use due to "a range of serious defects and delays", a spokeswoman said. "It is not possible to issue more details as it is now subject to legal proceedings." A senior Whitehall official has questioned the heavy spend and high rate of failure.Joe Harley, programme and systems delivery officer at the Department for Work and Pensions, said that the government's &pound;14bn annual spend on IT could be used to build thousands of schools every year, or to employ hundreds of thousands of nurses in the NHS. "Today only 30%, we estimate, of our projects and programmes are successful," he told a conference. "It is not sustainable for us as a government to continue to spend at these levels. We need to up the quality of what we do at a reduced cost of doing so."The extensive list of failed projects calls into question other major government IT programmes, such as the proposed &pound;5bn ID cards scheme.Price of failure: Where the money wentBenefit claimsSet up in December 2003 to streamline payment of benefits. Aimed to save &pound;60m by picking up new and repeat claims by phone and the internet. The system was shelved in 2006 after it failed to work. Cost: &pound;140mBroadband procurementStephen Timms, e-commerce minister, led the 2004 project to pool public-sector buying power to get cheaper broadband deals. But after it was found the &pound;3.5m savings made from the scheme were far smaller than the projected &pound;200m cost the DTi shut the project. Cost: &pound;15mImmigration caseworkA computer system of 2001 meant to clear the backlog of immigration casework for the Home Office, was scrapped after missing its deadlines. Cost: &pound;77mIndependent learning accountsThe 2001 system offering adults &pound;150 for educational use was abandoned after fraudsters coined millions in fake applications.  Cost: &pound;97mPathwayThis project to introduce a benefits payment card in 2000 was scrapped after four years of expensive development when government experts realised the magnetic swipe technology that it was based on was already outdated. Cost: &pound;1bn
Chasing the perfect smartphone is a frustrating game. This one is perfect but it doesn't have Wi-Fi, that one would be ideal if only it had GPS. The other is OK but isn't 3G. Aha, this is it! Oh bother, it can't do video calls. And so on. Not that I actually need all those features, it's just that for us Knights of the smartphone Grail the terms of the quest demand the One Device That Has It All.And here comes the high-end Glofiish X800 Pocket PC running Windows for mobiles (professional). It really does seem to be as loaded as anything out there. Now, I have to say I'm not a fan of Windows for mobiles - all those maddeningly small menus, submenus and fiddly nested commands torment me almost beyond endurance, as do the horrors of trying to synchronise with anything other than a PC. Were it not for Missing Sync's suite of programs that allow powerful and controllable syncing between Macs and mobile operating systems, I'd be in a home by now. For all that, I've lived for weeks using HTC and Palm devices that run WM5 and WM6, and I happily concede that Microsoft's cut-down OS does have strengths.Glofiish is made by E-Ten and you can colour me impressed. It is true 3.5G. That's nothing to do with gigabyte memory, by the way, but indicates "third and a half generation" capability. In short, it obtains the highest data transfer speeds possible in mobile telephony. It will first try to pick up HSDPA or UMTS signals from the network, then EDGE, then GPRS and finally good old data-free GMS. Major population centres will allow it to gallop like a thoroughbred through its full 3.5G paces, but if you live in the country, you'll be lucky to get much more than the donkey speeds of GPRS.Glofiish has both a front and rear camera, allowing you to make face-to-face video calls. The main camera has autofocus, which I've not seen on a comparable device; at 2MP, it is not going to deliver staggering images, but the output is satisfactory. The video footage was hardly broadcast quality, but again adequate. It is armed with a bright and crisp VGA display, Bluetooth 2.0, WiFi, FM Radio and GPS. Input is by stylus to soft keyboard, handwriting recognition or numeric dial-pad, although a model with a slide-out keyboard has just been announced.Irritatingly, despite having a Sirf Star GPS receiver built in, no SatNav mapping software is included, so the user is forced to download and buy an application, or try the free Google Maps for Mobiles. Glofiish says satellite information can be automatically incorporated into an SMS text: "This could be helpful," says the manual, "in preventing kidnapping, reporting disastrous situations, calling for help in emergencies or locating an individual." Wow.The device is attractively designed with delightful red accents on the lenses; it is pleasant to hold, to heft and, for the most part, to operate. Windows for mobiles' advantage lies in the availability of so many functions, the powerful customisable options and the wealth of downloadable software. This also creates the disadvantage of complexity, endless non-intuitive menus and option screens, and a life of picking your way by stylus through an often messy and confusing environment.For those who want it all, then, the Glofiish X800 can compete with the HTC Tytn II and the other big players. I give it a big tick.Its processor is made by Samsung, who also makes phones, of course. I heartily recommend its fatuously named SGH-G800 for anyone after a top-notch phone with an emphasis on photography. Balanced and well-finished, it boasts a 5MP camera with Xenon flash and 3X optical zoom, no GPS or WiFi, but all the usual accoutrements such as 3G, front camera for video calling, Bluetooth 2.0, WAP 2.0, FM radio, music players, image editing software and so on. It was rumoured that it would have an OLED display, but they've settled for traditional LCD. It has a Samsung Fun Club splashscreen that would make anyone wince with embarrassment and is stupidly at odds with the sophisticatedly simple and stylish hardware design of this high-quality 3G slider phone. Even so, it's a worthy rival to the Nokia N95.&#183;stephenfry.com/blog
Chasing the perfect smartphone is a frustrating game. This one is perfect but it doesn't have Wi-Fi, that one would be ideal if only it had GPS. The other is OK but isn't 3G. Aha, this is it! Oh bother, it can't do video calls. And so on. Not that I actually need all those features, it's just that for us Knights of the smartphone Grail the terms of the quest demand the One Device That Has It All.And here comes the high-end Glofiish X800 Pocket PC running Windows for mobiles (professional). It really does seem to be as loaded as anything out there. Now, I have to say I'm not a fan of Windows for mobiles - all those maddeningly small menus, submenus and fiddly nested commands torment me almost beyond endurance, as do the horrors of trying to synchronise with anything other than a PC. Were it not for Missing Sync's suite of programs that allow powerful and controllable syncing between Macs and mobile operating systems, I'd be in a home by now. For all that, I've lived for weeks using HTC and Palm devices that run WM5 and WM6, and I happily concede that Microsoft's cut-down OS does have strengths.Galloping like a thoroughbredGlofiish is made by E-Ten and you can colour me impressed. It is true 3.5G. That's nothing to do with gigabyte memory, by the way, but indicates "third and a half generation" capability. In short, it obtains the highest data transfer speeds possible in mobile telephony. It will first try to pick up HSDPA or UMTS signals from the network, then EDGE, then GPRS and finally good old data-free GMS. Major population centres will allow it to gallop like a thoroughbred through its full 3.5G paces, but if you live in the country, you'll be lucky to get much more than the donkey speeds of GPRS.Glofiish has both a front and rear camera, allowing you to make face-to-face video calls. The main camera has autofocus, which I've not seen on a comparable device; at 2MP, it is not going to deliver staggering images, but the output is satisfactory. The video footage was hardly broadcast quality, but again adequate. It is armed with a bright and crisp VGA display, Bluetooth 2.0, WiFi, FM Radio and GPS. Input is by stylus to soft keyboard, handwriting recognition or numeric dial-pad, although a model with a slide-out keyboard has just been announced.Irritatingly, despite having a Sirf Star GPS receiver built in, no SatNav mapping software is included, so the user is forced to download and buy an application, or try the free Google Maps for Mobiles. Glofiish says satellite information can be automatically incorporated into an SMS text: "This could be helpful," says the manual, "in preventing kidnapping, reporting disastrous situations, calling for help in emergencies or locating an individual." Wow.Pleasant to heftThe device is attractively designed with delightful red accents on the lenses; it is pleasant to hold, to heft and, for the most part, to operate. Windows for mobiles' advantage lies in the availability of so many functions, the powerful customisable options and the wealth of downloadable software. This also creates the disadvantage of complexity, endless non-intuitive menus and option screens, and a life of picking your way by stylus through an often messy and confusing environment.For those who want it all, then, the Glofiish X800 can compete with the HTC Tytn II and the other big players. I give it a big tick.Its processor is made by Samsung, who also makes phones, of course. I heartily recommend its fatuously named SGH-G800 for anyone after a top-notch phone with an emphasis on photography. Balanced and well-finished, it boasts a 5MP camera with Xenon flash and 3X optical zoom, no GPS or WiFi, but all the usual accoutrements such as 3G, front camera for video calling, Bluetooth 2.0, WAP 2.0, FM radio, music players, image editing software and so on. It was rumoured that it would have an OLED display, but they've settled for traditional LCD. It has a Samsung Fun Club splashscreen that would make anyone wince with embarrassment and is stupidly at odds with the sophisticatedly simple and stylish hardware design of this high-quality 3G slider phone. Even so, it's a worthy rival to the Nokia N95.&#183;stephenfry.com/blog
LittleBigPlanetPlayStation 3Looking unlike anything else, LittleBigPlanet is a co-operative physics-based puzzle game in which you and friends team up to get past elegantly designed obstacles. With create-your-own a big part of it, this looks like one of the most exciting games of 2008.SporePCTaking over evolution of a species from protozoan to predator, Spore's absurdly ambitious, galaxy-spanning, massively multiplayer intention is for you to grow beasts that compete with other players' creations in an online universe red in tooth, claw and tentacle.Gran Turismo 5PlayStation 3Even though Gran Turismo games are predictable in every way, their perfection sets them apart from every other racing game. This outing has the strangely exciting addition of the Top Gear test track.Advance Wars: Dark ConflictNintendo DSWith its immaculately polished turn-based tank, infantry, air force and naval battles, Advance Wars has one of the most perfect sets of rules since chess was invented. This episode promises a more strategic approach.Mario KartNintendo WiiThe daddy of cartoon go-kart racers and provider of the finest, silliest multiplayer driving available is due to emerge on the Wii, this time with an emphasis on internet-based competition. Expect the return of red shells and banana skins, alongside a peculiar steering wheel accessory.Samba de AmigoNintendo WiiGamers of a certain vintage will have golden memories of Samba de Amiga, a classic rhythm action game originally in arcades and on Sega's Dreamcast that featured large plastic maracas. Even with the Wii-remote and nunchuk substituting, this is promising.Alan WakePC, Xbox 360Putting you in the quaking boots of a writer whose inventions begin springing eerily to life, this detailed and disturbing-looking, free-roaming horror game is already a year overdue - hopefully a hint that the finished product will be one of particular refinement and excellence. The wait is almost over.EchochromePSPAnother machine starved of proper software, PSP at last gets another game to sit next to Loco Roco as a genuine innovation. Echochrome's MC Escher-style mazes need to be traversed by a mannequin whose progress you assist by twisting the maze to guide them across.Star Wars: The Force UnleashedNintendo WiiIt's also due on other formats, but since the first time the Wii-remote was demonstrated it's been an inevitability that you would one day get the opportunity to use it to wield a lightsaber. That day is nearly upon us and is a matter of considerable excitement amongst Star Wars fans of both varieties: rabid and fanatical.Metal Gear Solid 4PlayStation 3Another blockbuster grade sequel that demands attention is the return of Hideo Kojima's ponderous, pretentious and entirely lovable creation, Solid Snake, for more sneaking and gadget action. Don't be surprised to see Snake save the world from giant robots commanded by eye patch-wearing despots.
Are there any portable MP3 players, and computer programs, for storing and playing classical music? Ones that classify by composer and work, not artist and album; that recognise that one CD may contain works by several composers and each work may have several movements; that do not want to play all the movements on the device in alphabetical, or worse, random order? If there is one that can play other codecs (ogg vorbis and FLAC files) so much the better.Edward EvansThose are questions I have asked myself, without coming up with a good answer (which means I've never bought an MP3 player). One workaround is to start each file name with the appropriate number so the tracks sort in order: 1a, 1b, 1c, 2a etc. Then you store each CD's files in its own folder.(If you have got used to playing through sets of string quartets in the "wrong" order because that's how they best fitted the original CDs, you might have to number the folders, too.)Tagging of classical music is a mess, starting with the idiot assumption that "classical" covers everything from Hildegard of Bingham to Tomita, and continuing with the idiot assumption that almost every classical CD is a "compilation". I won't even mention the idiot assumption that you want everything conducted by Karajan sorted together,regardless of composer, and is Karajan sorted by Herbert, by von, or by Karajan?A quick search for a standards committee working on the problem didn't help, but I did findTaming iTunes for Classical Music. It's also a topic frequently and sensibly discussed in theHydrogenAudio forums. I also discovered that theGracenote Classical Music Initiativeis being presented as the solution.Having Gracenote deliver useful and accurate tags automagically would be a real breakthough.But if you have found an MP3 player that is more suitable for playing classical music -- or a player/software combination -- please let us know what it is.
Chasing the perfect smartphone is a frustrating game. This one is perfect but it doesn't have Wi-Fi, that one would be ideal if only it had GPS. The other is OK but isn't 3G. Aha, this is it! Oh bother, it can't do video calls. And so on. Not that I actually need all those features, it's just that for us Knights of the smartphone Grail the terms of the quest demand the One Device That Has It All.And here comes the high-end Glofiish X800 Pocket PC running Windows for mobiles (professional). It really does seem to be as loaded as anything out there. Now, I have to say I'm not a fan of Windows for mobiles - all those maddeningly small menus, submenus and fiddly nested commands torment me almost beyond endurance, as do the horrors of trying to synchronise with anything other than a PC. Were it not for Missing Sync's suite of programs that allow powerful and controllable syncing between Macs and mobile operating systems, I'd be in a home by now. For all that, I've lived for weeks using HTC and Palm devices that run WM5 and WM6, and I happily concede that Microsoft's cut-down OS does have strengths.Glofiish is made by E-Ten and you can colour me impressed. It is true 3.5G. That's nothing to do with gigabyte memory, by the way, but indicates "third and a half generation" capability. In short, it obtains the highest data transfer speeds possible in mobile telephony. It will first try to pick up HSDPA or UMTS signals from the network, then EDGE, then GPRS and finally good old data-free GMS. Major population centres will allow it to gallop like a thoroughbred through its full 3.5G paces, but if you live in the country, you'll be lucky to get much more than the donkey speeds of GPRS.Glofiish has both a front and rear camera, allowing you to make face-to-face video calls. The main camera has autofocus, which I've not seen on a comparable device; at 2MP, it is not going to deliver staggering images, but the output is satisfactory. The video footage was hardly broadcast quality, but again adequate. It is armed with a bright and crisp VGA display, Bluetooth 2.0, WiFi, FM Radio and GPS. Input is by stylus to soft keyboard, handwriting recognition or numeric dial-pad, although a model with a slide-out keyboard has just been announced.Irritatingly, despite having a Sirf Star GPS receiver built in, no SatNav mapping software is included, so the user is forced to download and buy an application, or try the free Google Maps for Mobiles. Glofiish says satellite information can be automatically incorporated into an SMS text: "This could be helpful," says the manual, "in preventing kidnapping, reporting disastrous situations, calling for help in emergencies or locating an individual." Wow.The device is attractively designed with delightful red accents on the lenses; it is pleasant to hold, to heft and, for the most part, to operate. Windows for mobiles' advantage lies in the availability of so many functions, the powerful customisable options and the wealth of downloadable software. This also creates the disadvantage of complexity, endless non-intuitive menus and option screens, and a life of picking your way by stylus through an often messy and confusing environment.For those who want it all, then, the Glofiish X800 can compete with the HTC Tytn II and the other big players. I give it a big tick.Its processor is made by Samsung, who also makes phones, of course. I heartily recommend its fatuously named SGH-G800 for anyone after a top-notch phone with an emphasis on photography. Balanced and well-finished, it boasts a 5MP camera with Xenon flash and 3X optical zoom, no GPS or WiFi, but all the usual accoutrements such as 3G, front camera for video calling, Bluetooth 2.0, WAP 2.0, FM radio, music players, image editing software and so on. It was rumoured that it would have an OLED display, but they've settled for traditional LCD. It has a Samsung Fun Club splashscreen that would make anyone wince with embarrassment and is stupidly at odds with the sophisticatedly simple and stylish hardware design of this high-quality 3G slider phone. Even so, it's a worthy rival to the Nokia N95.&#183;stephenfry.com/blog
Three of the four music majors are already selling music files without DRM -- ie copy protection -- and Sony BMG could be about to join them.BusinessWeeksays:Sony BMG, a joint venture of Sony (SNE) and Bertelsmann, will make at least part of its collection available without so-called digital rights management, or DRM, software some time in the first quarter, according to people familiar with the matter.Note: there has not been an official announcement, but BusinessWeek says: "Details of Sony BMG's plans are expected to emerge in the coming weeks."It's expected that the Sony BMG songs will, like the other three's, be sold via Amazon. This should have the effect of reducing the market power of Apple's iTunes Store, which sells mostly DRM-crippled fileswith some DRM-free files*at higher prices. BussinessWeek says:"That was a big part of it -- countering Apple's control in a positive way by creating more able competitors," says Mike McGuire, a vice-president for research at Gartner.*Apple Backs Down on Premium Prices for Unprotected Music. Thanks, CSClark!
The cost to the taxpayer of abandoned Whitehall computer projects since 2000 has reached almost £2bn, not including the bill for an online crime reporting site that was cancelled this week, a survey by the Guardian reveals.The failure of the multimillion-pound police site marks the latest chapter in the government's litany of botched IT projects, with several costly schemes biting the dust. Blunders overseen by Downing Street have included the  much-derided £486m computer upgrade at the Child Support Agency (CSA), which collapsed and forced a £1bn claims write-off, and an adult learning programme that was subjected to extensive fraud.Top of the ministries for wasting public money is the Department for Work and Pensions, which is responsible for squandering more than £1.6bn by abandoning three major schemes — a new benefit card which was based on outdated technology; the upgrade to the CSA's computer which could not handle 1.2m existing claims; and a £140m streamlined benefit payment system that never worked properly.The Guardian's survey of abandoned projects is not exhaustive and the total of £1.865bn is likely to be a considerable underestimate of the actual cost to taxpayers because neither Whitehall nor the National Audit Office, parliament's financial watchdog, keep definitive lists of which schemes go wrong. Also it does not include  the major modifications required to fix new systems that have failed to perform as required.One example is the pilot work done on the new £12bn NHS computer system. Outdated technology was installed at Bexley hospital in south London, and it has had to be replaced after it was found to be "unfit for purpose".Another example is the huge modification required to a new computerised single payments system for farmers run by the environment ministry Defra's Rural Payments Agency. The government has had to set aside about £300m to meet possible EU fines for making the wrong payments to thousands of farmers.The abandoned police site, which was launched in 2003, allowed the public to report non-urgent crimes and provide photographic and video evidence through the internet. The system — linked to police forces around the country — then prioritised the information and distributed it to the correct forces.It was being used to report about 30,000 crimes a year but began to falter when defence technology company Qinetiq was brought in to build a replacement in 2005. Costs began to spiral and the new system was deemed to be unfit for purpose, resulting in suspension of the service last March and closure in December.The deal is now subject to a legal dispute, with Qinetiq claiming that it has completed the work it was contracted to do. The National Police Improvement Agency, which manages IT systems for the police, would not give details of how much money had been spent on the portal, but documents obtained under the Freedom of Information Act showed that running costs had risen above £5m a year in 2006.The replacement system was not fit for live use due to "a range of serious defects and delays," a spokeswoman said. "It is not possible to issue more details as it is now subject to legal proceedings."Earlier this year, one senior Whitehall official called into question the heavy spend and high rate of failure.Joe Harley, programme and systems delivery officer at the Department for Work and Pensions, said the government's £14bn annual spend on IT could be used to build thousands of schools every year or to employ hundreds of thousands of nurses in the NHS."Today only 30%, we estimate, of our projects and programmes are successful," he told a conference. "It is not sustainable for us as a government to continue to spend at these levels. We need to up the quality of what we do at a reduced cost of doing so."The extensive list of failed projects calls into question other major government IT programmes, such as the proposed £5bn ID cards scheme.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
It's been a couple of years since I offered my (very personal) predictions for the coming year. Make a note in your diaries: in 12 months, we'll come back and find out how I did. (And send your comments now tocharles.arthur@guardian.co.uk.) You can also listen to theTech Weekly podcast team's look ahead to 2008. And now ...General&bull; Energy use will matter more and more in 2008. Big data centres can use astonishing amounts of power running 24 hours, seven days a week, year-round; as electricity prices keep rising, driven by all sorts of exterior forces (such as oil and gas wholesale prices), the people in charge of computing will have to think about how to use less energy to do the same things.Intel is increasingly focused on "processing power per watt", and that will become more important to companies that choose to run their own systems.But equally, more and more companies will choose to move to try...&bull; "Cloud computing".Amazon's S3 servicenow offers web hosting, processing and even database processing in "the cloud": there's no identifiable place where your data is held or processed. (See Nick Carr's piece in Thursday's Technology section.) In addition to rising energy costs, "sizing" your system can be difficult. This is because you can never know when some unpredictable event - being mentioned on a site such as Digg leading to a sudden influx of new users, say, or news events directing a lot of people to your site - will crash your servers. So the ability to call in other companies' computing resources could be a lifesaver.&bull; Microsoft will consider splitting itself into two companies, one for operating systems and another for applications, just as Justice Thomas Penfield Jacksonrecommendedin the recent antitrust trial. And if it doesn't, it damn well ought to: is it really getting any value from being larger? Is it more agile? Microsoft is also likely to see its revenues dip as corporations squeezed by the credit crunch hold off those expensive new software installations.&bull; Data privacy and sharing will rocket up the charts. Facebook will see a surge in people leaving as they realise that it really is watching what they're doing, even when they're not on the site. In the UK, ID cards will be debated under the same data privacy banner; and the question of why the US government gets to know when and where we're flying, and why we pass so much data across the Atlantic to a country that doesn't even have a concept of data protection, will be raised more urgently.Apple ...&bull; will easily hit its "10m iPhones sold in the first year" target.&bull; will offer five updates to its new Leopard operating system, so by the end of the year it should be well worth using&bull; will see growth in music sales through its iTunes Store slow as phone makers and networks improve their music consumption services&bull; will not launch a music subscription service, even though it is forecast to do this for video. Why? Because video is generally a consume-once product, but you want to keep music, and Apple reasons that people will get annoyed if the music they like listening to vanishes if they haven't kept up a subscription. By comparison, I'll bet that if someone stole all your DVDs but left the boxes, it would take you weeks to notice. I'm sure Apple has the technology to do music subscription, but to do so would also vindicate rivals who already do it.&bull; won't launch a tablet computer. This is always a safe bet. The iPhone doesn't count - it's not running Mac OSX, but OSX. Subtle difference.Wires and wireless&bull; BT will beginintroducing its ADSL2+ serviceoffering broadband speeds of, yes, "up to" 24Mbps. Ministers and consumer groups will complain because not everybody can get 24Mbps - demonstrating that the laws of physics can't be repealed, no matter how many people stamp their foot. When BT explains how much it would cost to connect homes to its fibre network - the process that bankrupted cable companies in the 1990s - and how much of this it will pass on to its customers, the idea of "up to 24Mbps" will become a lot more attractive.&bull;Zigbee,UWBandWiMax- wireless methods for the home, short range and long range - will finally begin to have an impact.&bull; wireless radios like theRecivawill gain some traction as people realise they can use them to pipe both radio and their music around the home via the wireless routers they bought in 2007.&bull; caps on broadband accounts will be raised, but not lifted - shovelling data around still costs money in terms of infrastructure.Spam and malware&bull; By the end of 2008, there still won't be a self-propagating worm affecting Mac OSX. I've made this prediction every year since 2001, and it's been one to rely on — though malware writers are beginning to focus on Apple's platform, so this isn't such a banker as before.&bull; Spam, which has colonised email and web commentary, will try to invade some of the microformat systems such as Twitter. Dave Winer has already considered aproof-of-concept for Twitter. But interactive systems such as instant messaging have been resilient to spam; the microformat ones have interactivity halfway between email and instant messenging, so it will be interesting to see whether spam withers or survives there.&bull; Malware writers will turn their attention to the developing world - specifically, the Intel Classmate and OLPC laptops. It's a market with almost zero malware protection; infect machines in those places with viruses and Trojans, and they'll likely never be cleaned up. Ker-ching!&bull; We'll find out who was behind theStorm worm, and why.We'll say goodbye ...&bull; toVonage, which has struggled since its IPO (initial public offering) with patent lawsuits and service troubles. The credit crunch will chew it up: people won't renew contracts and it will burn through its cash in lawsuits and services.&bull; toNapster, which might get sold (a year after the For Sale sign was put up) but might just die quietly. As a brand, it's got a split personality and deserves to be put out of its misery.&bull; toSCO, finally, at long last; it tried to sue Linux off the face of the earth - about as feasible as winning a war on terror - and discovered that Linux had a big, lawyered-up friend, namely IBM.Photo: GettyFinancial and government&bull; Thecredit crunchwill have widespread effects; banks are going to try to hoard cash to shore up their liquidity ratios, after borrowing and lending too freely using exotic financial instruments. Everything flows (or doesn't) from that.&bull; Stock market flotation won't be an option for most companies. Facebook will have to get through a year in which advertising may drop off, with just some venture capital money to keep it going. It'll be hard to sell another slice as it did to Microsoft in 2007.&bull; Companies which are highly geared (have high debts compared with their assets) will struggle, or die. This includes lots of wannabe Facebooks and other web 2.0 companies.&bull; HM Revenue and Customs won't discover its lost discs, but examination of government procedures will show laxity and poor practice over data protection and transport that would shame a beginner's class in IT. The idea that we should each "own" the personal data the government has about us (such as health records) will gain traction - to little effect, because government likes accumulating data: it's a modern form of capital, a central bank that grows in value faster than you put data in.&bull; Guardian Technology'sFree Our Data campaignwill find more countries that are benefiting from government giving away personal data for free; the report on trading funds, due this month, will be equivocal about the benefit of free data. Absent a big brave experiment by government, we'll be left with a poorer information economy.Music&bull; All of the music majors will offer their songs in DRM (digital rights management)-free formats through at least one online store - though not necessarily Apple's, because they're worried about its increasing dominance.&bull; Microsoft will wake up from its dream and tell Universal - which currently gets $1 per Zune music player sold - that it's doing fine now, thanks, and the Zune can stand on its own feet without paying tithes.Photo: Nasa/Esa/The Hubble Heritage/PAOut of this world&bull; "Passenger space services" will be delayed. Again.&bull; The UK won't commit to building enough new nuclear power stations to close the gap between future energy demand and domestic supply as the government leaves solving the problem of having to buy oil and gas from a prickly country (Russia) to a future administration.Look at it this way: nuclear power generates waste that hangs around for ages. But we know how to deal with it: capture it and bury it. Fossil fuels, by contrast, generate waste that hangs around for ages but which we don't capture and don't have any effective means to bury. Only one makes sea levels rise and ice caps melt. So remind me what was so bad about nuclear again?&bull; The phenomenon of "electrosensitivity" (andassociated storiesabout Wi-Fi and mobile phones) will continue to resist hard scientific analysis: experiments will show no link but newspapers and TV programmes, who love a story with a good anecdote, will keep on.&bull; Duke Nukem Forever's makers announce a ship date (it's only 10 years later, come on.) Unfortunately it never ships because some bright spark will realise that the way to exploit "zero point energy" - the energy of empty space - is to reverse the expansion of the universe, because that creates free energy at a point. No global warming! Unfortunately doing this causes the universe to implode to a singularity, causing the end of existence. Actually, I hope I'm wrong on this one.So: right? Wrong? What are yours? Emailcharles.arthur@guardian.co.ukand let me know.
Ars Technica has posted aFirst Look: Microsoft Office for Mac 2008with lots of screen shots. It's important for Mac users in being the first version for MacIntel machines, in supporting the new Office Open XML file formats, and in updating the user interface more in the style of the Windows version's innovative ribbon.
What technology do you consider to be overrated?Super 8.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I used Super 8 to make ourfirst video for Small Town Girlabout two years ago. We just re-released the single, so I re-used the old footage along with modern day footage of us to create anew video. I was trying to point out that although so much time had passed, we had made little progress … The mechanics of the music industry had made us just continue pushing the same song.Was it good for your art?No. At the time I was led to use it because of how trendy it was. Subconsciously I was probably thinking it would make us look cool. When people used Super 8 in the past, and made that type of film fashionable, they did so because it was the cheapest and easiest method available. When we used it, it cost us all the money we had and most of the footage was too dark to use anyway. Although I do like the colours and look of Super 8, I just fell into the same pathetic trap as other people.What should people use instead?I now think you should just use whatever method you have available to you, that still pleases your aesthetic sensibility - you should use whatever you can to film with. Yet you still encounter snobbery when using cheap video cameras.What additional features would you add if you could?Night vision.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?No.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Neither. But I know that everything that people are scared of at first gradually becomes commonplace and accepted. Film, including Super 8, frightened people at first and now it is cherished by fetishists who fear change. People should embrace whatever they can in order to express themselves artistically. When I made my first album,Lime Headed Dog, I used the cheapest PC microphone and a home PC, and the music mostly sounds better than what I do now with more expensive equipment.What's your favourite piece of technology?At the moment, a trumpet. I'm just learning how to play. You can make, just with your body, such a loud noise and it amplifies without any moving or electric parts. I find it pretty fascinating.Mac or PC?I don't care.What song is at the top of your iPod's Top 25 Most Played?Country Teasers - Spiderman In The Flesh.Will robots rule the world?I think we will become the robots.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A steel pan drum.The singleSmall Town Girlcame out late last year; the albumThink Before You Speakis out now on Brille Records.
Geek blogger Robert Scoble has now explained that he wasalpha testing an upcoming feature of Plaxo Pulse. He wasn't accessing any personal data, but says: "I wanted to get all my contacts into my Microsoft Outlook address book and hook them up with the Plaxo system, which 1,800 of my friends are already on."In a comment to Scoble's post,Dan Birdwhistellfrom FriendCSV (which I mentionedbelowas a better solution) points out that Plaxo could have done much the same thing without violating Facebook's terms of service, though scraping the (graphical) email addresses is another matter.As Michael Arrington says atTechCrunch:the Facebook API doesn't allow exporting of a crucial piece of data, email addresses. In fact, emails are shown as images instead of text on Facebook so that scripts cannot easily download them. So Plaxo avoided the API and went with screen scraping. They developed optical character recognition software to recognize email addresses and add them to the export.Plaxo then got a few journalists and bloggers to try it out, apparently -- and if so, stupidly -- without talking to Facebook first. As Arrington says: "Robert Scoble was Plaxo's lab rat in this experiment. I'm glad I wasn't one, too."
It was the internet story of 2007, the website that brought you sneezing pandas, laughing babies, an epic battle on the African savannah and a guest appearance by Tony Blair in a video starring George Bush's dog.But for any web surfers in China, these and other gems purveyed by the video-sharing phenomenon YouTube look likely to become impossible to access, after the authorities signalled yesterday that they would no longer tolerate the "broadcast of degenerate thinking" on the internet.In a move apparently aimed at YouTube and scores of other smaller rivals, the Chinese authorities announced that all video-sharing websites must have official government approval before they can be accessed by Chinese surfers. New rules governing online content announced by the state administration of radio, film and television also stipulate that from the end of January only state-owned or controlled companies would be given licences to upload video in China."Those who provide internet video services should insist on serving the people ... and abide by the moral code of socialism," say the new guidelines. Licensed companies would be responsible for upholding national security, maintaining a "healthy online environment" and would be required to ban any videos that damage the country's reputation.The upshot could be severe for China's 150 million internet users, who can now expect content to be dominated by footage that helps "promote overall social progress and harmony" and a "socialist morality"; think party congresses, military march-pasts and gymnastic medal hopes for the 2008 Beijing Olympics.China, which now has the second largest number of internet users behind the United States, already enforces severe restrictions on web content, using its so-called "great firewall" to block websites and information deemed controversial.The regime has a small army of up to 30,000 internet "monitors" who police the online community in China, rapidly erasing critical comment from chatrooms and bulletin boards or patrolling internet bars watching for console sleight of hand.The crackdown is the product of Chinese government concern about the rapid growth in Web 2.0 sites, which allow the country's technically savvy youth to distribute homemade videos, photos and opinions to the rest of the world over the internet.But even though Beijing severely restricts Chinese media outlets, it has been reluctant to strike too hard against dotcoms because of their growing economic importance. Online video has exploded in popularity inside China in recent years, and the country now boasts more than 500 websites that allow people to put their own video on to the internet.The new rules are similar to those that China already enforces on online news providers, where only a select number of licensed companies can create their own content in addition to the officially sanctioned state news channels. Rules have also been drawn up which target the elimination of subversive content and promote "civilised" news and information.As well as a series of crackdowns against "cyber-dissidents" accused of spreading politically sensitive information abroad, the government has insisted that local bloggers register under their real names through officially approved sites. Those sites, including sina.com, are obliged to monitor and delete politically sensitive content themselves.However, with western companies keen to sell to China's formidable online populace, the government has sought to bring in foreign investment by offering permission to set up lucrative Chinese operations only on the condition that they yield to the country's strict censorship rules.A YouTube spokesperson said the new regulations "could be a cause for concern, depending on the interpretation"."We believe that the Chinese government fully recognises the enormous value of online video and will not enforce the regulations in a way that could deprive the Chinese people of its benefits and potential for business and economic development, education and culture, communication and entertainment."
They have transformed the way people communicate and attract millions of regular users keen to make virtual friendships or chat about common interests. Of the most popular social networking websites, Bebo is today named in a report as the top performer, beating its rivals Facebook and MySpace.Computing Which? publishes the results of an independent test assessing the 10 most popular sites for ease of setting up and using the site, the range of features, and the way the sites protected privacy and security, including how easy it is to remove personal details.Bebo and Facebook achieved the highest scores of 79% and 74% respectively, and were rated easier to use than MySpace and best for socialising. Bebo, which is used predominantly by the 13- to 24-year-old age group, is praised for working hard to encourage responsible networking. "Users can restrict who sees their information, and block users, and there's plenty of advice on security risks and how to avoid these," says the magazine.The News International-owned site MySpace - also popular with younger users - received an overall score of 67%. Microsoft's Windows Live Spaces scored 65%, ahead of Friends Reunited site at 62%. Saga Zone - aimed at the over-50s - and BBC Talk were both given a maximum five star rating for their performance. They were also named as best buys for users interested in discussion groups. The photo-sharing site Flickr proved to be the best in the special interest category, scoring five out of five for both performance and ease of use.A survey by the media regulator Ofcom published at the end of last year showed that British surfers are insatiable users of social networking sites.One in four log on to such websites at least 23 times each month, making the UK the most digital nation in Europe and second only to Canada among the world's most enthusiastic makers of virtual friendships.Abigail Waraker, the editor of Computing Which?, said: "Social networking sites are growing in popularity and, as the success of Bebo in our test shows, sites like MySpace and Facebook can't rest on their laurels if they want to stay in the game. It's also encouraging to see that no matter what age you are or what interests you have, there is a social networking site out there for you."
Here's the second selection of games worth looking out for in 2008, but which haven't featured inevery singlepreview feature. Watch out, there's a mobile game in here!The Agency (Sony Online Entertainment, PC, PS3)Sony's massively-multiplayer espionage thriller has players joining either the UNITE spies or ParaGON mercenaries as they travel the globe getting involved in assassination plots, drug smuggling and all sorts of covert jiggery-pokery. Characters are highly customisable and rank up during play, gaining more influence over the world as they progress. You can also recruit NPCs named Operatives to gather intelligence - and sports cars - for you. It's a seductive premise and an interesting attempt to claw the MMORPG away from standard fantasy and sci-fi tropes.Left 4 Dead (Turtle Rock/Valve, PC, Xbox 360)A couple of years ago Capcom promised us tense multiplayer co-operative survival horror action courtesy of Resident Evil: Outbreak. But the European version lacked online support and the lack-lustre follow-up died a lonely quiet death. So now Turtle Rock and Valve are having a bash with this nightmarish co-op blaster, which takes place after a particularly nasty rabies pandemic that turns a massive majority of the human population into frothy-mouthed psychos. Missions take place in standard post-apocalyptic zombie flick locales - deserted hospitals, abandoned villages, etc - with groups of four players working together against the hordes. IGN has a hands-onhere.Patapon (Sony Computer Entertainment WorldWide Studios, PSP)Frankly, no-one does stylised 2D action like Sony Japan these days and after the success of LocoRoco, here's another brash, primary-coloured slap around the face of hi-def visuals. Like Pa Rappa the Rappa, Patapon marries a western artistic influence (then Rodney Greenblat, now French graphic artist Rolito) with Japanese game design sensibilities to create a distinctive rhythm action romp. Here, players control the armies of the titular civilisation as they march across their world, fighting enemies and monsters with drumbeat synchronised weapon attacks.Project White Rock (RedLynx, N-Gage compatible handsets)Little is known about Nokia's flagship title for the re-invented N-Gage platform - just that it'll run on both mobile and PC, with users of both platforms presumably able to compete with and against each other in some kind of online adventure. Those of you who believe there were NO good games on the original N-Gage are wrong: there was the brilliant battle strategy title Pathway to Glory, which would have been a million seller on Nintendo DS. And the developer of Pathway? RedLynx. So yes, one to watch, even if you're unconvinced about everything else N-Gage related.Prototype (Radical Entertainment, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)A few elements of this ambitious open-world adventure sound familiar. The game's anti-hero, Alex Mercer, wakes up on an operating table to find he has amnesiaandsuperhuman powers (hmmm, Second Sight?), allowing him to take on the physical appearance of anyone he kills (ah, Messiah). From here, he must explore a ravaged New York City in which spec ops cops fight the aggressive victims of a deadly virus - doallgame designers love 28 Days/Weeks Later? There's even a trendy free-running element as Mercer leaps from rooftop to rooftop in his quest to unlock the massive conspiracy behind the adventure. This year's Darkness? Let's hope this one lives up to the pre-release promise.Race Driver: GRID (Codemasters, PC, PS3, Xbox 360)In Codie's press release announcing the mid-2008 launch of its latest racing title, Chief Designer Ralph Fulton has this to say: "GRID focuses on everything that happens between the start grid and the chequered flag: the drama, the rivalries, the aggression and the crashes. This is not a game about collecting cars or spending all of your time in the front-end tuning suspension settings or designing liveries. We want to make racing exciting again." It's an ostentatious boast, but this studio does have a history of innovative ideas, from the compromise-free against-the-clock focus of Colin McRae Rally to the narrative-heavy framework of TOCA Race Driver 2. GT5 will be grabbing the headlines, but I'm certain I'll prefer playing this.Rez HD (Q Entertainment/HexaDrive, Xbox Live Arcade)The Dreamcast classic gets a hi-def makeover for Xbox 360 but everything else about Tetsuya Mizuguchi's synesthesia-sporting rhythm shooter remains untouched. Imagine the beautiful cyberpunk visuals and pumping dance music on your 50-inch plasma screen and Dolby Digital home theatre set-up. Still playing games on a 20" CRT with mono speaker? Ah well, download it anyway.Starcraft II (Blizzard, PC, Mac)Over-shadowed now by the religion that is World of Warcraft, Starcraft was a key PC game of the nineties, making number seven in IGN's2005 list of the Top 100 Games of All-Time. The sequel, of course, promises a massively overhauled graphics engine and more integral multiplayer options courtesy of the Battle.net ranking system, but retains the original three races and the use of cinematic cut-scenes to drive the narrative. What we want though is massive armies of powerful, perfectly balanced alien units battling it out across the cosmos. Blizzard isn't likely to let us down.Super Smash Bros Brawl (Nintendo, Wii)The comedy fighting series comes to Wii with more star appearances than a BBC costume drama. As well as Nintendo faves like Mario, Samus and Zelda, we'll be knocking the stuffing out of Solid Snake and Sonic the Hedgehog. The latest Smash Bros iteration also includes online multiplayer and a more robust single-player mode in the form of side-scrolling adventure, "The Subspace Emissary" - a title surely nicked from the original Star Trek series.Street Fighter 4 (Capcom, PS3, Xbox 360)The first new Street Fighter title in ten years is more likely to be out next year to be honest, but what the heck. Producer Yoshinori Ono has told Edge and EGM readers to expect a highly tactical game, based more around anticipating your opponent's moves than pulling off extravagant chains and combos. The highly stylised visuals hinted at in theCapcom Gamers Day trailermay not be entirely practical, but a toned down 2D re-reading is expected. Apparently taking place between SF II and III, we can expect a nice mix of classic protagonists and newer faces.
It's only the 4th of Jan but already I'm reminiscing about the gaming Christmas just gone. I spent too much time on Mario Galaxy - nostalgia and sparkling graphics, is there a better festive game? - but that wasn't just due to the quality of Mario's latest adventure. Nope, you can blame the farce that was Xbox Live for that. Microsoft's online service - you know, the one we pay 40 quid a year for - has been broken for the entire Christmas break. And it still isn't fixed. Things areon the mendbut combine these problems with the similarlyfarcical Sensible World of Soccer launchand you have a service that has seen its excellent reputation dented.And the downtime was doubly disappointing - when Sensible World of Soccer finally arrived it was worth the wait. Despite a few issues - players can choose their opponent's team when playing online, connection issues with some unranked matches - Sensi plays like a dream. It looks good too. The "updated" graphics are a perfect example of how to bring a retro game up to date. Clearly we need aCompetition Proadaptor or some other joystick add-on as the Xbox pad really isn't up to the job. But for now I'm happy reliving the days - the data is based on the 96/97 version of Sensible World of Soccer - when Matt Le Tissier was a (Le)God amongst men. Xbox Live aside then, what did you play over Christmas?*Update -Microsoft are giving a free game to Live users
It's been almost a year and a half since Technology Guardian spoke to Tim Schafer about his then-untitled upcoming game at DoubleFine Productions (tinyurl.com/2w96dv). Only recently has he revealed it to gamers, after a lengthy (and silent) development cycle. The result is typically Schaferesque - eccentric, hilarious, and deeply rooted in nostalgia.After his last game, the Bafta-winning Psychonauts, sold poorly at retail, some suggested that Schafer's career was in doubt. He's glad to say this was never the case. "It's been really difficult keeping the game a secret," he sighs. "For one thing, we have been so excited about the idea, we just want to blab about it to everyone. For another, it takes so long to make these games; if you're silent until the end, people think you've gone out of business. They start off the interview asking, 'So, tell me, why have you decided to return to the games industry after all these years?' "Far from future Schafer games being in jeopardy, his new game is being published by Sierra Entertainment, itself a subsidiary of Vivendi Games, which has recently merged with Activision to form Activision Blizzard, now the world's largest videogame publisher. Some would put the sudden interest down to Psychonauts' wave of popularity (and success with online distribution) following its retail failure. But there's also the universally appealing premise: Schafer's making a game about heavy metal, called Br&uuml;tal Legend."It's not just the music," he says, "but the lore and the imagery it creates. The lyrics and album covers of metal have been incredibly evocative and imaginative, but I don't think the filmed visuals have lived up to the potential. So I wanted to make the ultimate heavy metal fantasy world - demons, axes, hot rods, blood, guitars - and let the player dive in, as if they were living out their favourite metal song."Inspired by lifeSchafer's been a metal fan since his teens; he's been wanting to make a videogame about the topic since he began his career in games design. Life experiences and hobbies - rather than genres - seem to have inspired most of Schafer's oeuvre: anthropology studies lay behind Grim Fandango, his time at summer camp gave him the idea for Psychonauts and his love of Kurosawa helped him write Full Throttle's story. Does he see a pattern?"It always starts with inspiration," he admits. "Something that I can't get out of my head for years. Something that's not just a feeling or a gimmick, but the foundation for a whole world. Like the Land of the Dead in Grim Fandango - it's got a visual look, and characters and a whole set of rules. That's something you can really build a game around."The game Schafer is building his heavy metal fantasy around is third-person action &agrave; la Sony's ultra-camp hit, God of War. Back during Psychonauts' development, Schafer was constantly extolling the virtues of the platformer genre, but it seems his tastes have shifted. He disagrees. "You know," he says, "I like any good game. I don't care what the genre is. God of War was really well made, and fun to play. I don't know if that means I like that genre of game specifically. I just enjoyed playing that game. Before Final Fantasy VII, I would have told you that I had zero interest in RPGs with turn-based combat. But that game was so well done, I didn't care what genre it was. Any genre can be done poorly or done well."And Schafer wants to do third-person action as well as he can; he believes the key to doing that is creating a compelling player-character. "I want to create a really multi-faceted character who hits a lot of different notes in the game, not just, 'Rargh! I kill you!' And I don't mean our main characters cries or anything. Well, maybe a little. Who knows? I just mean he has a lot of life to him. And Jack Black [who voices the player character] has helped with that a lot. He really breathes life into Eddie Riggs."Eddie Riggs, Schafer reveals, is an axe-and-magical-electric-guitar-wielding roadie. "He's pulled back in time by an ancient curse," Schafer elaborates, "and finds himself in a barbaric world, where humanity is enslaved by a demonic overlord. A small group of humans, led by the charismatic Lars Halford and his sister Lita, are trying to fight against the demons. But Lars is not so good with practical matters, and his army has gone nowhere."They turn to Eddie for help, and ask him to save them with his knowledge of modern warfare. Unfortunately, he has none. But he does know how to put a band together, and how to keep it organised and how to take it on the road. And with Lars and Lita as his rock stars, he starts building a new band - an army of headbangers - and takes them on a tour of destruction across the land. And it's also a love story."Some might fear that a lack of heavy metal indoctrination will make it difficult to get to grips with Br&uuml;tal Legend's humour, but Schafer is confident this won't be a problem. "People might not like the game," he concedes, "but only if they hate cars and music and action and comedy and coolness and fun times. The game's humour comes from the characters and the situations, not from knowing how many fingers Tony Iommi is missing. But if you do know about Tony Iommi's fingers, there will be special jokes just for you."All-star castThat said, Schafer's definitely aiming for Br&uuml;tal Legend to be an authentic heavy metal experience - he's recruited genre luminaries Ronnie James Dio, Lars Halford and Lemmy for voice-acting duties. How did he go about getting them involved? "We just called them up!" he laughs. "Some of them were wary at first - I think they get a lot of dubious offers - but once we showed them the art for the game and told them what it was about, they signed up. I think they could tell that the project was coming from a love of metal, and that in this game, they were going to be gods. Oh, and also we paid them a lot. But they've all been super-nice guys. They're also really good at performing. They're very used to creating a character on stage, because the music they sing is so narrative and often fantasy-based. And they have amazing control of their voices. As soon as Rob Halford stepped up to the mic and asked, 'What octave would you like this in?' I knew that it was going to be good."The extra funds from the Sierra deal have also allowed Schafer to create a graphics engine rivalling the latest console generation and PC hardware. "It is a spectacular thing of beauty," he declares. "We started from scratch last time, but back then we had only one poor overworked programmer. This time we started with about 16 engineers on staff. That made a big difference in the power of our engine."Hopefully, too, the extra backing will make a significant difference when Br&uuml;tal Legend hits shelves. Botched marketing and a premise (arguably) inaccessible to the mainstream prevented Psychonauts from receiving the early recognition it deserved. Now, Schafer has a chance to reap long-deserved commercial rewards for his innovative approaches to game design. Let's just hope he doesn't take so long to talk about it next time.
Hanging on the GuardianI am having problems with the Guardian web site. The pages are slow to load and sometimes cause my computer to restart without any warning. My PC hangs while "waiting for ml.2mdn.net" to load.Hugh GemmellJS:Guardian Unlimited has its own help desk, which you can contact by emailinguserhelp@guardian.co.uk. They like queries that include a full description of the problem, the web address of the page that's a problem, the date and time (because the site changes continuously), and the type and version number of your browser and operating system. They usually have the answer before I'm even asked the question.In this case, however, I can tell you that 2mdn.net is one of DoubleClick's advertising servers (the DoubleClick that is being taken over by Google). The problem seems to have been that the ad server was down for a time over the Christmas holiday. Usually ad servers are not down for long, because while they are, the provider is losing money.If you have any problems reaching a website, it's usually worth trying another route. Two that I use areIDzap.com, the free version of an anonymous surfing service, and Loband (loband.org). With IDzap, I'm going to websites via a proxy server with cookies and JavaScript blocked and other information hidden. This prevents the site from trying to do anything too clever, which is a frequent cause of screwups. For some alternative anonymous surfing services, seetinyurl.com/4gros. Loband just strips out everything - colours, images, Flash and other rubbish - reducing graphical web pages to plain text.Too many startupsYou mentioned that Mike Clayton's slow-running laptop might be a result of "too many programs loading at start up". I have programs that I rarely use - like QuickTime or 4oD - which load by  themselves and sit in the taskbar doing nothing. How do I view a list of programs, and ultimately stop them doing it?Daniel WhelanJS:This is a frequently asked question. I've mentioned Startup Inspector for Windows (windowsstartup.com/startupinspector.php) a few times. Alternatives to that include NirSoft's StartupRun (nirsoft.net/utils/strun.html) and Mike Lin's Startup Control Panel (mlin.net/StartupCPL.shtml). Windows Vista has a built-in startup manager. Go to the Control Panel and run the applet for Performance Information and Tools.It's also worth downloading Sysinternals' Process Explorer (which you can get fromtinyurl.com/ys2zq2): Microsoft liked it so much it bought the company. Process Explorer provides a much better guide to what's running in the background than the Windows Task Manager, and lets you terminate ones you don't want.Incidentally, with reference to Channel 4's 4oD video on demand service, it is not sitting in the taskbar doing nothing. It is a peer-to-peer file-sharing program that consumes processor cycles and internet bandwidth.Even if you close 4oD on the taskbar, the Kservice.exe file-sharing program will keep on running. The BBC and Sky also use the same Kontiki peer-to-peer system, which is now owned by VeriSign.All-in-oneI shall shortly retire. Could you recommend a single box, not the size of a bus, which will provide me with photocopying, scanning and printing?Pete CuthbertJS:I can't, but PC Pro magazine says the Canon Pixma MP610 (&pound;110.30) is "the best-designed all-in-one we've tested". There's also the lower-resolution Pixma MP220 (&pound;57.59), which is smaller, lighter, slower and cheaper. These are home-user inkjet machines: it's assumed you will value their ability to print colour snapshots. If you want something more like you have in the office, look at the Brother MFC7820N Laser Multifunction Centre (&pound;228.14), which is a compact SoHo (small office/home office) product. If you don't need colour, look at the Canon MF3220 All in One Mono (&pound;107.85) and similar machines. All prices are quoted from Amazon.co.uk. High-street stores stock alternatives from Epson and HP. Note: I haven't used any of these myself, so comments are particularly welcome.Backchat&middot; John Palmer wanted to remove pops and clicks from his music files. Ken Vines says: "Magix Audio Cleaning Lab is a good program for dealing with all sorts of audio input, including vinyl. It's up to version 12, I think, but 10 and 11 (which I use) seem perfectly adequate." Brian Gotheridge recommends the same program.&middot; Bob Sutton complained about his slow-speed Virgin broadband. Mike Mura says: "The Terayon cable modem that he probably got with NTL no longer works properly and needs to be replaced by new kit from Virgin." With a new modem, he's gone from 4kbps to approaching 4Mbps. There's also a discussion on the Ask Jack blog (tinyurl.com/yq9d9b).&middot; Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
You can save yourself a lot of time and trouble over the next five years, and it won't make your brain hurt. The only things that you will need are a plastic storage box, a notebook, a pen and some sticky labels.Perhaps you got a new PC for Christmas, or you are thinking of picking one up in the January sales. This is the ideal time to give it some physical storage, such as a proper storage box, a plastic briefcase or, at worst, an upper-class carrier bag.Every PC comes with a certain amount of paperwork, including receipts and manuals, and perhaps a few discs. You have nowhere to put this stuff, and when you need it - months or years later - you won't be able to find it. The solution is to put everything to do with a particular PC in its own box.The first things to add are rescue and recovery discs, if you have to make these yourself. Later, if you increase the memory or install software or buy a new graphics card, all the bits go into the same box. If the hard drive fails, or whatever, you should be able to grab the box and reinstall everything without spending two days on the phone or in the loft.I started to do this out of necessity, when we got to the point of having three or four desktop PCs and three notebooks at home. We needed a way to keep items for different machines separate. However, the system works perfectly well in the unlikely event that you only have one.Where I went slightly wrong was in using yellow plastic briefcases for storage. I wanted something that would easily slide under a computer desk or sofa, and these worked well. The drawback is that they fill up quicker than I thought.The notebook and pen are for keeping notes - a logbook, basically. Initially, my idea was to keep track of when I started using a machine, and when I made major changes. I also log any problems, such as software and hardware failures. I keep a note of when I phoned for support, the phone number, who answered the call and the result. It's also a handy place to write down software keys and password reminders. If you're lucky, you'll never need them, but having them to hand can save hours of hunting around.When I next start a notebook, I'll time how long it takes to close down and restart the machine. I might even run a few benchmarks, so I can compare speeds later. A PC slowing down often indicates that something is wrong.The sticky labels are for labelling things. Obviously. The main things I label are plugs and cables. The plugs just get a bold sticky that says PC, MON (monitor), PRN (printer), USB (hub), DSL (router), EHD (external hard drive), SPK (speakers) or whatever. You'll thank me next time you're on your hands and knees under a desk trying to find the right plug on a multi-way adaptor.Labelling isn't restricted to personal computing, though. If the back of your TV or hi-fi is anything like mine, each system has sprouted another half-dozen mains plugs.Adaptors and chargers are also good candidates for labelling. You probably have a dozen or more, accumulated with various tape recorders, portable CD players, MP3 players, mobile phones and other gadgets. You'll probably have forgotten what most of them were for long before you get around to throwing them out.January is traditionally the time for turning over a new leaf, giving up vices, taking more exercise and so on. This isn't in the same league, but it makes you feel virtuous, and even a modest effort tends to pay off in the long run.
The growing cold war with Russia has a new front besides oil fields and undersea territorial claims: the internet. Russia's government is pushing for greater control over the Russian-language part of the net - and its aim seems to be to create a web that operates in Cyrillic, completely independent from the wider web.The problem for Russia is that its top-level domain - with the ASCII suffix .ru - translates into Cyrillic as .py, the domain name of Paraguay. That could pose security problems for Russian users. Kim Davies, who controls the domain names at the international domain naming agency Icann told the Guardian: "Russia has a second top level domain name of .ru in Ascii code, but is pushing for .rf in Cyrillic."Wolfgang Kleinwachter, special adviser to the chairman of the Internet Governance Forum, says: "The proposal for 'Russian internet' would look at how they can communicate better inside the country. The internationalised domain name gives them an opportunity to do things which are now being tested in China, where they are currently using Chinese characters for three top-level domains: .net, .com and .cn."A tale of two serversThe key is whether Russian international domain names would use their own root servers - which decide where to route your internet requests - independent of the existing internet root servers which are mainly based in the US.Kleinwachter thinks that the worst-case scenario would mean everyone would have to register a domain name using the .rf top level domain in Cyrillic. "Then [Russia] would have their own root and it's much easier to control the top-level domain than hundreds of thousands of secondary level domains."That would, arguably, mean Russians are safe from Paraguayan phishing - but it would also give the Russian government more control of the net and leave Russian citizens isolated from the international community. Davies explains that Russian Cyrillic keyboards make it difficult for Russian users to search for domain names using the roman letters of Ascii code. Without a bridge to coordinate it with Ascii code, a Russian-language internet would be cut off from the global net.China's citizens could similarly become isolated from international opinion. "The Chinese have the option now to keep the domain .cn in Ascii code or to cut it." Kleinwachter says. "If they cut it then they have an opportunity to build something like a bridge which would link the Chinese internet to the Ascii internet. The Russians, like the Chinese, discussed this option. My impression is that the Russian Foreign Ministry is much more open to such an option than [China's] Ministry of Economic Development and Trade. Another way would be to give every citizen a fixed IP address, which would go with you wherever you approach the internet."Setting up a new root server would not be expensive, Davies says, but would cause "technical issues". Guillaume Lovet, head of the threat response team at security company Fortinet, explains: "If it's about re-implementing internet protocols, it would be like installing new, additional firmware on our home router, and new drivers on each network-enabled computer at home. If it's about rebuilding everything from scratch, it is comparable to throwing everything in the bin."International isolationDavies says the key downside would be how much the Russians stand to lose out on the global operability of the web unless bridges are built with the Ascii-dominated global internet. "Russians estimate that 90% of the communication will be within Russia and just 10% will go outside," says Kleinwachter. But it's that 10% which would feel the real difference.Kleinwachter says the speculation is that people will need a password authorised by government agencies to use the global internet. The Kremlin therefore would be able to control what communication the individual is having with the rest of the world. The government says that would help it monitor cybercrime.Lovet is more sceptical. "Russia has a very strong academic tradition of technical universities, which form very sharp and competent computer scientists. At the same time, the average income per head is extremely low. This combination creates an explosive cocktail. Any attempt to confine Russian hackers inside some kind of Russian cyberspace is bound to fail."Other security experts go even further. "This will put a wall between cybercriminals and their victims," says Jose Nazario, from Arbor, who works to protect governments and corporations from cyber attacks emanating from Russia. "It makes it very difficult to track Russian cybercrime. Security experts are just starting to get a picture of their methods, and this will slow us down dramatically. It is also an escalation of tension between Putin's Russia and the west."
While 2007 was undeniably exciting, 2008 will be the big one. Wii is in popularity overdrive, fending off questions concerning its longevity and scope; Xbox 360 is clinging on with generous developer support in the US; PS3 is clambering out of its ruinously expensive infanthood. The hardware cycle is stabilising, shifting the battlegrounds to software and inter-publisher rivalries. So what are the big questions this year?Will Spore be any good?The latest offering from genius Will Wright has appeared on most "Games of 2008" lists. But the evolution of life from the cellular level doesn't immediately sound like mainstream manna. The success, or otherwise, of this mammoth project could decide the intellectual fate of gaming in the high-definition era.Will user-generated content take off?The big players are betting on it. Sony has its do-it-yourself platformer LittleBigPlanet out this year and there's SingStar's YouTube-style video upload feature. Gamers are also now creating their own maps for the PS3 version of Unreal Tournament 3.Who will EA buy?Industry pundits expect plenty of consolidation action in 2008. EA is perennially rumoured to be on the verge of forking out for a rival, with Ubisoft in the frame last year. Meanwhile, UK publisher SCi, owner of the Tomb Raider series, fended off takeover interest from a number of unnamed suitors last autumn. Many predict that traditional media conglomerates will seek to invest in the games industry to make up for falling DVD sales - last year's purchase of UK developer Traveller's Tales by Warner Bros might herald a new era of TV and movie bigwigs lolloping in with wads of cash.Can sequels save PlayStation 3?Metal Gear Solid 4 and Gran Turismo 5 will be enormously influential in Sony's fortunes this year. We may also see Final Fantasy XIII, Killzone 2, Motorstorm 2 and Resistance: Fall of Man 2 playing a part. For all the company's talk of innovation and individuality, it could be a string of familiar names that finally bails out the PlayStation brand.Will Manhunt 2 change videogames forever?The conflict over the BBFC's decision not to grant Manhunt 2 an age rating may well explode in 2008. The board has now gained permission to challenge the decision of the Video Appeals Commission to overturn the ban - next stop: the High Court. So could a Manhunt 2 victory lead to an unregulated adult videogame industry? Not with two separate government-sanctioned studies into videogame culture on the way, providing a more robust touchstone for the future of game violence.
All of Britain, pleaseWhile I pass on mild congratulations for including two cities in Scotland (Edinburgh and Glasgow) and Wales (Cardiff and Swansea), there wasn't even a nod towards Northern Ireland's blogging community (aggregated atnorthernirishblogs.com) including myself (Mapping Britain's blogosphere, December 20). Next time someone commissions an article about the UK, include all the nations and regions - not just the ones that can read the Guardian in full colour (the old Portadown press means that NI readers get greyscale pictures.)Alan Meban,Belfast&middot; In case nobody's pointed it out yet, Norwich University (norwich.edu) is in Vermont, USA.Simon Barne,Norwich[Noted and corrected - Tech.Ed]&middot; If you want to understand the British blogosphere - ask someone who's actually in it.nakedblog.comHotel FacebookYou can leave Facebook, but it isn't easy (Reaad Me First, December 20). I got Facebook to delete my account after a bit of a struggle, and the UK Information Commissioner's Office is investigating my complaint against Facebook. The full story is atblogs.sun.com/alanbur.Alan Burlison,Glossop&middot; If you don't want anyone to know every detail about you, then don't put your details out on a public forum. Targeted ads are big money. If you provide your personal info for free, then the ad revenue is coming in with minimal expense. If you're promiscuous with your info, don't expect to not be harassed.lostinsweden.comFeeling quizzicalThe default option in ZIP (Geek quiz, December 20) is to not use the strong AES encryption. The default is to use the old ZIP 2.0 encryption standard which is badly compromised. Do we know that the civil servant chose AES, or did they just go with the default?John Graham-Cumming,by email&middot; Surely you could have made your Christmas quiz a bit more interactive - I gave up on the print version. But your online version is exactly the same ... Surely it's not that complicated to make it a bit more web 2.0-ish. Especially when you're the technology part of the newspaper.Nigel Kellaway,Enfield, MiddlesexSeek and ye shall find[One] factor that could come into play would be if Google tweaked its algorithm in a way which might reverse Wikipedia's dominance of the search results (Newly Asked Questions, December 20). It could do this simply by increasing the importance of links to an actual page rather than to a domain.altogetherdigital.comLeopard: still spottyRegarding the claim that a bad installation of Leopard must be down to bad luck or a failure "to do basic housekeeping and troubleshooting" (Letters, December 20): I did an erase and install on my three-month old iMac and still had endless problems, all due to Leopard, not third-party software or anything like that. And as for troubleshooting - it should work out of the box! I have since reinstalled Tiger and the computer is admittedly missing a few cosmetic tweaks but at least it works properly now.Paul Moore,Mount Dora, FloridaPink with angerI found the picture of a woman with a pink keyboard and a shopping button to be deeply offensive ("How secure are your online passwords?", online, December 6). Women are not technology and password idiots. Well, not any more than men. I am sick of seeing outdated stereotypes like this.Miriam Breslauer,Farmington, Missouri&middot; Read all this week's letters and blogs atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
Although Apple's iPhone stole the limelight last year with its elegant GUI, the stalwart BlackBerry soldiered on, with its maker, RIM, continuing to refine and tweak the device that's loved and hated in equal measure.The latest incarnation of the Pearl, the 8120, retains the pocket-friendly form of the 8100 and the trackball device that gives it its name, but adds a couple of refinements, including a better (2.0 megapixels) camera, a standard 3.5mm headphone jack, video recording, better battery life and Wi-Fi connectivity - so you can avoid GPRS data charges if you're in a hotspot. And it comes in a smart blue or funky red, as well as the more corporate "titanium".All models of the BlackBerry come with assorted apps, including a clunky web browser, rudimentary PDA functions and an IM client. You can add myriad apps from the internet, including one for Facebook addicts. But push email remains the BlackBerry's killer app, and while the interface can only be described as utilitarian, it does what it says on the tin very well. You can set up any number of corporate, POP3 or IMAP accounts, which deliver both into separate inboxes or one that collects all your email and SMS messages in one place.Text input on the Pearl takes a little getting used to, as it has a Qwerty keyboard which places two letters on each key. But once I'd got used to it, I found it faster and more accurate, and indeed struggled a bit with my Sony Ericsson's old-school keypad.For those who prefer a more traditional Qwerty keyboard, the BlackBerry Curve is perhaps the device for you. It takes the original chunky BlackBerry form and offers one or two additions to the Pearl, including GPS, which, combined with a mapping application (if you get the Curve on Vodafone, there's one bundled with the device) makes it a very useful, multifunctional piece of kit. Unfortunately GPS does eat battery power, so remember to quit out of the application when you're done.The downsides of any BlackBerry device are the inelegant software used to sync it to your own PC (and the Mac option isn't much better), and the fact that compared to the iPhone - and also when compared to the work being done by Microsoft on its Windows Mobile operating system, which offers similar functionality - the BlackBerry looks distinctly corporate rather than cool. But it still remains the mobile device of choice for many, and deservedly so.Pros:Push email; easy text entryCons:Poor battery life if used with GPS; utilitarian interface; clunky bundled browsereu.blackberry.com
Get fit by watching more TVDidn't manage to get a Wii for Christmas? Then sit back and enjoy this marvellously satirical look at "Wii Fit", the fitness "game" that makes real exercise videos look like hard work.tinyurl.com/3caw2v"What are you, retarded?"Bill Gates sends himself up with Napoleon Dynamite star Jon Heder, in the 2005 version of his annual spoof for Microsoft's developers. Steve Jobs could never do this. We miss Bill already...tinyurl.com/2ak2deDuke Nukem When? Never?To fans, a Duke Nukem Forever teaser isn't advertising - it's torture, as it's now 10 years overdue. (Ta, matthewbarr.)tinyurl.com/2bsuzk&middot; Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Last year saw some spectacular innovations. But for me the most interesting event wasn't how social networks such as Facebook put people in touch with like-minded people around the world, nor the provision of free (global) video calls through Skype, nor even being able to organise your own television channel from a mobile phone (Kyte).The most memorable moment for me personally in 2007 was walking into an engineering laboratory at University College London, where a team led by Anthony Steed has constructed a CAVE (Cave Automatic Virtual Environment). This is a trademark of the University of Illinois, which pioneered this sort of thing years ago, based on Plato's allegory about a cave (tinyurl.com/yq7a98). It is one of about 200 around the world, half of them run by corporations.It is an ordinary-sized room with three walls, the fourth being left open. After putting on special spectacles (wired to a computer) I entered the room and saw a statue that might have been in the British Museum. But it wasn't a real statue, nor a hologram, but a three-dimensional recreation of one that really did look real. I could walk most, but not all the way, around it as if it were in real life. The only thing that gave it away was that if I touched it with my finger there was nothing there, though apparently they may soon be able to program the computer so it prompts a reaction in you as if you had touched a hard surface. Wow.Soon after the scene changed to a room in which I appeared to walk between and around chairs and tables as if they were there, though the resolution wasn't quite as fine compared to the statue. There was a door open at the other end leading to what appeared to be a swimming pool. As I got nearer, it looked empty and I was staring over a small precipice, which started to make me feel nervous and a bit dizzy (it has the same effect on Anthony Steed, even though he knows how it works). If I had walked any further on I would simply have bumped my head against the real wall of the Cave.But what use is all this? The next scenario gave a hint when the far side of the room became a boardroom seemingly stretching three or four yards out into the distance with life-sized representations of people around the table programmed to make all sorts of gestures such as dozing off if the conversation became boring or leaving the room if you got uncomfortably close to them. At the moment they are governed by computer programs, but in the future they could be manipulated by real people, maybe situated elsewhere in the world controlling lifelike representations of themselves. Suddenly the explosion of virtual worlds like Second Life and its numerous successors - all confined to computer screens - starts to look like yesterday's technology.The UCL team is applying these techniques to current problems such as dealing with phobias, but goodness knows where it will lead in the future. As a bonus at the end, I was shown an application that has already happened. On three sides of the wall (so slightly distorted) they conjured up a huge yacht at sea just coming into a berth. When it stopped I was led into it and given a tour of its many decks, including swimming pools, a gymnasium and an entire deck reserved for the guest of the moment. This was a three-dimensional representation of a yacht that Roman Abramovich was thinking of buying but didn't.It is not so fanciful to imagine that at some stage in the future, as technology improves and costs plummet, ordinary homes could have a cave doing all sorts of things from watching a truly immersive film to having a dinner party with relatives scattered around the word. Each would have to provide their own food and drink, but the experience and the conversation could be eerily real. I am already wondering what surprises are left for 2008.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Concerned over libellous flaming and the ease with which children can access pornography online, Japan's communications ministry is suggesting the government starts regulating the internet by 2010.A new bill seeks to govern "influential widely read news-related sites as newspapers and broadcasting are now regulated". Popular blogs and other sites such as YouTube would come under more vague "minimum regulations" to guard against illegal and harmful content.What these regulations will entail is ambiguously outlined in a government "Final Report on a Comprehensive Legal System for Communications and Broadcasting", which does unequivocally suggest "there is a need for an active effort from the government ... as it is difficult for ISPs to individually make judgments regarding concrete harmfulness". Experts in the art of Japanese government circumlocution interpret this to foreshadow the introduction of filtering software to control what appears on the Japanese internet.Despite having freedom of information laws similar to the US, Japan's media is already heavily regulated and subject to much self-censorship. Given this traditional state of affairs, Japanese citizens, newly freed to publish comment on an unregulated internet, have been indulging in a riot of libellous slurs posted on forums. In a society generally aghast at confrontation, the anonymity of the internet is proving a potent draw.Some sites have caused so much uproar they have been forcibly closed and listed among those the government report labels "unacceptable and a harm to society." Chris Salzberg, editor of a Japanese blog-watch for Global Voices, explains how this has come about. "In contrast to popular depictions of Japanese as the 'humble giants of the web', posters in these forums are known for being ruthless in the extent to which they will chase people down for their perceived wrongdoing. Just a few weeks ago, a site [2ch, an anonymous board] created to allow users to pick out sites to flame and comment on them was shut down two days after going online, due to complaints from site owners flamed by an estimated 200,000 users."Japanese law is proving ineffectual against such sites. "Current laws have had only a limited effect on harmful postings on 2ch," says blogger Adam Richards. "One of the most popular websites in Japan and its founder has barely even responded to the many lawsuits against him."However, some in the Japanese blogosphere view the ministry's move to censorship as "outrageous". Critics of the proposed filtering note that such censorship would be in hands of the government alone, and that Tokyo does not intend to appoint an independent watchdog.Add Japan's traditional media, generally in favour of self-censorship, to an apathetic and apolitical population and it seems likely the bureaucrats will get their way.
The government has decided to remain in the business of producing and selling navigation information for shipping, but will not reveal how it reached that decision. A review into the future of the UK Hydrographic Office is to remain secret "because it contains a great deal of commercially sensitive information", the MoD said.Businesses in the geographical data market condemned the decision not to publish the review, which concluded that UKHO should remain a government-owned trading fund. Locus, a trade association representing businesses dependent on public sector data, said that when running trading funds as a business "the government should be prepared to give more detailed justification for its strategic actions in the same way as would be expected from any public company".It also accused the Ministry of Defence of ignoring the findings of recent studies by the government's competition watchdog and specialist advisers. The decision to plump for the status quo also appears to preempt the findings of a Treasury study into the costs and benefits of trading funds. This is due to report later this month.Although the full review of UKHO remains under wraps, the published executive summary (tinyurl.com/2n66tr) reveals some of the difficulties the government faces in resolving the contradictions of operating in the knowledge economy.The UKHO, which has run as a trading fund since 1996, is successful: only 14% of its revenue comes from the government. Although moving into the digital world, the mainstay of its business remains paper navigation charts, which commercial ships must carry by law. This business will be under threat, however, when the UN's International Maritime Organisation mandates the use of digital navigation aids. A decision is expected around 2010.The review also notes a challenge from new regulations on the re-use of public sector data as "the government explores the potential for such information to be used to support wider economic growth".The review concludes that the government must remain in the navigation information business, and that a trading fund is the best way to run this without being a drain on the defence budget. However, in one important finding, it says that the Ministry of Defence should clarify the UKHO's "public task". The Free our Data campaign agrees. This would be the first step towards making unrefined maritime charting data available freely to other government bodies, academics and businesses - to the benefit of the knowledge economy, the marine environment and the safety of seafarers.Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:http://freeourdata.org.uk/blog/
If anyone thought there's no money to be made from internet content, the Writers Guild of America strike refutes that idea once and for all. Though there are many issues, perhaps the most important is the royalty-like system known as residuals. In the same way a print writer may receive additional payment when a book is reprinted, serialised in a magazine or translated into another language, a scriptwriter might receive payments if a TV show is resold on home video, DVD or via the internet.Or not. The studios want to define internet streaming video as "promotional", and not pay writers any share of the profits. Neither side would be so determined to prevail if there were not an immense sum in play. If there's anything these groups know about, it's when to try to get a piece of the action.The conflict is a stark measurement of how little the hype for "user-generated content" affects professional entertainment. Evangelists might argue they never seriously claimed professionals would be entirely supplanted. But the inability of the producers to use citizen-scabs for replacement material, and the interesting fact that such supposed competition is not even part of the studio's bluster, shows how content like this is not taken seriously as real product.Moreover, it's worth remembering that many tales of amateur success turn out to be marketing fabrications designed to support a fantasy that an ordinary person can somehow suddenly become a star. For the foreseeable future, copyrighted content, mediated through large distributors of some sort, is going to be a major business model. The fight (unitedhollywood.com) is over changes in the specifics of implementation.And there are fundamental structural matters at stake. Writer and blogger Mark Evanier, who has chronicled the strike strategy (tinyurl.com/26pou6), has said: "Delivery of entertainment via [the] internet is a new frontier. There are undoubtedly those who dream of settling that territory without unions and labour getting a real foothold."By contrast, in the view of too many new media pundits, the only acceptable type of collective action for workers is to form a kind of self-help support group, hopefully to better their individual value in the marketplace by improving their competitive position relative to others (and it's even better if they can then all be sold to a big company as a pool of customers for an industry of advice and services). The idea of collective bargaining, of labour forming an organisation to offset the power of the modern corporation, receives such disdain that it shows something revealing under a pseudo-populist mask, and which political interests are really being served.While some people may be unsympathetic to anyone associated with Hollywood, there's no reason to think of unions as necessarily restricted to blue-collar occupations. Notable white-collar unions represent teachers, nurses and air traffic controllers. Part of a longstanding ideological attack on the legitimacy of worker organising is to present it as only fit for low-status jobs - a snobbery tactic in class warfare.Events like this strike are the reality which is so different from grandiose projections based on an alleged nature of the internet. Those are castles in the sky built from packets in the ether. There's nothing about the internet or copyright law that intrinsically determines whether scriptwriters will receive a one-time pittance for their efforts or a liveable income stream. That's an economic arrangement far more determined by laws and social support for union action.And this shows the flaw in a certain viewpoint which argues that the internet has made many social structures obsolete. In fact, it's much more that old battles are going to be refought on new terrain. Thus, be suspicious of anyone who contends that collective defeat is technologically predestined, their recommended course of action is to surrender immediately, and everyone can only try to make the best personal deal possible under the circumstances. What perhaps is inevitable, internet-related or not, is that money always has propagandists.sethf.com/infothought/blog
A combination of a little technology, web smarts, boredom and immaturity can go a long way when they hit quick-trigger internet reflexes. Big Spring high school in central Pennsylvania was inundated with outraged emails and phone calls from internet users around the world starting on December 16, when a student posted a hoax to the image siteUploadgeek.com, from which it was picked up by the news aggregator Digg.The hoax was a letter (tinyurl.com/275vxw) purporting to punish the (unnamed) student with two hours in detention for using the Firefox browser (which the doctored letter called Foxfire.exe) despite two instructions to stop. The detention was real; the letter had been Photoshopped to change the offence. In reality the student was supposed to be working in Microsoft Word, not goofing off on the internet. Digg readers, however, assumed that he was being forced to use Internet Explorer. Hence the angry emails.The story got Slashdotted and its profile on Digg rose to 8,000. Visitors to the school's website rocketed from its normal 1,000 to 91,000 on Monday December 17. David Martin, the school's technical administrator, called in consultants so its network wouldn't crash.The harder problem was figuring out how to stop the rush of inflamed Firefox defenders. Martin realised it had to be answered fast, and drafted a statement for the school's site, posted an explanation to Digg and phoned Slashdot. Things calmed down. By Thursday, the site was back down to 6,000 visitors.Now the pupil and the school are working on what form his repentance should take. It's expected that it will not involve image editors.
It's a usage-tracking site, and you could worry if you don't want your usage of applications from Adobe, and Apple's iTunes Ministore, tracked. Omniture has been thrust unwillingly into the spotlight because a blogger noticed (tinyurl.com/34oxm8) that when you start up an Adobe Creative Suite 3 (CS3) application, it tries to contact what looks like an IP address on your network: 192.168.112.2O7.net.It's checking your local network, surely, to see that you're not running multiple copies of the same (legally acquired) software on your machines, isn't it? Microsoft Office does.Except ... that's not a zero at the end, it's a capital 'o'; and IP addresses don't have suffixes. What's going on? Omniture, that's what. To be specific, it's contacting 2o7.net, owned by the company which is a big web-usage-tracking company - or as it prefers, online business optimisation. So why is Omniture hiding its identity behind a local-seeming sort-of IP?John Nack, head of Photoshop at Adobe, was quick to repel the tin-foil-hatted invaders, insisting (attinyurl.com/2fes7r) that it was only used to log incoming traffic from the "welcome screens" in some Adobe products, from Adobe Bridge (which includes an embedded version of Opera's browser) and "various Adobe online resources" if the user requests them via a Help menu. But he then noticed (tinyurl.com/ysudps) that people seemed upset with the deceptive server name. Why not call it "adobestats.omniture.com"? Nack responded that "unfortunately, I don't know the answer ... I don't want software sneaking around behind my back any more than the next guy."This didn't answer the question of why the connection isn't more explicitly made to a server such as omniture.com, which would make it a lot clearer to everybody what was going on. Though Omniture had its own explanation of why it does this (attinyurl.com/ys8lob), the use of headlines like "Omniture Acts on Behalf of our Customers" (sic) doesn't clarify that you and I aren't its customers; companies like Adobe are. Thus the promise that "Omniture will not disclose such information to any third party, unless specifically and rightfully instructed to do so by the customer" is meaningless for the average surfer. If Omniture sees what you're doing, you're not one of its customers; you're just a data point giving up information such as what application you launched, when, and from what internet location.Omniture thus gave us all another glimpse of an issue that has grown in importance over the past year: how much of our privacy is being invaded without our consent. If Facebook does it with Beacon, and Adobe and Apple does it with Omniture, who else is doing it?Meanwhile, keep checking those outgoing internet queries. You never know - you may create the next internet firestorm.
Tech Weekly timeThe second Guardian Tech Weekly podcast is now online, looking forward to 2008; future editions will be online every Tuesday.guardian.co.uk/podcastsState of privacyPrivacy International has produced its annual report and a map of surveillance societies around the world.tinyurl.com/ywpp9yDell takes to TabletDell has finally launched its first  convertible Tablet PC, the Latitude XT.tinyurl.com/3y7yo9AOL kills NetscapeThe Netscape browser, once the web's biggest star, has finally been discontinued by AOL, which bought the company for $4.2bn.tinyurl.com/2fkdjoCrush ... On ObamaThe Obama Girl, Britney Boy and Nora the piano-playing cat were among YouTube's Top 10 videos for 2007.tinyurl.com/3a65pcGo to Yale, freeYale University has followed MIT in  providing Open Yale Courses free on  the web.open.yale.edu/coursesWindows never downIomega is shipping free Never Down software for its eSATA external hard drives. If your hard drive fails, you can boot from the backup.tinyurl.com/2ygkmxWe're ageing ...Over the past year (October 2006-07), the average age of the UK internet  population has risen from 35.7 to 37.9, according to Nielsen's research.tinyurl.com/27gv7u (doc)
Cranium KabookiiWii, &pound;29.99, cert 3+ Ubisoft, 3/5Kabookii offers a multiplayer Wii experience that challenges the brain rather than the body. Based on the Cranium boardgame series, an unlimited number of players can participate using just one Wiimote via turn-taking teams. Various activities in the Cranium spirit let you test your word, memory, general knowledge and artistic skills.Brief pre-challenge instructions direct you, then it's a race to accumulate the 24-point target. The Wiimote works well with all challenges, be it onscreen drawing, mimicking actions or simply hitting notes or spelling words. Plus the red-tinted goggles that let you see special onscreen coded clues are a laugh. Sadly however, you can often read these without the glasses. Combined with the players' need regularly to inform the game of their success or failure, the design flaws are apparent.More a game for special occasions than regular sessions, Kabookii is a civilised, fun gaming experience.Keri AllanTabula RasaPC, &pound;19.99 plus &pound;9 monthly subscription, cert 16+, NCsoft, 3/5Tabula Rasa is the latest entrant for massively multiplayer online role-playing games (MMORPG) genre. Developed by Richard Garriott, it's being pitched as something different. Combat requires a small amount of reflex and aim, rather than lining up moves in traditional MMORPG style. And unlike most MMORPGs , Tabula has more dynamic battlefields that give the illusion of a wider war. However, it isn't a huge leap forward.Choosing a sci-fi setting over fantasy is hardly pushing the envelope. And the core of the game still revolves around the standard kill/deliver/converse quests that make up every other MMORPG. But some interesting elements, such as the ability to experiment with character classes without penalty, mark Tabula Rasa out as one to watch as it develops over 2008.Greg HowsonSight TrainingDS, &pound;19.99, cert 3+  Namco/Nintendo, 3/5Nintendo's ceaseless quest to make us better people continues apace with this cheap and cheerful set of daily exercises designed to keep our eyes in shape. It is, of course, from a similar mould to Brain Training, although is a much more insubstantial offering.It contains two sets of exercises - Core Training, in which, for example, you'll have to reproduce numbers that quickly flash on the screen or identify the direction in which various capital-Cs face, and Sports Training, in which you play mini-games derived from the likes of volleyball, boxing and table tennis, before winding down with an eye-relaxation programme. All of which are designed to help visual acuity, peripheral vision or hand-eye coordination.Although far from an essential purchase like Brain Training, Sight Training will appeal to those who are worried about things like the ravages of sitting in front of a monitor all day.Steve Boxer
Blogger Robert Scoble has been expunged from Facebook (see Kevin's postbelow), but this time I don't think he has right on his side.It seems that Scoble was using some sort of automated script to get information on friends from Facebook -- what people who like idiot jargon phrases are calling the "social graph" -- but he didn't ask for my permission to automatically extract any of my details.There are plenty of civilised alternatives. He could scan my business card, if he kept it. He could ask me, in which case I'd email him an industry-standardvCardthat would load them into any standard address book. He could pick them up from one of the repositories such as Plaxo, which has my public details on file. (There's a primitive Business Cards app on Facebook, too.)There's also a simple way to get basic information, which appears to be within Facebook's terms of service: theFriendCSVapplication. This uses the Facebook interface to collect data from all your friends, convert it into a CSV file (which you can load into a database or spreadsheet) and email it to you. The developers say: "not only was this possible, but almost encouraged by Facebook, despite much of the discussion that the site is a 'walled garden'."The FriendCSV file includes only a limited amount of information -- name, sex, birthday, about me, location, home town, education, work, networks -- and users often leave some of these blank. So my question is:What is Scoble trying to capture, beyond these, and why?The FriendCSV data does not include email addresses or phone numbers: the email addresses are presented on Facebook in image form, to discourage spammers from harvesting them.When people put information on Facebook, they are agreeing to share it only with their friends and people who belong to the same networks. They didn't agree to let somebody else download it to their own database, let alone upload it to a different public site.Yes, Facebook data could still be "harvested" manually and mis-used, but your privacy is to some extent protected by the fact that it takes some effort. Most of us probably wouldn't now put the same information online in more vulnerable places, such as Usenet.If he's going further than FriendCSV and trying to retrieve other data automatically -- without Facebook's permission, and without the permission of the people involved -- then I wonder if Scoble is doing something worse than breaking the terms of service. Isn't he, at least in spirit, betraying his friends?Update: A post on Scobleizer saysFacebook lets me back in..., and Robert Scoble says he has posted avideo explanation.
