Chip choiceDo you think the new 45nm computer chips being launched by Intel and AMD next year will affect the price of laptops when they come on to the market? I don't want to spend &pound;500(ish) if it will be &pound;250 in a few months' time.Nikki HorrobinJS:For the past 30 years, there has always been a hot new processor on the way, making people wonder whether to wait. But there has never been less reason to bother. First, chip suppliers and PC manufacturers try not to change their "price points" - they just bring in the new stuff at the top of the range and let the older technology filter down. In the short term, the PC you want will still cost &pound;500 (or whatever), you will just get a bit more for the same money. Prices come down over the long term as people find the cheaper stuff does all they need.In any case, extra processor speed is unlikely to make any difference unless you habitually do processor-intensive tasks such as encoding video. If you already use a PC, even a crude guide such as the performance tab on the Windows Task Manager will show the processor is running at 1% to 5% utilisation most of the time. You will usually get better results by spending any extra money on more memory (ie, 2GB) or on faster graphics than on a faster processor. Fortunately there is a simple way to test the suitability of any machine for running Windows Vista: Microsoft has built in a test suite that gives a rating, the Windows Experience Index (tinyurl.com/35trpv). This gives ratings for the different components, so check the graphics score in particular. This is most likely to be the weakest link, especially on cheap notebooks.Bullguard or PC Guard?I am on Windows Vista and have downloaded Virgin Broadband PC Guard. It has advised me to uninstall Bullguard as this will clash. Which would be preferable to keep?Gordon A BrownJS:You shouldn't have two security suites running at the same time, so one has to go. I assume Virgin Broadband PC Guard is a version of Radialpoint's suite (tinyurl.com/2fwkr5) since Virgin is listed as a customer, but I can't find any independent reviews of the software. The only thing I can see in its favour is that it's free. Bullguard is a commercial package and has been widely reviewed, although not always favourably, and the bought-in components may be subject to change. On balance, Bullguard is probably the better bet, because of its BitDefender anti-virus software, and I'd certainly go for Bullguard on a portable. However, you can still get better results by choosing separate programs than by buying a security suite.Slow VirginI pay &pound;24.99 a month for 8Mbps broadband from Virgin. It is unbelievably slow. A pal sent me an 8MB attachment and it took nearly an hour to download. I've asked for help, but had no reply to my email.Bob SuttonJS:First, download new anti-virus and anti-spyware programs such as the free ones from AVG. Disconnect your PC, restart in Safe Mode, then run both programs. Second, turn off all file-sharing programs and reboot your router. Go to PC Pitstop (pcpitstop.com) and run the Full Tests from the link on the left, under Tests and Scans. This will check your PC's performance, including (roughly) broadband speed, and compare it with similar machines. (BT also has a broadband performance tester if you type in your broadband phone number atspeedtester.bt.com.) A third test is to try another PC on the same line: perhaps a friend could bring round a laptop? By now you should be sure if it's Virgin's fault, so you can call its broadband technical support team on 0906 212 1111 and pay 25p a minute. You probably won't get anywhere because there is no real guarantee of the speed of the service. But perhaps you could downgrade to a slower, cheaper package or think about moving to another supplier.Help with LinuxCan you, or any of your readers, recommend a site that gives simple instructions on using Linux. I installed it on my laptop six months ago and, despite repeated attempts, I have failed miserably to install any programs at all (so can only use the pre-installed stuff). I've read several "easy to follow" (yeah, right) pages, but none made any sense.Paul MannJS:Your experience might well be common, but I suspect many ordinary users just try a Live CD (which doesn't require installation) then give up. Part of the problem is that Linux comes in dozens of different versions that may work in different ways, and different people install different desktops (usually KDE or Gnome) and applications, so it's hard to produce a universal guide. Another part of the problem is that most Linux experts don't have a clue about writing for real newbies who only know Windows. In theory, your best bet is Ubuntu: this is the current bandwagon, it's most likely to attract other newbies and therefore most likely to attract support. However, I don't know of a good guide for switchers. There is a Linux Newbie Guide (linuxnewbieguide.org), which has a stab at explaining how to install software using one of the graphical front ends. Does anyone know a better way?Backchat&middot; David Lewis wanted a phone for an older person. Jonathon White says: "As well as the Emporia Life, the RNIB (rnib.org.uk/shop) also sells other big button mobile phones, such as the Easy5 (&pound;116.33) and the EasyUse (&pound;139.99). I bought my parents a Motorola F3 for under &pound;20 (including &pound;10 call time), so it isn't always an expensive solution."&middot; Richard Thorn was in "MiniDisc hell" with a Sony NetMD player. Several readers confirmed that the Hi-MD system solved the problem and most suggested the Sony MZ-RH1. Patrick Taylor says: "SonicStage 3.4 uploads an hour of Hi-SP recording in less than six minutes on my system. (Hi-LP uploads much faster of course.) It will do multiple uploads of own recorded material, unlike some earlier versions of SonicStage." The Hi-SP and Hi-LP formats use Sony's Atrac encoding system.
Videogamers are now being paid to kill. At least, virtually. Over the past 12 months a series of over-18s servers have launched that pay a player for every kill they make, while putting a price on every death.The prospect of making money from playing videogames makes online poker seem as old-fashioned as its physical equivalent and, as game developers search for new ways of making money, could potentially be huge.Although attracting gamers from around the world, the servers are all mainly based in the UK where they are exempt from the regulations of the 2005 Gambling Act - being categorised as skill-based as opposed to chance.Although free from regulation, this has also given the companies taking the first steps a problem with trust. Instinctively, hardcore PC gamers do not trust each other. The closest you can get to being complimented on your skills in an online game is being accused of "hax", or hacking.One semi-professional gamer who played Tournament.com for several months stated this as the reason that he stopped playing on their servers: he suspected other players had installed third party programs."It would take more than a month before they actually caught a cheater who ended up raking thousands of dollars from other gamblers," he claimed.While this piece was being written the staff of Valve-licensed and Norwich-based Tournament.com learned that they were all being made redundant. The elite players had switched on their guns' safety and wandered off to pastures new.They won't find a home with London based Kwari (kwari.com), which has taken a different approach and developed its own first person shooter. Having made the game means the company is in a better position to prevent cheating, but says it's not interested in dealing with pro gamers.Instead it seeks casual players who normally use online poker sites. It wants people to play the game for no more than an hour two times a week and will put a cap on the amount a user can spend a month unless they have been vetted as suitable for their high-stakes tournament.No one knows who they are playing against and games are randomly generated to prevent elite teams having an advantage. Community manager Sam Bennett was keen to stress that this meant anyone could win a lot of money, whatever their skill.It seems likely that the big games companies will be watching closely to see if Kwari succeeds or goes the way of Tournament.com. As soon as gaming for money becomes acceptable and wholesome you can be sure that EA and the big boys will swoop in, start doing the same thing with a bigger budget and change the shape of online gaming entirely.
Last Sunday, in Orange County's John Wayne Airport, I was sandwiched between a rack of untouched LA Galaxy jerseys and a host of Arnold Schwarzenegger-inspired "The Governator" merchandise, reading The Guide to Psycho Fan Behaviour. When I'd initially picked it up, I'd hoped to marvel at techniques used to get around guard dogs or to break restraining orders. Instead, I learned how to get my placard read on TV during half-time at an American football game. The ESPN-published handbook outlined all kinds of silly behaviour which, upon further reflection, wasn't too far off the culture I've been watching for almost a decade: the games industry.In a book dedicated to psycho game fans, there'd be centrefolds of game conference attendees gurning at real-life Lara Crofts rather than big-bellied, beer-guzzling good ol' boys manhandling the Dallas Cowboy Cheerleaders. The ABC of Body Paint section would be replaced by a series of Cosplay Tips for games conventions and fan fairs: "Attaching Pointy Ears" for role players; "Making a Replica BFG" for first person shooter fans. There'd be a full-colour gallery of tattoos, but rather than emblems of sporting glory, they'd celebrate interactive iconography, including a dedicated section for Half-Life psychos who seem particularly keen to put inked needle to skin.And instead of the How to Tear Down a Goal Post chapter, I'd include a list of famous hacks, from the classic "Aleks Is Cool" script on the Sinclair Spectrum to the coding breakthrough that made 2006's Grand Theft Auto Hot Coffee scandal possible. There'd be a glossary of trash-talking terms and exercises inviting readers to imagine situations in which they might use the phrases.And for the games geek with romantic intentions, The Half-time Marriage Proposal would be replaced with a series of suggestions for gaming-related overtures across the lifetime of the relationship. When to introduce the hobby (not too early or you might scare him/her off), how to pop the question (perhaps you could send a note to your loved one during a game of Animal Crossing?), planning the big day (would you like your cake to represent a game console, a game character or a game scene?) and entertainment on the night (multiplayer arcade games go down well, or you might want to get in touch with one of several bands offering game-related tunes) to baby names. Yes, baby names.If sports fans can get a dedicated 250-page book celebrating the extremes of their culture, computer gamers should too. I'm currently seeking a publisher with a penchant for the freakish. If all goes well, it should be in gamers' stockings in time for the release of the PS4.
It looks that way, from Hewlett-Packard's latest financial results, which showed sales up by 15% to $28.3bn (&pound;13.7bn) - almost $1bn more than expected. This perked up shares and therefore Wall Street analysts to the point where one headline proclaimed: How Hewlett-Packard Saved The World (tinyurl.com/34e826).The PC industry has seemed somewhat depressed this year, partly because of the lacklustre performance of Microsoft's Windows Vista. In that context, the performance of HP's Personal Systems Group - the world's largest PC supplier - caught the eye. It shipped 31% more PCs and brought in 30% more revenues, reaching $10.1bn.And what used to be a break even business made $589m in profit. HP was no doubt helped by back-to-school sales of notebook PCs, which grew by 49%. It also did well in "emerging markets," with sales in China growing by 100%. This is now HP's third-largest market. It may not be long before it's the largest.Other PC companies also seem to be doing well. According to IDC researchers, PC sales in EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) grew by 21.7% in the last quarter, with HP's share growing by 36.4% in units. Acer did even better, with its European sales growing by 54.2%, putting it ahead of Dell.Gartner researchers produced similar figures. In the global market, Gartner reckons HP's PC sales grew by 33.1% to 12.8m units, while Acer's grew by 58% to 5.5m units. Dell was in second place, with sales growing by 3.5% to 9.9m units.Overall, the PC industry shipped either 68.5m (IDC) or 66.9m (Gartner) machines in the quarter - roughly three quarters of a million per day. Did someone say "recession"? Well, US sales grew by less than 5%, which tends to make Wall Street nervous.Still, they can thank HP's chief executive Mark Hurd over their Thanksgiving turkeys. It's a name that has a large "who?" factor, especially compared to his predecessor, Carly Fiorina.Carly was a great one for speaking at conferences, and even appeared in HP advertising. Hurd is, by contrast, a low-key nuts-and-bolts guy. But while cutting staff and other costs, he has driven HP's annual sales up to a record $104.3bn.HP is the first computer company to make it through the $100bn mark, a feat that IBM was expected to achieve a decade ago.Instead, IBM reduced its turnover by selling off its PC division, home of the esteemed ThinkPad brand, to China's Lenovo. Well, there's no money in PCs. Who'd want to be in that business?
Just in time for Christmas, the Silicon Valley startup 23andMe - the name refers to the number of pairs of chromosomes in human DNA - has begun offering a personal genotyping service. For a $1,000 (&pound;483) fee, 23andMe will run a sample of your DNA through a specialised gene-reading microchip that is able to identify, the company says, "nearly 600,000 data points on your genome".It then uploads your genetic information on to its website, where you can use various "web-based interactive tools" to explore your ancestral origins and your likelihood of contracting hereditary diseases. To provide 23andMe with a DNA sample, you have to send the firm a small test tube filled with saliva. That requirement at first struck me as distasteful, maybe even demeaning. To have one's earthly origin and destiny reduced to a vial of spit seems like an affront to human dignity.But maybe I'm being too fussy. After all, primitive cultures have long viewed bodily fluids, and saliva in particular, as carriers of secrets about personal identity and vitality. The Cherokee tribe of what is now the southeastern United States considered saliva "a vital element", according to the anthropologist Charles Hudson. Spittle "was to the individual as water in creeks and rivers was to the world", he wrote in a book about Native American religion. "If one's saliva were spoiled, it was a serious matter."All that 23andMe is doing is giving an information-age twist to this mystical tradition. It's using automated laboratories, supercomputers and the internet to translate ancient symbolism into a practical digital service. Once a spiritual totem, spit is now just another informational medium.23andMe isn't the only company creating personal gene maps; deCODE Genetics, a biopharmaceutical business in Reykjavik, Iceland, offers a similar service called deCODEme. But 23andMe is worth special note because it has the might of Google behind it. The search engine giant was an early investor in the startup, and it has a personal connection as well: Google co-founder Sergey Brin is married to 23andMe co-founder Anne Wojcicki.Google's involvement suggests that 23andMe probably has larger ambitions than just providing individuals with gene maps. As its online store of genetic information grows and as customers add personal information, the company could end up with a database of extraordinary value to pharmaceutical firms, medical researchers and insurance companies.Sorted and analysed with Google's sophisticated data-crunching tools, the database could disclose hidden connections between genes, aptitudes and diseases. In a privacy statement on its site, the company acknowledges that it plans to grant outside groups access to its database, allowing them to search, "without knowing the identities of the individuals involved", for correlations between genetic variations and health conditions. That could well turn into a major business.The company also says that it will give users "the ability to connect with other 23andMe customers through sharing features". 23andMe could evolve into a social network, a biotech version of MySpace or Facebook where people make connections not with friends but with people who share similar genetic traits. This, too, could provide the basis for a lucrative business. Given that 23andMe tracks its customers' movements with cookies, it may not be long before we see genetically targeted advertising.If all this seems a little Brave New World, that shouldn't be a surprise. Breakthroughs in genetics, combined with advances in computing and networking, promise to reshape many of our assumptions about our health, our identity and even our fate. We'll face a series of difficult questions.How much do we really want to know about the path of our eventual decay? Services such as those from 23andMe can provide many benefits, but they also promise to create anxiety and fear.I would think twice before spitting into that vial.&middot; Nicholas Carr's new book, The Big Switch, will be published in January. He blogs atroughtype.com
Colossus, the second world war code-breaking computer, was back in action last week for the first time in more than 60 years, cracking codes transmitted from Germany. It was, of course, a magnificent achievement, following a 14-year reconstruction based on eight photographs and a few circuit diagrams kept illegally by engineers. The original machines and their blueprints were all supposed to have been destroyed at the end of the war, although a couple lived a secret life at the government's spying centre, GCHQ.The question is, what's next? We have paid our tribute to the men behind the machines - people like Alan Turing and Tommy Flowers - and to the team behind the reconstruction, led by Tony Sale, but that should be a beginning, not an end. There's now the opportunity to keep Colossus going as the centrepiece of a permanent memorial to the pioneers of the computer industry.Museum appealWell, that's the idea. Next Wednesday, the organisers will capitalise on the event's worldwide press coverage by launching a &pound;7m appeal to turn the Bletchley Park site where Colossus was born into a proper National Museum of Computing."This is not a hard sell," says the invitation, "but we do expect to tug at your heart strings and also your wallet."To an extent, the National Museum of Computing already exists, as part of the Bletchley Park Trust site. This includes a Churchill Collection, a Home Front exhibition, a "wartime mini cinema" and a model railway. The collection of computers in wartime huts copes with school parties and perhaps a few hundred visitors at weekends.But it's still some way short of national museum expectations. The computer block lacks a range of things, from a proper entrance with an admissions counter and catalogues through to a staff of professional curators. It doesn't even have its own souvenir shop as an exit.What it does have is some fantastic equipment, ranging from little mechanical calculators like the hand-cranked Curta - one of the stars of a William Gibson novel, Pattern Recognition - to a huge ICL 2900 mainframe. There's an Elliott 803, which was the peak of technology and very popular in about 1962. There are shelves of small machines including an Apple Lisa, and microcomputers from the likes of Acorn, Amstrad, Apricot, Atari and Commodore.The museum project has come together mainly through the efforts of the Bletchley Park Trust and the Computer Conservation Society, a sub-group of the British Computer Society, which has donated &pound;75,000 to help get the thing going.The basic plan is to raise &pound;800,000 to set up the museum, and bank about &pound;6m. The interest should cover the running costs of about &pound;300,000 a year.That may sound like a lot of money for volunteers enthusiastically reconstructing old computers out of salvaged parts. However, it's small by national museum standards. The Science Museum's Wellcome Wing cost about &pound;50m, for example, and it is spending &pound;6m on its climate change exhibition.But Doron Swade, one of the world's few experts in this field, reckons "it's doable, depending on what the ambitions are." (Swade was senior curator of computing at the Science Museum and is currently a guest curator at the Computer History Museum in California.) He says you don't need "massively extravagant budgets" for presentation if you follow "the grand old model of exhibitions authored by specialists with a deep knowledge of the subject. Once you've done that, it will last for years. You dust the objects: that's it."It's not yet clear how ambitious the plans are. However, Britain has lots of small but successful specialist museums and something that focused on code breaking would certainly be manageable. But covering the entire computing field, from the abacus to supercomputing, would be a massive undertaking without government backing.Partnering upShouldn't the Science Museum be doing this? Swade says: "The Science Museum last opened a computing gallery in 1975 - two years before the Apple II was launched!" But it has tons of stuff stored away around the country.One possible solution would be, in Swade's words, "to establish a partnership and officially outsource computer history to Bletchley where there is passion and a focused commitment to the subject. There are distinguished precedents for the Science Museum spinning off: the National Railway Museum in York and the Media Museum in Bradford are part of the Science Museum."I put the idea to the Science Museum, and got a bland response. "The Science Museum has consistently supported, through curatorial advice and support for the Computer Conservation Society, the development of the computing museum at Bletchley Park and we expect to continue to provide this level of support."Whether I'd actually want our National Museum of Computing to be in Bletchley is another matter. It's easy to get there from Euston - only 36 minutes by fast train - but it's not South Kensington. The museums there attract millions of tourists who won't travel out of town. Still, I'd much rather have a National Museum at Bletchley Park than none at all.There's a less obvious reason to hope Bletchley Park succeeds: it's our last chance to rescue some of the nation's data, including old census information.Most museums just show disembodied chunks of old machines. At Bletchley, they're trying to preserve working systems complete with manuals and software. And while Colossus is a fascinating tangle of tubes and wires, it really comes to life when you hear tapes whirring over pulleys and bask in the heat given off by more than 2,000 tubes.To the Science Museum, computing is just one of more than a hundred subject areas. But the computer revolution - the move from analogue to the digital representation and processing of almost everything - is transforming society. If that's not important enough for a national museum, what is?
I was considering writing my review of this tiny handheld notebook PC on the machine itself but, after a bit of fiddling, abandoned the idea. That's because, like so much Sony kit, this baby brother to the venerable Vaio notebook range is beautifully designed but poorly implemented for use by real people.With a pin-sharp 4.5in display and a chunky little body that features a decent range of ports (USB, headphones, AV-out, Firewire) plus a full slide-out Qwerty keyboard, this little chap should be a superb travelling companion. The spec is respectable, with onboard Wi-Fi, Vista Business (so no card games to keep you entertained in dull meetings), a 1.33Ghz mobile processor, 1GB of RAM and a 32GB Flash hard drive. That matches many full-sized notebooks on the market at its price point; you can pick one up for about &pound;800 online.The design is thoughtful: if you hold it in both hands, your right thumb falls on the pointing device, which, once you're used to it, is not a bad way of navigating the 1024x600 display. Your left thumb is perfectly positioned for the right- and left-click buttons, while the Qwerty keyboard slides out from beneath the screen.But there's the first disappointment - the keyboard. You wouldn't want to do much more than tap out an email on it, as the size of the keys make it no good for touch-typing. Double-thumb input is feasible, but the tiny keys make it hard to be accurate. I found it difficult enough with female-sized digits; fatter-fingered folk will struggle to achieve a reasonable degree of accuracy.The next problem is that the machine comes groaning with all the extra rubbish Sony insists on inflicting on its customers: the dire Sonic Stage software for multimedia and a load of utilities that provide a confusing extra layer of ways to manage the PC, such as software to calibrate the touchscreen and manage the display - all of which can be managed via Vista's own Control Panel.The touchscreen is a nightmare. Fiddly to calibrate, it failed to retain its settings and eventually refused even to acknowledge that it was in fact a touchscreen. So I resorted to the pointing device. This made the nice Windows Tablet additions unavailable, hampering its usefulness. Sony says that's a Vista issue rather than a hardware one, which suggests this was not a problem unique to the review machine.The display itself benefits from Sony's "X-black" LCD, but in practice everything on it is tiny and very hard on middle-aged eyes. There are buttons that magnify the screen, but you can't work on it when it's magnified - so it's not very helpful. One nice trick is that you can rotate the display to make it portrait-shaped: useful for working on Word documents, say.But delightful though this notebook is to look at and hold, it's too flawed to be anything other than a novelty.
Super Mario GalaxyWii, &pound;39.99, cert 3+, Nintendo, 5/5Shigeru Miyamoto, inventor of Mario, is one of the games industry's most revered heroes, whose Super Mario 64 is often cited as the best game ever. As Miyamoto was instrumental in the Wii's design, you would expect it to get his creative juices gushing, and Super Mario Galaxy may just knock Super Mario 64 off its pedestal. Galaxy is pure pleasure from start to finish: it's surreal, cute but never twee, endlessly inventive and distinctly psychedelic. As ever, Mario must rescue Princess Peach from Bowser's clutches, but this time that involves being catapulted to countless galaxies. The control system is fantastic, with movement handled by the Nunchuk, and a shake of the Wiimote launching a spin attack. Set-piece planets, in which you might ride a manta ray or roll around on top of a ball, make use of the Wiimote's motion-sensing. All the classic Mario elements are present, along with many new additions - our hero can now become Bee Mario or Ghost Mario, for example. If you haven't yet bought a Wii, here's your justification - whether young, old hardcore or casual gamer.Steve BoxerAssassin's CreedPS3/Xbox 360, &pound;49.99, cert 16+, Ubisoft, 4/5Assassin's Creed is a truly next-gen title involving human lab rats and 10th-century assassins. Delving deep into the mind of Desmond Miles, you control his ancestor Altair. An assassin from the era of the Third Crusade, he alone holds the secret to Desmond's freedom from the scientists holding him hostage for his memories. Controls are simple to grasp, swapping from "stealth" to "action" settings. Occasionally the pace can slow, due to the slightly repetitive nature of scanning cities, eavesdropping conversations and interrogating suspects to reach pre-scripted assassination scenes. Even so, the dimension of townsfolk working with or against you, the ability to scale any building with ledges two inches deep or more and the option of flee or fight gives you the freedom to approach tasks as you choose.  Add a stunningly detailed Holy Land to explore, and you have an enticingly immersive game worthy of your time.Keri AllanSim City SocietiesPC, &pound;34.99, cert 7+, Tilted Mill/EA, 3/5The original management sim gets its first true makeover in nearly 20 years. The idea remains to build a city and watch it grow, but this time you're directly involved in every aspect of it. Gone is the old system of laying down rules and watching things build themselves; this time you lay down every building that relates to the next via the interaction of "social energies". There's a new interface, which is tuned to the opinions of individual Sims. Click on them and you can see what they're thinking, making for a game that's smaller in scale but with much more to actually do. Diehards may complain this is more The Sims than Sim City, but it's an imaginative reinvention.Mike Anderiesz
Wind-up media playerThe Ethical Superstore is now selling theTrevor Baylis Eco Media Player(&pound;154.99), which plays music and videos, and also has an FM radio.Treeview TV?Currys and Dixons are taking orders forSwedx wood-framed flat-screen TVsin Ash, Sapele or Beech.XPS OneDell has launched an all-in-one entertainment computer, theXPS One, with prices starting at $1,499 (&pound;727).Secure mail for allComodo is offering afree betaof its SecureEmail software.It's educationalTheSuTree websitehas been relaunched as a sort of YouTube for educational and instructional videos.More than OneCareMicrosoft has launched aversion of OneCare, its automated PC protection and maintenance service, for multi-PC households and small businesses.High-performance studentsMicrosoft has launched a &pound;20,000High Performance Computing competitionfor UK students in higher education.Dollar shoppingBorder Linxlets you buy products online for delivery to a US shipping address. It then bundles up the orders and sends them on to your European country.
Hangups with dialupOne problem to watch for with dialup (Letters, November 15) is that the check box to automatically disconnect after so many minutes of inactivity is largely useless these days since many software products are accessing the internet in the background. Just this year, with two weeks of broadband failure, we racked up &pound;70 in dialup charges (compared to the monthly fee of &pound;17.99!).Pete Champ,Pinner&middot; Rod Bloor should trymyinternetpass.com. You get 2000 minutes for &pound;10 or unlimited use for 30 days for &pound;10. I have been using it now for several months without problems, but keep Virgin dialup just in case.Brian Holmans,BingleyThe great DAB-ateI'm sure that Jack Schofield has a point about the quality of DAB radio transmissions (DAB leaves us with the worst of all worlds, November 15). I'm less sure when he rubbishes the stations that you can get on DAB. For example, no Radio 6, no weekly Bob Dylan's Theme Time Radio Hour. What was Jack thinking of?Keith Flett,London&middot; I think that Jack Schofield has got the wrong end of the stick. Yes, there is no way that current DAB will ever match FM for sound quality - despite many advertising claims - as DAB signals are effectively compressed, some stations more than others! However, the value of DAB to many people is the content - ie, the extra stations that can be received.Tim Bounds,Ingleby Barwick&middot; I persuaded my wife to buy me an expensive DAB stereo radio for my birthday this year because I am a jazz fan. Imagine my annoyance when I discovered that my jazz station broadcasts in mono on DAB. I also discovered that LBC Talk Radio's sound quality is not as good on DAB as it is on FM. I am beginning to think DAB is a big con on the part of DAB radio manufacturers.Roger Farbey,Beckenham&middot; To be honest, I don't know whether to laugh or despair about Jack's rants. What he refuses to understand is that a massive number of people truly love their digital radios and that of all the different ways of executing digital radio, the UK leads the world in its successful implementation. Perhaps he also believes that he can "turn" the UK away from this medium if they only listened to what he has to say. Unfortunately, they don't because they're too happy listening to their DAB digital radios.mattdeegan.com&middot; Jack encourages people to buy a Wi-Fi radio or a Freeview box, because that's a better investment than DAB. Well, don't expect to pick your Freeview box and move it around the house, or have it on the kitchen windowsill, as it's going to need one of those big aerial things on top of your house to work properly. So if you are going to use Freeview for radio, be sure to carry a length of RG75 coaxial cable round with you, an 8mm drill bit, some cable clips and a tube of waterproof filler for all the holes you're going to drill.nick.piggott.name&middot; Broadcasters don't particularly win if they segment their audiences into ever-smaller blocks; satellite television shows this too clearly, with a seemingly greater amount of crap and low-quality programming.james.cridland.net&middot; DAB has missed the boat, and it's time to cut its throat.tygerland.netBlinkered view"With American corporate help, China remains the world's biggest prison." (Who last looked at your data? November 15). And as programmer Seth Finkelstein writes in the Guardian, the case shows that corporations like Yahoo and Google have enormous blind spots.soxfirst.comMedium is the massageA hands on approach to communication? (Read Me First, November 1)Martin Shore,Leatherhead&middot; Read all this week's letters and blogs atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
If the invention of the printing press liberated books from the monopoly of the monasteries in the 15th century, then self-publishing is freeing us today from the power of publishers. Only a tiny proportion of books written ever gets into the public domain because publishers are not prepared to take the risk. This is understandable to the extent that few books make money. However, things are changing thanks to a  new generation of online publishers, such asLulu.com, which enable you to publish a 100 page book complete with colour cover for as little as &pound;3.60 - as long as you get everything right the first time (which seldom happens in practice).The revolution is now spreading fast to full colour books as new companies spring up offering high-quality colour reproduction in hardback or paperback for affordable prices. According to a report from Understanding &amp; Solutions, the Western European market for photobooks has exploded from under 250,000 in 2005 to nearly 7m by the end of this year and an estimated 18m by 2010. At one end of the scale a professional photographer wanting to publish a 350-page hardcover coffee table book of their work in "landscape" format measuring 13x11 inches can do so for around &pound;80 a copy. But it is at the lower end of the market where the really interesting things are happening. A new genre of photobooks has sprung up which, apart from anything else, offers a fresh opportunity for unusual Christmas presents.One of the most interesting recent arrivals isblurb.com, founded by Eileen Gittins - an entrepreneurial amateur photographer from San Francisco - barely a year ago. I have tried it in recent months and found it easy to use, except on one occasion when something happened and it kept crashing. If you use one of the standard formats and keep to the default layouts you can publish a book remarkably quickly. After downloading the software you can easily upload photos either from your desktop or from photo-hosting sites or blogs on the web. You write the title and author on the cover before dragging a photo you would like for the front. After choosing formats for the rest of the book (eg, colours and how many photos per page) you are ready to drag photos into the slots provided from your computer or let Blurb extract them automatically from iPhoto, Flickr or Picasa web albums. I automatically downloaded a series of snaps from my collection on Flickr. If I hadn't been worried about editing them, the whole operation could have been completed in less than 20 minutes - apart from the time taken to download the photos, which depends on the size of the files. The quality of reproduction was high. Last week I tried an improved version, which made it easy to upload a sequence of pictures and to drag one photo on top of another to change it. It tells you which pictures won't come out very well because of low resolution.Lulu also offers an improved service including a one-click option to alter the layout of the page from, say, one to four photos. Both have recently opened European printing presses that have reduced the previously prohibitively high cost of postage. An 80-page 7x7in full-colour book from Blurb works out at a basic $16.95 (around &pound;8.40 at current exchange rates) plus &euro;5.75 postage from Switzerland. If you want to sell it for more you keep all the profits. Lulu's prices were similar, but it keeps a quarter of any profits made above the base price. The book is processed by a "print on demand" press and arrives a week or two later.If you want to publish something smaller than a book then moo.com enables you to print personalised visiting or postcards from your own online photo collection. Spreadshirt.com will print your designs on to a T-shirt, while companies such as Great Little Trading Company will print them on calendars, canvasses or mouse mats. If nothing else, the web has given Father Christmas a whole range of new options.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
Tomorrow is Thanksgiving in the US, when many Yanks will be stuffing themselves silly with turkey and all the fixin's. Over in other parts of the world, however, people aren't quite as lucky to have such bounty. While to date there's never been a killer app which combines playing games and directly contributing,while you play, to alleviate the shortfalls of third world countries, here's a game which tries.Free Rice.* Click on the answer that best defines the word.* If you get it right, you get a harder word. If wrong, you get an easier word.* For each word you get right, we donate 10 grains of rice to theUnited Nations World Food Program.Well, when I say "game", it's as much a game as Sega's Typing of the Dead or Dr. Kawashima's Brain Training. But at least it's something.Caught the first whiff of this fromWonderland
TheBlogoscopedversion of What If Gmail Had Been Designed by Microsoft?, which Charles has bloggedbelow, is amusing, but does it have anything to do with reality?Microsoft has already designed its own version of Gmail, and it's called Windows Live Hotmail. What does it look like? See above -- you can click the image for a full-ized version. (I don't actually use Live Hotmail so I had to send myself some email to fill up the box. Maybe lack of use is why I didn't get the expected banner ad along the top.)Unlike Gmail, I have the option to set a Reading Pane either down the side or across the bottom, which would make it look more like Outlook. But that's a matter of choice.Unlike Gmail, Live Hotmail provides folders so I can grab a bunch of emails and drag and drop them somewhere out of the way. (Yes, I know how to use labels. I even know how to use the "virtual folders" in Outlook. But I find labels tedious and time-consuming.)And although Hotmail used to require users to log on every month (not every fortnight, Charles!), the Live version does not. Now you have 120 days.Live Hotmail also provides 5GB of space -- which may be more than you have on Gmail, unless you've been updated.OK, I use and recommend Gmail rather than Live Hotmail, but that's not what it's about. My point is that Microsoft already has a Gmail-style Ajax-based email service, and it doesn't resemble the fictional version on Blogoscoped.That's fine, but to avoid being misleading, perhaps Blogoscoped should have putJokeon the top of its post.
Germany's T-Mobile may havelost its casein court, but it looks as though it has found a way of telling the judge, and the justice system, to get stuffed. According toReuters:T-Mobile said on Wednesday it will offer the iPhone without a T-Mobile contract for 999 euros ($1,478) at its shops.Yeah, like it costs 600 euros just to unlock an iPhone.T-Mobile's standard charge for an iPhone is €1,176, made up of €399 for the iPhone plus the minimum cost of a two-year contract. €1,176 is currently $1,724 or £840.It could be interesting if this gets challenged, because it might expose the financial background. We know that, as part of the lock-in deal, Apple collects a swingeingmonthly taxfor each iPhone user. Does T-Mobile still have to pay Apple the tax if users don't have a contract? How dumb -- or how desperate -- would you have to be to sign that sort of deal?
There's not much more to say than the title of the post really, butthis blogoscoped postdoes capture so much of what is vexing about using Hotmail (which I do, occasionally - once a fortnight, actually, to keep the address I have alive).Shall we list them? Design too busy; too little consideration of users (sort of like the first, really); not enough space to read text of your emails, which is sort of why you came there in the first place.I think that one comment alone captures it:Furthermore, we will change the browser URL from http://gmail.microsoft.com to the more professional looking http://by114w.bay114.gmail.live.com/mail/mail.aspx?rru=home.What if anytime you used Google it gave you a URL such as http://server90.room350.floor9.docklands.google.com as the "place" you were actually searching through? It would look weird - and open you up to phishing. Yet Hotmail does this all the time.And if you've forgotten the "If Microsoft did the iPod" self-parody (for it was done by folk within the company as they considered how best to do the Zune - hmm, yes - then you can watch ithere. For my money, it remains one of the most biting pieces of satire I've seen in ages. (OK, discounting The Thick Of It.)No doubt someone will animate the blogoscoped post and have that on YouTube in short order. What will Microsoft be deemed to need to redesign next? And do you think it'll get the hint? Ever?
AsRichard Wrayreports today in the Guardian, the Germans will be able to get an unlocked iPhone, like the French, but British users will not. Vodafone got a court decision in Germany but it's not doing the same thing here:O2 said yesterday that it was confident its exclusive deal does not contravene UK or EU law. Vodafone said it did not intend a legal challenge in the UK.O2 is owned by Spain's Telefónica. T-Mobile is owned by Deutsche Telekom. Orange is owned by France Télécom. Vodafone is British. Having different rules in different countries is part of what makes European competition so much fun.
Selling retail boxes of PC software has been a declining business, for obvious reasons, but the American market is up by almost 10% this year, on NPD figures. At eWeek, Joe Wilcox has blogged the numbers inPC Software's Great Year. He says:The big sales driver: Office 2007, which is selling like gangbusters. When comparing Office 2007 sales to version 2003 during the same early sales period, unit sales of the newer productivity suite are about double the older one, according to NPD."Office commands 17.4% of all PC software dollar volume, including PC games," [Chris Swenson, NPD's director of software industry analysis] said. "When people go to the store to buy software, there's a good chance they'll end up buying Microsoft Office."The category with biggest year-over-year growth change and highest average selling price is operating systems. There, Windows Vista overwhelming leads the category, which is up nearly 50% from 2007. Vista's sales pull is surprising considering lackluster sales comparisons to Windows XP.In dollar terms, Windows has 78.2%, Mac OS X 21.3% and Linux 0.5% of the US retail market this year to October.NPD says Adobe's Creative Suite 3 is also a "huge success story," as is Apple's Final Cut Studio.Obviously it won't last. There won't be a similar string of big products released next year, though there will be a new Microsoft Office for Mac....
Wednesday's edition of chatterbox
Belatedly, the Mantel troopers realise the importance of making it to the shops for Christmas.You may have noticed yesterday that Ubisoft published its results for the first half of the current fiscal year. The company boasted that sales were up by 52% on the same period last year, leading to a net income of €30.6 million, compared with a net loss of €20.5 million a year earlier. Assassin's Creed has apparently already shifted a million copies - just a couple more million to break even then chaps?Unfortuntely, there are delays to two key titles. Haze (despiteearlier assurances) and Splinter Cell Conviction have both been pushed back til the first quarter of 2008, when they'll be joined by therecently unveiled, Rainbow Six Vegas 2.The Haze delay will be a major disappointment to Sony. The titlehadbeen secured as a timed PS3 exclusive and was set to play a key role in the console's pre-Christmas offensive. Currently, there are only two PS3 exclusives in the UK top 20 - Motorstorm and Resistance: Fall of Man. However, SingStar, Unchartered: Drake's Fortune and Unreal are all due over the next couple of weeks.
An unlocked iPhone may become available in Germany as well as in France, leaving Britain with only the locked version of the Apple device on sale.T-Mobile has the exclusive deal for Germany but, after Vodafone mounted a challenge in a Hamburg court, is understood to be considering also selling an unlocked iPhone, at a higher price.Orange will offer the iPhone in France on November 29, abiding by French law and selling an unlocked version - expected to retail at well above the &euro;399 (&pound;286) Orange will charge to those customers who sign a long-term contract.Britons have no option but to pay &pound;269 for an iPhone from O2 and then sign an 18-month contract. There is unofficial software around which unlocks the device, but this voids the warranty. O2 said yesterday that it was confident its exclusive deal does not contravene UK or EU law. Vodafone said it did not intend a legal challenge in the UK.UK consumers can go to France or Germany, buy an unlocked iPhone, and use it on their current network; O2, however, said  some services, "visual voicemail" and text chat messaging, would not work.In Germany, Vodafone demands that T-Mobile offer "unlocked" iPhones at no more than those locked to T-Mobile, on sale since November 9 at &euro;399 plus a two-year contract at a minimum of &euro;49 a month. T-Mobile is understood to be considering an unlocked phone for a similar price to that being suggested in France.
It may have reviewed well but Super Mario Galaxy has had a relatively slow start in the UK charts. Straight in at, er number 5, the Nintendo icon's new game was outsold by the mediocre likes of The Simpsons Game and WWE Smackdown Vs. Raw 2008. Assassin's Creed - which took the top slot - is thefastest selling new IPsince The Getaway in 2002 and apparently sold over three times as many copies as Mario.There are some obvious points to note. All the games above Mario in the chart are multi-format, and Assassin's Creed in particular has been heavily hyped to the core gaming audience. And you can't discount those Wii stock shortages. But could it be an issue with game itself?20 and 30-something gamers are happy to relive those halcyon days when Mario was *the* gaming icon. But is Super Mario Galaxy too hardcore for the average Wii user? Finely judged jumps and tricky platforming are a long way from the bowling in Wii Sports. Super Mario Galaxy requires old fashioned gaming skills like practice and patience - granny won't be clamouring for a go come Christmas Day.Nintendo has consistently reiterated their support for their "core" market with the likes of Zelda, Metroid and now Mario. But could that change in the future if Big Brain Academy and the like start outselling the gaming veterans?
Over the years, faith groups have recognised the power of the video game as a pipeline for the Good Word and, not unlike the rise of advergaming attempts, religious game products have been on the rise. We've covered the Christian game movement before, from the Christian Games Conference to theparadoxes in Christian games' messages, butCracked.comhas compiled a better list than we ever have of attempts to bring Christianity to interactivity:Not surprisingly, we found that devout fundamentalists often make incredibly bad game designers. A little less expected is their muddling of the message of the Bible. We take a look through six of the most preposterous religious video games, evaluating them on sheer ridiculousness, as well as biblical coherence to answer the ultimate question: What would Jesus play?There are a couple of examples of truly terrible (and harmful) games in this list of six. Left Behind: Eternal Forces, for instance, is not a nice product. But some, had they been swaddled in alternative clothing, might not have appeared so "misguided".There are plenty of games on release that follow the tenets of religious doctrines; but they may simply not shout - or even know - about it. Several Christian websites and newspapers review Hollywood movies according to their values. I'm sure they'd find several games to write favourable reviews for out of the archives of gaming past. Four which rise immediately to mind:Animal CrossingDo good deeds, be kind to your neighbours, do no harm. Be kind to animals.PikminOnce again, be kind to animals. Be selfless. Help others to flourish. Lead your flock to salvation.Parappa the RapperBe kind. Love one another (but not carnally, unless you're married). Smile a lot.If you ignore all that killing, you might recognise one important religious tenet: Have faith in a higher power.Go on, my children. There are many others.
MySpace will release an album to users for free next year as part of a campaign to create a mass-market, advertising-supported free music service.The site will offer the ninth album by Southern Californian punk band Pennywise in full, with no charge to users, from March 25.MySpace Records, the site's spin-off label, has signed a deal with the band to make their album available worldwide.Web users will have two weeks to download the album and its artwork, which will be sponsored by mobile music marketing firm Textango. Fans will also be able to buy the album In the traditional CD and DVD formats.The MySpace co-founder and president, Tom Anderson, said the deal is "just the beginning of a high volume of cutting-edge music programming", hinting at further deals and expanding on MySpace's core following of music fans.Travis Katz, the managing director of MySpace International, said that MySpace "likes the idea of being disruptive and experimenting with new things".The Pennywise announcement follows a high-profile trial by Radiohead, who offered their new album, In Rainbows, online and left it to fans to decide how much to pay.MySpace has an existing deal to sell downloads in the US through Snocap, but the Fox Interactive Media company is expected to announce a major expansion of its downloads service through a link-up with music labels.Mr Katz said he wasn't sure that the Snocap model would be the way forward."You can imagine in a time of transition everyone sees the world a little bit differently," he said.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Tuesday's "Keith just had a baby" edition of Chatterbox.
There's now an Amazonpress releasewhich describes the device and says it's available athttp://amazon.com/kindle. That page has several video demos including a "drop test".PaidContent has a quickreview: First Look: Amazon's Kindle Reader: The Gap Between Description and The Device.Boing Boing has15 Things I Just Learned About the Amazon Kindle, which includes information about file formats and the DRM (Digital Rights management). Kindle has a web browser, can play MP3 files, but can't read PDFs. The 16th thing is: "Having copied over .DOC, .TXT, .RTF, .PDF, .GIF, .JPEG, and .PDB files directly to the Kindle via USB, only the .TXT file showed up for viewing."For background, seeAmazon will launch Kindle ebook reader on MondayandKindle -- the Amazon launch, both below.
Got a Facebook addiction? You have good reason to be worried: according to research by the Guardian last week, more than 1,700 public employees have been sacked or disciplined for internet or email misuse in the last three years.Employers are increasingly banning access to Facebook from work computers (members in the UK spend an average of 143 minutes a month logged into the site), with as many as 70% of UK businesses reportedly banning the site during work hours. Bad news for those who like to while away the odd 15 minutes reading messages and checking what exes and old schoolfriends have got up to.Well maybe. Because Facebook does not necessarily sound the death knell for your career. In fact some users are actually finding their jobs on it.With more than 3.2 million Facebook users in the UK (Bebo has 4 million and MySpace 6.5 million), it's unsurprising that employers are waking up to the potential of social networking to secure the perfect candidate. The newest employee of Leeds recruitment consultants Lawrence Harvey, Zara Tang, came across the company while "messing around" on the site.The 22-year-old, who was working in a jeweller's at the time, explains, "I went into the Groups application, searching for something or other, and on the main page was a group with the title, Fancy a Job in Recruitment? and I did, so I clicked on it."She sent the company an email with her CV attached and, after a few interviews, got a job. Tang thinks that companies need to switch on to Facebook's use as a recruitment tool. "It's a really discreet way to approach employers and employees," she says, "and a great way of keeping up with the industry."Business networking strategist Andy Lopata agrees. "It breaks down barriers. There have been several studies which suggest that 70% of jobs are filled through personal recommendation. Facebook just facilitates that." Lopata thinks Facebook is becoming more talked about as a means of recruitment "both in terms of getting candidates and also researching them".A client survey in October from UK recruiters Crone Corkill and FSS revealed that 7.5% of employers use networking sites as an informal part of the referencing process. The research also suggested that this number may rise as Facebook profiles are accessed quickly and easily through search engines.Traditional networking and recruiting can be time-consuming, costly and potentially risky for the employer. In the space of minutes, an ad can be sent out on Facebook, seen by thousands, replied to instantly and interviews arranged. For jobseekers, applications can be made instantly - in the middle of the night if necessary - and without the traditional awkward call to a receptionist first thing on a Monday morning.A simple search for "jobs" groups on Facebook throws up links to groups for midwives, IT specialists, graduates, Christmas jobs and even burlesque vacancies. It's a great tool for recruitment consultants who work on commission. There are even a few groups set up by enterprising jobseekers.Se&aacute;ny O'Kane (whom you may remember from his, ahem, "star" turn on this year's Big Brother) has set up a group dedicated to finding him employment. "Can you take a risk and want me to go into business with you? What's [sic] your ideas? What would it [sic] like being a 'celebrity bricklayer?' Whatever the options are, everything will be considered and I will document the process over Facebook, keeping everyone up-to-date with the goings on."O'Kane's group has 425 members but, so far apparently, no job offers, though he does have 2,416 friends.One of the compliments regularly directed at Facebook is its relative simplicity and its programming elegance. While the teen-oriented MySpace enables the user to add songs and graphics to a profile, Facebook remains a simple name-location-friends format with optional extras. To vet someone's suitability on MySpace you frequently have to wade through all sorts of extraneous detail. This is good news for employers because they are able to determine very quickly who is a good networker (someone with 2,416 friends perhaps), what their interests are (by the groups they belong to) and even their political allegiance. Unless a candidate has gone to a great deal of trouble to fake their personality, it's a type of honest CV.Lopata adds, "My own friends list contains a diverse network of people from friends, family and business contacts, so if I put a message up saying I am looking for someone, word gets round very fast."Perhaps in recognition of its debt to the site, Lawrence Harvey now allows its employees to access Facebook during lunchbreaks and at the end of the day. "They realise that in moderation it can be a useful thing," says Tang. Prior to her jobsearch exercise, Tang's main use for Facebook was catching up with friends but she says she wouldn't rule out the possibility of using it again should she ever decide to move jobs.Twenty-nine-year-old Clare Lindley is a web developer at Numiko in Leeds who actively looked for work on Facebook. In July she responded to an ad posted on the site. "Compared with large, dedicated IT jobsearch websites, the number of jobs is smaller," she says. "However, it is certainly preferable to look at a short list of guaranteed, quality, peer-reviewed vacancies, than endless pages of search results."Lindley thinks that "both employer and potential employees benefit from being able to communicate quickly and directly with each other. Employers can screen candidates right away without  having to rely on going through an employment agency, and candidates know that they are in contact with the employer themselves".Chris Morrall is a key account manager at Tiger Jobs in Gloucestershire. He found his job online. "I saw the Marketplace application on Facebook and went to have a look," he says. "I saw an ad from Tiger and liked what I saw. I liked the fact that they had advertised on Facebook."Tiger Jobs now actively recruits through the site and regularly receives speculative CVs. Morrall believes the revolution won't end there. "I think the industry is changing. I foresee a time when we won't even have paper CVs, we'll have a video clip."But don't get carried away. Facebook still has its dangers. "I know of people who have been fired because their boss saw profile updates suggesting that they were actively looking for work," says Morrall. Which may prove a good enough reason not to fire up your browser at work - or not if your boss befriends you, at any rate.
The Dutch justice ministry is to temporarily block its 30,000 employees from using Wikipedia, the online encyclopaedia, at work after a magazine reported that ministry computers had been used to edit more than 800 entries.Intermediar said that while most of the changes were not objectionable, some involved changing the positions of political parties or the profiles of people in criminal cases. Many others were obscene."We're doing this as a temporary measure while we investigate how much use - and misuse- our people make of Wikipedia, and what we can do about it," said ministry spokesman Ivo Hommes. "You'd think it should be OK for someone to update an entry on their favourite football star during lunch, but obviously we don't want people doing things that are tasteless or worse during working hours."The Intermediar report said one employee had changed a reference to the punishment given to a member of the Dutch nobility who was caught speeding.The original text said "her driving licence was not revoked", while the revised version added "as is typical in such cases".Anyone can edit a Wikipedia entry anonymously, but Wikipedia records the exact time and IP address - the numerical identifier of each computer on the internet - when any user alters a page.Similar concerns about public-sector employees editing Wikipedia from work computers have cropped up in the United States and Japan in recent months.The Intermediar report found 821 edits in all from justice ministry computers, more than from any other single ministry. But hundreds of edits came from computers at other ministries and at dozens of Dutch councils.
We don't have room in print for all yourletters and blog pingbacksin full, but here online we do - so here they are. The big issue? Dialup vs broadband. Click through for the full text..GOT BROADBAND?As one of the '1.9 million or so dialup users' the most important factor is the lack of provision of an adequate broadband service. I rarely get anything like the claimed speed for dialup. As an advert from BT in the Guardian recently pointed out in vary small print 'factors affecting speed include line test and distance from exchange'. As for cable I, like many other people, live on a shared drive and it is too much hassle and expensive for cable companies to provide a connection. As I write this I can see the junction box on a cable system about 5 metres from where I am sitting. A check on availability based on postcode shows that my address and my neighbour's are not included. Unless some organisation shoulders the responsibility for upgrading the existing telephone line when dialup is dropped by ISPs I shall be in a worse position than I am now as I will be without any form of internet access . Lauri Nelson, DerbyIf you're enumerating the "innovative schemes" whereby folks are tempted into broadband, you could add the latest Orange ploy to delight their customers, i.e., closing down the Anytime Dial-up service and moving people over to broadband (unless they shout loud enough and quickly enough in which case they'll just lose their service with nothing to replace it. John Dean, OxfordTim Johnson, speaking as analyst of broadband and its growth - "Why has the growth of broadband adoption slowed?" would appear to be not a disinterested party in the debate. I depend on Broadband - for my business and many other things these days, including radio. But many people I know do not have broadband, nor internet or not even a computer. Just like the many people I know who don't have TV. Whilst agreeing that broadband and the internet can play a role in economic and social advantage, the many people I know with no interest in computers and the internet do not fit this category and live extremely contented and fulfilled lives without it. Rather than being disadvantaged, they are the opposite end of the spectrum to those who live their whole lives cyberland, in that the live and enjoy all that the reality of the big world bestows on them. Being without a specific medium is therefore rather an advantage to many, rather than a deficit. Sean O'Donoghue, Hay-on-WyeI was interested to read the article in Technology Guardian ( 8 Nov) about the slowing of broadband growth and the recent reliance of ISPs on converting dialup users. I am a dialup user with Orange as my ISP and last month the evening and weekend rates for dialup users were doubled - to 4p and 2p per minute respectively. The daytime rate increased from 4p to 5p per minute. These increases are clearly intended to penalise dialup users and push them towards a broadband contract. I have contacted Ofcom who informed me that regulations on price changes only apply to contract subscribers so now I have the prospect of at least a doubling of my dialup costs. Websites comparing ISPs are largely for broadband users and I can find no up-to-date comparison surveys for dialup ISP rates. Can anyone suggest a better value and reliable dialup ISP? Rod Bloor (no post town given)The slowing in broadband adoption would not be anything to do with cost would it? My BT broadband Option 1, not including calls, costs more than my gas bill and more than my electricity. This is for a three bedroom, mid terrace property with central heating Perhaps I should apply for Option none. Richard Matta, Budleigh SaltertonIt's great to see the digital divide recognised as something more than merely the preserve of public and third sector do-gooders (Why has the growth in broadband adoption slowed?, 8 Nov). This is an issue the technology industry as a whole needs to be worrying about. Addressing digital inclusion isn't a fluffy CSR aside, it makes very real business sense. The realisation that late-adopters or laggards are not going to catch up with the pack any time soon is already dawning, and we're seeing real commitment from some organisations to making their wares work for the ICT-wary. However, to make a real impact we need to see more cross-sector co-operation. It is only by working together that the private, public and third sectors can make a real difference to individuals, communities, and (at the end of the day) to bottom-lines. Helen Milner, Managing Director, UK online centresI am paying Virgin £24.99 a month for a high speed broadband connection (letters November 01 2007) but it downloads painfully slowly - last week a document of 7MB took nearly an hour to download onto my computer. Virgin has always been slow but it's just getting worse. I emailed my ISP asking them for advice and help and telling them I would be reporting back to the Guardian. One month later, they haven't even bothered to reply. Bob Sutton, Guildford…AND BROADBAND SPEED..Ref the letters about ISP speed (What's My Line? November 1st). Alan Paterson asked, " Does any other business routinely deliver around 10% to 15% of what it promises…?". BT customers should think themselves lucky. As a Virgin Media (nee NTL customer) I signed up for the 20Mbps service. The most I have seen is 15Mbps whilst I have seen it as low as 600Kbps! The explanation I had from a Virgin media engineer was that living in an inner city area with a very high student population, mostly with Virgin Media as their ISP, the Virgin media Infrastructure could not scale. I think that this is plausible especially as numerous tests (I use www.speedtest.net) showed the highest connection speeds in the morning (especially Saturday morning) and the lowest around 7.30-8.00 in the evening, demonstrating a correlation with minimum and maximum student activity! Incidentally, I have complained to Virgin media on several occasions but have never received a satisfactory resolution. Mike Vaughan, CardiffSTINGY USERS&gt;&gt; In the early days of the web (I'm talking ten years ago here) selling "premium" content was seen as the pathway to riches online. Until the producers of such content realised that no one (or very few people) were actually prepared to pay for it. People like Jennifer Ringley may have, however, made a reasonable go out of selling "top shelf" content, but they tended to be the exception, not the rule.http://www.disassociated.com/FREE 192.COM's DATA?192.com allows some searches for free, other information requires you to buy search credits. What annoys me is that if you have bought credits, they then get used up even if you then do a "free" search, unless you take care to log out, and they don't tell you this. I tried asking for a refund, and a request that credits should only get used up for searches that required them, but never got any response either from email or by phone. I think they should put their house in order before telling others to "free their data". Mike Whittaker, StapletonTHE MEDIUM IS...The message is the massage? Those spiritualists always rub me up the wrong way. John D Dalton, FrizingtonAPPLE'S RAM-RAIDINGMr. Arthur has rendered a great service for those new to the Mac platform by pointing out (Apple goes Ram raiding, November 9) the outrageous prices Apple charges for adding RAM to all of their computers. Apple's official explanation some years ago was that they were protecting themselves from fluctuations in the RAM markets. While this might have once been a valid point, the trend for the last five years has been towards cheaper RAM, with hardly any uptick, and certainly not anything that would justify Apple's RAM prices. Furthermore, since the switch to Intel CPUs, Apple is using bog standard components (although it should also be pointed out that the transition to "regular" components began much earlier). Apple really has no excuse for their practice, other than that they seem to be able to get away with it. I'm a long time Mac user and I learned early on to buy my RAM from reputable third party sellers and installing it myself. With the exception of the early G3 based iMac, Apple has made this a painless proposition, and even the early iMac wasn't too difficult for those mechanically inclined. (I upgraded many a friends' iMac, usually earning me a soft drink and a big bag of crisps, or even a pizza from the more generous.) Oddly enough, the professional computers of the same era were well designed to allow for easy upgrades of both RAM and hard drives. Upgrading RAM on the current crop of machines couldn't be easier and third party RAM couldn't be cheaper. I add my voice to Arthur's in urging new Mac users to forgo Apple's upgrade and do it themselves. Also, while not as RAM hungry as Microsoft Vista, Mac OS X really does like quantities of More, so the new user should get as much as they can afford. It's really helpful if you use multiple applications concurrently or have lots of windows open at the same time. Please don't get me wrong. I love my Mac Powerbook and lust for the MacBooks and MacBook Pros. The overall prices of Mac computers has come down and is more in line with that of other PC makers, and in some cases is equivalent or even slightly cheaper. But RAM prices have always been a sore spot for me. Marcos El Malo (no post town given)…AND MORE LEOPARDI noticed Charles Arthur's piece last month about how no-one was interested in Leopard. I gather itsold 2 million copies in two days, which is almost 10% of the estimated OS X worldwide crowd. Shame I didn't take you up on a bet... Jason Davies, LondonLETTERS ON SETH...I have also read Seth Finkelstein's articles and, like your previous correspondent, have mostly failed to understand him. John Creek, Twickenham
Yes, before any of you suspect that I'm one of those Americans who suffers from an irony deficit, I know: This is a joke. But it made me laugh. I spotted this onDigg, where I was checking out thecool bigspy app on their lab site. It's on theMac Rumors forums. This is what someone thinks will be part of the next release of Mac OS X.- Newly integrated "Spite" application can detonate the heads of Zune users within a 10 mile radius via wifi technology.- New feature in the Finder enables you to find the your car keys, phone numbers to ex-girlfriends and missing children. Thats right.... car keys too.- The new 4D dock interacts with users via a newly discovered dimension. Now the dock only appears when a user thinks about using it!Or my favourite. "Calculator 10.6 allows users to divide by zero." Hey, it's a Monday. I needed a good laugh. If reality was no object, what features would you include in your next gen OS? A real time machine?technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:Apple,humour,OS Xtechnorati tags end
Photo from TechCrunchTechCrunch hasLiveblogging the Amazon Kindle E-Reader Show with Jeff Bezos. It quotes Bezos as follows:"We have 90,000 books you can buy right from the device. And these are the books people want to read. Included on are 101 of 112 New York Times best sellers. And guess what, they are all $9.99. And guess what? they all get delivered wirelessly in less than minute. You can also get newspapers delivered to the device: New York times, Wall Street Journal, San Jose Mercury News. Magazines. And blogs. This is not an RSS feed. this is the full content of the post pushed to your device. (Boing Boing, the Onion, Huffington Post). Updated throughout the day."Go to TechCrunch for the full story....
"As I sit here applying a new layer of Reynolds tin foil to my international hat of conspiracy, its been proven that Apple tracks iPhone usage and tracks IEMI numbers of all their iPhones worldwide. Hidden in the code of the Stocks and Weather widgets is a string that sends the IMEI of your phone to a specialized URL that Apple collects," says theUneasy Silenceblog.Obviously "Weather" is kinda benign, but Apple knowing your Stock habits, isn't that a little personal? What's next, they read your email too? Now who thinks I'm crazy?The IMEI is the International Mobile Equipment Identity, a 15-digit code that identifies the phone to the network. Seems to me that if a phone is accessing a service, you might wellexpectit to send the IMEI as a matter of course. Could an expert on GSM please confirm whether other phones (eg Nokia, Windows Mobile etc) do exactly the same thing?9to5Mactackles the same topic, adding that "it looks like some Leopard applications behave in this mannor", with a quote from a Digg user:For those of you who don't know what Little Snitch is, it tracks connections that any software makes to the internet (ie to "phone home") and allows you to block those connections. Imagine my surprise when I opened Calculator.app the other day and Little Snitch popped up asking if I wanted to block a connection that Calculator.app was attempting to make to "wu-calculator.apple.com". After looking through Calculator.app's source code, I figured out that it shares a little bit of code with the iPhone stuff... I'm seeing:http://wu-calculator.apple.com/dgw?imei=APPLE&amp;appt ...Does anyone else notice the word IMEI in there? Yeah. That's what I thought.It's probably a fair assumption that anything you do with a mobile can be tracked, including your physical location (roughly). "Phoning home" from a desktop application is a somewhat different matter, though plenty of programs seem to do it. Either way, this is all circumstantial at the moment, but it will be interesting to see how it plays out....Update: According to aGizmodostory:OK, you can take your tinfoil hats off now. German site Heise Online has tested Hackint0sh user XianLi's claims about the iPhone sending its IMEI to Apple while accessing the web. According to Heise and other sources, this is not true.The IMEI is not transmitted, and different iPhones appear to send identical IDs.
In 1996, I opened Libtech, the UK's main exhibition for librarians. I had an urgent message to deliver. I'd noticed that web sites were not just appearing in growing numbers, they were disappearing, too. People were updating pages all the time and nobody was keeping any sort of record - not even the people running the sites.Libraries had preserved much of our past on paper, but our digital history was almost blank, and could never be retrieved. Who would save it, if not librarians?Fortunately someone else had not only thought about it, he had decided to do it. In 1996, Brewster Kahle of Alexa Internet in San Francisco started keeping snapshots of the web to create theInternet Archive. In 2001, he launched the Wayback Machine, making about 10 billion archived pages publicly available.Even at this early stage, Kahle's data took up about 100 terabytes, making it about five times as large as a digital US Library of Congress. Today, it has 85 billion pages and takes up 1.5 petabytes.Anytime and foreverKahle's ultimate aim is even more ambitious. In aCNet interview in Second Life, he said: "We're out to help build the Library of Alexandria version 2, starting with humankind's published works, books, music, video, web pages, software, and make it available to everyone anywhere at anytime, and forever."Kahle is also working to make this a global system, starting withanother copy of the archive at the Library of Alexandria in Egypt.As a result, anyone can now go to the Wayback Machine, paste in a web address, click the button that says Take Me Back, and see what it looked like in the otherwise dim but not so distant past.What you get is a list of the dates when a snapshot was taken, arranged by year. Clicking a link brings up a cached copy of the page. The record is necessarily incomplete, but it's enough to track things like changes in design.In the Guardian's case, the first page is dated a month after my talk. There are only three snapshots for 1997, and four for 1998. There are 202 for this year, so far.History in the makingIn some cases, the archive's curators have put together packages that cover historical events. These Web Collections include US elections, hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and the December 2004 Asian Tsunami.The Wayback Machine can be useful. The web is a boulevard of broken links, and so it is the only way you can see what a site looked like before the creator lost interest, the company went bust, or a once-popular address was taken over by spammers. But even when it doesn't have what you want, it's a wonderful place to browse.It may be frustrating when pages or vital pictures are missing, or the Wayback Machine seems to be taking an hour off. But this is a not-for-profit organisation heroically tackling an impossible task. If Kahle had left it to publishers, librarians, corporations or even governments, it wouldn't exist at all.
This is hardcore. Mass Effect - the Xbox 360 RPG, developed by Bioware - is out this Friday and 13 hours in I feel like I've barely scratched the surface. In the time it took me to finish Call of Duty 4 all I'd done is finish the tutorial, and pottered round the hub area chatting to the excellently depicted inhabitants. Thrill seekers will find the early stages slow going but then this probably isn't for them. The combat is more tactical than reflex, but Mass Effect is as much about the story as shooting. Anyway, the embargo lifts today but I haven't seen enough to do a review yet - so consider this first impressions.You can read all about the history ofMass Effect elsewhere, but basically this is a sci-fi RPG, heavy on plot and characterisation. The action is reminiscent of Bioware's Xbox classic, Knights of the old Republic (KOTOR). So think choosing a team of 3, venturing onto a planet and working your way through a variety of combat/conversation scenarios while simultaneously levelling up your characters and kitting them out with new gear. The variety of quests is impressive and such is the quality that you rarely feel like you are doing a quest in the traditional RPG sense. Trying to persuade a businessman that you are a legitimate dealer while simultaneously distracting him enough to encrypt his computer is a long way from killing Murlocs in WoW.Probably a quarter or my play time has been spent nattering to the locals. It all works so fluidly and the character graphics are so believable - wince as that alien you've pissed off rolls her eyes in disgust - that it sets new gaming standards. You genuinely feel part of a sci-fi movie and while you input is simply down to choosing responses you never fell like you are passively watching a cut-scene.To really experience the game it is worth throwing yourself in. Read all the codex entries, chat to everyone - Mass Effect rewards dedication. The first four or five hours are particularly important in setting the scene.There isn't a massive amount of handholding - it feels more like a PC game in that respect - and casual players, as well as your average GRAW/Halo/360 shooter fan will take a while to get used to it. KOTOR fans though, will feel right at home.What else? The sublime music - all Blade Runner synths - is reason enough to find the soundtrack cd in the collectors edition. Exploring and landing on uncharted planets? Oh yes. So far I've only tried it a couple of times but if the thought of driving across barren landscapes on the lookout for something interesting appeals to your inner geek as much as it does to me then you'll be happy.The title screen says that downloadable content is available. There is nothing there at the moment so I'm assuming it will appear on launch day. If so then this is an annoyance - nothing like paying 50 quid for a game to be told there is more available to buy - but there appears to be more than enough content in the main game to keep you busy. Plenty of recent games - Halo 3, COD4 - have been criticised for being "too short". Not Mass Effect.Downers? Well the slow pace will put some people off. It takes a while to get going and while some - like me - will enjoying pouring over the codex and chatting to the locals, it will be frustrating for those looking for a quick firefight. The graphics are generally superb - especially with the grainy film effect turned on - but there is some slowdown in the larger battles. Loading screens can interfere a little more of then than you'd like, although they mainly occur when landing on planets. And disappearing corpses are a shame in an otherwise perfectly crafted - and believable - universe. Finally the enemy AI can be a bit hit and miss - Halo this isn't. I came across at least 3 or 4 assailants who didn't realise I was pummelling bullets into them until far too late. Generally though the combat is a real challenge, especially if you've been lulled in by a preceding conversation or lengthy exploration.Mass Effect is an adult game and not because of thesex scene. It demands more of you than just sharp reflexes and if you let it suck you in then you may just be glimpsing one strand of the future of gaming.
If the man in your life has been subsisting on a Christmas diet of nasty socks, novelty soaps and personalised golf balls, it's time to push the boat out. These gifts will make his day - and give you a year of bonus Brownie points.The Classico by Condor is a steel road-racing bicycle made exactly as bikes used to be in the glory days of the Fifties. It's superlight and its frictionless ride is ideal for those long, Sunday-afternoon tours. Talking of frictionless rides, what about Burton's 'Last Supper' snowboard? I've never been snowboarding, but have spent years enviously watching boarders bursting through mounds of pristine powder, and it's high time I got involved. I'd also love some new jogging gear, especially a GPS watch that'll tell me how far I've come and where I'm going... in most cases, nowhere, but that Christmas waistline will hopefully focus my mind.The Leica camera is crazily expensive. But it's their first professional digital camera and it will turn your snaps into artworks. I also spotted someone with a brilliant Bang & Olufsen phone at a football match last month. It's a neat phone and an MP3 player which boasts the extraordinary acoustics of the world's greatest speaker-makers. Don't spoil the fun as you hand it over, though, by quipping that 'all men are poor communicators'. We know we are - and even a phone this cool can't change that. After all the gadgetry, the Simon Carter watch is my find of the year: simple, classic and &pound;75. Come on! Finally, no one who watched last month's Rugby World Cup wouldn't like to receive a perfect spin pass before drop-kicking an oval ball through the uprights... A match-winner for a tenner!
Audi S5&pound;39,825Miles per gallon:22.8Seats:4Good for:DreamersBad for:BeemersAs the organisers of speed-dating events know, crucial decisions are made in seconds. You may dilly-dally at the sandwich bar, worry about those Cuban heels and agonise over your wallpaper samples for hours, but when it comes to life's biggest decisions, instinct takes over. You just know it's right.So if you decide to visit your local Audi dealership to drop 40 grand on a striking four-seat, two-door, award-hoovering coupe, the salesman realises that just by setting foot on his forecourt you're half committed, your mind is almost made up, and yet you haven't even sat in the driver's seat, let alone been for a test drive. And yet he just knows...You probably also know that the S5 is the supercharged version of Audi's new A5 line-up - a B-segment car to put the frighteners on its arch-rival the BMW 3-Series. You also know the S5 has an extraordinarily smooth, 4.2-litre V8 petrol engine which will power you from a standstill to 62mph in a fraction over five seconds, and then whizz you to a capped top speed of 155mph. You'll notice that the S5 looks like a slightly inflated TT, but with two decent-sized rear seats and an enormous boot. You'll have read that Audi's new Quattro has specially adapted sports suspension, enhanced high-performance brakes and a reconfigured chassis to optimise your driving pleasure. You may even have heard about its smart key, Bang & Olufsen stereo, 40/60 front-to-rear torque split...All well and good, but nobody ever bought a car for its axle load distribution figures. The reason you'll buy this Audi is that as you stride towards it across the forecourt, your eye will catch the glinting chrome lettering on its sculpted flank - V8. These two characters, worn like a secretive tie-pin on the car's subtly down-played exterior, hint at limitless power, a bass-heavy soundtrack which will set your pulse racing, and the knowledge that you're driving a flagship car.If the V8 doesn't seal the deal, the exclusive 'S' grille design, unique front and rear bumpers, aluminium wing mirrors, three-spoke hand-stitched steering wheel, four-pipe exhaust system, colossal 19in alloy wheels and the strip of LED lights glinting on the lower edge of the headlamps like a line of teardrops on Louise Brooks's eyelashes will. Your heart knows that this is the car for you...But at this point, pen poised above the dotted line, you wake up and your mind takes over. What? What am I doing? This car costs &pound;40,000! It has white leather seats! It only has two doors! It has crap cup-holders! It has an annoying footrest which irritates me every time I change gear and it does so few miles to the gallon that even hardened petrol heads will whistle through their teeth.And so, under the guidance of the wet-lipped salesman, you head instead for the S5's more homely sibling. The A5. It shares the same DNA, has many of the same features and crosses the gainline quicker than an Argentinian number 8, but it also boasts a diesel engine which will give you 40 miles to the gallon, and all for 10 grand less...&#183;martin.love@observer.co.uk
Newsweek magazine's long cover story onThe Future of Readingfocuses on the $399 Kindle ebook reader that is finally being launched by Amazon. OK, we've had ebook readers for a decade or so, and some people were already reading books on Psion and other handhelds, without the idea taking off. What makes this one different is that it hasa feature that its predecessors never offered: wireless connectivity, via a system called Whispernet. (It's based on the EVDO broadband service offered by cell-phone carriers, allowing it to work anywhere, not just Wi-Fi hotspots.) As a result, says [Amazon CEO Jeff] Bezos, "This isn't a device, it's a service."The idea is that readers should be able to get any book ever printed in about a minute. They will also be able to subscribe to newspapers and magazines.You may well have heard of Kindle before, especially if you read Engadget, which has already published at leastseven storiesabout the device. OnSeptember 11 last year, Engadget published photos and a spec of Kindle taken from the FCC web site. Wireless devices have to go to the FCC for approval. That story said:Say hello to the Amazon Kindle, their take on a book reader device that comes equipped with a 6-inch 800 x 600 display (which we can only assume is e-ink), 256MB internal storage, smallish two-thumb keyboard cursor bar, scroll wheel, standard mini USB port, 3.5mm headphone jack, SD slot, and get this: EV-DO data!Bezos is bullish but I think it will be a tough sell: $400 buys a lot of books, or gets you the better-looking Sony eReader and $100 in change. Plus, once you've bought the hardware, how often will you spend, say, $10 on a book that's burdened with DRM and can never be loaned or resold -- or $2 on an old classic you can probably download for nothing.In the long term, I expect we all agree with Microsoft's Bill Hill (quoted in the Newsweek story) that ebooks are going to become common one day. But we were saying the same thing a decade ago, or more. Is now really the time?Update: Newsweek author Steven Levy has blogged aboutwhether the Kindle is ugly. He says:In person, the Kindle is, in my opinion, pretty attractive. And since I've had the thing for a few weeks, I've had the experience of showing it to people who haven't seen it at all. I watch carefully to see their first, gut reaction. In just about every case it is a positive, visceral response to the product design.
The growth of social network sites such as MySpace and Facebook has been one of the most interesting features of this century's web, and it's attracting a lot of academic interest. There's now a good overview of the field,Social Network Sites: Definition, History, and Scholarship, by Danah Boyd and Nicole Ellison in the Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication.One thing that's well worth a look is the timeline diagram (above), from Six Degrees on. Another interesting aspect is that different social network sites dominate in different geographical areas. As the paper says:Friendster gained traction in the Pacific Islands, Orkut became the premier SNS in Brazil before growing rapidly in India, Mixi attained widespread adoption in Japan, LunarStorm took off in Sweden, Dutch users embraced Hyves, Grono captured Poland, Hi5 was adopted in smaller countries in Latin America, South America, and Europe, and Bebo became very popular in the United Kingdom, New Zealand, and Australia.There's a cascade effect, that can be more powerful than either features or quality. Clearly it makes sense to join the same network as most of your friends, so each local market will tend to tip towards whichever one that is. However, while the initial decision made by early adopters may be influenced by a particular feature (for example, Hi5's Spanish language version), it may also have a large random element.In the long run, global systems tend to displace local ones, so it will be interesting to see what the market looks like in another five or 10 years.
The world's ugliest car? Doubtless you'll have your own list of contenders, but I've always had a soft spot for the SsangYong Rhodius in this category. It looks like an ice-cream van that has reversed into a Portakabin. A really big ice-cream van. And a really big Portakabin. Heart-stoppingly unattractive.And in second place? For me, it's traditionally a tightly fought contest between the Cadillac SRX and the Porsche Cayenne, with the Porsche just shading it on points.Where the Porsche triumphs is in bringing a refreshingly brazen "Big Top" approach to its almost complete lack of appeal. It is massive and unignorable. Its wheels reach up to roughly where the roof is on most humbler cars and its chassis is so wide that it is perfectly possible to park it illegally in three separate boroughs at the same time, attracting tickets in each.Take it up a city street and people flinch and duck - partly in order to avoid getting clonked on the head by its wing mirrors and partly because they're not clear whether this monster has been built to carry children or to carry them off.For this update on the original 2003 model, the Cayenne has received what car companies like to call "a facelift". Amusingly, though, nearly all the effort seems to have gone into tightening up some of the floppier details in the interior, while the face, bawling out for attention, has gone almost untouched. The Cayenne has been given some larger air intakes, some squintier headlights, placed farther apart from one another, and some rippling new bumpers. But it still appears to be the product of a union between Mike Tyson and a house brick.So how does it happen that people end up writing large cheques for Cayennes? Well, you have discovered, perhaps, that you can't fit a family in the 911 Carrera you bought for cash with your first City bonus. You also find that parenthood has ambushed you with a surprising interest in safety - which you mistakenly, but understandably, associate with having the tallest, broadest and fattest car on the road.You dismiss the BMW X5 because it looks depressingly like a bus, and you dismiss the Mercedes M-class because it looks even more depressingly like another bus, and then your eye alights on the Porsche Cayenne, which may also look like a bus, but at least it's a Porsche, and that's got to stand for something, right?Of course. And what it stands for is astonishing speed and power. As you look out from behind your Cayenne's leather-bound steering wheel, you could be gazing dreamily over the bonnet of a 911. It rumbles and burbles and, under stern acceleration, lets out a taut, Germanic roar. It is also so stuffed with electronic assistants ("Stability Management", "Dynamic Chassis Control") that it is almost impossible to drive it without appearing to be as gifted as Fernando Alonso.And you realise that all the people who originally cried "Betrayal!" when Porsche turned away from their sporting legacy for a while to fiddle around building an SUV were wasting their energy. The Cayenne is a sports car. It just happens to be a very large one. And a very ugly one.
A 17-year-old Dutch teenager was arrested this week on suspicion of stealing furniture worth &pound;2,800 from a hotel room. Four other teenagers were also questioned about the offence. It is believed they moved the stolen furniture into their own hotel rooms. Such a minor incident might not have merited a paragraph in the local paper had it not been for one extraordinary detail of the case: the crime happened not in real life but in a "virtual" hotel in the three-dimensional world Habbo Hotel, a children's game that only exists on the internet.It was of interest to the police not just because it was the first time it had happened in the Netherlands but because the currency used in the virtual world - Habbo credits - is exchangeable for cash: a real crime had been committed in a virtual world, in this case by hacking into the accounts of other users.This is not an isolated incident. Virtual worlds are becoming the next big thing as the internet evolves into three dimensions. Some pundits predict they will be as important as the industrial revolution. Entropia Universe, the Swedish virtual world, which had a turnover of $365m last year - and will soon become the first virtual world to be floated on the stock market - already enables users around the world to draw down money earned inside the game at ordinary cash dispensers. It is still a puzzle to many people how virtual goods that have no existence outside the computer code that generates them can be worth real money. But anything has value if people are prepared to pay for it.That is why users of the social network Facebook have started paying money to send "virtual flowers" to their friends. It is why someone in the virtual worldthere.compaid $83 in an auction for a "virtual" Levi jacket, albeit a limited edition, for their avatar (three-dimensional representation of themselves) when a real-world one cost $78.Habbo, owned by a Finnish company, Sulake, boasts 80 million members - bigger than most countries - of whom more than 7 million are regular users. It overwhelmingly attracts younger people who are given their own cartoon-like avatar and private room that they can decorate how they like and where they can entertain their friends. In a world being taken over by social networking, these spaces, where like-minded people from anywhere in the world can meet, have obvious attractions. Because of the preponderance of children, bad behaviour is taken very seriously. It was Habbo that reported the crime to the police.Some other countries have already been grappling with the challenge of how to police virtual worlds for some time. Most police stations in South Korea, the most advanced cyber-economy in the world, have cyber patrols to deal with the increasing outbreaks of criminal activity in virtual worlds, from gaming frauds or money laundering to straight theft. There have even been reports from the country of virtual gangs of avatars demanding that beginners give them virtual "protection money".If this kind of crime has so far been mainly a concern for the young and geeky, experts warn it could soon affect most of us as virtual worlds move into the mainstream. Steve Prentice, chief of research at the research organisation Gartner Research, predicts that in a few years' time 80% of all broadband users will have avatars. Millions of young people reared on multi-player games such as World of Warcraft have already adapted to it and they are being joined by corporations such as IBM which see that online worlds where games are played are now evolving into real economies where profits can be made. Corporations are already using virtual worlds as a place where executives (through their avatars) can meet instead of jetting managers to airport hotels around the globe.The most dramatic example is happening now in China, where a consortium of government and private capital is investing $30bn in a 100 square kilometre site - that's around six miles by six miles - to build the Beijing Cyber Recreation Project. Among other things this will house the infrastructure (computer server farms, electricity, online banking links, transport logistics etc) to host nine or 10 virtual worlds, each of which will be capable of supporting over 150m avatars. The Chinese are not constructing virtual worlds for fun; they are deadly serious. Although online games will be part of the mix, the underlying strategy is strictly economic: to boost the profits from the country's booming industrial base.At present a Chinese manufacturer selling a shirt might only get $1 despite the fact that it might sell in London for $20. But if buyers from around the globe can be lured into virtual malls (think Amazon in three dimensions) they can buy direct from the Chinese manufacturer at a cheaper price, capturing all the wholesaling, retailing and delivery profits for China. If China's approach is successful - and applied to more goods, from toys to cars or computers - western economies could face serious problems. At the moment they are managing to survive the collapse of manufacturing partly because low-cost Chinese goods means they enjoy low inflation while retaining the bulk of the value-added generated by the goods as they travel to customers from Chinese factories. If they lose that, there is nothing obvious left to take its place.China's virtual worlds are also intended to enable people to work from home (through their avatars) to stem migration from the countryside to towns, either by supporting the existing manufacturing effort or making "virtual goods" that are only consumed in virtual worlds such as furniture, clothes, art or buildings. This is already a booming activity in existing virtual worlds.Beijing is also inviting global corporations such as Cisco and IBM and other virtual worlds to set up in the new recreation district to take advantage of state of the art infrastructure and cheaper Chinese skilled labour. It will prove a difficult offer to resist for multinationals seeking to reduce their international cost base. Not content with being the manufacturing centre of the world, China wants to be the centre of virtual services as well.Where is this leading us all to? When asked whether what was happening in virtual worlds was on the scale of what happened during the agricultural and industrial revolutions, Robert Lai, chief scientist of the Beijing project, said: "It will be faster, bigger, more like an explosion." But China will still have fewer avatars per head of population than South Korea, where 43% of the  population is a member of the virtual space Cyworld. It can best be described as a one-stop shop for all things virtual and social, having most of the features of western internet spaces such as MySpace, Second Life, Amazon and eBay. Some 90% of all picture messages in the country are cameraphone pictures uploaded to Cyworld. Korea has built the advanced infrastructure to support it, 90% of households enjoying broadband many times faster than in Britain.As a new book, Digital Korea, by Tomi Tahonen and Jim O'Reilly, points out, once you have two out of every five members of the population in your virtual world, "the whole economy takes notice and every company wants a presence". It adds: "In Korea, every consumer brand has to be inside Cyworld. 300,000 businesses offer over 500,000 items of digital content for sale already". Cyworld, Entropia and Habbo are merely three of more than 50 virtual worlds competing for supremacy. The philosophies of these worlds vary from being ultra-libertarian like Second Life to Entropia andthere.com, which have strict rules. Control may have been one of the reasons MindArk, the company behind Entropia, managed to secure the contract for one of the Bejing virtual worlds.Ben Richardson, vice-president of there.com, which has a million members (half of them female with an average age of 22) believes virtual worlds have a great future as places that emphasise self-expression and new experiences "unbound by real-world physics and economic boundaries". Corey Bridges, executive producer of Multiverse (which provides virtual worlds for others and only charges when they start to make a profit), believes that virtual worlds  will soon be bigger than the entire entertainment industry is now.He observes: "Virtual worlds are instantaneous while Facebook is timelagged". Among numerous other worlds springing up is Stardoll, with more than 6 million users, 93% of them women who dress up celebrity dolls. Apparently guys just don't get it.A triggering point for wider adoption of virtual worlds could be an application that, curiously, been absent until now: football. And it could come from Britain. Malcolm Clark, aged 44, is raising almost &pound;7m to launchFootballSuperstars.comin May, enabling users to play anything from a casual five-a-side on a playing field to a full team game in a virtual stadium watched by spectators. He is hoping that 20 million to 30 million people around the world will join what he claims will be "the closest thing to real football that anyone has done".A key indicator of how important virtual worlds could become is what leading corporations or brands are doing. At last month's Virtual Worlds Forum in London a succession of presentations showed that companies had moved on from launching products or opening malls in Second Life to gain instant headlines to thinking about strategies.There was agreement among companies such as IBM and Diageo, the multinational drinks group, that working in virtual worlds was a good method of conducting collaborative projects, co-development, conferences, ideas generation, training and events. Joe Little of BP said that remote working was becoming the default way of running collaborative projects.BP has found that a virtual world environment was particularly good for conducting anonymous counselling. Diageo said that holding meetings virtually saved hundreds of thousands of pounds if not millions and feedback from employees was "outstanding": 90% of participants thought it was better than similar real life occasions. IBM, which has 5,000 people working virtually already, is a leader in the quest to make virtual worlds inter-operable so allowing you to take your avatar from Second Life into Entropia Universe en route for Habbo Hotel.Failure to agree standards would mean that virtual worlds would not be able to exploit their full potential and would become silos that did not  communicate with each other,  rather like mobile phone  operators.  The unanswered question is whether the hundreds of millions of people using the booming "time-lagged" social networks such as MySpace, Bebo and Facebook will migrate to the instantaneous virtual worlds that enable you to hook up in real time with other avatars across the globe.While casual visitors to the fascinating but over-hyped Second Life often do not come back, scientists, education institutions, arts groups, architects, pop groups, health workers and, of course, the sex industry, are still hard at work there exploring its limitless possibilities from building shopping malls to pop groups composed of members residing in different countries but playing in live gigs to a global audience.One example of the new seriousness is that Nanotechnology Island (backed by Britain's National Physical Laboratory) was recently launched to establish a place for the nano-science and technology communities - currently dispersed  in different parts of the world among different academic disciplines - to work together to trigger public discussion.There is a real possibility of a whole new world opening up of people who not only work in virtual international offices from their own homes but manufacture goods that are made and consumed in a virtual environment. The virtual flowers being traded in Facebook may be the beginning of something we are only just beginning to comprehend.Virtual playgroundsSecond Life (secondlife.com)Users create a virtual version of themselves, which could be true to life or a 10ft purple dragon. You can do more or less what you fancy: shopping, chatting, attending lectures, dating. Waves of brands - such as Reuters, Toyota and even Duran Duran - have a presence and there are claims its virtual economy turns over $1.5m (&pound;750,000) every day. The site claims millions of users. Second Life was founded by Philip Linden.Habbo Hotel (habbo.com/hotel)The cartoon pixel world is populated mostly by teens, who decorate their own virtual rooms in the way their parents decorated their real-life bedrooms. Habbo makes its money selling extra accessories.Club Penguin (clubpenguin.com)Disney paid $350m for it in August, hoping to tap its 12 million-strong audience of six- to 14-year-olds. Users waddle round as virtual penguins, playing games and socialising.Entropia Universe (entropiauniverse.com)Users make and sell accessories and products. Entropia was the first world to make headlines for big-money virtual world sales when one user paid $100,000 for a space station.BBC's Adventure Rock (bbc.co.uk/cbbc/adventurerock)The BBC's virtual world provides a creative, ad-free space for making drawings, video and music.World of Warcraft (worldofwarcraft.com)A game rather than social world: players have missions such as fighting monsters, fulfilling quests and spellcasting.80mThe number of avatars in Habbo, where furniture worth &pound;2,800 was  stolen from a virtual  hotel room$83The amount paid for a virtual Levi jacket  at auction. A real one cost $78Jemima Kiss
Time ShiftPC, PS3, Xbox 360In Time Shift your character wears a special suit that can slow, pause or rewind time, which means if someone's pointing a gun at you, it's possible to stop time, steal their gun and use it to shoot them to pieces, before unpausing as they vanish into a mist of hot lead. The catch is that the ability takes several seconds to recharge, and enemies come in large groups and aren't afraid to use crafty flanking manoeuvres. The plot feels a bit superfluous; after you've got the shatter gun (a double-barrelled shotgun by any other name) and the explosive arrowed bowgun, further weapons are all but irrelevant and the game's time-based puzzles are signposted so clearly you'd need to be asleep to miss them, but Time Shift still manages to be a hugely enjoyable romp.&#183;Vivendi, &pound;35-&pound;50The SimpsonsNintendo DS, PC, PS2, PS3, PSP, Xbox 360, WiiFollowing a litany of games that have proved at best derivative (The Simpsons: Hit & Run) and at worst absolutely appalling (Simpsons Wrestling), the latest release falls knowingly into the former camp, with deeply self-referential game-lore humour throughout. Realising they're in a videogame, Bart soon discovers the ability to fly short distances as Bartman; Homer has a burp weapon and turns into a human bowling ball; and Marge can fire Maggie through small gaps and command crowds of passers-by using a megaphone. Although knowing, the hideous cliches flow even faster than the game gives itself credit for, with bog-standard collection tasks only spiced up by its extremely witty dialogue. While not dreadful, this is a slightly tedious way of watching approximately two all-new episodes of the Simpsons, which doesn't represent the best value for money.&#183;Electronic Arts, &pound;35-&pound;50Call Of Duty 4: Modern WarfareXbox 360, PS3, PC, Nintendo DSFinally abandoning the olden days of the second world war, Call Of Duty's fourth outing takes place in the present day, mostly in bleak chunks of the former Soviet Union. Telling the story of a joint SAS/US Marine Corp operation involving the usual mixture of nuclear terrorism and evil henchmen, this is a squad-based shooter where your team simply gets on with its own job, leaving you to shoot stuff and admire their highly authentic-looking room- and building-clearing tactics, if that's what makes you happy. Feeling refreshingly like a cog in a machine rather than a one-man army, the single-player game is unfortunately a pitifully slight affair, clocking in at around eight hours on first play through, which is a real shame because, with Halo 3 out, its Xbox Live multiplayer levels remain virtually competitor-free. Competent, realistic and brief - that's Call Of Duty 4.&#183;Activision, &pound;35-&pound;50
Gazing into the techno-future can be fun. We all dream of utopias involving benign robots, food for all and fusion power that is free, safe and unlimited, but then there are the cacotopias, too - nightmare visions of malevolent machines that turn on mankind. It has been usual to suppose that the two-pronged threat to our liberty and our privacy would emanate from big business and government, from untrammelled corporate and bureaucratic greed, stupidity and wickedness. But let me paint another scenario...I expect all of you have heard of the risks posed by the various forms of attack code that go under names such as virus, Trojan horse, worm, malware and so on. These are little bits of clandestine code that your computer picks up, usually through email attachments, designed to infect the host (your PC), raid its address books, send out copies of themselves to all your friends and contacts, and then either spitefully screw with your operating system, rendering it inoperative, or, more likely these days, record your keyboard input and send back to the malicious code's originator a log of such keystrokes that can be used to determine passwords, credit card numbers and other sensitive data.Such attacks have been well enough publicised, and companies such as Symantec, Norton and McAfee have grown up, offering self-updating protection against these horrors; Microsoft, whose Windows operating system has been the victim of 99.9% of all such attacks, stuffs newer and newer wads of digital kitchen towel into the holes in its leaky old system and has brought out a new one, Vista, so front-ended with dialogue boxes and "Are you sures?" that it's safer, but maddening to use. A nuisance, but many of us live in burglar-alarmed houses and work in swipe card-protected offices: we cope with it. Panic over. Virus scare stories are a thing of the past.But, and here I finally come to my nightmare scenario, imagine malicious code written by cunning, ruthless criminals from, oh, Russia let's say, that could turn your computer into a slave machine, a zombie PC that can connect with other zombie PCs to create a whole network of robot computers that would grow almost exponentially in power and bandwidth. Such a robot network, or "botnet", would soon overtake all the supercomputers on earth in might and reach.Let us further imagine that this botnet learned to defend itself against the security forces by moving the location of its command and control centres so fast and so randomly that its head could never be cut off. Let us even further imagine that the criminal masterminds in charge of this colossal entity divided it up into sections that could be sold, leased or rented (with instructions for use) to other criminals who could use it for spamming, share scamming, phishing, identity theft, fraud, Distributed Denial of Services (DDoS) attacks and any other lucrative enterprise they chose. The fiendish nature of the code would mean infected PCs wouldn't freeze or slow down noticeably, so individual computer-users such as you and me would have no idea that we were enslaved players in this vast criminal conspiracy, the transmission routes would change literally daily from porn sites to cheerful links or witty birthday cards and friendly pointers to interesting blog pages - anything. Those profiting would be almost impossible to catch and the entity itself, the botnet, would grow and refine itself until it became the very stuff of science fiction: the neural nets of William Gibson, Skynet in the Terminator films, the Borg collective in Star Trek - you know the genre.We must do something, surely, to stop this hellish vision from turning into a hellish reality before it's too late? Well, my (not very surprising) kick in the teeth is this. It is already too late. Such botnets exist and one of them, the Storm botnet, has grown so fast, so terrifyingly and so cunningly that in the past eight months it has overtaken all the others. Storm is an amalgam of millions (no one knows quite how many) of slave PCs. It sends out billions of spam messages, stock market scam mails, and appears to be behind many examples of DDoS attacks, which for reasons of malice, politics or criminal extortion close down or threaten to close down legitimate servers by flooding them with more data traffic than they can handle. Using sci-fi-sounding techniques such as Fast Flux, Storm evades capture and surveillance, and recent evidence leads those who know about these things to conclude that parts of it have indeed been leased or sold as "botkits" to less technically savvy criminals. And, yes, all the evidence points to clever young Russians coding away for big money: one nerdski will write the backdoor code in isolation from others, who will be writing code for the keylogging software and the address-book-lifter, and so on.Storm began life early this year, but as of a couple of weeks ago it had grown into easily the biggest and most sophisticated botnet the world has seen.But according to the Honeynet Project, Dark Reading and other reliable sites that monitor this subject, Storm is only the beginning. In a year's time it will in all likelihood seem naive, clumsy and harmless. Slashdot carried this headline only the other day: "There's a new peer-to-peer based botnet emerging that could blow the notorious Storm away in size and sophistication."The big corporate players, who until now have tended to play down the influence and power of malicious hosting ("My dear, it sends out all the wrong signals about our industry, so discomforting, sh!"), are starting to make squeaky noises.It all reminds me of the Aids epidemic of the 80s. Intense public hysteria followed by years of muffled silence. Surely we have our antiretrovirals for HIV and our virus protection for PCs - what's the fuss?I'm afraid the same rules about protection in both areas can and must still apply. Don't trust those you don't know. Don't have unprotected sex with someone whose status you are unsure of and don't, don't, don't click on that alluring headline, that tempting YouTube link, that interesting ad, that funny-sounding birthday card or joke unless you are 100% certain of its origin.So there you are. Botnet: not  a diaphanous material designed to make the buttocks look more alluring, but rather the very stuff of sci-fi nightmares. And it's living with us now. Be vigilant, my friends.darkreading.com: doom-sayershoneynet.org: the good guysslashdot.org: news for nerds&#183;stephenfry.com/blog&#183;Gadget Clinic returns next week.
MondayGames magazines and the internetEtch A Sketch on mobileWikiGame Week 15: Chapter OneTuesdayShooting Andy Warhol'Hidden content' in Manhunt 2 causes store banWednesdayAssassin's Creed and MarioSimCity on One Laptop Per ChildThursdayReviews, etcPlaying games with Facebook: the future of virtual worldsFridayBig Game Friday
Sony'sprice cuton the PlayStation 3, and the introduction of a worse-value 40GB model, seem to have increased sales by 250-300%, reportsGamesIndustry.biz."It's the breakthrough we've been anticipating," Sony chairman and CEO Howard Stringer told The Associated Press. "We've been holding our breath."He added: "It's a little fortuitous that the Wii is running out of hardware."Put the two together and you get the latest GamesIndustry.biz headline:PS3 outsells Wii in Japan. Sales in Japan only for the week ending November 11 were, on Media Create's numbers:1. Nintendo DS: 78,884 2. PlayStation Portable: 58,964 3. PlayStation 3: 55,924 4. Nintendo Wii: 34,456 5. PlayStation 2: 9,043 6. Xbox 360: 5,817Amusingly enough, the previous week's headline wasXbox 360 outsells PlayStation 3 in Japan. In this case, the Xbox 360 sold 17,673 units thanks to the release of Namco Bandai's Ace Combat 6, while the PS3 only sold 17,434 units.I think the moral is not to set too much store by one week's figures, or one country's figures, especially not a week where something like Halo 3 (Xbox 360 Outsells Wii) or a Super Mario game comes out. Over the long term, the Wii still looks like the winner, but the PS3 may not be as dead as it looked.We've never had a three-way tie before, but that would certainly make for an interesting time in the next round of the console wars.
Google "is gearing up to make a serious run at buying wireless spectrum, a chunk of the airwaves that can be used to provide mobile phone and Internet services, in a Federal Communications Commission auction in January. Google is prepared to bid on its own without any partners, say people familiar with the matter. It is working out a plan to finance its bid, which could run $4.6 billion or higher, that would rely on its own cash and possibly some borrowed money," reportsThe Wall Street Journal.Sure, Google doesn't know much about the wireless business, but it has motivations. The story says:Google also views open wireless networks as key to sidestep any telephone and cable company efforts to make it difficult for consumers to access Google services, or to charge Google to deliver the services to consumers over their Internet connections. Carriers such as Verizon Wireless, a joint venture of Verizon Communications Inc. and Vodafone Group PLC, say they guard their networks closely to provide high-quality phone and Internet service and protect consumers from security breaches and invasions of privacy.Behind the scenes, Google also is eyeing financial opportunities, as revenue for U.S. wireless carriers hit $95 billion last year, the research firm Yankee Group estimates. Google could reap subscriber fees if it controlled an operator, and experiment with models such as a one-time licensing fee for consumers to use its network and no monthly access charges. Company executives have said that cellular handsets or services could eventually be subsidized by revenue from advertising consumers view on their cellphones.With companies as big and powerful as Google, there is sometimes a tendency for the speculation to run ahead of the reality. It's as well to remember, for example, that the US market is not currently dominated by Google-branded Gphones or free coast-to-coast Google-operated Wi-Fi, and that not everyone has a Google-branded PC running Google-branded Linux attached to a global Google Operating System.However, if the company really is going to punt at least $5 billion into the US mobile market, it must have some serious plans.
On the Technology site today I'vewritten about StupidFilter, a nascent project which is trying to apply spam-filtering techniques (Bayesian filtering and so on) to the comments that rain down on sites such as YouTube and, um, any really visible site.Have a read - it includes a short interview with one of the founders - and tell us: is it a good idea? Is it feasible? Would you use it? And if you had it, what of the electronic communications that you get would you apply it to? Email? Blogs? Comments? IM? Phone calls (assuming a fast enough speech-to-text converter)?Obviously, we're looking for only the most intelligent comments here. We don't want to become part of Stupidfilter's corpus of idiocy...
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Even if it isn't a huge joke, the idea behindStupidFilter- to create a sort of "spam filter for stupidity in comments" - is surely timely. Lord, do we need something to filter out all the stupidity out there.The trouble is, whose stupidity? One person's stupidity may be another's rather clever elephant trap. Especially when it comes to asking questions.The guys at StupidFilter explain it thus: "In the beginning, the internet was a place where you could communicate intelligently with similarly erudite people. Then,Eternal Septemberhit and we were lost in the noise. The advent of user-driven web content has further compounded the problem, straining our tolerance to breaking point."Eternal September, in case you don't want to follow the link, refers to the time since the advent of mass ISPs. Before, every September, a new wave of fresh-faced first-time students would arrive at American universities and get free internet accounts, whereupon newsgroups - then the principal forum for discussion - would be overrun with idiots. Especially the newsgroups whose names began with "a", such as alt.folklore.urban. But once mass ISPs arrived, every month became September.Rampant stupidityOn the evidence of the above quote, the folks behind StupidFilter sound like any other Grumpy Old (in Internet Years) Men. But what they're doing is, in itself, interesting: they plan to build some open-source filter software that can detect rampant stupidity in written English."This will be accomplished with weighted Bayesian or similar analysis and some rules-based processing, similar to spam detection engines. The primary challenge inherent in our task is that stupidity is not a binary distinction, but rather a matter of degree. To this end, we're collecting a ranked corpus of stupid text, gleaned from user comments on public websites and ranked on a five-point scale."Where did they get all that raw stupidity from? Why, the place that Homer Simpson would call "my new TV" - YouTube. As you know, you could put a Richard Feynman lecture up there and it would attract comments that you'd think something barely smarter than a thumb tack had posted. (Go on,sample one.)Of course, being able to see a breadth of comments on a particular subject that aren't as witty, erudite, informed and plain brilliant as your own, is part of what makes the internet great. It is also why so many politicians run as far as they can from the net. Spending ages on a website reading comments must be like endlessly knocking on doors in their constituencies - and you know how much politicians hate that from how infrequently they do it: once every four or five years.The question is whether we're ready for a filter that will make it all vanish. Certainly the arrival of Eternal September also brought spam, both on Usenet and in email, because the spammers realised that there were a growing number of people who were stupid enough to believe their promises of pharmaceutical or financial wonders. Even if the proportion of folk foolish enough to believe them remained steady, the number going online kept on rising.Spam filteringAs a result there is now a huge business in spam filtering. Expose your email inbox to the unfiltered net and you'll simply never see the real messages for the spam. It's running somewhere north of 80% of all messages at present.Similarly, since sites like YouTube have put the ability to comment in the hands of anyone coordinated enough to move a mouse and click, they're overrun with spam too (a lot of it automated - for some reason YouTube hasn't yet twigged just how many auto-generated comments are being placed there).This, though, might be the undoing of StupidFilter. Sure, it will be able to cut out the spam comments. It would be disappointing if it couldn't. But will it be able to differentiate what seems like a stupid remark from one that is actually rather clever or revealing?Two examples. The most recent came from the UK on Wednesday, when Lord Admiral West of Spitheadchanged his mindabout whether he agreed with longer police detention for terrorism suspects. When asked on the BBC's Today radio programme, he said he didn't. An hour later, after going to Downing Street, he was asked again and he said he did.Now, viewed through the StupidFilter, the second time of asking might seem pretty pointless. After all, he had already answered the question once that day, hadn't he? Strike that, the filter might say. But the human knows that context is all: going into Downing Street can have a remarkable effect on a minister's mind.Intel InsideThe other example came in August, when Apple CEO Steve Jobs was asked by a business reporterwhy his company's machines don't have "Intel Inside" stickerson them, since they do have Intel chips inside, and Intel actually pays computer makers to attach those stickers. (A Toshiba executive once called them "the cocaine of the computer industry". Wow.)Lots of people called the question stupid. Except for one thing: it was a question that hadn't been asked before, and Jobs's reply was revealing about his thought processes.As Engadget blogged it, the replies (from Jobs and senior marketing vice president Phil Schiller) were:Jobs: "What can I say? We like our own stickers better. Don't get me wrong, we love Intel - combined with our OS, we've really tuned them well together. Everyone knows we use Intel processors, we'd rather tell them about the product inside the box."Schiller: "Too much stuff on PC box, stickers on laptop, trialware... You don't have to peel stuff off."Would StupidFilter be able to identify the essential cleverness of those two questions? OK, so its ambitions might be more limited - filtering comments on YouTube is a long way from political reporting or asking questions of Steve Jobs - but when you start to talk about clever and smart, you're stepping on the toes of artificial intelligence. And as AI developers have discovered, when it comes to intelligence context is everything.I'll keep watching to see how StupidFilter goes. After all, if it's good, it could have all sorts of uses. One thing I'll apply it to is all the email I get. Now that would be intriguing.I fired some of my own questions at Paul Starr, who styles himself as the StupidFilter Moderator Tzar.Q: I was wondering: what's your timescale on this?A: We're on schedule to have an alpha code release and proof-of-concept demo by December. How quickly things progress beyond that depends somewhat on how successful our software is at training itself - Gabe, the lead developer, can answer this question more accurately.Q: Isn't "stupidity" a bit like art - that you tend to know it by seeing it, but it's really hard to describe?A: Some kinds of stupidity are quite subtle and difficult, if not impossible, to programmatically detect. We're aiming much lower than that, though; our filter is looking only for the dumbest of the dumb, text so riddled with chat-speak acronyms, poor capitalisation and punctuation that we can pronounce it as stupid while remaining ignorant of what is actually being said.Q: Isn't using YouTube as your corpus really going to be a cross-seeding with spam?A: Our moderators have the option of labeling potential corpusadditions as "spam," if they indeed are spam and not a legitimate comment. One important difference between spam and stupidity is that spam is constantly changing as spammers attempt to get around spam filters and compete for the attention of potential targets, whereas stupidity is relatively constant, since there's almost no pressure for producers of stupid text to change their ways.Q: What's your expectation of what proportion of comments are  actually not stupid?A: Gabe may be able to answer this question better than I can, but in my experience ranking samples, it seems like roughly 40% of comments are sufficiently coherent that they're not useful as  samples of stupidity.Thanks for your interest in StupidFilter!
Today is probably the peak of what has been the best 3-4 months of gaming releases in history - Bioshock, Halo 3, COD4, Zelda DS and the rest - with three of 2007's biggest titles finally available. Mario Galaxy (Wii), Assassin's Creed (360, PS3) and Crysis (PC) are all released today, along with a host of smaller stuff that will get lost in the rush. All three have reviewed well - AC slightly less well than the others - so which one do you buy?If you have a Wii and any interest in playing more than just Wii Sports or Big Brain Academy then Mario is a must. Heck, any Mario game is worth playing if only for nostalgia's sake. I've only managed a brief go so far - Mass Effect is taking up all my time - but it has already banished the rather painful memories of Mario Sunshine, the last "proper" Mario game. While Sunshine has aged badly - or maybe my platform skills aren't what they were? - Galaxy, after a few minutes getting used to, feels like a joy to play. If only you got achievement points for playing it.That isn't a problem with Assassin's Creed, assuming you play it on 360 of course. I've been playing the game during Mass Effect breaks so haven't progressed very far. But so far, so good. The novelty of climbing high and enjoying the view hasn't worn off yet.Last up, and potentially the most expensive, is Crysis, the new shooter from the guys behind the Far Cry. Set in another tropical paradise, this is a glorious looking experience but one that requires a pricey PC to fully appreciate. With the right rig the game looks astounding - oh sweet, sweet foliage - but most of us will be playing it on less able kit. It still looks pretty on lesser machines but Crysis may be the catalyst for some gamers to buy a new PC and finally "upgrade" to Vista. Not me though, XP suits just fine.So, assuming your wallet can handle it, which one of today's big games are you going for?
Technology's relentless advance has finally invaded the timeless world of the cello, bassoon and other orchestral instruments, with the debut of the largest digital orchestra in the world.Fifty music students at York University staged a hi-tech twist on the traditional symphony last night by sitting on a concert hall floor and playing nothing but laptop computers.Floods of amplified music filled the cavernous building in York, while conductor Dr Ambrose Field used a range of new gestures to draw out mouse movements and triple clicks. Other music was activated by players making hand movements which were filmed and turned into music by the laptops' inbuilt cameras.In one of three pieces specially written for the event, the computers also played counterpoint to a jazz trumpeter in a partnership designed to "test the possibilities of digital sound".Although one of the works, written by Field and two graduate students, was an improvisation, most of the music followed the traditional stave. Field, whose musicians dressed in formal black and used Apple MacBooks, said: "This is obviously innovative but at the same time we want to keep and use the human interaction which is part of a symphony orchestra."As well as the conducting novelties, this involved laptop liaison which allowed each musician to hear the others - central to success in traditional orchestras - and not to get entirely absorbed in the screen.  Field said: "There was a danger that it might end up looking like 50 people writing emails together, but we think we've avoided that."Field's own composition, 1906, combined a slowed-down early film by Thomas Edison with "new and ethereal" computer-generated sounds."The aim," he said, "is to encourage the audience to ponder where technology is taking us."
Don't tell my wife, but for the past four months, she has been testing a DAB digital radio. It's a double-blind study, because her complete lack of interest in technology means she doesn't know if she's listening to DAB or FM: the only buttons she uses are the on-off switch and the volume control. It's objective because I have not asked her opinion: the "principle of quality" is whether things get used more.All this started after I attacked DAB and a friend at Virgin Radio was shocked to find I didn't actually have one. He loaned me a Pure Elan DX40, a low-end mains-powered table-top model. I installed it on the kitchen table, showed my wife the on-off switch, and turned it on. She turned it off. So it goes.Bearing in mind the small sample size, these are my findings. First, convenience is DAB's only real advantage. My wife ended up using the DAB radio rather than our old manual-tuning Sony FM/AM/LW ghetto-blaster, even though the Sony sounds better - the Elan DX40 has a thin and somewhat tinny sound.Second, DAB doesn't sound any better than FM, assuming reasonable reception. To my ears, DAB sounds worse than FM, even on the Elan, but my wife either didn't notice or didn't care whether I'd secretly switched the setting to FM.I can understand some people claiming that DAB "sounds better" if they mean that they are not getting any FM hiss, crackles or whatever. But still, this is a matter of reception quality, not sound quality, and DAB can have its own reception problems.Third, the extra DAB radio stations are not worth paying for, unless you really want something like BBC7, the BBC Asian Network, or GCap's The Jazz or Chill. Even the most popular digital-only station, Emap's The Hits, only gets a 4% share of "digital platform listening," and 0.5% of all radio listening, according to Rajar, which measures radio audience figures. (2007, Q2).And if you want this sort of station, you can probably listen to it already, without buying a DAB radio. The BBC stations and The Hits are among the 26 digital radio stations available on Freeview, and there are thousands more on the web. The bad news is that you can buy a Freeview box for less than the cost of DAB radio and you get a few dozen TV channels thrown in free.It gets worse. We all know that content is king: if you want, say, Test Match Special or the latest grime, you will put up with mediocre sound quality rather than listen to Biber's Rosary Sonatas in stunning stereo, or (in my case) the reverse. And if you want content, it's on the net, usually in better-than-DAB quality. There are thousands of stations available, including customisable ones from sites such as Pandora and Last.fm. If you can get them all on a cheap Wi-Fi tabletop radio, does DAB still have a point?We have the worst of both worlds. DAB could offer better sound quality, but the quality has been reduced below FM levels to make room for more stations, and it's still falling. DAB could offer better programs, but the broadcasters are on a hiding to nothing if they switch people from a few profitable FM stations to many unprofitable DAB stations (expensive to run, small audiences, very little advertising).Finally, the UK's DAB system is old and technically obsolete, and I think it will eventually have to be replaced with the new world standard, DAB+. That was the point of my original attack. At the time, I thought that switching to the much more efficient DAB+, which will allow more stations and higher quality at lower cost, was DAB's best hope. Now I wonder if even that will be enough.
