You can read all the past weeks posts by clickinghere. Topics include Windows Vista delayed until 2007, France tries to bust Apple's iTunes monopoly, Google tackles Yahoo! Finance, and Web site files complaint against Google.
Another diary entry from Thomas Arundel of Indie developer,Introversion. Here Thomas attends the Independent Games Festival awards and experiences the best moment of his life...Wednesday"Whenever you're asked to attend a convention or festival, you forget about the groundhog day experience of playing yourgame, again and again and again. By demo number 314 we're starting to fade and Chris is hoping that the evil virus force would finally wipe out all the bloody Darwinians so we wouldn't have to explain how you save their pathetic little asses."Between talking with the press, publishers, other developers and fans we were trying to figure out how we could make an impression atthe award ceremony. We were nominated for four awards, and we genuinely had no idea how well we had done. It didn't take us long to figure out that if you're going to go to an award ceremony in California, you need to do it in dinner jackets. With an hour to go we rushed over to Billy-Bobs Tux Hire and Grill and explained that we needed four suits, shirts and shoes and he had 30 mins to fix it up."Thinking we all looked like Bond, we emerged half an hour later in our speedy but ill-fitting dinner ware (I looked more like a bouncer than a movie star and Chris was strangely reminiscent of Fredo from the Godfather). We asked one of the lunatics that San Jose employs to drive its cabs, to take us to the civic centre and spent the trip explaining to him why computer games are not the digital manifestation of lucifer and an affront to the Lord Jesus Christ."Walking into the civic centre was phenomenal the atmosphere was more that of a rock concert than award ceremony with two thousand game developers sat in anticipation of embarrassing acceptance speeches from nervy programmers who never get up on stage. Fearing that we may have to address this audience we went strait to the bar and started knocking back the JD and coke."Darwinia's first nomination was for Technical Excellence and when we were announced I was shaking so much I thought I was going to drop my drink. We went on to pick up Innovation in Game Design and - incredibly - the Shamus McNally grand prize. Tom had already given the vote of thanks, but it seemed appropriate to give a little speech. I got a touch carried away, and vocalised a view on publishers that touched a chord with the audience. For 60 seconds (we timed it on the video afterwards :) the hall erupted in applause and I genuinely experienced the best moment of my life."The rest of the story is a haze of make-up, TV, press, champagne, messages of congratulations and a 3am victory stumble back to the hotel. I'm writing this, sat on the floor cowering behind our Darwinia pod still stunned that we actually won. I'm off to start a rock band!"
George ChristopherThirty-six-year-old Liverpudlian actor George Christopher will forever be known to everyone except his Dad as Ziggy, the lovable scamp he played in Grange Hill in the 1980s era of Pogo Patterson, Gonch and Hollo. His official site has videos to jog the memory - including ones of his spell as drug-crazed little Jimmy Corkhill in Brookside. There are also archive photos of the Grange Hill gang off duty - including Michelle Gayle looking grumpy, and reunions featuring a middle-aged Zammo and the gang.JDwww.ziggy.tv
PartizanFilm production company Partizan is home to some great directors, among them French duo Alex &amp; Martin who made U2's Vertigo promo and Antoine Bardou-Jacquet who did the Honda "cog" commercial. This site is bursting with examples of their work - short films, trailers, full-length music videos. Highlights include a trailer and podcast from Michel Gondry on his new movie The Science Of Sleep and Nima Nourizadeh's weirdtastic music video for Hot Chip. Feast your eyes.Johnny Deewww.partizan.com
Our final GDC diarist is David Millard a senior designer atKuju, one of the most successful independent developers in the country. David filed all of his entries in one email so here's a bumper pack of GDC memories including Spore, Battlestar Galactica and Shadow of the Colossus...Tuesday"Arrived in a rainy and uninviting San Jose yesterday afternoon, making it to our hotel by the close of the first day. GDC has already started with those lucky enough to have the right pass enjoying full day-long seminars on all sorts of topics including "Game Designers Workshop" where you can learn about process and techniques. This kind of thing is entirely unique to GDC and where a lot of knowledge can be shared."But today is Tuesday, and first port of call (after breakfast) is business, catching up with US contacts and touring Silicon Valley in the rain. Then, in the afternoon, we head back into San Jose to attend our first GDC lecture. First thing is to register and pick up badges, which we have seen hanging around the necks of nearly every person we passed on the way through the wet streets. We then head to a hotel opposite the Convention centre, winding through the marble encrusted corridors, passing industry friends and associates, shaking hands and catching up."Once we find the right meeting rooms we enjoy an afternoon of Tutorials on the newUnreal 3 engineand tools set. This is an amazing and fascinating, invite only affair, withEpicreally exposing the heart of their excellent technology. This is what GDC is really about: learning about technique from the real experts.After that, we head back to our base hotel in central San Jose to bump into our late arriving colleagues from the UK. Again, we can't walk through the lobby without shaking a few familiar hands. After a brief catch up drink, we head off into San Jose to browse the delights of the local games shops, looking for those hard to find classic titles that were never available in the UK. After some dinner, it's back to our hotel to catch up on work, answer emails and write reports on the days findings. Tomorrow is the start of the full GDC program, and I can't wait..."Wednesday"First full day of GDC, and I am fairly excited about the first lecture I have chosen to attend. Day starts with a breakfast meeting to discuss plans, aided by coffee and pancakes. We then head off into central San Jose, and the near empty streets of yesterday's rain are replaced with a sunny bustle of badge- wielding delegates. We head into the mayhem and search through the busy corridors and inviting conference rooms till we find our lecture."This is a typical GDC talk, held in a hotel style conference room with a projector screen showing a Powerpoint presentation next to the speaker at the front. These talks usually last 45 mins with 15 mins of questions. Styles range from fascinating post-mortems of already released games to basic guides, to simple concepts, like writing a document or making a tool set. Our first lecture is aboutmaking an FPS scaryand has some intriguing ideas and valuable thoughts to take away [I'll grill David for more details on this - Keef]."After that we have some business to do, so we race off to a meeting in a nearby hotel. As I mentioned yesterday, this industry gathering is a great opportunity to catch up with people you can't usually see. After that we find ourselves racing through the red carpeted streets of San Jose to make it to our next lecture. I head into the main auditorium to see atalkabout the TV series Battlestar Galactica and how it was updated for a contemporary audience (explaining concepts of being true to the IP but taking into consideration the new audience)."This is a really great presentation with video clips and anecdotes. But then, typically, I get a text 5 mins before the end to go to a meeting, so I dash out the back door and speed into the convention centre to roam the expo floor for my colleague. This really sums up any industry event, in that it always becomes a very last minute, plan changing affair where you must think on your feet and be ready for anything. As I roam the expo, I spot all sorts of cool new stuff."After our meeting (and party ticket collection from a colleague) we head off for one of my most anticipated talks, apost-mortem of Shadow of the Colossus. This presentation includes headphones, as it is being given by the key staff in Japanese. They reveal a number of fascinating working methods and a really inspirational working ethic which allows me to fill six sides of A4 [I'm hassling him for more info on this, too - Keef]. After that, it's off to our last business meeting, a cab ride away in a distant hotel. We end our day back in San Jose, enjoying a meal in the base hotel and then heading off for an invite only party, complete with fighting robots!"Thursday"This is shaping up to be the day of the event. Iwata is givinghis keynoteabout Nintendo's vision of their future, which means possible announcements and I am gagging to get to the auditorium. We have our free hotel breakfast and cab it into San Jose."Today is a busy, stacked up mix of business and lectures and my thoughts are with queuing for the keynote as I know there are always long lines. Our first lecture isan amazing piecefrom theSporeteam about prototyping games, including techniques and reasons. This is probably one of the best, most cohesive talks we have attended, packing in reams of information and being farley funny in the process!"It's keynote time and the line is over 500 meters long, as expected, reaching almost the whole way around the block. Luckly though, we get in, and in an atmosphere of pure excitement, hear amazing stories about the development of DS and the new Revolution. There is a near football crowd roar when we are told we are getting a free game when we exit, but the gifts keep coming in the form of a trailer for DS Zelda. By the end, the crowd are in a frenzy and the whole thing has felt slightly religious."We head out, collecting game and jumping back in the queue for the Will Wright talk. Lunch is followed by a rollercoaster of business and parties that stretched out into the night. We seemed not to stop moving and talking from about 2pm, jostling from one location to another, talking and drinking. Of course, I managed to play my newly acquired DS smash hit along the way, scoring an unimpressive brain age of 71 initially, getting it down to 38 in a few stolen moments. Of note this year, the Microsoft party was pretty good, with playable games and a live band. As you can imagine, we bumped into quite a few people there, and talked a little shop. In the end, this was the best day so far, full of announcements and surprises. Business was excellent, so watch this space!"
Google received a boost yesterday as it gained inclusion in the benchmark Standard & Poor's 500 stock index, another indication of its growing acceptance as a business rather than a product of the dotcom boom.Many leading US investors, whose portfoilos track the S&P; 500, will have to buy Google's shares when the company joins at the start of April, replacing oil and gas producer Burlington Resources.Google's market capitalisation of more than $101bn (&pound;58bn) will make it the 19th largest stock in the index. Google shares rose more than 7% yesterday.
Driver: Parallel Lines (PS2, XBOX)Starting in the disco-fuelled criminal free for all that 1978 New York was, according to Driver: Parallel Lines, this is the story of hero Tanner's graduation from petty offender to mob wheelman. Even non-gamers may remember the furore surrounding the previous instalment, Driv3r - an irredeemable fiasco released in a clearly unfinished and practically unplayable state - and while this isn't the same shambolic ruin, it's still a pretty weak effort. For a driving game with only perfunctory on-foot sections, car handling is peculiarly unexciting, with powerslides never feeling right and regular police chases no more than a tedious chore. And once again you'll occasionally find your car merging with pieces of scenery or sinking through the road, making the whole thing deeply uninspiring at best.&#183;Atari, &pound;40Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter (PS2, XBOX, XBOX 360)Separating itself from the usual nonsense about terrorists and thinly veiled Iraq simulators, Advanced Warfighter begins with the assassination of the Canadian prime minister and has you protecting the Mexican president. To play, this is Ghost Recon business as usual, with tactical third-person stalking like a cross between Full Spectrum Warrior and Rainbow Six, with the former's extreme caution and application of proper military technique, and the latter's emphasis on joining in with your own shooting skills, although the puny AI of your team can make them a handful to manage. It's stunningly beautiful on Xbox 360, although flickery bits of scenery can break the spell, and the long distance between checkpoints can test players' patience.&#183;Ubisoft, &pound;30-&pound;40Video games awardsArt AppreciationRecognising video games' growing cultural and economic significance (game sales in the UK are now 50% larger than box office takings), the British Academy of Film and Television Arts has announced that the video games awards will be extended to become its "third arm". While the British Academy Video Games Awards creates a slightly less pronounceable acronym than its film and TV counterpart, its importance in proselytising a sceptical arts establishment can't be underestimated. Electronic Arts' Paul Jackson said, "Bafta's move to give video games equal status with film and television reflects games' contribution to artistic innovation and new forms of storytelling." The big winner last March was Half-Life 2, picking up six awards including best game, but you'll have to wait until October for the results of this year's ceremony, which have been moved to coincide with London Games Week.
MondayHow to challenge negative stereotypes about gamesWin a PS2 and a copy of Sonic RidersTuesday"Preview Ho" to out lazy games journalistsOn the buses24 - the videogameDo you know a MMOG widow?Xbox 360: 'we're sort of on track' says Microsoft execThe price is rightWednesdayTeaching journalism skills through gamesGamers think -and kill - differentlyMicrosoft's iPod killer... FinallyThursdayThe GDC diaries: Andrew OliverThe GDC diaries: Jules DavisESA launches Video Game Voters citizen lobbying organisationMobile gaming at GDCSony chucks boomerang...TechnologyFrom paddles to pads: Is controller design killing creativity in videogames?FridayThe GDC diaries: Chris LeeThe GDC diaries: Thomas ArundelKatamari Klosed: Is this a lesson for EA?The GDC diaries: Andrew Oliver, day twoOblivion day
"From dawn to dusk, humans rely on tools to get us through the day. And from the beginning of civilization, we've used them to build and shape our world. In order to celebrate these devices, and so we might reflect upon the ways that we are the tools we use, Forbes.com decided to compile a list of the 20 most important tools of all time," saysForbes magazine.The top five are The Knife, The Abacus, The Compass, The Pencil and The Harness. They have to be hand held tools so there's no room for the plow. The spoon and the broom didn't make the top 20. The pot came in at number 16: surely it should have been second!
The weekend starts now.
Sony's Phil Harrison kicked off this year's Game Developers Conference in San Jose with a keynote speech, PlayStation 3: Beyond the Box. GameDaily.biz hadlive coverageplusa summaryplusthe Q&amp;A.. There wasn't much new, apart from the game demos, excpet Sony siad it was going to do pretty much the same thing as Xbox Live, only more. No word on pricing.Live coverage of the keynote given by Nintendo's Satoru Iwata ishere. But "in short, no new Revolution details revealed, aside from the additions to the download library from the Sega Genesis and Hudson Soft and the new Zelda game." Planet GameCube has afull transcript.In possibly the most important report of GDC2006, IGN coversthe Top 10 free pens.
On Tuesday, I posted something about the appearance of theGoogle Finance beta, and its appeal compared with the market leader, Yahoo Finance. Yahoo blogger Jeremy Zawodny has responded to similar comments withWhy Google Finance Makes Me Sad. He used to work on the product, and says: "It makes me sad because virtually all of the new/innovative/cool features in Google Finance are things we talked about YEARS ago. Many of them I'd lobbied for repeatedly. Some were even prototyped."He also points out that Katie Jacobs Stanton, whoannounced Google Finance, "was one of the best people we had in Yahoo! Finance".It's not too late for Yahoo Finance, of course, but it illustrates the point that if you don't keep moving, eventually you get overtaken....
It may be raining in London but it was sunny inCyrodiilthis morning. Yup,Oblivionis so good I spent a pre-breakfast hour galloping across the countryside. Sleep? I've got a 7-month old daughter who likes waking up very very early. Of course, the big news is that finally - FINALLY - the game is released in Europe today. If you have a 360 then Oblivion is a no-brainer. At the very least you can show off the graphics, though chances are you'll be sucked in by the sheer scope of what is on offer. Be warned though - Oblivion has a steep learning curve, far removed from the handholding console norm. The manual is essential as on-screen prompts only give you the very basic info. And even then there is still confusion, with the manual only barely adequate. But clear out a few hours, start playing and it all makes sense. RPG, action game, virtual world tour - Oblivion is all of these and a lot more. I think this is already a contender for Game of the Year. Post your Oblivion impressions in the comments.
Here's a second diary entry from Blitz Games co-founder Andrew Oliver, including some comments on the keynote from President of Nintendo, Satoru Iwata...Thursday"The second day of the Game Developers Convention expo saw akeynote talk by Satoru Iwata, President of Nintendo. As with Sony yesterday, the audience packed in, this time to see where Nintendo would be taking gamers in the coming years."Iwata-san talked about how successful the Nintendo DS has been to date, selling more than 15 million units, thanks to incredible titles like Nintendogs, Mario Kart, Super Mario etc. And they have just launched a new restyled DS, looking more akin to an iPod and with bigger better screens."However, Nintendo sees that they are still targeting gamers, and they want to target people that don't traditionally play games, so they decided to find what 'games' non-gamers play and found it was things like crosswords and Sudoku. So the company has decided to use the DS to create this style of game. Now that isn't revolutionary by any stretch of the imagination, but as always, Nintendo have managed to make their 'Brain Train' game so 'addictive' that within months of launch in Japan, it has sold more than 4 million copies. And to launch the game in the US today, under the new name of 'Brain Age' they gave the few thousand strong audience all a free copy."Following this trend Iwata-san then went on to talk about their next home console the 'Revolution'. He argued that so many people don't play games because they find the controller intimidating with 16 buttons and 2 joysticks. And yet everyone feels comfortable using a TV remote. So Nintendo are designing their next console to use what looks like a remote control. But, whilst it may look simple, it certainly hides it's complexity well. It's a wireless device that can be used as a pointer on the TV screen, but also knows it's position, tilt etc., in 3D space."Now, whilst it's a little difficult to imagine how that works for controlling games, I can tell you, as a developer of a launch Revolution title, that it works brilliantly. You have to re-design games to take this into account, but a 3D wand pointer is far more descriptive than two joysticks and some buttons. Nintendo have not only shown some traditional games working well with the new controller, but also hinted at some 'work in progress' of game types that wouldn't have been possible before."The Nintendo Revolution doesn't have the same massive processing power of the new consoles from Sony and Microsoft, but then the DS has less processor power than the PSP, but features like the Microphone and touch screen have made it a clear winner, although a lot is owed to the originality and creative thinking of Nintendo."The 'Revolution' will be fully on-line with emulators for older game systems, so you can download your favourite old Nintendo games, and also announced that you would also be able to play classic Sega games from the older systems."
Oh woe woe, the most innovative game series in ages has now officially closed its doors, dismantling thewebsitethat was its hub in the three years since it launched on the PlayStation 2.Gamasutrareports that the Katamari team has been officially dissolved.Namco Japan's official website for popular franchise Katamari Damacy has announced that the team behind both the original game and its sequel, We Love Katamari, has dissolved, and that no sequels have been planned.This may not be a surprise for most, as series director and creator Keita Takahashi has publicly stated that the idea of building a franchise off of the original game was never his intention, and that his involvement in the game's sequel was forced on him by publisher Namco's willingness to green-light a sequel with or without his involvement. ... Me and My Katamari, the portable iteration being released in North America for the PSP next week, is the last officially announced game in the series. However, the game was done without the direct supervision of Takahashi, which shows publisher Namco's willingness to create games in the series without his input.Sadly, all things must end (unless they're the FIFA series, in which case, they go on forever and ever and ever and ever), but it is rather disappointing that publishers Namco didn't at least wait until after the European release of the final game in the trilogy,Me and My Katamarifor the Sony PSP, before shutting up shop. Harumph.Still, I'm glad that Katamari touched my heart, and didn't become a hackneyed shell of its former self, over-used and over-designed by a hungry sequel-happy publisher.And speaking through the allusions, EA's in trouble. The company's profits continue to decline steadily. In response, the publisher is actively seeking new and innovative content. According toWonderlandandBusiness Week, more things like the forthcoming Spore are on the cards. They'll be pumping up their new property output from 30% to 50%. How they have managed thus far with such a low low standard in innovation is beyond me. Perhaps the Katamari story could be a lesson to those who believe re-launching something to death makes it a better product.
Another diary entry from Tuesday (clearly there has been too much networking and too little diary writing...), this time courtesy of Thomas Arundel fromIntroversion, the famed indie developer responsible for critically acclaimed crossover hit, Darwinia. The game was nominated for fourIGFawards (held during GDC) andwonthe Grand Prize as well as claiming first in the Technical Excellence and Innovation In Visual Arts categories. Arundel is, according to his email last night, "hungover to hell..."Tuesday"After finding our little booth (for the presentation of Darwinia) comfortably buried at the back of the IGF pavilion we spent the first 15 minutes hoping that the sparks flying from the power adapter wouldn't kill Chris (our lead developer) or set fire to the stand."Once we'd deleted all the source code from the king laptop in a frenzy of unnecessary security paranoia, we headed up to the fabled Fairmount Hotel bar for a pre-conference drink. Two and a half million presenters, speakers, exhibitionists, fans and hangers-on were squeezed into a gladiatorial pit where they discussed the on-going MS v Sony war or other suitably relevant topics over a vodka and tonic of which they offer 72 different varieties."Dinner then followed with one of our licensees. The thing about America is that everything is big. The menus, the cars, and in this case the bill. Insane. 6 of us and this guy managed to rack us up a $1500 bill. Welcome to the world of video games!"A short one, but Thomas promises he has some 'awesome stories' on the way...
Last week, Gamesblog asked a selection of UK developers to send back diaries of their experiences at GDC. Here's an entry from Chris Lee, commercial director ofFreeStyleGames, a small independant development studio based in Warwick.Tuesday"It would be too simple and too soon to suggest that Sony had already 'won' GDC. However, even after day one they have amassed an impressive run count and look pretty tough to beat. The buzz and enthusiasm throughout the bars and restaurants of San Jose last night was clearly focused on Sony's opening innings and Phil Harrison's ability to strike home runs almost at will. The scoring after day one looks something like this:1, Stellar real time demos from Ninja Theory, Evolution and SCEE London, clearly showing the power of the PS3 Cell's SPUs 2. Next generation Singstar, showing the potential of an online 'service' and highlighting the efforts Sony are making to push genuinely mass market 3,4 &amp; 5. Full digital distribution of content, PSP &amp; PS3 connectivity and fully integrated shop fronts in F1 and MotorStorm! 6. Shadow of the Collosus cleaning up at the GDC Awards"Microsoft have confirmed they plan to have 80 titles available for Xbox360 by June and an ever increasing Xbox Live experience. By E3 they'll need all this fire power and more to make sure it remains a fair fight."
Why would a power company subsidise the sale of lightbulbs that use less electricity? At a time when suppliers are seen as rapacious profit-takers, the idea that any would be encouraging us to use less power might seem perverse. Yet Powergen, one of the UK's largest energy suppliers, is offering cash sponsorship to 200 major retailers around the country to enable them to sell compact fluorescent lights (CFLs) - which use about one-fifth as much power as normal incandescent bulbs, last more than eight times longer, but cost between &pound;2 and &pound;8 - for about 50p.That means the typical household could change all its lightbulbs (24 on average) to energy-saving ones for the price of a CD - and reduce its electricity bill by &pound;240 a year.Powergen's scheme is partly driven by the government, which shows no signs of meeting its 2002 pledge to reduce carbon emissions by 12m tonnes by 2010; indeed the environmental pressure group Friends of the Earth says the UK's emissions are increasing. The government's problem is that while most people are willing to do their bit for the environment, and routinely recycle household refuse, good intentions are notoriously fragile when set against convenience and expense. Nothing beats a financial incentive - or disincentive. Action is needed to cut the amount of energy we demand from power stations; encouraging people to put in light bulbs that need less power is a start.Thus, to fulfil its obligation to the government's Energy Efficiency Commitment, Powergen and the Lighting Association (the trade body for the UK lighting industry) set up the Energy Efficient Lamp Scheme (Eels) to offer bulbs at lower cost. (Powergen has also offered householders free CFL bulbs in some areas.)One key to the scheme's success is the improvement in low-energy lightbulbs. Once, &pound;8 would buy you what looked like a miniature, pretzel-shaped strip light. But the new generation of CFLs have been scaled down and their entrails enclosed within a glass bulb, giving a look much like their incandescent ancestors, now more than a century old.A crucial advance for CFLs is the quality and colour of light they produce, which is almost identical to that of incandescents; earlier versions conjured unpleasant associations with underground car parks. By contrast the Philips Softone range, for example, produces a gentle, peachy glow, ideal for a bedside lamp or to create a warm effect in a living room. Apart from a split-second delay at switch-on, followed by a few seconds' warm-up before it reaches full brightness, the difference is imperceptible. Newer versions that work with dimmer switches are also becoming available.The reason for getting us to switch to CFLs is simple. Germana Canzi, a campaigner for Friends of the Earth, explains: "Electricity counts for roughly one-fifth of our energy use, and is responsible for approximately a third of our carbon emissions. More than 70% of this electricity is generated using fossil fuels, and in the conversion process, around 65% of that energy is wasted."Reducing wastageIn short, she says: "Well over half of the carbon emitted for generating electricity is not being used to produce anything."One way to reduce this wastage, says Dhiru Galani, technical advisor at the lightbulb maker Osram, is to switch to CFLs: "If each of the 20 million households in the UK were to install only one, enough energy would be saved to close a power station."But to the customer, energy savings mean cash. "Each standard bulb replaced with an energy saver can take up to &pound;10 per year off an electricity bill," says James Russill, the evaluation and quality manager at the Energy Saving Trust. "By replacing every light fitting in the home with a low-energy bulb, the average family could save up to &pound;240 per year."And it's that saving which is useful to companies such as Powergen. If their customers use less energy, the power companies don't have to build more power stations or wind farms - which saves them millions. Free and subsidised light bulbs represent "negawatts" - power that doesn't have to be supplied. Each 100-watt incandescent bulb replaced with a 25-watt CFL equivalent is 75 negawatts in the bank.And CFLs are only the beginning of the lighting revolution. While they may begin to dominate the interior lighting market for the next five years, low-energy LEDs (light emitting diodes) are already proving their usefulness for exterior and decorative lighting - and could soon move indoors, too. Red LEDs have been familiar since the digital watches of the 1970s. But in the past few years they have grown brighter and gained new colours: white LEDs are now found in torches, cycle lamps and decorative lights.LEDs are made of semiconductor wafers inside a small polymeric lens up to half a centimetre across and set on a metallic heat sink. They contain compounds of gallium, arsenic, nitrogen, indium and phosphorus and are a lower hazardous waste risk than CFLs, which contain a small amount of mercury.Modern LEDs emit a pinpoint light, and their first principal use was for backlights in computers and mobile phones. But they are also being put to good use in desk lamps, below kitchen cupboards and as spotlights in enclosed spaces such as glass cabinets.Osram's Galani says: "They are not suitable for lighting up a room, as they have a very small light source. It is possible to make LED lights that are comparable [in brightness] to a 25-watt bulb, but they are very expensive to manufacture, and need a power controller." Does that rule them out? No, but they need improvement. "It will take at least another five years before they can be made suitable for domestic lighting. The only way you could light a room from LEDs would be to cluster large numbers together - but if you were to do this, overheating would be a problem."However, LED lighting is a tantalising prospect for those seeking energy efficiency. Their potential lifespan is at least five times that of a fluorescent lamp, and up to 100 times that of an incandescent bulb. They are also much more efficient. Galani says that incandescent bulbs convert only 5% to 8% of their energy into visible light; halogen spotlights about 12%-15%; CFLs, 15% to 20%; an LED 35%. The rest of the energy is wasted as heat.Another obstacle to the use of LEDs for interior lighting is colour consistency. "Manufacturers are endeavouring to master this," says Chris Elcomb, senior engineer at Atkins Odlin, which installed LED-based lighting on trees on London's South Bank. "If they run hot or cold they can change colour, so if you used them in a centrally heated house, the colour would be different at varying temperatures."So for now, the benchmark of efficient indoor lighting remains the CFL. But even there, the room for energy savings is huge. Frances Galvanoni, trade marketing manager at the Energy Saving Trust, says that if every household installed three such bulbs, "enough electricity would be saved in a year to supply all of the street lighting in the UK".But why not think bigger? The Philips corporation, which has invested &euro;400m in green lighting technology over the past five years, is doing just that. Lydia Abele, a spokeswoman, says: "By replacing all the energy-inefficient lighting in Europe with the new generation of energy-saving bulbs, carbon emissions could be reduced by 28m tons per year - the equivalent of 50m barrels of oil." However, that's only about three days' oil use for the region.A clearer picture - and one that puts the "negawatts" value of CFLs into perspective - comes from Jonathan Smith of E.ON, Powergen's parent company. "Changing every light fitting in all 20m households in the UK to energy-saver bulbs would result in a reduction on fuel bills of around &pound;4.8bn - the cost of building 64 offshore wind farms, 53 biomass power stations, or 14 gas-fired power stations."That's a lot of pollution that could be saved just by changing a light bulb. The question is, how quickly will people realise it?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
"What if there was alternative for Microsoft Word that would install and open in 6 seconds, read and write Microsoft Word .doc files and run on Macintosh, Microsoft Windows or Linux computers? And oh yeah, it was FREE so consumers didn't have to pay $499 for Microsoft Office. I'm excited to announce that day is here," saysMichael Robertson, the rich businessman behindLinspire(formerly Lindows) andNvu..So, not only has he launchedajaxWrite, he says: "Every week we will launch a new sophisticated program on Wednesday at 12:00 PST onajaxlaunch.com."I encourage you to try ajaxWrite.com from Firefox 1.5, or newer, and experience the future of software firsthand. There's no cost. No registration required. Nothing to install. Not even an email address is required.Comment: It doesn't work with Internet Explorer.Update: In a post headedajaxWrong, Alex Russel points out that the site's "marketing is truly reprehensible" because it doesn't actually use Ajax:This thing is appropriating the necessarily amorphous terminology of "Ajax" for an implementation that is directly at odds with why Ajax is an important technology. A XUL app being billed as "Ajax" is just as laughable as a Flex or XAML app suddenly growing the same moniker. That it's Mozilla's walled-garden language doesn't really excuse the gaffe.
It's that time of the day again. Time to chat.
Ooh, fight. You'll recall that back in December, a news article in the esteemed science journal Naturesuggestedthat Wikipedia is no worse for accuracy (on scientific topics) than Britannica.The people at Britannica clearly decided that revenge is a dish best eaten cold. Now they've published their rebuttal, and it's pretty vicious. You can read it allhere(835KB PDF).The top line:Nature's research was invalid. As we demonstrate below, almost everything about the journal's investigation, from the criteria for identifying inaccuracies to the discrepancy between the article text and its headline, was wrong and misleading. Dozens of inaccuracies attributed to the Britannicawere not inaccuracies at all, and a number of the articles Nature examined were not even in the Encyclopædia Britannica. The study was so poorly carried out and its findings so error-laden that it was completely without merit.Here are some highlights from the 20-page rebuttal:"contrary to the usual practice of making all data freely available in order to facilitate a study's replication by others, Nature declined our repeated requests to make the full reports available.""Articles on Dolly the Sheep and Steven Wolfram reviewed by Nature were taken not from the Encyclopædia Britannica but from previous editions of the Britannica Book of the Year, which are archived on our site and clearly dated and identified. Yearbook authors are often given greater latitude to express personal views than writers of encyclopedia articles. In the Wolfram article, the Nature reviewer disagreed with Britannica's author on the phrasing of two sentences in which point of view figured significantly, and on the basis of those disagreements Nature's editors counted the two points as "inaccuracies" in Britannica."Nature's comments on the article "ethanol" were based on text not from the Encyclopædia Britannica but from Britannica Student Encyclopedia, a more basic work for younger readers. One of the reviewer's comments referred to text that does not appear in any Britannica publication.""One Nature reviewer was sent only the 350-word introduction to Encyclopædia Britannica's 6,000-word article on lipids. For Nature to have represented Britannica's extensive coverage of the subject with this short squib was absurd, and it invalidated the findings of omissions alleged by the reviewer, since those matters were covered in sections of the article he or she never saw."And so on. You get the gist, and those are just the first three. In summary, Britannica challenges Nature:We now call on Nature to fulfill its commitment to good scholarship and send us the unabridged reviewer reports on which the study was based. And as we have shown here, the facts call for a complete retraction of the study and the article in which it was reported. We call on Nature to make the retraction and make it promptly.What's at stake besides accuracy, of course, isbrand. Britannica is a hugely valuable brand; it makes CDs which sell for a lot of money; it has a long history behind it; it aims to be a beacon of knowledge and accuracy online and off. If an encyclopaedia cobbled together by the teeming masses can do roughly the same job, then what's the value of the brand?Of course you might look at that and think it's a very narrow subject. A few science articles in a dead-tree publication and online? But it's not - it's about what sort of world we're going to be getting our information from in the future. This is more than a spat. Stay tuned.
"Online payment company PayPal said on Wednesday it was preparing to offer a service for consumers to make purchases or money transfers using simple text messaging via mobile phones," reportsReuters."The service, known as PayPal Mobile, will be launched in the next couple of weeks in the United States, Canada and Britain. Other markets worldwide will follow for the world's biggest online payments service."Seethis pageThe PayPal site says: "Send money conveniently to friends and family. Instead of mailing a check, send money by phone." It's not just for buying things on eBay.As Reuters notes, news of the service leaked out "when bloggers found links to test pages on PayPal's Web site describing it."
Microsoft has delayed the long-awaited consumer upgrade of its Windows operating system until January 2007, delivering a severe blow to PC manufacturers, retailers and chip-makers who had hoped to cash in this Christmas on the first upgrade in five years.The postponement is the second time Microsoft has pushed back the launch of Microsoft Vista. The length of time between upgrades is unusually long for the software group, which has in the past released new versions every three or four years. The last time it upgraded the system was with Windows XP in 2001.James Allchin, co-president of the Windows division, said he had arrived at the decision to take a few extra weeks after a meeting with the heads of the Windows development team this week. He said there was a broad desire to push the quality higher, especially in security. The company has hired outside firms and asked them to try to hack in to the new system.A successful launch of the upgrade is crucial for Microsoft. Windows is loaded on to 90% of the world's computers and remains the biggest revenue spinner for the software firm. The launch of Vista is expected to be the biggest product launch in the technology industry since Windows 95, more than a decade ago.Mr Allchin said: "We could have just gone ahead, but I didn't think it was the right thing to do. We're setting stringent quality bars on what we do. We needed just a few more weeks."The company had originally hoped to release the new version in 2005. That was pushed back to the second half of 2006 before the latest delay. Microsoft shares were trading 2.5% lower after yesterday's announcement. Shares in Dell, Intel and Hewlett-Packard also closed lower. In Britain shares in Dixons and Currys owner, DSG International, fell 1.2% in early trading although it was also affected by disappointing figures from rival Kesa, owner of Comet. Shares in the resurgent Apple Computer were trading higher.Analysts said the delay would cause the most pain for Microsoft's partners. David Smith, analyst at Gartner, said: "It's a critical eight to 10 weeks for retailing and for the producers. The retailers and the PC hardware manufacturers work on razor-thin margins, so the impact there could be pretty severe."Microsoft will begin shipping Vista to business customers in November. The company faced problems with its last big product launch, the games console Xbox 360. The console, released last November, quickly sold out leaving shelves empty in the weeks ahead of Christmas. This week it said it would accelerate production, partly in response to the postponement of Sony's PlayStation 3. The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday that Microsoft, frustrated at the slow progress of Vista, is preparing to install new management in the Windows division. The report said Steve Sinofsky, a senior vice-president at the firm, would be named as head of the division this week.The first postponement of the Vista launch was announced in August 2004. At the time the company scaled back its ambitions for the product, taking out a feature called WinFS that would make it easier for users to store and find information on their PCs. Windows Vista is promising beefed-up security and a new interface with 3D scrolling between different windows. The company says it will also display and record high-definition television on the computer.Matt Rosoff, analyst with independent research firm Directions on Microsoft, said: "PC makers are not going to be happy about it, but I don't know exactly what they're going to do. They'll wait. There's not a whole lot of choice at this point."
I work in a large firm that implements a web blocking system. Out of curiosity, is there a way to bypass these systems to view web pages unrestricted? Oscar LesterYou can often get round censoring and blocking systems by accessing sites via another website called an anonymizer. This acts as a proxy server and fetches pages, sometimes via other intermediaries, then passes them on to you. Examples includeThe Cloak,Megaproxy,ID Zap,JAP,Anonymouseand the granddaddy of them all,Anonymizer.com.Different services have different restrictions, which can often be removed by paying a small fee. Ideally, use a secure (https) service that encrypts the data streams so even your ISP cannot see which sites you are visiting - but these are not usually free. Your computer department or repressive national government can block access to these sites, but there are dozens more, and it may be a good idea to switch services frequently.Note: the terms of service for anonymizers may ban any unlawful or dubious activities including spamming, abuse, impersonation, copyright infringement and sometimes file sharing. Providers will not guarantee to protect your privacy if you do not follow their terms of service. Also, many companies have a written AUP (Acceptable Use Policy) to cover internet use, and violating that can get you reprimanded or even fired.
A friend recently trashed his laptop but claims a technician told him his digital pictures could be recovered from the camera's memory card - including deleted pictures. Is this correct? I am about to sell a camera with a CompactFlash card. What are the options for wiping it? Andy WhitehouseYes, deleted pictures can often be recovered from memory cards. When it comes to deleting them permanently, cards vary, so see if any instructions came with the card, or check the manufacturer's website. Otherwise, several of the picture-recovery programs provide a "secure erase" feature that writes (say) a zero to every memory cell. Examples includeZero Assumption Recovery,Lexar Image Rescuefor CompactFlash cards, andImage Recall 3.
Windows XP Professional suddenly slows right down, and if I look at the performance graph in Task Manager, it shows 100% of the processor is in use all the time. The guilty file appears to be nvsc32.exe. Any suggestions? Robin CoxThe Task Manager, invoked by pressing Ctrl-Alt-Del, is a good way to check for processes that have run wild. In this case, the bad news is that nvsc32.exe is usually W32.Bropia.N, a fairly new variant of the W32.Spybot worm. This uses either winis.exe or nvsc32.exe when it creates a file in the System directory. If your anti-virus scanner has missed it, Symantec offers a removal toolhere
I saw an interesting piece of artwork this morning: it was made out of the froth on the top of a cup of coffee.It wasn't in an art gallery but in the form of a clip submitted to Google Video, one of an exploding number of web sites offering a free home for your creative (or not so creative) endeavours.Video is definitely the new rock 'n' roll, promising to be the killer application of broadband internet as it is rolled out at increasing speed across the world.Google and Yahoo are only bit players in this new revolution that is led by upstart YouTube, which is, amazingly, reported to be streaming 30 million videos a day. That is more than Yahoo and Google combined, let alone the myriad smaller operators.Even if the true figure is a lot less than that, the website's popularity is still astonishing. Another indicator of the impact it has already made is that it has over 56,000 links on Technorati, the web search engine used by serial surfers to track what is happening in the blog world.Sites such as YouTube are exploiting the fact that mass storage is now so cheap that sites can offer seemingly unlimited free hosting facilities for anyone who wants it, while trying to finance themselves by attracting advertising revenue.It sounds like the perfect combination of business and pleasure. Yet there are already other sites in the pipeline that could potentially blow it out of the water.For instance Revver (yet to be formally launched) offers a similar service to YouTube but gives the person who submits the video a 50% (yes, 50%) share in the revenue generated by advertising.Each video has an advert tagged to the end of it. If the viewer clicks on it, it generates revenue that is shared.This works even if you email the video to someone else, or put it up on another site such as YouTube or del.icio.us. In fact a site that posts or links to your video will get 20% of the income, and the rest is split 50/50 between you and Revver.Also, you can veto adverts. If you don't want, say, tobacco advertising to be linked to your site, then you can tick a box to say so.What I like about Revver is that it seems to have a genuine social dimension and is enfranchising the content provider in a way that other companies in the west are not.A similar thing is happening in the UK at the moment. The mobile phone company 3 offers users a revenue share when video clips they have submitted (whether hot news from citizen journalists or just entertainment) are downloaded by other phone users.With this scheme you are charged 50p for each upload and your share of download income is only 10%. This is not very generous, but at least the idea of revenue sharing is gathering support.Video sites have already become places where would-be singers, poets, pop groups or any other artists can showcase their talents, and growing numbers of groups have achieved lift-off in their careers in this way.But if revenue-sharing video sites catch on they could become the end not the means for creative artists of every kind.If a group attracts a huge following to a site that gives it 50% or more of the advertising takings then it has no need to cash in on its fame by issuing CDs, downloads or even doing gigs, because it could earn a far bigger share through a revenue-sharing web site than it ever could through one of the giant music companies.Video really is the new rock 'n' roll. Now, back to that cup of coffee.
The rumours flying around for the past week or two have proven to be correct: Dell is taking over Alienware, the hot-box games PC manufacturer. However, it seems both companies will continue to do business as before, with Dell's Intel-based XPS machines competing against Alienware's AMD-based PCs.According toThe San Jose Mercury News:Nelson Gonzalez, CEO of privately held Alienware in Miami, said his company will operate as an independent subsidiary of Dell. It will keep all of its 750 employees and continue to focus on gamer PCs. It also will continue to sell machines with AMD chips."We will continue to do things the way we have always done," said Gonzalez. "That means if AMD has a better product, we'll use it."Gonzalez said Alienware had to choose between going public to raise money for expansion, or finding a strategic partner. Since Dell has been interested in the gaming market for several years, he said it was a natural fit.Comment: The trick will be for Dell to improve Alienware's operational and manufacturing efficiency (where Dell has proved to be unbeatable) without Alienware losing the street-cred on which its sales depend.
Tom Armitagegavea talkon games controllers at O'Reilly's Emerging Technologies conference a couple of weeks ago, but the reason it's relevant to today is because he'll be giving the same talk to an audience in London's SoHo as part of the InSync series, supported by Creative London and Skillset, the Sector Skills Council for the audio-visual industries.Dave "Need to Know" Greenis one of the curators of this evening's panel, which will talk games controllers as well as audio-visuals.More information on the series ishere.
Lots of games bits in today'sTechnology section, the largest of which isan interviewwith little-known games designer Peter Molyneux.The thing that worries me about being a "named" game designer is there aren't any new designers popping their heads up. I mean, everybody's going to get pretty sick of us as we fade into our 50s.You said it Pete. He makes a good point though, but does anyone, other than the highly informed, actually buy a game because of its designer?Elsewhere, Alekswants to hearmore of your techno fantasies and interactive dreams, especially if they involve PS3. Considering how some of you feel about the Revolution I think she is very brave. And then there are the reviews, with Ghost Recon, 24 and the latest Lord of the Rings getting the once-over.
...and thankfully it's not coming back. I am of course referring to the controversial PS3 controller design, revealed last year and reviled by almost everyone who saw it. At his GDC keynote yesterday Phil Harrisonconfirmedthat the device would be re-designed.I wonder if this decision wasjustdown to the widespread gamer disapproval, or whether Nintendo's groundbreaking Revolution pad had anything to do with it?
For those of us who've been following the maddening world of mobile gaming for five years or more, it's interesting to watch the sector finally making an impact at industry events. Last year's E3 saw an enormous rise in mobile gaming exhibitors, and clearly, now GDC is being used as a platform for announcements and analysis.Nokia, for example, used GDC torevealits forthcoming next generation mobile games platform, due for launch next year. Burned a little by its experiences with the under-powered N-Gage but still aware of the importance of mobile entertainment, Nokia is looking to turn mobile handsets into user-friendly and powerful gaming devices.User-friendliness appears to be a major theme at the event. In his keynote speech, Square Enix president Daishiro Okada talked about an 'entry barrier' to mobile games, with phone users often unable and unwilling to try them out. Judging bythisnews story on Gamesindustry.biz, his solutions weren't particularly helpful..."The way to combat this, Okada believes, is to 'develop more killer apps and 'it' games which customers are willing to spend money on.'"Cue a room full of mobile developers slapping their foreheads and exclaiming, "Darn it, why didn't I think of that?"Alsocovered byGamesindustry.biz, Dave Collier, CEO of Tokyo-based mobile content provider, Pikkie, gave a talk on the need for mobile developers to be innovative and to properly embrace the mobile platform, using the intrinsic communication and networking capabilities to create games that phone userswantto play. He went onto highlight some examples, including the real-time online two-player version of Puzzle Bobble and EA's Need For Speed translation, which features downloadable content.Collier is a great speaker - I caught him at several mobile industry events while he was working for Namco's mobile division - and his message to western mobile publishers has been the same for the last few years: try to be a bit like Korean and Japanese companies for whom technical innovation and kookie game design seem second nature. But there are key problems here. Developers in the west are yet to develop close working relationships with network operators, which makes it difficult to set up 'connected' elements beyond simple high-score tables. In Europe there are also massive issues with deviceandnetwork fragmentation - too many different phones and too many different carriers to build effective massmarket online gaming systems. (Although infrastructure companies likeTerraplayare trying and making inroads...)There's also the cultural element - as we have seen with Game Boy and more recently DS, Japanese and Korean developers are just better at creating portable games. There is an understanding of 'kawai' graphics and experiences that western developers don't get because, often, they're too obsessed with mimicking console games and/or being cool.Whatever, it's important for mobile gaming to gain a foothold in these major industry events. It is a modest shuffle in the right direction.
In response to the increasing anti-videogame legislation hitting the US courts in recent months, the haggardEntertainment Software Association(ESA) has launched theVideo Game Voters Networkproject, designed to mobilise gamers against threats to their free speech.It's a fascinating approach to both relieving the load that the industry body must deal with and encouraging a traditionally politically maligned population to become engaged with front line politics (other than slagging off anti-games legislators on their weblogs).From their website:The Video Game Voters Network is a place for American gamers to organize and defend against threats to video games. This medium is fully protected speech under the Constitution, and receives the same First Amendment protection as books, movies, music, and cable television programs. The Network opposes efforts to regulate the content of entertainment media, including proposals to criminalize the sale of certain games to minors, or regulate video games differently from movies, music, books, and other media. The Network also enables gamers to stay educated about issues, reach out to federal, state, and local officials, and register to vote. The Video Game Voters Network is a project sponsored by the Entertainment Software Association, a trade group representing America's video game publishers.Is this just a modern version of the stalwart "Rock the Vote" campaign, designed to encourage more disaffected youth to get involved with politics, or is this a place American gamers can really make a difference?viagamepolitics
Here are the first two instalments of Jules Davis' GDC diaries. Jules is CTO of middleware developer,Geomericsand is showing off a next-gen lighting demo at the event.Tuesday 21"It's been a couple of years since I've made it to GDC but when we walked into the lobby of the Fairmont last night, inspite of 18 hours of travel, the familiar excitement returned. The place was packed out with half the movers and shakers in the games industry from top designers, artists and programmers to the execs of some of the biggest publishers in the world. For five days the Fairmont lobby is the social centre of games industry and where much of the real business takes place. This year with a second wet bar, a sushi stall and Natural Motion paying for drinks, by 7pm, it was packed."I spent the next few hours wandering the lobby renewing old friendships, catching up on gossip and getting introduced to a host of new faces. This year I had my own story to tell too, with my recent move to Geomerics."At this GDC, whether it's excitement about the new possibilities or arguing about which console is going to come out on top, the thing on everyone's minds is the new generation of games machines. Now that most of the big announcements have been made, there are still many questions to be answered and GDC is a great time to find them. It's also the first GDC where real experience of developing on nex-gen hardware is being discussed."It's going to be a great week."Wednesday 22"It's lunch-time and I've just attended Phil Harrison's keynote 'Playstation 3: Beyond the Box' the level of excitement was amazing as people queued round four sides of the theatre block to get in. Once in the last to arrive were standing four or more deep on the balcony round the highest point watching the slides and the demos on a 1080p high definition projector."Phil covered the comparative position of the various existing consoles focussing on the impressive statistics about the life cycle of Playsation and Playstation 2. Before moving on to the plans for PSP and PS3. PSP will have a camera and GPS add-ons soon as well as continuing enhancements to the online integration in the OS."Sony are now talking up the online side of both the new platforms with a strong push on downloadable content, e-commerce and building community. But the audience was there for the PS3 demos and the titbits of new information."We had some stunning looking demos from Insomniac, my favourite being a video from what looked like a section of a PS3 Ratchet and Clank game. The complexity of the ambient world and the visual and audio fidelity were stunning."We also saw some cool nice shots of the Ninja Theory engine doing physics on huge numbers of soldiers and a beautiful real-time demo of the upcoming Warhawk title."I gotta run now, theTiganetworking lunch beckons."
Last week I emailed several developers and asked if they'd be willing to write diaries covering their experiences at this year'sGame Developers Conferencein San Jose, California. Here's the first instalment from 8bit programming legend Andrew Oliver, co-founder ofBlitz Games..."Today, Silicon valley's, San Jose's Convention centre played host to the annual Game Developers Conference, boasting 15,000 attendees. The highlight of the day was Sony's Keynote talk about PSP and of course the forthcoming PlayStation 3."For PSP they are releasing a plug-in camera with microphone, suggesting that you would be able to use the PSP as a wi-fi video phone. They also announced you would soon be able to download games directly from the internet via wi-fi and are even providing a PSOne emulator, so that you can play classic old games on your PSP."Phil Harrison, President of Worldwide Studios for Sony Computer Entertainment, confirmed the worldwide release for the Playstation 3 would be November '06, and would that the console would ship with a 60GB Hard drive. They also showed their vision for how games will be played and paid for, explaining how e-distribution, pay per play and in game advertising would sit alongside traditional Disc sales. He explained why the PS3 needs a Blu-ray disc with its massive 50GB+ storage capacity as players will expect real virtual worlds in high-definition and that takes enormous models of extreme fidelity."They teased the packed audience with jaw-droppingly impressive real-time demos of some up coming PS3 titles, namely 'Warhawk', featuring a massive futuristic aerial dogfight of epic proportions. 'Motostorm' an off-road driving game that looked super-realistic and scenes from the next 'Getaway' game, showing a busy scene from Piccadilly that looks uncannily real, revealing the incredible power inside the PS3."The rumour from the show floor [reflecting earlier estimates from Merrill Lynch - Keef] is that the console would cost Sony something in the region of $800 to manufacture, and yet they must sell at a competitive price to consumers, so how much can they afford to subsidize this supercomputer? This could easily be made harder if Microsoft decide to drop the price of the Xbox360 around the time of PS3 launch, which seems highly likely. In this battle of the heavyweights the winner will actually be the consumer, being able to buy incredible consoles at a fraction of their real value."
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Let there be light - efficientlyStandard light bulbs waste huge amounts of energy, but low-energy versions were too ugly and expensive - until now. Richard Gibson reports on how "compact fluorescent" and LED bulbs are the futureThe rock star designer who's game for a challengePeter Molyneux, the founder of Lionhead Studios, has made a career out of experimentation. He talks exclusively to Technology about collaboration, morality and the human angleRomancing the phoneOnline dating services now allow you to text a message of love to help track down the partner of your dreams, writes Marc ZakianIf distributed processing can search for aliens, why not web pages?Inspired by projects that harness spare time on PCs, one programmer wants to hand back control of internet searching to users, reports Michael PollittPicture all the news that's fit to uploadThere's a lot of hype about citizen journalism - but what's it like being one, and can you get paid? Victor Keegan finds outPen-based computers could still get the thumbs downWill Microsoft's Origami project fulfil the dreams of three decades of computer geeks or just be a niche-filling exercise - and how do you explain mobile phones, asks Jack SchofieldFree Our Data:Ordnance Survey challenged to open upSir Tim Berners-Lee wants access to Ordnance Survey data - and the freedom to manipulate it as he sees fit.Free Our Data:Government organisations under pressure to make moneyThe focus of the campaign this past week: which organisations to tackle and what data do they hold?Dreams are still plentiful, even if the PS3 is fantasyHysteria broke out on the Gamesblog last week following an announcement that advanced the next-generation console race from easy listening to fever pitch, says Aleks KrotoskiGamesGhost Recon: Advanced Warfighter | 24 - The Game | Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth 2Is Google obliged to list your web site?On the face of it, no - but a judge might get to decide after Kinderstart, a web site for parents of children aged under seven, filed suit against the search giant in CaliforniaWill my Intel-based Mac melt if I run Windows XP on it?Probably not, though rumours to that effect earlier this week gave a new meaning to the phrase "OS flame wars"Ask Jack· Send your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query. Visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.TechnobileMobile phone features are just excess baggage when they eat up power reserves and reduce your talk time, says Mat Smith.Read this week's lettersSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town so we can publish themTechnobileMobile phone features are just excess baggage when they eat up power reserves and reduce your talk time, says Mat Smith
Are you worried about Google's growing dominance of the internet search market? Alex Chudnovsky certainly is. To develop a community-led alternative, the Birmingham-based Russian programmer is building a new type of search engine. By harnessing the power of distributed computing, he's already managed to build an index that covers 1bn web pages.He has called his venture Majestic-12, possibly a reference to the alleged secret committee formed after the 1947 Roswell UFO incident. His passion for technically challenging work stems from worries about Google's iron grip on the market, its tight control of search results, and even whether some sites are indexed at all."Because of their success, they have effectively created a monopoly in the virtual world. Monopolies never end up well for consumers," says Chudnovsky, who has developed search engines and other software for leading UK retailers. "I want to build the biggest UK search index."He has a challenge. The market research firm Nielsen/NetRatings says Google has a UK market share of more than 60%, with Yahoo and MSN trailing by a substantial margin. "To many, search and Google are synonymous. Its dominance increases bit by bit each month," says a spokesman.Chudnovsky, though, wants to use the technique that has worked so well - at least for recruitment - for the Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence (Seti), cancer searches, climate change modelling and, most recently, cracking a set of encrypted messages sent from a submarine during the second world war. Distributed computing lets many participants do little bits of work to create a huge result, using spare time on their computers.Big shoes to fillChudnovsky has a huge result to follow. Google stopped publicising the size of its search index when it reached 8bn pages four months ago. "We maintain the largest collection of documents searchable on the web," says a Google spokeswoman. "We estimate this expanded search index to be more than three times as large as any other search engine. We update the entire index about once a month, and some areas more frequently."In his latest book "An Introduction to Search Engines and Web Navigation" Mark Levene, the professor of computer science at Birkbeck College, says Google has more than 15,000 servers and "crawls" - examines for indexing - 3,000 URLs per second. (Other estimates have ranged from 31,000 to 79,000 servers.)Your home PC is clearly no match. For example, you cannot crawl more than 1m pages a day on a 2Mbps broadband connection. It will take you 8,000 days (about 22 years) to acquire a Google-sized but hopelessly out-of-date index.The solution? Recruit like-minded people who donate computer time, as they do for Seti@home and other projects. "Google's database is about 8bn pages, so fewer than 10,000 people taking part in this project can recrawl the whole of Google's database every single day," says Chudnovsky.A large-scale distributed crawling project has been attempted and involved thousands at its peak. Danny Sullivan, the editor-in-chief of Search Engine Watch, points to Looksmart's Grub project (http://grub.looksmart.com) of 2003, which is no longer operational.Majestic-12's volunteers - 60 so far - are crawling about 50m pages a day using unlimited broadband connections and software that runs in the background. Over the past few months, 7bn pages have been crawled although, at 1bn pages, the completed index lags behind for now. This is stored centrally to enable the Majestic-12 distributed search engine (via majestic12.co.uk) to return fast, relevant results."Ideally, I'd like to distribute the search index," says Chudnovsky. This is a challenging proposition that would see duplicate chunks of a huge index distributed between broadband-connected PCs. There are also parallels with peer-to-peer systems such as Gnutella, which share music, films and software. A small-scale experiment with one country, perhaps Finland, may happen later this year.Professor Jon Crowcroft of Cambridge University says this type of collaborative web crawling and indexing is very reasonable. "Many search engines do this to reduce the traffic load returning to a single central site - distributing the index itself is OK, so long as you have an efficient mechanism to search the index."These efforts also interest Professor Levene. "I hope the project succeeds. People finding novel ways of doing crawling or search is good for the competition," he says. Should Google, Yahoo, and MSN be worried? "It would be hard to push Google out of the way - they're just going to buy you out."Chudnovsky's aspirations are more community-minded, helping to develop a search engine that users control. Nevertheless, his innovative code might revitalise searches on corporate websites or, more controversially, assist with search engine optimisation. But as video, images and music are added to burgeoning search engine indices, crawling and search tasks will need to become more distributed.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
On the face of it, no - but a judge might get to decide after Kinderstart, a web site for parents of children aged under seven, filed suit against the search giant in California. The company claims that in March last year, it was purposely excluded from Google's search listing, leading to visits falling by 70%, and revenues dropping 80%.What might be more worrying for Google is that the suit has been designed so that any webmasters who feel their sites were wrongly or summarily excluded can join in - a "class action".Google can include or exclude any company from its index; as a publicly listed company, it owes no particular duty to anyone but its shareholders.But what is at stake is how open the company should be about why and how it determines that an organisation should be removed from the index. In February it removed - for about two days - BMW's website from its index after the carmaker was revealed to have tweaked its site with "doorway" pages that would make it seem far better linked-to than it was. Once BMW took off the extras, Google reinstated it.The case of Kinderstart is less clear, because it's not known what - if anything - the company did to be delisted. (Filing the suit has bought the site far better exposure than it could have achieved through advertising.) Nor is it clear where it was listed before, though if the case comes to trial then server logs will show how many visitors came via Google, and what advertising traffic they generated.Nathan Weinberg, writing at the Inside Google blog (which is very much outside Google, at google.blognews channel.com), points out that one possible reason why Kinderstart didn't show up well in searches could be that most of the links pointing back to it weren't directed at the .com address, but a "port" on the site - which can be death to your ranking, because it implies that a site is a "link farm" intended only to attract Google's indexing robots.Even so, Kinderstart may succeed if it can argue that Google's search index is a "public place" that should not discriminate against its patrons on any basis. It worked for the civil rights movement in the US in the 1950s, but whether there's the faintest chance in California in 2006 - well, we'll leave that to the judge.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Cold caseFive years after we first saw an early version in Stockholm, Ericsson has launched its Screenfridge in the UK. It has a built-in, 15-inch touch screen, speakers, webcam and microphone and connects via Wi-Fi to your broadband.GT BustoBus driver Steve Allcock was fired for playing Grand Theft Auto on a PSP while on duty at the wheel.People finder192.com has added the 29,828,103 records in the 2006 Electoral Roll to its searchable database atwww.192.com. The rolls for 2002-05 were already online.Hot plateOne of Apple's new MagSafe power adaptors caught fire, though nobody was injured and no property damaged.Log onLondon is getting a 10Mbps WiMax wireless broadband network, thanks to Urban Wimax Ltd (www.urbanwimax.co.uk). It will open in Westminster next month.Search endsGoogle must provide the US government with information about a sample of 50,000 websites in its index, but doesn't have to provide a sample of search queries. The case arose in January; MSN and Yahoo complied with the government request.Tune inIn the autumn, BT is launching BT Vision to deliver TV plus on-demand film and music programmes over BT Broadband. Users can register their interest atwww.bt.com/btvisionLast chanceUnder the "sunrise" rules, the deadline for registering your brand names as .eu domain names is April 7.Phish suitMicrosoft has filed more than 100 legal actions in Europe, the Middle East and Africa as part of its Global Phishing Enforcement Initiative.4 KidsMicrosoft's UK-based Rare studio is developing a range of kids' games for the Xbox 360 under the Viva Pi&ntilde;ata label.Adds upGoogle launched Google Finance (finance.google.com) which will have financial news and stock prices, and probably remain in beta for years.Play pauseFrench legislators passed a copyright bill on Tuesday that would force Apple, Microsoft and Real Player to open up their proprietary music formats to each other. The draft law - not yet approved by the Senate - could force Apple to open the iPod to rival music stores.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The launch last week of a dedicated website and blog for the Free Our Data campaign (www.freeourdata.org.uk)has seen a welcome inpouring of interest, particularly through user contributions.The main issue tackled in the past week: which organisations should we be pressuring to make their data freely available to taxpayers and companies in the UK, and what data do they hold?The compilation was quick, though some organisations (such as the Higher Education Statistics Authority) provide much material for immediate download.The pressure to "make money" is greatest on trading funds, which are required by law to make back in revenues what they cost to run - and also generate a 5% return on capital employed (seehttp://tinyurl.com/rfos6) to the Treasury. Some are classed as members of the government's Information Fair Trader Scheme -http://tinyurl.com/r9jol, though the page is out of date.OrganisationType of informationTrading fundOrdnance Survey UK &amp; Northern IrelandGeographical information dataYesUK Hydrographic OfficeTides and marine navigation dataYesHighways AgencyTraffic flow dataNoPost OfficePostcode/map reference dataNoEnvironment AgencyFlood dataNoBritish Geological SurveyGeological and magnetic dataNoUnited Kingdom Meteorological OfficeWeather dataYesNatural Environment Research CouncilEnvironmental science, including climate change dataNoEngineering and Physical Sciences Research CouncilScientific research resultsNoOffice for National StatisticsDemographic dataNoMedicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory AgencyTrials of medicines and medical devicesYesMedical Research CouncilMedical and related research dataNoLocal governmentAddress and location dataNoThe Defence Geographic Intelligence Agency (DGIA)Maps large parts of the worldNoEnglish Heritage and its provincial equivalentsHistoric location dataNoForestry CommissionData on woodland and forestry locationNoThe National Archives (formerly Public Record Office )Genealogical dataNoThe Countryside AgencyDemographic dataNoNational Park AuthoritiesVisitor and biodiversity dataNoHigher Education Statistics AuthorityData on higher educationNoEuropean Centre for Medium-Range Weather ForecastingClimate change and other dataNoVehicle InspectorateVehicle registrationYesNHS EstatesLand use and ownership by NHS organisationsYesPatent OfficePatents and trademarksYesCentral Office of InformationGovernment informationYesCompanies HouseCompany results, required by lawYesDriving Standards AgencyRegisters of approved driving instructorsYesHM Land RegistryHouse sale pricesYes&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Free your data to support 'avalanche' claimI note that despite today's article (What price information, March 16) reporting "an avalanche of responses, almost every one of which backed the idea", the campaign's blog (freeourdata.org.uk) shows a total of 17 comments. Would you like to publish the number of responses actually received?Brian L Hazeldine, Northallerton(There were 41 responses out of 72 emails received that week - Technology ed.)Demons not AngelsThe vast majority of messages - 99.999%- in Orkut are related to books, TV shows etc (Orket angels delight in fight, March 16). I have never seen child pornography there. Those "angels" are not as liberal as you may think. Some of them are raging a war against gay and BDSM groups. One of the gay-BDSM communities I used to participate in was hacked by those "angels" in the name of Jesus and moral values. Those "angels" are more like "demons".Alan Ferreira, Belo Horizonte, BrazilOut of date on FortranTom Oldfield (Letters, March 16) states the code snippets published in the cartoon strip on March 9 "were not Fortran - more like C". Actually, they were Fortran as it has been since 1990. Oldfield is embarrassingly (for him) a decade-and-a-half out of date.David Muxworthy(BSI Fortran convener), EdinburghBats linked to EbolaPerhaps Charles Arthur's contact at the International Centre for Medical Research (Newly asked questions, March 16) should have told him about its article in Nature, December 1 2005 (Vol 438), page 575: "Fruit bats as reservoirs of Ebola virus".Dr Armand Sprecher,Medecins Sans Frontieres, BelgiumFuzzy logicJohn Coutts (Web designers still failing disabled people, March 16) shows a fuzzy understanding of web accessibility when he says, "Basic rules include keeping content and structure separate", since structure is generally, and by the World Wide Web Consortium, held to mean the way the information content is broken into headings and blocks, such as paragraphs or bullets. Keeping these separate from content would render the content an incomprehensible mess. He presumably means content and presentation should be kept separate, a very different matter.Dave Cheseldine,Aberdeen&middot; I have been corresponding with a designer who has unintentionally made his site far less accessible. PAS 78 should be compulsory reading for everyone who maintains a site, but unfortunately this 66-page document costs &pound;30. If the Disability Rights Commission is taking this matter seriously it would make it available free of charge.David Hitchin, SeafordTeachers failing ITIt is not just MPs who have a problem with IT (Techno world has MPs beat, March 9); a similar problem occurs with teachers who have "understanding" problems. These teachers are given a laptop and expected to know what to do with it. Most put it away in a cupboard. Others try to learn but get stuck easily and end up in a panic. Working as an IT technician in a secondary school for three years, I provided day-to-day training for staff and looked after the school network. I was told all teaching staff had been sent on expensive courses (Clait) and passed with flying colours. Yes, most did go to the courses but they did not retain anything and most received certificates whether they passed or not. When an "IT teacher" doesn't know what the little flashing light means on the front of a PC (hard drive activity) or realise a monitor is switched off and not broken, there is something wrong. Too many points are given to teaching staff who need much more training to earn them.Nathan Sumner,PortsmouthSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, and please include your address and telephone number.
For its CeBIT trade show press conference this month, Microsoft said it had scheduled 30 seconds for its Ultra Mobile PC announcement, known as Origami. The company didn't know that Digital Kitchen Inc had left an old concept video online, nor that bloggers would find it. The result was that the project attracted far more hype than intended - and, naturally, failed to live up to it.The problem is that we don't really know how important Origami will be. It could fulfil the dreams of three decades of computer geeks, and turn into the Dynabook, the futuristic personal computer that Xerox Parc's Alan Kay described in 1976 (http://tinyurl.com/lcvny- a 9.7MB PDF). Or it could just be a niche-filling exercise: a small area between smart phones and Tablet and notebook PCs on the chart that, in the early 1990s, Microsoft used to call Windows Everywhere. Indeed, that's where it is today, except the chart is now headed Microsoft Mobility Solutions.The simple part of the problem is imagining the computer technology of the future. The IT industry has adopted Moore's Law, modified to suggest that the price/performance of computers roughly doubles every 18 months (though this is not what Intel co-founder Gordon Moore said; seehttp://tinyurl.com/p785b). It is therefore possible to project what sort of hardware will be affordable in five or 10 years, and to develop software for it. I've heard Microsoft refer to this as its "intercept strategy".It's obvious that today it isn't possible to create a Dynabook, or an Origami-style mini-Tablet PC with adequate performance at a mass market price. But with Intel and other chip manufacturers working hard to deliver more performance while consuming less power, that should be possible within a decade.This means developing a standard hardware platform, not just the software. Mass market PC prices come from the mass production of interchangeable parts such as chips, screens, batteries, ports etc. It's the competition between parts suppliers that helps drive down prices.And this doesn't just benefit Intel and Microsoft: it opens the door to everybody. Today, Origami hardware is using processors from Intel and Via Technologies, but it could use AMD and Transmeta chips in the future. Although the first Origami machines run Windows XP and the next lot runs Vista, the same hardware could run Linux or Mac OS. This should make it easier for Wintel rivals to develop competing products than if they had to start from scratch.The much more difficult question is whether we're actually heading in the right direction.One of the great events in the history of computing came in 1963, when Ivan Sutherland, an MIT student, presented his PhD thesis on Sketchpad: A Man-machine Graphical Communications System. Sutherland showed how you could interact with a computer using its monitor and a light-pen. His demo was so compelling that it not only created the computer graphics industry, but also made such direct interaction a dream for the rest of IT. Operating a computer should be as easy as writing in a notebook. Except it would be a dynamic book....This idea started to come to life two decades later, when Jerry Kaplan was convinced that the next generation of computers should work like notebooks. In 1987, he set up Go Corporation to develop tablet PCs running the PenPoint operating system (http://tinyurl.com/pgr3h), and this stimulated the production of numerous alternatives from Amstrad's Pen Pad to Apple's Newton MessagePad to IBM's ThinkPad.However, apart from a brief flourish from Palm in the late 90s, pen-based computing has failed to take off. Tablets have been successful in industrial and commercial applications, in health care, the transport industries, field services and so on. It would be great if the Origami project led to millions of people finally getting the sort of computer they can use.But what if the Dynabook is a chimera that people don't really want? After all, far from adopting pens, most ordinary people seem happier typing with their thumbs on barely adequate keyboards. And who predicted that?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Hysteria broke out on the Gamesblog last week following an announcement that advanced the next-generation console race from easy listening to fever pitch. Under the guise of a mea culpa from Sony's president Ken Kutaragi for the delay to the spring release in Japan of the PlayStation 3, the hardware manufacturer announced a simultaneous November 2006 launch across Japan, North America and Europe.Initial reaction was elation: European gamers wouldn't have to experience the machine vicariously, while the news filled a hole. Since the Xbox 360's launch last year, there has been a lull in things to get excited about. Gamers had given up on PS3-related speculation, and it had been a while since we'd heard from Nintendo. But with a new gadget on the horizon, the rumour mill went into overdrive.Sight unseen, the PS3 became the ultimate family companion, equally adept at walking the dog, fetching dad's slippers and keeping mum abreast of her favourite soaps. Surely, such a console would revolutionise society.Then the tide quickly turned to cynicism. Pragmatists demanded evidence the PS3 would be the answer to everything. There was bitterness towards Sony for its marketing hyperbole. Others piped in with scepticism about the reality of simultaneously launching a console for which important components hadn't been invented. Finally, things went tribal, with fans sticking up for their respective hardware, and throwing epithets at one another's terabytes.This is the best time in the cycle. The years of console releases are always the most exciting. Gamers can fantasise and innovate, imagining an interactive space 10 years in advance of what is possible with this, the next or even the following generation of technology.It's a time fraught with anticipation; and to add to a volatile mix of tension, passion and need for information, there are the interconnected blogger networks. They make their names by being first to crack open a story or piece of hardware.Unfortunately, there have been lean pickings since Kutaragi's announcement. He promised silence until Sony's press conference at this week's Game Developer's Conference, so we're forced to trawl through back catalogues and forge connections between hitherto unrelated PlayStation items.Whether what Sony promises will come to fruition isn't important. We're all talking about Blu-ray technology, the potential price point, the features and the new catch phrase "4D". But until everyone has their PS3, I'm looking forward to reading more techno fantasies and interactive dreams.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
How to be sneakyI work in a large firm that implements a web blocking system. Out of curiosity, is there a way to bypass these systems to view web pages unrestricted?Oscar LesterJack Schofield replies:You can often get round censoring and blocking systems by accessing sites via another website called an anonymizer. This acts as a proxy server and fetches pages, sometimes via other intermediaries, then passes them on to you. Examples include The Cloak (www.the-cloak.com), Megaproxy (www.megaproxy.com), ID Zap (www.idzap.com), JAP (http://tinyurl.com/33b6r), Anonymouse (http://anonymouse.org) and the granddaddy of all, Anonymizer.com (www.anonymizer.com). Different services have different restrictions, which can often be removed by paying a small fee. Ideally, use a secure (https) service that encrypts the data streams so even your ISP cannot see which sites you are visiting - but these are not usually free. Your computer department or repressive national government can block access to these sites, but there are dozens more, and it may be a good idea to switch services frequently.Note: the terms of service for anonymizers may ban any unlawful or dubious activities including spamming, abuse, impersonation, copyright infringement and sometimes file sharing. Providers will not guarantee to protect your privacy if you do not follow their terms of service. Also, many companies have a written AUP (Acceptable Use Policy) to cover internet use, and violating that can get you reprimanded or even fired.Picture rescueA friend recently trashed his laptop but claims a technician told him his digital pictures could be recovered from the camera's memory card - including deleted pictures. Is this correct? I am about to sell a camera with a CompactFlash card. What are the options for wiping it?Andy WhitehouseJS:Yes, deleted pictures can often be recovered from memory cards. When it comes to deleting them permanently, cards vary, so see if any instructions came with the card, or check the manufacturer's website. Otherwise, several of the picture-recovery programs provide a "secure erase" feature that writes (say) a zero to every memory cell. Examples include Zero Assumption Recovery (http://tinyurl.com/a37tn), Lexar Image Rescue (http://tinyurl.com/r69m4) for CompactFlash cards, and Image Recall 3 (www.imagerecall.com).Slow XP?Windows XP Professional suddenly slows right down, and if I look at the performance graph in Task Manager, itshows 100% of the processor is in use all the time. The guilty file appears to be nvsc32.exe. Any suggestions?Robin CoxJS:The Task Manager, invoked by pressing Ctrl-Alt-Del, is a good way to check for processes that have run wild. In this case, the bad news is nvsc32.exe is usually W32.Bropia.N, a fairly new variant of the W32.Spybot worm. This uses either winis.exe or nvsc32.exe when it creates a file in the System directory. If your anti-virus scanner has missed it, Symantec offers a removal tool athttp://tinyurl.com/m6wrd.BackchatMy apologies: last week I referred to "Jouni Vuorio's superior RegCleaner" as a free program, but it has been superseded by a paid-for version. You can still download RegCleaner 4.3.0.780, the "last freeware version," from A+ Freeware athttp://tinyurl.com/abxcq. However, it doesn't run correctly under a fully updated version of Windows XP SP2 - see the Ask Jack blog for details. When John Collier could not find the free version on Vuorio's site, he says: "I bought a copy of RegSupreme 1.3 for &pound;7.37. It is very effective and good value: one licence covers all the computers in our house." David Williams reports that after "a long discussion on Community Feedback, the general verdict is to use RegScrubXP, which is freeware from Lexun. I have used it for six months without problems." Sadly, the author has shut down the Lexun Designs site (www.lexundesigns.com) for personal reasons, so it's now abandonware.There are links to more registry cleaners athttp://tinyurl.com/nunyn, including the TweakNow RegCleaner, which is free for non-commercial use. However, Microsoft's RegClean (unsupported) and CCleaner (www.ccleaner.com) - which I've recommended for other purposes - do more than enough for most needs.
It is difficult to avoid the hype about citizen journalism, the process whereby bloggers and people with cameraphones can report news from the grassroots that old media cannot reach. I thought it was time I tried it myself and what better way than with 3's new service, which enables users to take photos on their 3G cameraphones and share them with others while getting 1p every time a clip is downloaded.Since 3 launched See Me TV in October, it has had more than a million downloads a month. Now it is about to launch 24 Hours, claimed to be a "world first" service for would-be journalists that I have been testing. Its motto: "Break the news and spot celebs wherever you are and make money too."Armed with a sleek Nokia 6280 3G phone I stalked London's streets at the weekend. Well, maybe it was just a slow news period. There were no muggings, bank raids or accidents, and no celebs. All I could muster were ducks squabbling in St James's Park (hold the front page!), a peaceful Tamil demo in Trafalgar Square and some buskers in Covent Garden.This taught me the first rule of citizen journalism. It is not something you can seek out; it is thrust upon you. Think about it. How often have you witnessed a newsworthy event as it happened? And would it still be newsy after you have taken out your cameraphone and clicked a few times to get the right settings (presuming you can see the screen in the sunlight)?This impression is confirmed by the news clips submitted as part of the trial. One was headlined: "Woodland fire" with a fire engine attending what looked like a bonfire. There was a police chase and one tagged "Mersey Pier is sunk". None of mine made the cut. I guess my mobile Pulitzer will have to wait.The mechanics of using the phone were easy once I had overcome the "if only I'd known that at the start" syndrome that haunts new technology. For instance, early uploads were rejected because the settings were on maximum, so one seven-second clip took up 1.7MB, almost all the phone's available memory without an extra card. After scaling down to a minimal resolution, the same-length clip used only 100KB, but at the cost of a much grainier image. It takes three navigational clicks to take a still photo and six for a video. After another seven or eight clicks, you are ready to type in a short code (32323) plus a headline, and the video is ready to be dispatched.3 deserves applause for building in a revenue stream for content providers, since hardly anyone else does. But they will. However, it is not over-generous. It costs 50p to submit each clip, even if it is not used, and each time someone downloads it they pay 10p. Of that 10p, the content originator gets 1p for each download. So you need 50 downloads to break even. Small wonder most of the successful clips have been aimed at Page 3 rather than the front page.The point is that we are only at the start of what may turn out to be a grassroots revolution. It is rare for the average person to witness a major incident, but there will be hundreds of others there with cameraphones at the ready. As phones become more powerful and easier to use - Samsung's latest models include one with a 10-megapixel camera and another with eight megapixels and room for 2,000 music tracks - so will photo-journalism improve. Many websites including the BBC and the Guardian already accept news clips from viewers.In the US, currenttv.com is a TV channel partly created by those who watch it. They submit videos and vote on what should be included on the channel. Last week Softbank, the Japanese company that bought an early stake in Yahoo, paid $11m for 12.95% of Korea's pioneering OhmyNews citizens' journal. It will use the money as a stepping stone for international expansion. Video is the hottest thing on the web at the moment. Goodness knows where it will be in 10 years' time.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
There's nothing quite like getting a new phone. Only a few things are as satisfying as prising a mint mobile from its packaging. Until you get to using it, erratically, in 10-hour bursts.When it came to choosing a phone, I found some features more important than others. A camera was handy, but ultimately unnecessary: my digital camera will do the same, with flash, in more detail with less blur. Similarly, there are devices dedicated to playing hundreds of MP3s, so phones that will play 10 tracks are pointless.But all this excess didn't matter. The reception was clear, the screen vibrant, and it didn't shame me to be seen talking into it, unlike the heavy square-ish monstrosity it was to replace.The next day, I admired its petite frame and slender curves. Sadly, I could barely scrape a day of use before the battery began to bleep for a recharge. Not good when you are waiting for those big important calls at the end of the day.Each evening, as I leave to make my way home, I call ahead and as there are only precious minutes to tell friends and family anything, conversations take a urgent tone - "I'm-on-my-way-now, I'll-be-about-10-minutes-OK-bye."Yes, I could take the phone charger everywhere, and charge it up as I went about my day, but I shouldn't need to. My mobile phone should just be, well, mobile.I have gone through all the motions to improve its performance. The Bluetooth is always off, the screen brightness is on its lowest ebb and the luxurious symphonic ringtones are quiet, bordering on silent. I occasionally play the games, but barely touch the music player or camera functions.Yet if I take a handful of calls through the day, I'll need to plug it in before I go out in the evening. This is the second phone I have bought with stamina issues and, if anything, my latest handset demands more recharging than the old one.And thanks to the annual giveaway that is mobile phone contract renewal, I have noticed that for every new function stitched to the sides of the latest phone, we lose more minutes of standby time. Some of the plusher handsets even come with two batteries as standard, in an indulgent attempt to gloss over the problem.There must be simpler ways for manufacturers to create an aesthetically pleasing handset with a battery that will push to 24 hours. That is really all I need. If it doesn't do that, what is the point of being able to Bluetooth text messages to a printer? Who would do that? No one. So why give me the option to do so? Please, get rid of it, and give me more talk time.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Technology Guardian: What is a game designer?Peter Molyneux:He's a bit like a film director - he deals with an idea, and thinks about everything from gameplay to reviewing the cinematics and graphics. He can communicate to a big team, and is incredibly patient. You can have an idea, and have to wait a year before anything happens, and then another two before you start working on the idea.TG: Why game design?PM:I think it's the excitement of having an idea, and feeling it will come to virtual reality. It's like you have a dream, and you can touch that dream, and there aren't many jobs in which you can do that. You can have the weirdest idea, and come into the office, and say, "I have a good idea," and that's going to cause lots of hard work for lots of people. It's a big responsibility.TG: When you are designing, which comes first: content or mechanics?PM:The first thing is an idea, but it works several ways, because sometimes it's, "Oh, wouldn't it be cool to make a game about the movies?" and then you think, "Well, that's great, but what do you actually do in the game?" Sometimes, it's "Wow, that's a really good idea for a mechanic. Would that fit into a game?"TG: Can you give an example of the latter?PM:It happened quite a bit with Fable, in that we had "morphing" and "changing" mechanics. Fitting that into the game - that was the first thought. "If you could be a hero, what would you do?" And that was much more important than the story.TG: Your games have covered everything from theme-park management to keeping monsters happy in a dungeon, but have there been any constant themes?PM:Using simulation in different areas. The first, Populous [Bullfrog, 1989], which was very primitive, was a simulation of a city, Theme Park [Bullfrog, 1994] was a simulation of a theme park, and Dungeon Keeper [Bullfrog, 1997] was a simulation of a dungeon. Simulation - and wanting to make it more sophisticated and "real" each time - is probably the common thread.TG: It's been said you give a "human" edge to strategy games, mainly by clever use of artificial intelligence.PM:I think that's true. I love strategy games, but a lot are very techy, and they don't really give you any human side of what strategy really is.TG: Some of your games - Fable and Black &amp; White - feature the concept of "good" versus "evil". Do you want to expand beyond that understanding of morality to something more Eastern?PM:One thing I want to explore is the idea of choice. One of the most black and white choices is between good and evil. But it would be nice if those choices were more subtle than the basic "good and evil" ones. It may be you're a really nice person, but you're a bit gnarly and hard to get on with. Or you could be a hero, but a bully. Those subtleties are interesting. In Dungeons &amp; Dragons, as in Eastern philosophy, you can be "Chaotic Good", where you can be good, but cause total chaos.TG: Has your approach to game design changed over the years?PM:Radically. The major change was going from Black &amp; White to Fable, because I was no longer programming, and I had spent most of my time designing through programming, and only working with people I knew well. Before that, I was the only programmer on a project, as with Populous, Populous II and Powermonger. That has changed dramatically. As a single person, you can do anything. When you have 70 people, you haven't time to program; you have to explain things and sell the vision in your head.TG: Does that make you feel powerless?PM:A lot of the time, you're challenged. People don't accept everything you say. It's not powerlessness. It's more a case of: "I have this idea, but I'm going to have to explain it well and say why it's important." The No 1 flaw is saying: "I know it's going to be fine. Just do it." Never expect people to sit around and say: "OK, I'll spend the next 20 hours here and not see my family because you've had a great idea."TG: Are there any areas where you feel freer?PM:Things like engine technology used to be hugely restrictive. You couldn't have more than one baddie on screen, you couldn't have more than three arrows firing at once. Now, you can say, "I want 20 monsters, and 30 weapons," and there isn't a technical string attached. That's a good and bad thing, though - you have a wider palette to work with, and that does not necessarily make you think better.TG: What makes games difficult? Is it a confusing interface, or ...PM:It's a confusing interface, it's the pacing. As game designers, we often assume people are playing from start to finish, and they're never going to walk away from it. But people are doing that. One of the hardest things for us is getting a player to sit in front of something they've played hundreds of times, and have them think, "Oh, I'm playing this for the first time."TG: Is that a goal for Lionhead?PM:Yeah. It's a very difficult balance. Fable was a perfect example - a lot of people said, "Oh, this is too easy." And they were the role-playing or action gamers. But a lot of people who hadn't played those sorts of games said, "Ooh, this is a bit too hard." That's a hard balance to get right.TG: So people shouldn't need skill to play a game?PM:No, you should need skill to do well, but not to play a game. You should be able to get enjoyment out of it. If you've paid $100 (&pound;60) for a game and can't get past the first hour, you're going to feel pissed off. Maybe it takes you three times longer, and you don't get the cool stuff skilled people get but you should be able to finish.TG: Do you have any game design heroes?PM:The Ico, Halo and Call of Duty teams, Will Wright and Shigeru Miyamoto. There aren't as many new names around, which is frightening. The main reason is that "teams" do things now.TG: Yet you're still regarded as a "rockstar" game designer.PM:The thing that worries me about being a "named" game designer is there aren't any new designers popping their heads up. I mean, everybody's going to get pretty sick of us as we fade into our 50s.TG: Why aren't new names popping up?PM:Two reasons. Publishers don't like promoting individuals, because they can up and leave. Second, being a designer is just one part of a game. It is more like a film director than ever. Some films are made brilliant by their directors, some are ruined by them, and some are great because the crew works together. There's no one designer on the games we do - sometimes I lead a team of seven. It is a collaborative effort.TG: Does being on this pedestal make you uncomfortable?PM:It makes me incredibly proud. And I still can't believe I'm talking to you about games I wrote. It does feels slightly wrong that it's just me, though. If there were a way for you to talk to every single person at Lionhead, that would be brilliant. But I'd rather be a spokesman for all those people than not have a spokesperson at all.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Probably not, though rumours to that effect earlier this week gave a new meaning to the phrase "OS flame wars". To recap: last Thursday Jesus Lopez, 33, of Alameda, and Eric Wasserman, 41, from Berkeley in California scooped the $13,854 prize (donated by participants and onlookers) for figuring out how to get Windows XP to install and run on an Intel-based Apple computer. The challenge had been set in January by Colin Nederkoom, who simply wanted to be able to run Windows on a Mac, so he'd only need one computer, not two.A page was quickly set up athttp://wiki.onmac.netexplaining how to create the correct discs, including the right drivers. To play, you will need both your own Windows XP Professional SP2 install CD, and an Intel-based Mac that either you or a friend is prepared to volunteer. Then just read the instructions. If they make no sense, then it's probably wisest not to try.However, some of those who did try, and succeeded, expressed concerns that their machine might overheat, because (they suggested) Windows XP does not have the low-level hardware control programs used by Apple's OS X to turn the machine's cooling fans on and off.Whether that's the case - and whether the Intel-based Macs hand over fan management to Intel chips, or keep it at an operating-system level - wasn't clear at the time of writing.Some users of the Intel-based' Macbook Pros reported their machines became hot, though that might be because the "Windows on Intel Mac" project hasn't yet written drivers for the graphics processing chips, so the CPU is doing a lot of work that would normally be done by the graphics chip.Later tests showed that in fact Intel Macs running Windows got no hotter than those running OS X. "For heavy load testing on XP... fans come on and increase speed, resulting in upper temperatures that still do not exceed Mac OS X highs," reported one user at the onmac.net wiki.The upshot? This could be good news for Microsoft and Apple, though infinitesimally bad news for some PC makers. Making an XP-on-Mac disc will surely become a two-click process within months, meaning those who want to run both OS X and Windows XP will be able to. That's good for Apple's sales, and Microsoft's, but might mean a few lost sales of PCs to other companies.The next challenge, of course, is to get Mac OS X to run on standard Windows machines. That's the "OS X86 project" - which Apple likes much less because it directly threatens its hardware revenues. So far, it's received much less publicity - though there are a number of reports of people who have achieved it.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
There was dissent from the conference floor when Barbara Janke, leader of Bristol city council, said she wanted people to use online tools to make their voices heard.How could she be taken seriously, was the cry, when the city had ignored concerns over the name of its main shopping area, which is being rebuilt as Merchants Quarter, an apparent reference to Bristol's slave-trading past?"I totally agree with you," replied Ms Janke, saying the area had been named by the developers. "I'm doing everything to get that changed. Get e-campaigning and give power to my elbow."Ms Janke was speaking at a conference earlier this month run by the city to consider whether activists and local authorities could use technology to work together.But while the local authorities appear keen to embrace the idea, many campaigners were sceptical.Bristol has done more than most on "e-democracy", including involvement in a national project funded by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister on the subject.More directly, it allows citizens to startonline petitionsand, through a system calledCampaign Creator, establish free online campaigns with websites, emailed newsletters and online surveys.It is also piloting free mass text messaging for campaigners, using the near-ubiquitous mobile phone as a way to overcome the digital divide created by computer ownership.Campaign Creator, which drew on funding from the deputy prime minister's office, was formally launched at the Bristol conference earlier this month, to which the city invited local activists as well as local authority staff - producing a lively atmosphere.During a session explaining the system, one campaigner asked if Campaign Creator wouldn't simply allow councillors to track what people were doing."I don't think [councils] are necessarily the best people to manage it, to own it," agreed Stephen Hilton, charged with heading e-democracy for the city council.Mr Hilton said that Bristol was hoping to establish shared control of Campaign Creator, and had already involved members of the Scarman Trust, which promotes citizen empowerment, Friends of the Earth and the BBC as advisers.Other e-democracy projects elsewhere have been created at arm's length from local authorities.Since 1999, when it was first piloted, the Scottish parliament'se-petitions systemhas been managed by the International Teledemocracy Centre at Napier University in Edinburgh, with hosting provided by BT."We try to remain outside any politics," said Dr Nick Adams, research fellow at the centre and writer of the e-petition software, which automatically deletes duplicate entries and flags those that could be bogus."I think it's helpful that a non-political organisation hosts these things."Bristol city council and - with suitable translation - the GermanBundestagare among other users of the software.In December, West Sussex county council, also with funding from John Prescott's office, completed acting as project manager for a set of projects run by charitable e-democracy group MySociety. Although 80% of the funding went to MySociety, the council provided accountability by making payments when defined targets were met.The projects, now live, includedTheyWorkForYou, which provides information on MPs;WriteToThem, which uses postcodes to find councillors, Welsh or London assembly members, MSPs, MPs and MEPs, then allows citizens to send them messages; andPledgeBank, where users pledge to do something if a set number of others pledge to do likewise.Roland Mezulis, chief e-government strategist for West Sussex county council, said that it made sense for an independent organisation, rather than a state-sector body, to do this work."It can deal with political issues. We are not allowed to deal with party politics, and I can certainly see an issue around what is party politics and what is not," he said.Indeed, last year a pledge launched by campaign group No2ID found 11,365 people willing to refuse to register for an identity card and pay &#163;10 towards legal costs - meaning that money from Mr Prescott's office, channelled through West Sussex county council to MySociety, was actually providing the infrastructure to challenge a flagship Labour party policy.Mr Mezulis said West Sussex county council helped MySociety build the WriteToThem system (based on an earlier project, FaxYourMP) to help elected representatives as well as citizens.The website helps users work out whether the district or county is responsible for a service in two-tier areas such as West Sussex; allows wrongly-directed messages to be forwarded; and groups similar messages that may be part of a mass campaign.He says county councillors were keen on the MySociety work, a sentiment echoed by Ms Janke in Bristol."We want more people to participate," she said, as it helps councillors do their job, encourages people to vote and may engage them further. She said that she first got involved in politics through campaigning as a mother for better children's hospital care.She said that e-democracy can also help explain decisions when campaigners' demands are not met, such as pointing out that a swimming pool condemned to closure costs the council &#163;11 a swim and would require major investment to stay open.But trust looks set to remain a problem. A series of electronic votes at the end of the Bristol conference found that a majority of the participants agreed that authorities should support activists, and that the two groups should find new ways to work together - but also that activists should remain independent, and that authorities will not want to share power.&#183;A web-cast of the Bristol conference is available athttp://www.campaigncreator.public-i.tv
Ghost Recon: Advanced WarfighterXbox 360, Ubisoft, &#163;39.993/5The latest version of Ubisoft's ultra-realistic modern warfare simulator boasts graphics that could tempt you to splash out on a next-generation console. But while impressive technically, it is saddled with frustrating gameplay. You play a super-soldier from 2013, fighting battles in an impressively modelled Mexico City. Wondrous to behold, but its sheer rigour precludes an enjoyable experience. Control system quirks make key aspects - ducking behind cover after shooting with the sniperscope enabled, swapping between weapons - clunky. Military enthusiasts will love it but those weaned on instantly gratifying shoot-'em-ups will find it frustrating.Steve Boxer24 - The GamePlayStation 2, SCEE, &#163;29.992/5Split-screen camera? Preposterous, yet addictive plot twists? Yes, 24 the videogame includes all the elements that make the TV show a treat. Set between seasons two and three, the game offers a decent script fully acted by Keifer and co. Fans of Kim or Jack may be alarmed by their odd pallor but the graphics and sound effects are unmistakably 24. Sadly, the game is a mess. Split into several mini-games, the action boils down to shooting and driving with the odd elementary puzzle - ie bomb disposal - thrown in. All three elements are flawed. Shooting is a doddle, with auto aim and dumb assailants offering little challenge. And pursuing assailants through LA feels more like a Sunday drive, such is the sluggish feel. Good to watch, a chore to play.Greg HowsonLord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth 2PC, Electronic Arts, &#163;34.993/5This looks a treat, albeit with less creative use of video than the prequel and an absence of sound samples from the movies. You get two campaigns, one good, one evil. The latter provides most of the highlights, benefiting from more graphical detail and the chance to complete the razing of the Shires episode excised from the movie trilogy - allowing villains everywhere to finally annihilate those annoyingly cheery Hobbits. You also get a larger War of the Ring saga, adding a simplistic turn-based element to the usual real-time strategy battles. But the game follows scripted events so closely that missions can be completed inside three minutes. Given there are fewer than a dozen missions per campaign, this makes the game undeniably short.Mike Anderiesz&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
