Activision intends to release the much-anticipated shooter, Modern Warfare 2, with a retail price of £54.99 - five pounds more than most new releases on the current consoles. And it looks like other publishers are likely to follow suit. Inan interviewwith industry newspaper, MCV, Ian Curran, EVP of worldwide publishing at THQ, had this to say on the matter:"Exchange rates between the Euro and the pound are making it very difficult for publishers to show an acceptable operating margin in the UK""Also, development costs for next gen software has increased at a time when the take-up on these machines is slower than expected and therefore the opportunity to sell more units is limited."The announcement drew a furious response from both consumers and retailers on the MCV website. A comment from IndieRIP, who claimed to represent an independent game retailer, suggested that the price hike would be temporary - at least for the larger chain stores:"Of course all Indies and Joe Public now know that 2-3 weeks after this game is launched publishers do deals with Game and Gamestation and HMV giving them discounts, SORRY YOU CALL IT BUNDLE STOCK, to allow them to sell the game cheaper at retail so it gets to number 1 for xmas."Others have pointed out that the pound is currentlygaining in strengthagainst the Euro.But isn't Activision entirely justified in setting its own higher prices?As many have pointed out, this is a tent pole release, a genuine premium product; there are so few sure things in the industry these days, isn't it understandable to seek the highest revenue possible when one comes along? Other publishers may chat about doing something similar, but it's doubtful that in the current economic climate, gamers will be willing to pay five quid extra for anything other than absolutely unmissable titles. (And EA hasapparently statedthat it won't be changing its pricing policy.)The situation is complicated yet further by the booming trade-in market. Gamers may resort to handing in older games to fund the purchase, which brings more product into the second-hand economy. I don't even want to begin to ponder the complex ramifications for retailers and publishers.And let's leave aside other issues for a second and consider development costs. It's clear that creating major games for current-gen is getting more and more expensive over-all. But at the same time, Modern Warfare 2 is a sequel - using the same IW Engine as its predecessor. Sure, this is a new version of the technology, which isaccording to IGN, a generation beyond the iteration employed in CoD IV, but the developer won't have faced the crushing R&amp;D costs of building a brand new tech from scratch.So yes, it's complicated. And it's a weird time for the industry in terms of pricing - because, at the other end, you've got a whole army of small studios looking to compete in the iPhone market where they're making a few pence on each purchase. And then there's the free-to-play model, well established in Korea and China, and growing in the west. The industry is scrambling around for viable revenue pipelines.The underlying truth is, despite development costs and fluctuating currencies, a product is worth exactly what people are willing to pay for it. In this case, are you willing?
(A Rubik's Cube because it's puzzling. OK?)And now the bit where we turn to you, the wise crowd, for answers, for the first of (we hope) a series, where your answers could appear in print. If they're good/useful enough.This week's question: a not particularly computer-literate friend of yours tells you one day that he's heard so much about Linux that he's decided to install it on his Windows machine. You know that his machine is a few years old, though you don't know if it's XP or Vista. He's come to you for some more advice about what he should do.What do you recommend that he does? Do you suggest a particular Linux distro? Or a plan of attack? Or that he run (perhaps screaming) from it? Or something else?Over to you.
Nokia, the world's largest mobile phone manufacturer, has warned that it will not increase its share of the handset market this year because of fierce competition. The Finnish technology company also said its profit margins will continue to come under pressure as it battles the impact of the global recession.Nokia today announced a 66% drop in second quarter profits to €380m (£326m), sending shares down almost 10%. The company, which makes roughly four out of every 10 phones sold worldwide, had previously reassured investors that it would strengthen its dominance in the market this year.Nokia also said it now expects profit margins in its mobile phone business in the second half of the year to be the same as the 10.3% recorded in the first six months. It had originally promised margins of at least 13%.There was some relief, however, as Nokia reiterated its forecast that the overall mobile phone market will only fall 10% this year, to just over a billion devices, having cut its forecast twice in the past nine months.Chief executive Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo said the company had "put in a solid performance" during a "tough quarter" and signalled that conditions show some signs of improvement as retailers and mobile phone networks have run down their stocks of phones and are ordering again. "Competition remains intense, but demand in the overall mobile device market appears to be bottoming out," he said.The Finnish company, which is cutting jobs as it looks to reduce costs, has suffered as cash-strapped consumers hold on to their existing handsets and opt for cheap SIM-only deals, leading to a dramatic drop in sales of mid-range phones. Sales in emerging markets have also been falling as a result of the economic turmoil, with consumers looking for ever cheaper phones.Businesses are also reining in their spending and laying off staff, which has had an impact on sales at Nokia  as a major supplier to corporate customers. Meanwhile, many consumers in more developed markets who are willing to sign up to another long-term contract have been looking for a so-called smartphone such as the Apple iPhone or BlackBerry Storm in return.Nokia said the average price of its phones in the second quarter was €62, down from €74 last year and €65 in the first quarter as a result of intense competition and higher sales of lower-priced products.The smartphone threatNokia has been playing catch-up in the smartphone category, where the iPhone has made touchscreens all the rage. Its first mass-market touchscreen device, the Nokia 5800, was launched last year and has been selling well and Nokia recently expanded its touchscreen range with the release ofthe N97, which comes with a slide-out qwerty keyboard. The company sold 3.7m 5800s in the second quarter, meaning more than 6.8m have shipped since launch. Nokia did not separate sales of the N97, saying only that total shipments of its N-series phones – which include other devices such as the N96 and N95 – were 4.6m in the quarter and it sold 4.7m of its E-series business devices, such as the E71 which is aimed at business people who are used to using a BlackBerry.In the three months to end June, Nokia shipped a total of 103.2m phones, down 15% year on year and 11% on the first quarter, while the industry as a whole shipped an estimated 268m phones, down 12% year on year and a decrease of 5% on the first quarter. Nokia reckons shipments of smartphones – or "converged mobile devices" as the company calls them – increased to 41m units in the second quarter from 36m in the first quarter. Nokia shipped 16.9m smartphones compared with 13.7m in the first quarter of the year, giving it a 41% share of the market.Sony Ericsson strugglesThe news came as ailing rival Sony Ericsson announced a loss for the same period – its fourth consecutive quarterly loss – as it continued to lose market share to rivals such as Samsung, HTC and Apple. The joint venture between Sweden's Ericsson and Sony of Japan made a loss of €213m for the three months to the end of June compared with a profit of €6m last year.The company, which is looking to slash costs by cutting 2,000 jobs on top of the 2,000 that went last year, shipped 13.8m phones in the quarter, down 43% on the same period last year, giving it a 5% share of the market. That is down from 6% in the first quarter of 2009."As expected, the second quarter was challenging and we still believe the remainder of the year will be difficult for Sony Ericsson," said the firm's president Dick Komiyama. "Our focus remains on bringing the company back to profitability and growth as quickly as possible, and our performance is starting to improve due to our cost-reduction activities."The company also hopes that new devices to be launched this year will help it increase sales and raise its market share. Its recently launched W995 is selling well, but gadget fans are eagerly awaiting its first phone using Google's Android platform, a touchscreen device apparently codenamed 'Rachael'.There is intense speculation that Nokia is also working on a phone that uses Google's Android operating system, although a spokeswoman for the Finnish company stressed that there is "no truth" to the rumours andSymbian, the software joint venture that Nokia bought out last year, remains its "platform of choice for smartphones".There has also been a lot of buzz about another Sony Ericsson device – nicknamed Kiki – with pictures on the internet showing that the phone has a revolutionary see-through screen. One phone that definitely will be out later this year, however, is the Satio, which has a mammoth 12.1 megapixel camera and was unveiled earlier this year under the Idou code name.But IHS Global Insight telecoms analyst Peter Boyland pointed out that the average selling price of Sony Ericsson's phones – at €122, up from €116 in the second quarter of 2008 – "is still well above that of its key rivals, and its smartphone portfolio has not gained enough traction to justify this"."Sony Ericsson has been hit by a double whammy of a drop in consumer spend, and a loss of interest in the company's high-end, often niche handsets, which have seen particularly sluggish take-up in emerging regions such as Latin America," he added. "The joint venture  has also been criticised for dragging its feet in its entry to the smartphone market, allowing key rivals such as Apple, Palm and RIM's BlackBerry to leap ahead."
China has more internet users that the entire population of the United States, according to new research by the government-sanctionedChina Internet Network Information Center.The study says that at the end of June there were 338m internet users in China, a 13.4% jump since the end of 2008, and well ahead of the official US population, put at 307m by the US Census Bureau.Rapid economic growth, and allied expansion in internet access in more areas, has fuelled the rapid rise in use of the web around China, which has a total population of 1.3bn.That shows that internet penetration in China remains comparatively low - just 25.5% - compared to the US, where a recent study by the Pew Internet and American Life Project put the figure at over 70%.Aprevious report, released in March, found that at the end of 2008 China had nearly 300m internet users - of whom the vast majority were already using broadband connections, and with internet penetration generally already higher, then at 22.6%, than the global average of 21.9% - although that includes every country, including the poorest.However China seems to be leapfrogging the US, where fixed phone lines and desk- or laptop computers are the rule for internet access. In China, internet use on mobile phones has increased 32.1% since the beginning of the year to reach 155m, led by rising use by rural dwellers, the report said. Rural users tend to be last in line for high-speed internet access via fixed lines because it is expensive to install the lines themselves, and enabling the phone exchanges for broadband is pricey. By comparison, mobile phone masts can cover a huge geographic area comparatively cheaply, and although their connection speed will be low, it can be applied almost immediately.That may be the shape of the future connectivity in China, rather than broader use of expensive computers. China this year rolled out its third-generation mobile phone service, which supports wireless web surfing. That is expected to set off a new surge in internet use.
Just a few days after Apple announced that it had passed more than 1.5 billion downloads of iPhone programs, the company's major competitor says it intends to smooth the path for its own applications.The Symbian Foundation - which is responsible for the software that runs almost half of the world's smartphones - says it plans to launch a new service that will make it easier for programmers to create mobile applications and get them to customers.The Horizon service, which will launch later this year, is intended to make it easier for programmers to get their applications to the public and encourage them to continue developing for Symbian phones.Instead of dealing with a confusing variety of different mobile stores belonging to handset manufacturers, mobile networks and other providers, application creators will now be able to submit their programs to all of them through a single process.The Symbian Foundation's Larry Berkin admitted that the current maze of submission procedures was often baffling."Getting an application signed is a bit of a challenge for developers," he said. "Getting through that process has been less than efficient."Instead, he suggested, the group was creating a new system "modelled after the book industry" that would give developers more technical, administrative and marketing support.The move is a clear response to Apple's success with its iPhone and applications store - a combination that has generated a whirlwind of buzz and seen more than 1.5bn downloads since it launched last summer.According to figures from Gartner, almost half of the world's smartphones run on the Symbian operating system - but it has struggled to keep up the appearance of innovation in the face of an onslaught from Apple and BlackBerry maker Research in Motion.The Guardian is among the companies which has already signed up to develop applications using Horizon.Berkin said it was particularly important for the group to make inroads in the US, where Nokia - the Finnish mobile phone giant that has been closely linked to Symbian in the past - has been at its weakest.Last year Nokia bought out the remaining shares of the software group that it did not own, and made the surprise decision to turn ownership of Nokia over to a foundation which is slowly making the system open source. It has since garnered support from other organisations, including Vodafone, LG and Motorola.Berkin said that Horizon is part of an attempt to change the group's focus and help tempt programmers to spend more time building applications for Symbian phones than they currently do."I don't know that they've consciously moved away, but they have reprioritised where they are going to focus first," he said, adding that it was important to help application makers to reach their potential customers."One of the things that you run into - and something that Apple is running headlong into - is the problem of too much choice. The challenge is to get more people to download more applications - even for Apple there are only 11 products on the App Store that have sold more than 1 million copies, and that's out of 50,000 apps. There is no ultimate ecosystem so far."
Yesterday, I recorded the latest Tech Weekly podcast at theDevelop Conferencein Brighton. I was busy interviewing people for most of the day, but managed to escape for an hour to catch the keynote speech delivered by Dave Jones, head ofRealtime Worlds, and of course, the founder of DMA Design, the studio that invented Grand Theft Auto.Jones started out by looking over his twenty year history in the games business. He mentioned his first game, the Amiga shooter,Menace, and chatted about how Lemmings was invented one lunch time when a programmer was messing about with cyclic animations using an old design package named D Paint. He also acknowledged that when his team was first working on GTA, they realised that the game was essentially just Pac-Man, with the pedestrians as the dots, the road layout as the maze and the cop cars as ghosts.Anyway, the last 20 minutes was dedicated to his forthcoming PC multiplayer online title,APB. And several fascinating elements came up that I was unfamiliar with...The game is set in a fictitious crime-ridden city where inhabitants play out cops and robbers adventures against a backdrop of bustling urban activity. The action is entirely server-based: even if you just want to play alone, the environment exists on Realtime Worlds' servers. However, if youdowant to play with other people, it's easy to get into multiplayer bouts of up to 100 people. The game has no lobby, you don't have to wait around while an empty slot becomes available; via a 'dynamic matchmaking' system you're seamlessly transported into a game where the participants are fairly matched for skills and experience.But what really interested me was Dave's concept of 'the player as content'. In APB your character is highly customizable – you can change everything from body shape and skin colour, to clothing, piercing and tattoos. He envisages a world where every single avatar looks completely different, so there's no need to have names floating above their heads – you'll recognise everyone anyway.Through this hugely open customisation system, Dave sees a miniature in-game economy burgeoning, in which people can set themselves up as virtual fashion designers or tattooists, creating unique designs for less artistically inclined participants. The game is apparently all about celebrity – about becoming famous in the APB universe – and being creative may be just as effective as being really handy with a shotgun.But the idea goes further. As you may already know, players can access their iTunes content or LastFM playlists, so that in-game music comes from your own collection. Even better, say you're cruising around town with your favourite Mos Def track blaring from the speakers - when you pass another player the game will check their music collection; if they have that same track intheircollection, they'll hear it as you pass. Plus, the audio is all 3D, so it'll be quite at a distance, gradually becoming louder as you get closer. What if they don't have the track you're playing? No problem, the game selects something from the same band or genre from their collection and play that to them instead.The game even contains a basic music creation package so you can knock out your own signature tunes. Jones showed this off with a video of someone composing a synth pop version of Queen's Another One Bites the Dust – it's then attached to the player's death animation, so every time they're fragged, anyone in the vicinity gets to hear it playing.The point Jones really wanted to make about APB, though, is that the depth and detail of the game world is only possible due to the fact that it lives on a remote server. He talked about how games like GTA only fake a 'living, breathing' city – one the computer-controlled pedestrian or car turns a corner, they effectively disappear from your universe. But on the APB servers, they're always there. The artifice is being stripped away.I think APB represents an interesting and at the moment technologically plausible mid-point between traditional game releases and the cloud gaming concept being pushed byOnliveand David Perry'sGaikai. This whole idea of gamers creating and marketing a coherent online persona is fascinating too.Whatever the case, Dave Jones' enthusiasm for online-only gaming was clear yesterday. He talked about how true innovation with mainstream triple A console projects is incredibly difficult now, due partly to budgets and team sizes, but also because creating whole new genres and wildly different experiences is so challenging in a mature, crowded and well-explored space. But he said that with online gaming, it's like turning the clock back ten years – the possibilities for new game types remain largely untapped...
Another week, another survey on British attitudes towards filesharing: it's not clear that the constant stream of these stories will ever cease, but the latest effort - commissioned by networking technology groupTelindus- does at least have a few interesting numbers in it.According to the survey of 2,000 adults surveyed online (therefore potentially skewing the results a little), 43% of respondents said they never paid for digital media - regardless of whether they should or not. Half of men, apparently, said they were dedicated pirates - despite 59% of respondents saying that they were aware that sharing or downloading unauthorised content was illegal.There have been plenty of studies exploring this sort of thing before - earlier this week a surveysuggested teenagers were turning to streaming instead of downloading- but there is one really intriguing bit of information hidden away in the latest survey: nearly one in five people surveyed believed that material was effectively in the public domain once it had been posted online - and that they effectively gave up ownership of material when they posted it to sites like Facebook and MySpace.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; We all scoff at the spam email that drops into our inboxes, and wonder how anyone ever falls for it - but a survey has suggested that aroundone in eight people has actually tried to buy something from a spam email. Really.Ars Technicahas the lowdown on what it calls our "secret shame".&bull; Bill Gates says that Project Natal - Microsoft's forthcoming gesture control system for the Xbox 360will also be coming to Windows, according toCNet.&bull; Thursday, as always, is the day a brand-spanking new copy of Technology Guardian hits the streets. Your newsagent can supply you with a selection of features looking at how augmented reality - a pipedream for so long -is now drawing closer, Jack analyses the prospects for thenew, web-enabled Office 2010while Bruce Schneier argues thatFacebook should be pushing privacy as a competitive advantage over its rivals. All that and morein this week's Technology Guardian.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Last weekI met up with Twitter co-founder Biz Stoneto discuss life at the company, and to find out what things are like inside the most talked-about startup in the world.This is an edited transcript of the interview: in the first part we heard aboutthe company's attempt to cope with the spotlight. Tomorrow we'll hear about its plans for the future but today, in the second part of the interview, we hear about Twitter's heroes, its place in the world and whether it listens to criticism from Silicon Valley.How strange is it to get contacted by the US State Department and have them beg to keep the site online?Biz Stone:It's not really that strange. We get tons of email all the time from all walks of life. Truthfully, something unbelievable happens every week. Once in a while my Sunday email will say that nothing happened - but people know that's a joke, because I'll go into some crazy thing that's happened. Things do get increasingly weird as we become part of a global stage.It's intimidating, but it's a great opportunity to advance the idea that we're all earthlings.But you're being asked by a government to play a role in this enormous political event.BS:There's always something going on. I think you need to zoom out a little bit more and realise that communication and the open exchange of information in general has a positive impact in the world - and many companies are doing this. It's becoming increasingly important and increasingly valuable for people everywhere.We recognise that, we know that's true. So our goal is just performance, reliability and service - when there's a global event, when something big happens, that's when there's a lot of focus - that's when you want to make sure the tool is working right because everyone's going to be looking at it.Specifically, in those moments, there's a microscope on it. Is it working? You always want it to be working, but those moments put a fine point on it. I guess you do spend a little bit more time double checking.One criticism that has been levelled at you is about the way the company's employees use Twitter; that they don't follow enough people or use the service in the same way as some power users. Do you think those criticisms are misplaced?BS:We actually are representative of people who use it. Most people follow 10 people and are followed by 10, although that's not necessarily a recent stat: but we're all Twitter users and we all use it in different ways.I can't keep up with more than two or three hundred people. I think these folks who are following tens of thousands of accounts are just not really following anybody.I think that comes from a training from a social network training standpoint that you have to reciprocate, but that's absolutely not what Twitter is. It's an information network, and you consume what you want. You don't have to follow somebody back, just because they follow you. But people have different opinions on that, and that's fine. Everyone here uses Twitter and loves it, and use it in different ways, and I think that's why we're representative.But that doesn't necessarily stop people being annoyed. Do you listen to those criticism from big names in Silicon Valley?BS:I actually think about this stuff differently. I think it's really important to get a variety of opinions. I spend a lot of time travelling around the worldIt's something to be concerned about when you work here. We're in San Francisco, not Silicon Valley per se, so it's already a little bit different - we're in a loft in the city.It's important not to get swept up with a fraction of a percent of highly vocal people who say you absolutely need to do this. You need to listen to them, just like you need to listen to everyone else, but you have to balance it.You just have to think: what's obvious and what's not obvious? What Twitter has taught us is that simple is great, and just adding something because it seems like a good feature, or because it seems like people would like it is not a good enough answer.When is it good enough?BS:One thing we've done with Twitter is that we've watched emergent behaviour come into the system and then turn it into a feature - just like the paving of the cow-paths; this is where people are walking, this is where the paths should be. You have to make sure you're not in that bubble, because there's strength in variety.Is Twitter mainstream yet?BS:I think we still have ways to go before that. I don't even really know what mainstream means. I think our brand is certainly getting into the mainstream, but I think we still have a lot of work to do on our product.But using a technology that most people can use - SMS - seems to pitch to the mainstream.BS:That's what we based the whole thing on - that's the inspiring thing: there's 4 billion mobile phone users in the world that are all carrying around with them Twitter-ready devices that are just as effective as the 1.5bn people who have internet access. It can be very transformative when you realise that people can have access to this real-time network when all they have is a cellphone.Take what you're seeing with companies in the US and UK are raising the bottom line by telling people when the cookies come out of the oven; think about that with a street vendor in India, asking "if I get a watermelon, will you buy it?". There's a transformative power in SMS that's extremely inspiring for us, and we're going to bring that online worldwide.Who do you admire? Where do you get your advice, or take your cues from?BS:The folks that I look up to are folks that I know or that I worked with. I don't pick heroes that I don't know - although I mentioned President Obama before, just because of his one world philosophy.I look up to [Twitter chief executive] Evan Williams - I've worked with him, and I quit Google at a time that it was crazy to quit Google just to continue to work with him because I felt like there was more to learn.There was a guy I worked with early in my career, when I started out as a graphic designer, named Steve Snider [now creative director atSt Martin's Press]. I basically apprenticed with him; I quit school and worked directly with him and I really took advantage of it.I didn't just learn everything about design from him - I asked him every day: how did you know when it was the right time to propose to your wife? How much did you ask for your first job? He had all these great stories, and he didn't even realise that they were great lessons.It's people that I work with who, when I recognise a good trait, I can steal it and take it as my own. If I look up to somebody I don't really know, I'm just projecting.I could say Steve Jobs - but I don't really know Steve Jobs, so I can't honestly say that. That's the sort of thing you do over and over again with movie stars - you look at them and say 'that guy's a good guy'. But he's playing a role.&bull; Tomorrow: How big can Twitter grow?
Should I buy an iPlate? Will it speed up my broadband connection?Roger StimsonThe iPlate is a BT-patented interstitial filter that fits between the faceplate of a BT NTE5 socket (not a BT Openreach socket) and the backplate that is screwed to the wall. It filters out noise and interference, and it can be fitted using only a screwdriver: you don't need an IDC insertion tool. There are YouTube videos that show how it's done,including one from thinkbroadband.com.If your broadband runs at close to full speed and is reliable, the iPlate may not make any difference. If your broadband is slow, it could provide a dramatic improvement. If you're in between, it's pot luck, but I reckon even a small improvement is worth the £8-£10 cost and the 10 minutes it takes to fit. However, bear in mind that the speed you get is "learned" and becomes part of yourADSL profile. It can take up to three days for a new profile to be established, and for higher speeds to become the norm.
I'm about to switch from dialup to broadband, and want to use a different ISP to the one I'm using for dial-up. Can I overlap the two modes of accessing the web?Timothy AshplantThis shouldn't be a problem, and many people use multiple forms of net access. For example, my own laptop is used for dial-up (via the RJ-11 port), home broadband (via the RJ-45 port), mobile broadband (via a USB dongle) and assorted Wi-Fi connections. The only combination I found impossible, a few years ago, was ADSL and an Astra satellite connection.Backchat: Frank Teasdale and others asked why I still used dial-up. My laptop travels the world and there are plenty of places that don't have broadband. Also, it provides a fallback in the UK, though not one I've used for several years.
Snooping around on my hard drive (Windows Vista Home Premium), I found a directory containing some large files: C:\Windows\eHome. Googling suggests they are for infrared devices, of which I have none. Any reason not to delete the directory?David NullThe eHome directory is related to the Windows Media Center, but in general, you should never delete anything that's included as part of Windows. This is why Microsoft has taken to hiding system files, and keeping copies of files so it can replace them. Programmers assume you have a full set and there's no telling which system files they'll use.The correct way to "remove" system files is to run the applet for Add or Remove Programs, then choose the option to Add/Remove Windows Components. In Vista, run the Control Panel's Programs applet, then choose Turn Windows Features on or off.However, if you turn a feature off, the code will still be on your hard drive, in case you want to turn it on again. This does have a point. Turning features off makes the code unavailable, which can reduce the "working set" that Windows loads when it starts, and provides a very small increase in security. If you just want to save some drive space, runCCleanerinstead.
I've changed to Vista Home Premium. I have an administrator's user account, user account control is switched off, and yet I can't access Documents and Settings or find the browser cache. It's really frustrating. How do I administrate my own computer?William ThomasVista is actually a lot different from Windows XP, and you may be better off treating it as a search-driven operating system. You can't access Documents and Settings because it doesn't exist. There are some fake folders with familiar names – Microsoft calls them Junctions – but they're only there to redirect old software and preserve backwards compatibility. Windows Explorer shows the folders you have so it doesn't get redirected. The folders you want are now under C:\Users, eg C:\Users\yourname\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Windows\Temporary Internet Files. There's a list of old (XP) and new (Vista) locations atjimmah.com.
"Pick up your email from any computer, anywhere in the world. No need to register!" says mail2web.com. The service is free and looks too good to be true. I realise emails are not really very secure, but does using this reduce security and confidentiality even further?David J JonesMail2webis an extremely popular service, but to use it, you have to type in your email address and password. In principle this is a bad idea, and it does reduce your security, but millions of people type their passwords into this and other services. In Mail2web's favour, it has been going for more than a decade, and it does seem to be trustworthy. Also, the site has just been redesigned, and now has a help and community forum plus otheruser-friendly features.However, it's certainly worth considering alternatives. For example, you could have all your email forwarded to Gmail. This will make it accessible via the web, provide a backup copy, and make use of Gmail's excellent spam blocking features. Windows Live Hotmail will also pick up mail from other services.Backchat: E Jones says: "I have used [Mail2web] for years while travelling with no problems at all. Gmail by contrast appears to have some security 'issues' as I have had at least one automatic acknowledgement sent back showing my password in the message! I reported it but got no response."
Windows 7 got off to a fast start at Amazon.co.uk in the early hours of the morning, with the two versions -- Home and Pro -- shooting to the top of the software charts. The pages came and went, but it's not clear whether Amazon.co.uk had problems. It may just be that someone noticed the recommended retail price of the Pro version had been listed as £0.01.It also wasn't clear whether Amazon.co.uk was going to offer the Ultimate version of Windows 7: this version hadn't been announced by Microsoft UK, and Amazon.co.ukstill hasn't priced it. Anyway, I bought the Pro edition, though Home is clearly a much better deal.Microsoft suggested that the Home version would cost £49.99 while the Pro edition would cost £99.99. However, it doesn't set prices. For some reason, Amazon.co.uk decided to sacrifice some of its profits by selling them for less: £44.97 and £89.97. Yes, it was competing with other outlets including Argos, John Lewis, and Tesco. But I expect most people who regularly use their Amazon accounts -- eg me -- don't really care that much. It's things like the easy (far too easy) ordering and reliable delivery that keep us coming back.Microsoft is also sacrificing a large amount of potential profit by selling full copies of Windows 7 in the UK for up to a third of the price -- Home should be £149.99, and Pro £219.99 -- which is why the pre-order promotional deal is only "while stocks last". Microsoft could actually make as much stock as it wants, but that would add up to a price cut.Brad Brooks, corporate vice president for Windows Consumer Product Marketing, told me that the deal was offered because "We want to reward customers who are following us closely". Sure, Brad. But I suspect it's probably more about getting Windows 7 off to a much better start than Vista.If so, job done. According to aBBC News report, "Amazon said that sales of Windows 7 in the first eight hours it was available outstripped those of Windows Vista's entire 17 week pre-order period."IDC is now predicting that: "By the end of 2010, more than 177 million copies of Windows 7 should be in place worldwide, and more than 50 million in the EUEZ" (European Union Economic Zone). It adds:For every euro of Microsoft revenue in the EUEZ from launch in October 2009 to the end of 2010 from Windows 7, the ecosystem beyond Microsoft will reap €19.06.
Have British hackers been attacking the White House and other US and South Korean government sites, or was it North Koreans after all?North Korea had been assumed to be behind last week's DDoS (Distributed Denial of Service) attacks on South Korean websites and prominent US targets including the White House, Pentagon, treasury department and the Nasdaq stock exchange. However, Nguyen Minh Duc, security director at Bkis in Hanoi, Vietnam, says his company has "located the attacking source in [the] UK". Bkis was brought in by KrCERT, the Korean Computer Emergency Response Team, to help analyse the malware that was performing the attacks using a botnet of at least 166,908 "zombie" computers in 74 countries.The zombies mount attacks by flooding servers with traffic til they can't cope. They are unable to handle normal traffic, and may be taken down. This may be electronic vandalism, but DDoS attacks have also been used in attempts at blackmail.PandaLabs has published a list of the sites attacked. Most belong to the governments of South Korea and the US.In a blog post, Bkis says the botnet was controlled by eight Command and Control (C&amp;C) servers via code embedded in a file named "flash.gif". Every three minutes, a zombie would connect to one of these servers to receive orders. "Especially, we found a master server located in [the] UK which controls all of the eight C&amp;C servers,"says the post.Bkis thinks it should be possible to catch the hackers. However, an official from the Korea Communications Commission told the Korea Times: "We don't know that the attackers were actually based in Britain, or mainly hacked a British IP address and used it for delivery."Also, the malware industry operates on a commercial basis, sometimes offering performance guarantees and other terms of service. Botnets are available for rent, and the real perpetrator of the attacks could simply have paid for them.However, there is evidence against that speculation. Vincent Weafer, vice-president of Symantec Security Response, told USA Today that some zombie machines had been instructed "to erase all work files associated with office, business and development applications" and to destroy "the master boot program so as to render the PC inoperable the next time the user reboots". Bot-herders tend to look after their money-making flocks.The malware used in the attack is known as MyDoom.HN, and only affects Windows computers. It was first used in 2004 to mount a DDoS attack on SCO Group, which was claiming that Linux used some of its copyright Unix code. SCO offered a $250,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of the person who had developed it, who appears to be from Russia. Microsoft also offered a $250,000 reward for information about the creator of a variant, Mydoom.B, used to attack Microsoft sites.Google was attacked later.MyDoom was typically distributed as an email attachment or via the Kazaa peer-to-peer filesharing network. However, it has been recognised by competent antivirus software for the past five years.
Pre-order Windows 7Microsoft UK is offering Windows 7 for about half price until 9 August, but "quantities are limited".Surf's up!DataWind is introducing the UbiSurfer, a &pound;160 netbook version of its mobile net device with a 7in screen.A bigger SeashellAsus has added a netbook with an 11.6in screen to its SeaShell range: the Eee PC 1101HA.Get game in LondonThe fourth annual London Games Festival, LGF09, will begin on 24 October.Free web publishingMydragNdrop has opened a free public beta test for a site that enables non-technical people to publish on the web.Nasa explores turbulenceNasa is to fund a programme to help predict areas of extreme turbulence.Packard Bell goes quadcorePackard Bell, now owned by Acer, is to launch a high-end quadcore desktop.A Twitter educationSheffield Hallam University has been using Twitter to discover how students use the campus for learning.Portable HD for hi-def TVLaCie claims its 500GB LaCinema Rugged HD can store and play 1080p video on any HDTV.
When Palm launched the Pre, its smartphone, itmade much of its compatibility with Apple's iTunes. Back in May, Palm proclaimed howPalm media sync is a feature of webOS that synchronizes seamlessly with iTunes, giving you a simple and easy way to transfer DRM-free music, photos and videos to your Palm Pre.Because everyone loves a smartphone that can sync with iTunes, right?There were some queries raised about how the Pre managed this. Had Apple somehow gone all cuddly with Palm because former head of the iPod division Jon Rubenstein was in charge?Hell, no. Of course what the Pre was doing was masquerading to iTunes as an iPod. Jon Lech Johansen (he of DeCSS fame)explains how: it's to do with USB masquerading.)But as he warned then,when the Pre is in "Media Sync" mode it identifies itself as an Apple iPod. However, it's only the Mass Storage interface that identifies itself as an iPod. The root USB node (IOUSBDevice) still identifies the device as a Palm Pre (not visible in the image above). This means that Apple can very easily update iTunes to block the Pre.Applefired a shot across Palm's bowswith a support document in June:Apple is aware that some third-parties claim that their digital media players are able to sync with Apple software. However, Apple does not provide support for, or test for compatibility with, non-Apple digital media players and, because software changes over time, newer versions of Apple's iTunes software may no longer provide syncing functionality with non-Apple digital media players."Because software changes over time". How does that happen, Apple? Does it evolve spontaneously? Naah. Someone decides that they don't like Palm being able to make the Pre masquerade as an iPod - because it makes it competitive with the iPhone on another level - and, you know,tweaksthe software.And so, witness today the arrival of iTunes 8.2.1. And that hundredth-decimal update matters, becauseiTunes 8.2.1 provides a number of important bug fixes and addresses an issue with verification of Apple devices.Ohh, verification. As in: stopping the Pre working with iTunes. Dozens, scores, soon hundreds of reports will be out there saying how the Pre doesn't work with iTunes.The question though is: why? Is there really a risk that the Pre is going to mess up iTunes? Seems a bit, well, unnecessary. If the Pre really can sync with iTunes without harming anything, then Apple's motives in killing it reveal how necessary iPod and iPhone revenues have become (which of course they have: they generate far more revenue and, one suspects, profit than the Mac computers) and how little, comparatively, the iTunes Store generates.Yes, Apple is being monopolistic. However, it's allowed to: it owns the hardware. Unless the EU can find some way to stop it, which should never be ruled out.Finally? This is going to be a hard one for Palm to win. It's at best an arms race, and Apple has the last word in weapons.
Twitter has responded to thepublication of stolen documents, saying it is taking legal advice on how to proceed.The documents - stolen by aFrench hackerwho illegally accessed the files online by guessing staff members' passwords - were passed to Silicon Valley technology blogTechCrunch, which has started publishing some of the ones it claims have "so much news value".In a statement on Twitter's blog today, co-founder Biz Stone took steps to reassure users of the service that none of their personal data was involved - and said that the company was taking advice on whether the publication was illegal."We are in touch with our legal counsel about what this theft means for Twitter, the hacker, and anyone who accepts and subsequently shares or publishes these stolen documents,"said Stone."We're not sure yet exactly what the implications are for folks who choose to get involved at this point but when we learn more and are able to share more, we will."Michael Arrington, the founder and editor of TechCrunch, has said that while he did not agree that it was right for somebody to hack into employee's accounts and steal information, the current level of interest in Twitter's activities meant that the opportunity to publish was too juicy to pass up."It certainly was unethical, or at least illegal or tortious, for the person who gave us the information and violated confidentiality and/or nondisclosure agreements. But on our end, it's simply news," he wrote. "That doesn't mean we are entitled to do anything we like in order to get to that information. But if it lands in our inbox, we consider it fair game."While publishing leaks from employees and insiders is standard practice in the media - and serious whistleblowers are protected under the law - the deliberate theft of information by outsiders is a trickier situation. Journalists in the UK can make a case for the public interest when important information has been gathered by illegal methods - such as in the case of the Daily Telegraph, whichpaid for access to confidential documents on MP's expenses.However in the US, the situation is less straightforward. Last year the gossip blog Gawker published a series of private emails passed on by a hacker who illegally accessed the email of vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin. The culprit, David Kernell, is facing a trial on charges of gaining unauthorised access to governor Palin's account - but Gawker has not been included in the action.And in recent years Apple has sued bloggers who have published confidential material under trade secrets law. In one case, teenage journalist Nicholas Ciarelliagreed to settle and shut down his blog ThinkSecret- which had published a series of stories about the secretive corporation.Stone said that the information contained in the stolen Twitter documents would merely be embarrassing from a privacy perspective, but that there could be business consequences that may "jeopardise relationships with Twitter's ongoing and potential partners".
Applications are propelling mobile phones into a new sphere of creative interactivity. Thanks to the convergence of social websites with the new technologies now embedded in phones (satellite links, compass and shape recognition by cameras) a new era of connectivity is at hand. Some advocates of privacy worry about how younger people rush to download all their contacts so they can see where their friends are on a mobile map but, as users don't seem to worry, deeper forces could be at work. Maybe we are reverting to tribalism – as the great media guruMarshall McLuhanobserved: "Privacy, like individualism, is unknown in tribal societies."Apple didn't invent apps. But by making touch screens and satellite links easy to use it has stormed ahead. I am a bit of an addict, with more than 50 apps on my iPod Touch. These include weather updates, Book Search (access to more than half a million books scanned by Google), the addictive Brushes painting app that David Hockney uses, audioboo.fm for instant interviews, the complete Shakespeare with a good search engine, curious games such as Crayon Physics, an orchestra, emails, social networks and internet radio stations such as last.fm, not to mention the BBC's iPlayer. It has changed my lifestyle and made a lot of other things I do much easier.But Apple is not the only fruit. Not only are dozens of others, includingGoogle, Nokia, Orange and Vodafone climbing aboard, but there is also a thriving independent sector. The biggest, getjar.com, which started in Lithuania, has just topped half a billion downloads. With 15 million unique users a month and 1.2m downloads a day, it claims to be second only to Apple. The difference is that all its apps are free and based on open source – unlike Apple's controlling community, which vets all applications and eschews open source.GetJar's business model is interesting. It is profitable – or was until it opened an office in Silicon Valley recently – and makes money by allowing developers to bid for the most desirable slots on its website. This explains why Google Maps/Latitude and Mig33, a mobile chat service, are among the most prominent. GetJar was quick to embrace the award-winning NimBuzz social website and has plenty of others, including bliin.com, an interesting friend-finder/trip recorder in which you can switch your map view to openstreetmap.org. There is a search engine to find other subjects and a user rating system to help you through the dross (there are 138 football apps alone). Other indie app sites include handango.com, specialising in smartphones, and mobile9.com, which claims more than 7bn downloads (including ringtones), but GetJar is making most of the noises.A glimpse of how converging technologies can be harnessed is at the embryonic enkin.net, which lets your cameraphone take pictures of a building across the road and compare the images with a database of others, enabling the building and its history to be "recognised" on your phone. With hundreds of thousands of developers working on the new technologies embedded in phones, some amazing uses are bound to rise above the rest. Developed countries don't necessarily have an advantage over developing countries, which now have the skills, the handsets and the markets to innovate – as they are already doing in mobile banking. The iPhone is a premium product for rich markets while GetJar and Nokia are ubiquitous.McLuhan's notion that worldwide integration could follow worldwide fragmentation is coming true. He referred to the mysterious need of crowds to reach out and observed that the instant character of electric information involves "the family of man in the cohesive state of village living". What a shame that McLuhan, who died 30 years ago, is not alive to see the amazing way his predictions are panning out.twitter.com/vickeegan
Multiple net accessI'm about to switch from dialup to broadband, and want to use a different ISP to the one I'm using for dialup. Can I overlap the two modes of accessing the web?Timothy AshplantThis shouldn't be a problem, and many people use multiple forms of net access. For example, my own laptop is used for dialup (via the RJ-11 port), home broadband (via the RJ-45 port), mobile broadband (via a USB dongle) and assorted Wi-Fi connections. The only combination I found impossible, a few years ago, was ADSL and an Astra satellite connection.iPlate it upShould I buy an iPlate? Will it speed up my broadband connection?Roger StimsonJS:The iPlate is a BT-patented interstitial filter that fits between the faceplate of a BT NTE5 socket (not a BT Openreach socket) and the backplate that is screwed to the wall. It filters out noise and interference, and it can be fitted using only a screwdriver: you don't need an IDC insertion tool. There are YouTube videos that show how it's done, includingone from thinkbroadband.com. If your broadband runs at close to full speed and is reliable, the iPlate may not make any difference. If your broadband is slow, it could provide a dramatic improvement. If you're in between, it's pot luck, but I reckon even a small improvement is worth the £8-£10 cost and the 10 minutes it takes to fit. However, bear in mind that the speed you get is "learned" and becomes part of yourADSL profile. It can take up to three days for a new profile to be established, and for higher speeds to become the norm.Directory deletionSnooping around on my hard drive (Windows Vista Home Premium), I found a directory containing some large files: C:\Windows\eHome. Googling suggests they are for infrared devices, of which I have none. Any reason not to delete the directory?David NullJS:The eHome directory is related to the&nbsp;Windows Media Center, but in general,&nbsp;you should never delete anything that's included as part of Windows. This is why Microsoft has taken to hiding system files, and keeping copies of files so it can replace them. Programmers assume you have a full set and there's no telling which system files they'll use.The correct way to "remove" system files is to run the applet for Add or Remove Programs, then choose the option to Add/Remove Windows Components. In Vista, run the Control Panel's Programs applet, then choose Turn Windows Features on or off.However, if you turn a feature off, the code will still be on your hard drive, in case you want to turn it on again. This does have a point. Turning features off makes the code unavailable, which can reduce the "working set" that Windows loads when it starts, and provides a very small increase in security. If you just want to save some drive space, runCCleanerinstead.Trying Mail2Web"Pick up your email from any computer, anywhere in the world. No need to register!" says mail2web.com. The service is free and looks too good to be true. I realise emails are not really very secure, but does using this reduce security and confidentiality even further?David J JonesJS:Mail2web is an extremely popular service, but to use it, you have to type in your email address and password. In principle this is a bad idea, and it does reduce your security, but millions of people type their passwords into this and other services. In Mail2web's favour, it has been going for more than a decade, and it does seem to be trustworthy. Also, the site has just been redesigned, and now hasa help and community forum plus other user-friendly features.However, it's certainly worth considering alternatives. For example, you could have all your email forwarded to Gmail. This will make it accessible via the web, provide a backup copy, and make use of Gmail's excellent spam blocking features. Windows Live Hotmail will also pick up mail from other services.Users found under VistaI've changed to Vista Home Premium. I&nbsp;have an administrator's user account, user account control is switched off, and yet I can't access Documents and&nbsp;Settings or find the browser cache.&nbsp;It's really frustrating. How do I administrate my own computer?William ThomasJS:Vista is actually a lot different to XP, and you may be better off treating it as a search-driven operating system. You can't access Documents and Settings because it doesn't exist. There are some fake folders with familiar names – Microsoft calls them Junctions – but they're only there to redirect old software and preserve backwards compatibility. Windows Explorer shows the folders you have so it doesn't get redirected. The folders you want are now under C:\Users, eg C:\Users\yourname\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Windows\Temporary Internet Files. There'sa list of old (XP) and new (Vista) locationsat jimmah.com.Backchat• Colin Waters asked for advice on choosing desktop publishing software andI suggested Serif's PagePlus SE as a starting point. Brian Butterworth says: "Poster and leaflet production isn't really DTP. You would probably be better off with CorelDraw, which can be downloaded and trialled for a month."
Have you been watching the price of oil lately? Probably not. Any thoughts on where it is between its high of $147 in June 2008 and its low since then of $30 in December 2008? Well, let me help: despite the recession, which isn't over yet, the price is now $60.35. Not quite hitting the heights, but heading back relentlessly. And that's before the world economy has managed to lift itself from the floor, where it's been trying to get itself up like a punch-drunk fighter who just took another straight left to the jaw.The point is, if energy prices are rising like this even while the world is staggering about in a recession, what are they going to be like when - perhaps if - the economy starts to fire on all cylinders again? Although some things are going to be different in the future (there won't be the enormous access to credit that fuelled the past 10 years or so), the one thing you should expect is that energy is going to cost more. That's why it's a good thing that the government announced the feed-in tariff plan: if we don't encourage people to generate their own electricity, they're going to be left in fuel poverty in years to come.Of course, one element of avoiding fuel poverty is reducing your energy use. And it's on that score that I was fascinated this week to meet Jen-Hsun (pronounced "Jensen", like the sports car) Huang, the president and chief executive of the graphics card company Nvidia. An American of Taiwanese descent, he speaks about as fast as a sports car, and brims with enthusiasm.The reason: Nvidia is just getting started, in his opinion. Besides the fact that both Apple and Microsoft's next operating system releases (Snow Leopard in September, Windows 7 in October) will be able to use the raw processing power of graphics cards - which far exceeds your computer's CPU - he is also showing off a minimal Nvidia system, the Tegra, which uses a few watts at most. It is destined for mobile devices that will last ages while doing what you want from a mobile device, such as surfing the web and watching video.Here's the clever bit: if the CPU element isn't needed, it simply switches itself off. The whole system has dynamic power management: relying on Flash memory and the multi-core, minimal instruction-set approach of graphics chips - as opposed to CPUs that rely on being on all the time - means that the power demand can be cut drastically.You may think the CPU core always needs to be on. Well, that depends on the definition of "always". Machines can work in microsecond slices, and shutting down is among the things they can do in those time slices. It may not seem like stopping for 50 microseconds out of every 500 is worth it, but that's a 10% reduction in power use. Wouldn't you like your computer to last 10% longer, or your energy bill to be 10% lower? That's what is so enticing about Huang's vision: it's tailored both to the future and to what the technology is capable of doing. The meeting of these is always a delight. Sometimes, companies wrench the future to where they want it to be: think of Apple and the iPhone, where the touchscreen became the thing to have only once it was shown off; before that, we prodded smartphones with a stylus or via a physical keyboard.But sometimes, companies simply move to the place where the world is going to be, and wait for it to arrive. I think Nvidia may have done that with the Tegra. Huang told me Nvidia will have products built around it by the end of next year - palm-sized devices. They'll be worth looking out for as you watch the price of oil - and your electricity bill - start to creep up again.
As the players pause between ends in a match at Wimbledon, the TV screen suddenly overlays the court with a pattern of yellow and black dots - showing where the receiver has been returning the first and second serves. As they walk back out, the overlay vanishes and they're back to play.As another wicket falls in the Ashes, a replay shows the flight of the ball, and how it was going to clip the off-stump before it was stopped by the batsman's leg. And in the US, TV viewers watching an American football match see a yellow line running across the field - the "first down line" that the attacking team must reach to retain possession. Except that it's invisible to the players on the field: it's added in the TV studios. And this weekend's Open Championship golf will show the greens overlaid with contours, revealing the territory each putt must negotiate.All are examples - already so familiar as to feel quotidian - of "augmented reality" (AR), a burgeoning field that mixes computer power with real life to add extra information to a scene or event. The sports examples are only the beginning, relying as they do on static locations. The next generation of augmented reality is designed for people on the move - and it's already being implemented.For example, spectators visiting the All-England club this year with an Android-powered phone could download an AR application called Wimbledon Seer, which, when they held the phone up and pointed it at the courts, would display match data, where the refreshment stands were, or whether a cafe had an exceptionally long line.Unlike virtual reality, or immersive reality (think Second Life), AR takes what is already there in the real world and uses computer sensing to add more information - whether in touch ("haptic"), visual or aural formats.Pilot schemeIt has already been used in niche applications by well-funded organisations: Boeing, for example, uses AR so that engineers can do the complex wiring on its aircraft. Since a trial in 1996 - which involved PCs worn on a waistband and special goggles - its engineers have seen the wiring diagram overlaid on the place where they are looking, so they don't have to keep referring back to paper wiring diagrams (where it would be easy to lose your place).But even that's not the original form of AR - which was arguably the tapes that you could buy or borrow at museums: slot them into your cassette player (which shows how old the idea is) and as you walked to each exhibit, the tape would provide a more detailed explanation of what you were seeing. It may be the first time art has fostered a technology breakthrough. Nowadays, AR is used in museums in a more dramatic manner - such as Canon, which has a version for showing off dinosaur exhibits: viewed through a special camera, a three-dimensional stegosaurus appears to be right in front of the visitor.Jen-Hsun Huang, president and chief executive of the graphics card maker Nvidia, is certain that augmented reality is going to become part of our daily life - and soon. "You'll see it in your car when you're backing up: you'll get a readout showing how close objects are. Golfers will be able to put on glasses and it will show them the contours of the green. Already Sony has been using it in videogames - you put a camera over a board, and you put the game cards on the board, and you see a rendering of the monsters from the cards on your computer - and they're fighting each other. Lego has done one where the model appears to pop out of the box." He's sure that the growth in processing power and location-sensing will mean AR will become commonplace in a few years.Great leap forwardCertainly, AR out in the field needs smartphones with a number of elements built in. First, video or camera input in a high enough resolution; location sensing; direction sensing; and then, the onboard computing power to analyse the visual information and decide what and where to overlay. It's only in the past year or so that smartphones with all those elements have begun to be affordable, and include elements such as the compass built in to the recently released iPhone 3GS and Android-based G1 mobile.And there are already a number of startup companies trying to make the most out of this burgeoning area. One is Layar, from SPRXmobile, a Dutch company: it overlays local restaurant, hotel and property data on to the scene that it "sees" through the camera.Meanwhile a Swedish company, The Astonishing Tribe, has gone a step further, with a facial recognition system called Augmented ID. It tells you who people are, based on identifying their picture via a technology called Polar Rose, which analyses faces and then searches for photos on Flickr that match it - and pulls out the name from the tags.Another, called Nearest Tube, for the iPhone 3GS, uses its GPS and video capability to give real-time directions - overlaid on to the scene, viewed through the iPhone - to the nearest underground station. An Austrian-based company, Mobilizy, has developed an Android application that, given a camera view and a location, overlays information about it from Wikipedia and photos from Panoramio. So far there are 800,000 points around the world where it works.Use your imaginationAnd it turns out that the programming isn't the hardest part. Chetan Damani, a director of Acrossair, which developed the Nearest Tube application, says: "The app itself wasn't that complex. Apple released the 3.0 SDK a few months prior in beta version, so we started conceptualising the app in advance. I would say in total we spent 20-30 man days on the project (design, strategy and build)."He adds that AR isn't a homogenous field. "Firstly, you have AR, which involves overlaying data in to the current surroundings, like our Nearest Tube application on the iPhone. For that you need the geodata (longitude and latitude) and a capable device. The second type of AR is when you create a virtual object and layer that on to a real-world view, like the BMW Z4 AR app accessed on a PC. For this you need a visual tag the camera can recognise to create the virtual object; in this type of AR app you do not need the geodata."It is still early days, though. "It's really picking up now because of the devices. AR provides a much more intuitive interface to viewing mapping data, and the one thing that the internet era has taught us is that the interface drives interest. The hardest element about AR is getting hold of accurate data - you need to have detailed longitude and latitude data, and although this is available for landmarks and for certain stores, it's not easy to obtain."But with GPS getting ever more precise, and mobile phones getting ever more accurate, it may not be that long before the spectators at sports events are lifting their phones - or perhaps even special glasses - to their eyes to "watch" the event in more detail, and in ways we presently have to stay at home for. Augmenting reality could make experiencing reality much more rewarding.
Microsoft is finally putting versions of its Office applications suite online, as part of its move to Office 2010. The new Office Web Applications, demonstrated on video, don't have all the capabilities of desktop versions, but do feature the ribbon-based user interface. They seem to be far more powerful than Google's three-year-old online applications, and should offer much better compatibility with Microsoft Office files.The suite of Office Web Applications - Word, Excel, PowerPoint and OneNote - will be available to consumers, free of charge, as part of Microsoft's Windows Live service, which has more than 400 million users, thanks mainly to the popularity of Hotmail. However, they are not limited to Windows users: Microsoft demonstrated them running in Firefox and Apple's Safari browser.Small businesses will also be able to use the online versions as part of Microsoft's cloud-based subscription service Business Productivity Online Suite, while large companies will be able to host them on in-house servers, as well as running desktop versions of Office. Chris Adams, an Office product manager at Microsoft UK, says it offers "the ultimate choice". Customers can decide how much they want to do on the desktop and how much online, and they can either control the service or have it managed for them.Office Web Applications can also be used with any mobile phone that has a compatible microbrowser.When it comes to the desktop, Office 2010 is completing the migration to the Fluent user interface introduced with Office 2007. The new versions of Outlook, OneNote, Publisher and SharePoint Server now have ribbon-based interfaces, which can be customised.As with Windows 7, Microsoft is reducing the number of different packages. When it appears next year, Office 2010 will be offered in five versions, but only three will be available to consumers. The Office Home and Student edition comprises Word, PowerPoint, Excel and OneNote, while the Home and Business edition has Outlook as well. The Professional version also includes Access and Publisher.Anti-piracy price pointAdams says the Home and Student version of Office 2007 has done well, withamazon.comselling a copy every 20 seconds. Amazon sells a three-user package for $90; it's currently &pound;66.69 in the UK, which should be cheap enough to limit piracy.Microsoft's Business Division, which includes Office, generated $19bn in sales in fiscal 2008, and $12bn in operating profits. There are fears that Microsoft's cash cow could lose sales to the online versions, which could account for the company's tardiness in adding a web-based Office.But the industry analyst Tom Austin, chief of research (software) at Gartner, reckons that by introducing cloud services, Microsoft "will generate more revenue than licences alone did. Albeit, the new revenue will come at a lower profit level, but it will be incremental to the bottom line." He says "the 'free stuff' on the web is a spoiler to slow down Google's market penetration ... and a teaser" that will attract paying customers to the cloud-based offerings.With the launch of Azure, supported by huge new data centres, Microsoft is investing massively in a move to cloud computing.Another worry is that the online services will cut out the middleman and lead to conflict with Microsoft's partners - and Microsoft makes more than 95% of its revenues via more than 640,000 partners. While the most obvious ones are PC manufacturers, many more are employed in building applications for Microsoft products, and selling, installing, customising, managing and supporting them.It's not a coincidence that Microsoft made its Office 2010 announcements at its Worldwide Partner Conference in New Orleans, Louisiana, on Monday - it needs to keep these partners happy.Catering for customersThe long-time Microsoft watcher Joe Wilcox says his first reaction to the videos of Office Web Applications was "So what? Everything's about preserving Microsoft's application stack" - the end-to-end connection of Windows and Office, back-office servers such as Exchange and SharePoint, and online services based on Azure - "and that's going to be replaced by the mobile phone going straight to the server," he says. He thinks Microsoft is "catering for old-style customers, and helping them to move forward".To keep its "application stack" in sync, Microsoft also likes to sell new versions of Office with new versions of Windows for desktops and servers. Can Office 2010 help drive Windows 7 upgrades?"They're not going to be released together, but that doesn't matter," says Wilcox. "Businesses are going to take a long time to test before they deploy them anyway. But I'm surprised there's not more synergy between the two, and there's no sign of it around things like the touch interface [in Windows 7]. But just because we've not heard about it, doesn't mean it's not going to happen."If businesses started a new "refresh cycle" by installing new PCs running Windows 7 and Office 2010, a depressed computer industry would be grateful. It didn't happen with Vista and Office 2007, so many business PCs must be getting old and expensive to maintain. However, most companies are probably more concerned with reducing costs and holding on to cash, so make-do-and-mend seems more likely.Whether the economic scene will have changed next year, when Office 2010 finally ships, remains to be seen. But Microsoft isn't the only company that hopes so.
One of the great, unsung features of Xbox Live, the online service available to owners of Microsoft's console, is that it lets you see what your friends are playing. This sounds trivial amid the hubbub of downloadable games, video chatting and multiplayer connectivity, but it is a vital component. There's the innate human curiosity, but there's also a competitive element – have they bought a hot new game before me? How far have they got into it? My god, haven't they finished Halo 3 yet?!I've recently been toying with two technologies that expand on the concept.OpenFeintis a social gaming platform for the iPhone that is supported by hundreds of game developers. Users can download it, create a friends list, then see what pals are playing as well as chat and view leaderboards. OpenFeint also integrates with Facebook and Twitter, so you can let everyone know you're addicted toEpic Pet Warsand don't care. It's good for developers, too, because it provides valuable word-of-mouth promotion ("social discovery" to use the accepted parlance). OpenFeint doesn't have this space to itself – there are alternatives, includingScoreloop, which seems more geared toward competing with friends rather than socialising and sharing – but it's attractive, easy-to-use and makes you wonder we had to wait so long for such a service.I also love watchingTweet My Gaming. The site was set up by GamerDNA, and offers an online social aggregation service that traces the gaming history of its users, letting them compare experiences and learn about new titles. It just rolls along, updating constantly with typically inane game chatter. On the right-hand side of the screen are the most discussed games in the past 24 hours, seven days or since the service was set up at the beginning of June – Sims 3 and World of Warcraft are at the top. A lot of the posts are from people at work fantasising about the games they'll play when they get home, or remembering what they played the night before.One day very soon, videogames will be almost indistinguishable from social networking services. The Liverpool developer Bizarre Creations is working on Blue, a racing game that has its own version of Facebook – gamers will be able to issue challenges and boasts – and it looks as though it will integrate with the real Facebook. We'll be able to simultaneously play games, talk about games and endlessly transmit our gaming achievements across the blogosphere. Sure, society as we know it will cease to function, but finally our curiosity about the gaming habits of our friends and colleagues will be well and truly sated.
Reassuring people about privacy makes them more, not less, concerned. It's called "privacy salience", and Leslie John, Alessandro Acquisti, and George Loewenstein – all at Carnegie Mellon University – demonstrated this in aseries of clever experiments. In one, subjects completed an online survey consisting of a series of questions about their academic behaviour – "Have you ever cheated on an exam?" for example. Half of the subjects were first required to sign a consent warning – designed to make privacy concerns more salient – while the other half did not. Also, subjects were randomly assigned to receive either a privacy confidentiality assurance, or no such assurance. When the privacy concern was made salient (through the consent warning), people reacted negatively to the subsequent confidentiality assurance and were less likely to reveal personal information.In another experiment, subjects completed an online survey where they were asked a series of personal questions, such as "Have you ever tried cocaine?" Half of the subjects completed a frivolous-looking survey – "How BAD are U??" – with a picture of a cute devil. The other half completed the same survey with the title "Carnegie Mellon University Survey of Ethical Standards," complete with a university seal and official privacy assurances. The results showed that people who were reminded about privacy were less likely to reveal personal information than those who were not.Privacy salience does a lot to explain social networking sites and their attitudes towards privacy. From a business perspective, social networking sites don't want their members to exercise their privacy rights very much. They want members to be comfortable disclosing a lot of data about themselves.Joseph Bonneau and Soeren Preibusch of Cambridge University have beenstudying privacyon 45 popular social networking sites around the world. (You may not have realised that thereare45 popular social networking sites around the world.) They found that privacy settings were often confusing and hard to access; Facebook, with its 61 privacy settings, istheworst. To understand some of the settings, they had to create accounts with different settings so they could compare the results. Privacy tends to increase with the age and popularity of a site. General-use sites tend to have more privacy features than niche sites.But their most interesting finding was that sites consistently hide any mentions of privacy. Their splash pages talk about connecting with friends, meeting new people, sharing pictures: the benefits of disclosing personal data.These sites do talk about privacy, but only on hard-to-find privacy policy pages. There, the sites give strong reassurances about their privacy controls and the safety of data members choose to disclose on the site. There, the sites display third-party privacy seals and other icons designed to assuage any fears members have.It's the Carnegie Mellon experimental result in the real world. Users care about privacy, but don't really think about it day to day. The social networking sites don't want to remind users about privacy, even if they talk about it positively, because any reminder will result in users remembering their privacy fears and becoming more cautious about sharing personal data. But the sites also need to reassure those "privacy fundamentalists" for whom privacy is always salient, so they have very strong pro-privacy rhetoric for those who take the time to search them out. The two different marketing messages are for two different audiences.Social networking sites are improving their privacy controls as a result of public pressure. At the same time, there is a counterbalancing business pressure to decrease privacy; watch what's going onright nowon Facebook, for example. Naively, we should expect companies to make their privacy policies clear to allow customers to make an informed choice. But the marketing need to reduce privacy salience will frustrate market solutions to improve privacy; sites would much rather obfuscate the issue than compete on it as a feature.Bruce Schneier is BT's chief security technology officer
This article is the subject of a legal complaint from Evony LLC.After publication of this article, a representative of Evony LLC contacted us. He said neither the company nor its owners were associated with internet fraud or scams. He said Evony denied any suggestion that it had "ripped off" predecessor games and said a considerable amount had been invested in research and development to produce a unique game.  Evony said it did not charge players for sending a message to other players and was not responsible for nor did it encourage the use of spam messages referring to Evony.Quite possibly. If you've been anywhere near the internet in recent weeks, you may well have noticed the vast number of promotions for a game called Evony – campaigns on websites featuring buxom fantasy queens; countless Google ads and (more disturbingly) millions of spam comments left on blogs.On the surface, Evony is a pretty standard online strategy game – a simulation in which players take the role of a medieval noble who must build up an empire. But the way the game has been marketed has created a bit of a stir: the games marketer Bruce Everisshas charted the volume of spam being sent by its creators, while Jeff Atwood, a US programmer and blogger, has documented the ads' increasingly racy nature – from a simple medieval warrior promising the game would be "free forever", through a string of increasingly racy images ... until, finally, it was simply advertising itself by showing a pair of breasts."Thanks for showing us what it means to take advertising on the internet to the absolute rock bottom ... then dig a sub-basement under that, and keep on digging until you reach the white-hot molten core of the Earth,"he wrote last week.It's not just the advertising that has got the internet up in arms, however – the game itself has drawn criticism from many quarters. Evony takes its inspiration from Civilization, the classic Sid Meier series. In fact, its slavish devotion stretches not only to its original name – it was known as Civony until recently – but also to the details of the game itself; a format so familiar that more than a few gamers to question whether Evony has simply ripped off its predecessors.And as if bad advertising and tenuous intellectual property were not enough, the game is also under fire for its business model – a system that seems intent on getting players to spend as much money as possible. Players are encouraged to buy in-game extras to speed their progress – but the confusing way the game prices its add-ons means that many users may not realise that a simple action, such as sending a message to another player, can cost 15p a time.All of this has swirled into a storm of criticism around Evony – except on the game's own web forums, where mentions of its most controversial practices are deleted by moderators. So if Evony is the world's most despised game, who is behind it?It turns out that the site's backers are equally unpopular. Evony is the product of Universal Multiplayer Game Entertainment (UMGE), a developer linked to a Chinese gold-farming operation called WoWMine. That site has also come in for regular criticism, but the real kicker comes with the news that the company's owners are being sued by Microsoft over allegations of click fraud.Perhaps Evony isn't the most hated game on the internet: but it certainly runs close.
Thehacking of Twitterco-founder Evan Williams's Gmail and otheraccounts by an unknown person- though reckoned to be French - has underscored one thing, no matter where you stand on the ethics of Techcrunch's publication of the documents: cloud security needs to catch up very fast to the level of trust that people are putting into it. [Updated in line withTwitter post about the break-in.]The idea that a chunk of your personal details, and more importantly your valuable corporate information, might be protected by a fence no higher than guessing the answer to a stranger's "what was the name of your favourite pet?" or similar question gives any IT manager with an ounce of sense shivers. It's the sort of thing that keeps them awake at night.It's cloud computing raining on your corporate parade. Evan Williams isn't the only person who's been bitten this way; Sarah Palin's emails were hacked by a similar password-guessing, redirect-the-answer method. And we get a steady stream of letters from readers who discover this has happened to them. Not to mention the people who've been hit by phishing scams and lost control of their accounts - eBay, PayPal, email, even bank - that way.So what's needed? Stronger identity systems. The mystery is why it's taken so long for strong identity to become pervasive across the web. Can't the systems know who we are? Aren't there enough differentiators between us that with a few bits of data, we are unique, and the system can identify us?Perhaps. But before that, there's another force acting in the opposite direction: the fear that one site we use will get hacked, and that our identity will be stolen from there, and used elsewhere. That's why we're urged to use different passwords for different sites; even different user names. (This then leads to the mad confusion where you have dozens of "identities" but can't remember which one you used for a site. As a result of which you bring them all together in a single place, such as a password program; and then you're terrified that that will be lost or compromised. Where should you back it up? Perhaps the cloud?)CertainlyOpenIDis the one that keeps looking like it should break through. From theWikipedia entry:An OpenID is in the form of a unique URL, and is authenticated by the user's 'OpenID provider' (that is, the entity hosting their OpenID URL).[1] The OpenID protocol does not rely on a central authority to authenticate a user's identity. Since neither the OpenID protocol nor Web sites requiring identification may mandate a specific type of authentication, non-standard forms of authentication can be used, such as smart cards, biometrics, or ordinary passwords.The problem being of course that that simply takes the problem one step back. Is Yahoo your OpenID provider? Great - until you forget your Yahoo login amidst the blizzard of logins you've got. Or indeed, as with Twitter, find that it doesn't support OpenID.My instinct is that Google is going to have to move fast on this, though. The enormous egg-on-face of such a high-profile hack (even if it was somewhat foolish of Williams to rely, apparently, on the non-hosted version of Google Mail; the Google Apps for Your Domain version is very much harder to hack because it has much less public visibility) should mean some scrambling in Mountain View to come up with the best method of guaranteeing that if you want to keep your email and cloud documents properly safe, they'll stay that way.Let's face it: passwords are a rubbish form of security. Something like a picture set (choose your relatives or friends from four successive sets of 9 faces) would be far more effective. A British company,Passfaces, has implemented something like that. It's long overdue for widespread implementation.Or am I missing something? How would you want identity to be fixed online for those times when you want it? Obviously, you could still have your rubbish throwaway accounts; we're talking here about the important email and similar accounts that you want to preserve, and keep secret.
Flip, now owned by Cisco, has quickly carved out a name for itself in small handheld video cameras such as the Mino and MinoHD. Why bother with lumpen camcorders with huge lenses when you can instead wield something about the size of the Little Book of Calm? Its latest offering is the 8GB Flip UltraHD.Priced at around £160, it adds more storage – up to two hours – plus remarkably detailed video capture, with a resolution of 1280x720 pixels and millions of colours, which it grabs at 30 frames per second. Much of these improvements are directly in line with Moore's Law: quicker, faster, cheaper. Flip has now moved to H.264 for video encoding, unlike the MPEG-4 AVI wrapper it used on its previous models such as the original Mino and MinoHD. That ups its compatibility with video-editing programs; AVI covers such a myriad of flie encoding wrappers that it's a gamble whether it will function with any given editor. H.264 is a known quantity which performs very well at all sorts of compression rates.Flip is also paying attention to the little elements: you can choose to have the back (lens) side of the UltraHD in shiny chrome. Why? Because Flip discovered that its younger buyers wanted to be able to see themselves using it as they composed self-regarding videos for YouTube. The UltraHD's automatic light balance also showed its paces. I tried it at Wimbledon, where there's huge contrast in brightness between the sky, the court, and the seats; the automatic adjustment was almost instant; certainly if I'd had a tripod (rather than holding it in my wobbly hands) you'd have barely known how the light conditions above the court were changing as clouds scudded overhead. The only criticism is that at the speeds at which professionals play tennis, the ball "strobed" – the frame capture isn't fast enough to make the motion of the ball (which is of course travelling at around 100mph, or 160km/h) smooth.But for all its improvements, Flip needs to watch its back: the arrival of video recording on the iPhone 3GS, plus that device's capability for a line-in microphone, is a dangerous challenge that can't be ignored.The controls retain their simplicity: big red button to begin recording, two touch-sensitive controls to zoom in and out. For editing there's a simple trash button and reverse and forward buttons to scroll through the choices. Though the UltraHD is not, like its companions, a still camera, you can extract stills from the MP-4 stream very easily.The zoom is adequate, though it would be good to have more control over focus: the camera's limits are revealed when you zoom in on an object more than about 30 feet away, at which point the conflicts of the aperture (which determines depth of focus) and the CCD sensitivity (which determines how bright the picture seems) become stark. It turns out that focus loses; that's where a larger camcorder, with its more expensive lenses ( and more expensive price tag, of course) wins.Despite this, the UltraHD is a weapon of choice in almost every respect, but what it still needs is a microphone input so that it can be used for proper interviews. That may sound trivial, but it's going to become urgent quite soon. The addition of video to the iPhone, which also has a&nbsp;line-in for a microphone (free in the headphones, and perhaps coming through Bluetooth for a remote mic) means Flip has less time than it otherwise would. After all, everyone's improving as fast as Moore's Law at the moment. Flip needs to outpace it somehow.Pros:small, light, high quality, good automatic light adjustmentCons:no line-in for sound; fuzzy at extreme zoomtheflip.com
For journalists, Craig Newmark is the meteor that came hurtling to Earth and destroyed their world. Craigslist, the unassuming site that bears his name, is thought by some to have killed one of the major cash cows of the US newspaper industry – classified advertising.When he started the site in early 1995, he says: "I had as few thoughts as possible and certainly no vision. In particular, I had no idea that it might affect the news business." Newmark has his roots in technology, not in media or journalism. He worked at IBM for 17 years before going to San Francisco to work for the stockbroker Charles Schwab.Free to a good homeCraigslist is a great advertisement for open-source technology. Newmark programmed most of the site in Perl, and the servers run Linux, Apache and MySQL. He told the tech consultancy O'Reilly last year that the only software Craigslist has paid for is accounting software.The site began shortly after his move to the Bay area of California as a simple mailing list for events; the mailing list moved to the web in 1996. The look of the site hasn't changed that much over the years, but it has grown well beyond its roots.Newmark refers to the negative impact of Craigslist on journalism as "an urban myth", and certainly making Newmark the poster child for all the woes of the US newspaper industry doesn't really hold up to scrutiny. For the first 10 years of Craigslist, the US newspaper industry continued to grow. In 2005, US newspapersenjoyed their highest advertising revenues in history, raking in $49.4bn (then £28bn), according to the Newspaper Association of America.Classified advertising continued to grow during seven of the 10 years after the site was founded. However, newspaper revenues have dropped since 2005, thedecline acceleratingin the past two years as the recession adds to double-digit falls in formerly lucrative auto and housing classifieds. Is that down to Craigslist or the worst recession in decades?According to figures on the site, Craigslist has 20bn page views a month, and its users post 40m ads a month on 570 sites in 50 countries. The site is in the top 10 in the US for traffic, according to the web data company Alexa, and Hitwise puts it just outside the top 10 at 14.Craigslist does all this with a staff of "about 30". Among those is Jeremy Zawodny, who joined from Yahoo in July 2008. He works on MySQL and much of the key back-end infrastructure for the site. In a presentation in April, Zawodny pointed to a number of the challenges that Craigslist faces – including its rapid growth, need to archive hundreds of millions of postings "forever", and the increasingly pressing problem of being able to search the site, with all those postings: it gets up to 50m queries per day. MySQL's own full text search was simply too slow, and prone to corrupt data.The solution Zawodny found was to implement Sphinx, an open source software search engine that integrates natively with MySQL and is optimised for indexing and search. It's even able to implement "nearby search". The only external worries that Zawodny – and hence Craigslist – has is about the possible effects ofOracle's acquisition of Sun, announced in April, on MySQL, which Sun owns.With its intense focus on having a really efficient database, and what appears (to the uncritical eye) like a very simple web interface, Craigslist doesn't look much like the sort of business that a news organisation would want. But many news executives would love its revenues – partly because some of them are convinced those revenues used to belong to them. Without them, traditional news organisations are scrambling to find new business models even while they try to continue within their old structures; the result is not pretty.However, Newmark sees a range of business models to support journalism in the future – including sponsorship, advertising, philanthropic and pay-per-view models. News organisations will become "networks of reporters, editors and factcheckers", he says.Craigslist is as much about people connecting with each other as it is about selling things, Newmark says; the site was describing itself as a community long before the term came into vogue in digital media. The mission of Craigslist is public service, or "customer service done in good conscience", he says.To run a site such as Craigslist requires "continuous engagement between a company and its customers, its community", he says, which he believes applies to all companies and even governments."There is this large movement where the internet is facilitating large-scale, grassroots democracy in a way that has never been possible," he says.He is now working on how the US government can provide better customer service through the internet."In these tight economic times, the need for accountability in government is stronger than ever," he says.Journalism used to be one of the main ways to hold government to account, but with these internet-led initiatives to open government, maybe government accountability is getting a much-needed upgrade.
Campaigners and industry analysts are warning that government plans to use new spectrum to bring fast internet access to rural areas are a compromise that is bound to fail.It was revealed in May by SamKnows, the website that monitors web access speeds for Ofcom and the BBC, that 3m homes have access below thegovernment's 2012 target of 2Mbps. A month later,Lord Carter's Digital Britain report identified mobile broadband as playing an important role in increasing speeds to these rural and edge of town areas that are too far from telephone exchanges to receive ADSL.The government's plan is to auction off the "digital dividend" of airwaves freed up by the switchover to digital television in 2012, to pave the way for faster mobile broadband services. The spectrum is well suited to covering long distances and penetrating through walls to provide in-house coverage. However, that makes it very valuable and so proposals to release it have landed the government and telecoms regulator, Ofcom, in the middle of longstanding rivalries between the UK's five mobile operators.Spectrum analysisThe aim is to placate all parties by distributing the new spectrum in three equal-sized licences. At the same time, a small amount of similarly valuable airwaves, owned by Vodafone and O2 since 1982, are also due to be released. If plans are approved by the operators this summer, the four new licences are expected to be auctioned in the middle of 2010.Campaigners and analysts agree this plan to keep the operators happy makes no sense. Five or six networks will not be able to make a return on competing services in sparsely populated rural areas where fast access is most needed, and speeds will be held back by splitting capacity.Instead, a single network with huge capacity would make more sense, according to analysts such as Ameet Shah, the director at the telecoms consultancy PRTM, and former head of strategy at the mobile industry trade body, the GSM Association (GSMA). He predicts the compromise deal will serve nobody's interests: "It just makes no sense to split up the airwaves evenly so the operators are kept happy."It will be uneconomic, so we should have something like a Railtrack for trains, where mobile operators bid to use a geographic region on a national network with huge capacity."Under the current plans the operators will end up doing what they always do. Get their slice of spectrum and then build up services in the most profitable areas and leave those in rural areas who really need better broadband access to last."Adrian Wooster, chief technology officer at the Community Broadband Network, agrees. The group has helped bring fibre broadband to many communities with poor access, such as the Cybermoor project in Cumbria. Wooster believes this "top down" proposal of appeasing operators rather than considering consumers first is a detraction from the need to roll out fixed line services into remote areas."There is no realistic chance 3G will be delivering anything like 2Mbps in the areas that need it," he says."There aren't enough base stations in rural areas, and today many don't have enough backhaul [to the internet]. It ought to be perfectly possible for the mobile operators to share spectrum and still offer a good service but the industry is too used to requiring their own real estate, whether that's cables or wavelengths."Helen Anderson, a broadband campaigner who helped bring ADSL to South Witham in Lincolnshire, also believes that a single network makes more sense in rural areas. "A lot of the areas I know of that are 'notspots' struggle to get even a reliable 2G service," she says. "If they are looking to the current 2G networks to run 3G services then would that help them?"Share dealingJane Cooper, head of Spectrum and Mobile Economic Regulation at Orange PCS Limited claims mobile broadband can deliver a reliable 2Mbps service, but insists the spectrum first needs to be shared evenly between operators. She believes it is unfair that Vodafone and O2 have had the country's most precious spectrum since 1982. When T-Mobile and Orange entered the market in 1993 and 1994 respectively, to be followed by 3 in 2003, they were awarded spectrum that doesn't reach out as far into rural areas."It's an unfair accident of history that Vodafone and O2 should have such precious spectrum, so it's time the issue were resolved and the best spectrum shared more evenly," she says."We're confident the current process will do this. The Railtrack single network solution has been mentioned but hasn't achieved much traction because all the operators agree it's not conducive to competition."Ultimately, Terry Norman, an analyst with telecoms research company, Analysys Mason, believes the many mobile broadband networks due to launch in 2012 will be whittled down through common-sense economics and consolidation. Vodafone and O2 share cell tower sites, as do T-Mobile and 3, so it is conceivable they could seek government permission at a later date to share spectrum in low value, rural areas.With Vodafone and O2, and possibly Orange, lining up bids for T-Mobile, spectrum could start to be consolidated into fewer networks before 2012, subject to official approval and competition checks.
With online quiz game1 vs 100launching on Xbox Live this week I had a quick chat with  Tania Chee – Xbox Live marketing Manager for UK and Ireland – and asked her about the game, potential cheating and how it all works.What is 1vs 100 and why should gamers care?We already have HD movies, games, and music on Xbox Live and you can easily connect to your friends anywhere in the world. 1 vs 100 is the latest experience we've added to Live. It's based on the TV show and is a trivia game that allows you to win real prizes. We wanted to combine the best bits of TV with social and interactive gaming. After all, how many times do people sit in the lounge shouting at the TV when they know the answer to a question? We wanted to tap into that love of TV gameshows and so that's we created the game.How local and up to date are the questions?We have a team of content writers specifically for the UK and Ireland. And we have the same for other regions too. This keeps the questions focussed on the local markets. The live games on Friday and Saturday are region specific so will in our case be UK and Ireland onlyAre the questions gong to be tailored for the Xbox audience – ie male focussed - or will they be wider?The questions in the main live shows are trivia questions and are all based on general knowledge. In the extended play sessions there will be themed questions about movies, or football or whatever. But in the live shows with the live host the questions are trivia only.Can you explain extended play?Extended play is 30 mins but you basically play for fun and points. We have a regular schedule but there is no live host. You're playing for fun and for the chance to win prizes and also knock people out of the mob. Knock them all out and you win more prizesHow do you stop cheating?You've just played the game right? The questions come up very fast. That's the main deterrent.  If people can type that fast and get a result then good luck to them but this is a very fast paced game.How do you get non-gamers interested in playing? After all online gaming can be intimidating to newcomersYou can play as a party with friends and play for prizes in the extended mode. As long as you all have subscriptions you can play together. But you we also expect many couples to play together maybe with one controlling and one shouting the answers. You could easily play with your wife and kids.What is the long-term aim for 1 vs 100?We've made good inroads into becoming an all-round entertainment console. 1 vs 100 is another step in this direction. Anyone can play this game.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
It started off simply enough – with a music fan posting tracks from one of his favourite artists online. But after a year of legal wrangling, the American blogger who became notorious for leaking an unreleased Guns N' Roses album online sentenced by a Californian court on Tuesday.Kevin Cogill, from Los Angeles, was ordered to serve two months of home confinement and a year of parole for breaking federal copyright law.The incident began last June when Cogill splashed leaked tracks from Guns N' Roses forthcoming album Chinese Democracy to his website, Antiquiet. The nine tracks were not due for release for another five months – but as the first new recordings by the LA rock group in 17 years, they were highly anticipated by fans and quickly spread around the internet.Lawyers for the band's singer, Axl Rose, quickly got in touch with Cogill to demand that he removed – but despite complying with the request, Cogill soon found himself arrested and charged over the incident.After pleading guilty last December to one count of copyright infringement, Cogill also agreed to appear in an anti-piracy advert as part of his sentence – expected to air during the Grammy awards ceremony next year."I never intended to hurt the artist," he said. "I intended to promote the artist because I'm a fan."The case marks the latest episode in the ongoing struggle between the music industry and filesharers, who have been at odds with each other since the launch of Napster opened the door to illegal downloads in the late 1990s.Initially, Cogill has faced up to a year in prison for his actions, as well as a fine of up to $100,000 (£61,000). But US magistrate judge Paul Abrams reduced the level of punishment after deciding that there was no intention to profit from his crimes, and that he had cooperated with the law once his mistake was pointed out.That relative leniency came as a surprise considering that the Recording Industry Association of America, the body that represents US record labels, has gained a reputation for seeking punitive damages from accused filesharers.Cogill's sentence was light compared to Jammie Thomas-Rassett – the Minnesotan woman who was last monthfound guilty of illegal filesharing and ordered to pay fines of almost $2m(£1.22m). Another alleged filesharer, 25-year-old student Joel Tenenbaum, is currently facing fines of up to $1m for sharing seven illegally downloaded songs in 2003.One mystery remains in the Guns N' Roses case, however: who supplied Cogill with the original recordings in the first place. He has yet to divulge the identity of his supplier, but investigators said he was helping them track down the source of the leak.
&bull; Even though it's eight years since Steve Ballmer's famous on-stage'developers, developers, developers'chant, the Microsoft boss is still plugging away at his ranting chic. According to theNew York Times, Ballmer took to the stage at the company's partner conference in New Orleans topress home the idea that Microsoft isn't done yetin typically forceful fashion: "We just keep on coming and coming and coming," he brayed.&bull; Here's one that might interest the jet-setting international technofetishists that I know constitutes at least 82% of all people reading this: researchers have developed a computer programthat could help you beat jet lag, according toNew Scientist. The system basically hacks your body clock and advises you on the best times to grab some sleep.&bull; ROBOT OVERLORD ALERT:Fox Newshas a report about asteam-powered robot being built for the Pentagonthat powers itself by eating everything in its path - from grass and debris to (erk) dead bodies.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
A recent wave of cyber attacks that crippled thousands of computers and websites in the United States and South Korea could have originated from inside Britain, experts have warned.According to security researchers in Vietnam, the source oflast week's string of attacks by the Mydoom virus- which overwhelmed systems belonging to the US Treasury and the office of the South Korean president  Lee Myung-Bak - can be traced to the UK."We have analysed the malware pattern that we received" said Nguyen Minh Duc, a director of Vietnamese security company BKIS, in apost on the company's blog. "We found a master server located in the UK."Investigators said they had discovered new details on how the strikes took place by investigating and tracing back the attacks.According to BKIS, infected computers had tried to contact one of eight so-called command and control servers every three minutes. These machines then gave instructions to the hacked PC - generally ordering them to direct traffic straight at victim websites, in attempt to overload them and force them to crash.But these eight servers were themselves being controlled by a single source, which evidence indicated was located somewhere in Britain."Having located the attacking source in UK, we believe that it is completely possible to find out the hacker," wrote Nguyen. "This of course depends on the US and South Korean governments."The findings contradict some earlier reports that the surge in attacksmay have been coordinated from North Korea, a theory largely driven by intelligence reports presented to the authorities in Seoul.Despite the news, government officials in South Korea are still trying to ascertain whether the strikes actually originated in the UK - or whether Britain was simply being used to screen the true location of those behind the attacks."We don't know that the attackers were actually based in Britain, or mainly hacked a British IP address and used it for delivery,'' an official from the Korean Communications Commissiontold the Korea Times.
GoodDemi MooreWhen big-time Twitterer (@mrskutcher) received a tweet on her feed reading, "gbye . . . gonna kill myself now.", some of her 388,000 followers contacted the police, who tracked the woman down and took the potential suicide into custody for evaluation.Stephen ColbertThe frontman of The Colbert Report (a spin-off from John Stewart's Daily Show),Colbertis a master of the funny 140-character topical tweet.Reuters,BBC Newsandthe Guardianprovide good newsy Twitter feeds.Bad50 CentHe doesn't write his owntweets. Worse yet, the tweets refer to his Fiddiness in the third person. That's wrong.P DiddySean Combs Tweetsabout his "Ptwitty family". That's even wronger.Kanye WestReports that, Fiddy-style, Kanye has two tweet-butlers, have turned out to be false. In fact, the hip-hop star recently blogged a caps-lock anti-Twitter rant and demanded that his Twitter impersonator stop. "I DON'T HAVE A F*CKING TWITTER," opined West. "I&nbsp;ONLY BLOG 5 PER CENT OF WHAT I'M UP TO IN THE FIRST PLACE. I'M ACTUALLY SLOW DELIVERING CONTENT BECAUSE I'M TOO BUSY ACTUALLY BUSY BEING CREATIVE&nbsp;MOST OF THE TIME AND IF I'M NOT AND I'M JUST LAYING ON A BEACH I WOULDN'T TELL THE WORLD." Sheez, Kanye, we get it: you don't tweet, YOU BLOG. Unless of course the caps-lock rant was itself a fake or – and here's a theory – typed by an angry blog butler. Either way, this is badder than bad.AddictedAdam WoodyattEastEnders' Ian Beale) is so addicted to Twitter that he uses his page to name and shame other soap actors who don't tweet.Stephen FryStephen, sweetheart, darling, love:&nbsp;enough already.Katy Perry"The other night I&nbsp;was in a great Mexican restaurant and so ITwittered– not that I was in this particular restaurant; I was a bit cryptic about which city it was – but there were people outside a minute after I put that out there. I&nbsp;forgot I was broadcasting live. I am addicted to it."@stuartljeffries
@SarahBrown10(Sarah Brown)I like the twitter community@xxandip(Andi Peters)@schofe showed me how to use it and I'd&nbsp;never used Facebook. Enjoy just chatting&nbsp;in&nbsp;what appears to be a very nice  environment@beverleyknight(Beverley Knight)hello guardian! i love to chat and actually interact with folk, esp the folk that gave me the life i lead. xxxxxx@tom_watson(Tom Watson MP)insight and knowledge, conversation and debate, friendship and fun. All the stuff you no longer find in newspapers.@tom_watsoncouldn't find the room to add 'except the Guardian' in the tweet&nbsp;:-)@courtneylover79(Courtney Love)i like the fact that say, after 9 years plus of absolutely not speaking, within one tweet Navarro had me and Reznor saying "Hey"!(That's Jane's Addiction guitarist Dave Navarro andNine Inch Nails frontman Trent Reznor)
It's a sunny, breezy afternoon in San Francisco, and I've just stepped inside the offices of one of the city's many, many web companies. Indeed, the first thing you notice is how much the large, open space looks just like any other dotcom. To one side there's a huge flatscreen TV that staff can use to play videogames during their breaks; in one corner stands a lonely red British telephone box; a pair of life-sized, green plastic deer stand in another, for no discernible reason. It definitely has all the hallmarks of a web startup.And if you didn't know any better, you might guess that this one wasn't doing too well. It's so quiet that it feels like it could be the weekend – the only real noise is the murmur coming from a trio of workers, laptops out, sitting on a sofa in the corner.But behind the calm, every-office exterior, lies the astonishing truth: the staff here are holding up the systems behind the world's hottest internet startup. They are responsible for a sprawling website on which 35 million people from all over the world fire out vast numbers of messages every second. This isn't just any normal office. This isTwitter.Right now, the company's 52 employees are part of the biggest media story on the planet. Their online messaging service – which encourages people to share their thoughts with the world in short, bite-sized morsels – has rocketed into the public consciousness over the past year.It began as the kind of thing a hip young iPhoner would do, then won endorsements from people such asStephen FryandOprah– who knew celebrities would want to let their fans know every time they left the house? – and then, most extraordinarily, it began to play a role in times of extreme crisis, getting information out of countries such as Iran and China where the authorities were tightly controlling the news.And to top it all, this amazing journey – from plaything to instrument of social change – seems&nbsp;to have happened in a matter of months.How does it feel to be at the heart of all that? "It's a little bit like being in the eye of the storm," saysBiz Stone, one of the company's co-founders. "It's not hectic per se."I am meeting Stone – an amiable 36-year-old designer who is now the company's creative director – to try to understand what life at Twitter has become since the team first started working on it early in 2006.Back then, everything seemed like a happy accident: the team was working on a different project called Odeo – a set of tools for podcasters. It was making slow progress, but during a brainstorming session, programmerJack Dorseycame up with an unrelated idea: a quickfire messaging system that helped people share information with groups of friends using their mobile phone.Chief executiveEvan Williamsand Stone – 10-year dotcom veterans, who had enjoyed previous success building blogging services and social networking sites – knew they were on to a winner: within a year, the podcasting company was being sold off and the team was concentrating full-time on Twitter. The idea was simple: to build a website that let someone tell their friends what they were doing.What's most strange about the calm in this office today is that it is such a polar opposite to the frenzied activity on the website they have created. At any given moment, millions of people are sending messages from their computers or mobile phones, or reading the messages left by others. Twitter lets you choose who you want to keep up with; they, in turn, can choose whether to listen back. The conversations are largely held in the open, allowing anyone to point to somebody's messages or rebroadcast ones that are interesting, funny or (in the case of Iran) important.Twitter is many things to many people, but most of all it is lightweight, easy to use and transparent. Its swirl of activity is like a huge party full of hundreds of conversations you can tap into – not, like Facebook, an exclusive club where you need to know the right people to join in. All of this makes it catnip to users – and to the media, which dutifully reports every twist and turn on the site."We have to stay focused on what we're working on and not to get too caught up in the spotlight," says Stone. "There's a knowledge that these things go up and they come down again. No matter what, we'll just keep working on trying to make Twitter better . . . we like to have fun and stay humble."It's an admirable sentiment, but the company can't quite ignore its current status. After all, it has courted the celebrity world to an extent (in one meeting room, there's a photograph of rap mogulSean "P Diddy" Combs, taken in the building's lift one day after he turned up to express his gratitude and excitement). And Twittermania has led to a sequence of high-profile moments in which they have mixed with some of the world's most famous and powerful people. Notably, there was an appearance on Oprah for Williams, who also spent the last week with Rupert Murdoch, Warren Buffett and Bill Gates at the Sun Valley conference – a notorious deal-making hangout for the media industry's biggest players.Stone, meanwhile, has seen his face splashed across numerous magazines and was recently the star guest on The Colbert Report – the spoof chat show that is adored by millions of savvy young Americans. Does the attention get too much? Or worse, does it become intoxicating?"They are definitely memorable moments," says Stone, leaning back in his chair and sipping a drink. "I happen to be a huge fan of Colbert, so when I was sitting there at the table watching him before he came over to interview me, I was thinking, I'm watching Colbert, he's funny. And then suddenly I realised I'm not watching, I'm on the show."Part of his job, he says, is to try to help everyone at the company keep these things in perspective – making sure that Twitter does not become a gang of egotists who gloat over their status as part of the Next Big Thing, but instead maintains a "general level-headed, unassuming, humble, humorous, funny atmosphere"."We focus a lot on culture specifically at Twitter because of this spotlight," he says. "We don't want to end up like the child actor who found success early and grew up all weird and freaky. We want to remain OK; just because we found success early and in many ways got lucky doesn't mean we're all a bunch of geniuses. It means what it means."This all means that staying simple and understated is not an accident, but a philosophy. As a result, no one in the team could be described as flashy: Stone, like most of the company's employees dresses in the uniform of new media – T-shirt, carefully messed-up hair and black-rimmed glasses.Of course Twitter doesn't actually make proper money right now. It does have $55m in the bank, though, from a variety of  investors, which is being spent on propping up the service and its growing staff (Stone predicts there will be 100 of them by the end of the year).Not making money isn't so unusual in this world. Twitter is concentrating on building up a large audience with the idea that the cash and profits will eventually follow. In doing so, it is treading a well-worn path for dotcom companies: successful examples of the same approach include Google, Yahoo and Amazon – though the graveyard housing the corpses of failed startups who chased the same dream would stretch for miles.With so much money in the bank, Twitter does have breathing room, though – and major ambitions. "There are 4 billion mobile phone users in the world that are all carrying around with them Twitter-ready devices," he says. "It can be very transformative when you realise that people can have access to this real-time network when all they have is a cellphone."The team tries to concentrate on keeping things running smoothly, not interfering. If enough people talk about something it bubbles to the top of Twitter's hot topics – a list that lets users see what everyone else is talking about – but aside from weeding out spammers, they largely keep their hands off.And of course Twitter isn't only about people chatting to their friends, or sharing news of a revolution. Stone points to the success of companies who use the service to communicate with customers – whether it is big names offering discounts (such as computer manufacturer Dell) or smaller businesses who send messages to customers telling them about the latest products (a number of San Francisco eateries tweet their daily menu, for example)."Think about that with a street vendor in India, asking, 'If I get a watermelon, will you buy it?' There's a transformative power in SMS  that's extremely inspiring for us, and we're going to bring that online worldwide."Suddenly it's not just about searching for information; it's about letting the news find you – offering people anywhere the chance to&nbsp;get their messages out to anyone who is interested.That world-spanning vision is certainly a long way from where the company's founders started out. Williams, who grew up on a farm in Nebraska, dropped out of college and packed his bags for Silicon Valley. Stone, a Massachusetts native, also quit university to take up a design apprenticeship. Dorsey, who grew up in Missouri and moved to California, ending up working for a taxi dispatching company in Oakland, just across the bay from San Francisco.None of them were obvious candidates for success – but Stone says part of their inspiration comes courtesy of people with similar global drive: Google chief executive Eric Schmidt is "super-smart", he says, and he also lauds Barack Obama."There's a lot we can learn from smart people out in the world. One of the things I like so much about President Obama is his vision that it's not a zero-sum game, where one country is going to win the game of earth. That fits with Twitter."Those influences might not be surprising for a group of technologists in one of the world's most liberal cities, but for the Twitter team it's a little different. After all, Stone and Williams know Google's top people, having worked for the internet giant for a couple of years after it bought their previous enterprise,Blogger. And Twitter doesn't just admire Obama; it played a part in the election campaign ashis team used the serviceto send out messages to hundreds of thousands of supporters.Doesn't it feel odd to have that connection – or, as happened during the Iranian protests, to have the US State Department plead with you to make sure your site stays online?"Something unbelievable happens every week," he says. "Things do get increasingly weird as we become part of a global stage. It's intimidating, but it's a great opportunity."In the grand scheme of things, he says, Twitter is just one part of a larger movement in which Google, Facebook, the mobile phone industry and the internet all play a part."You need to zoom out a little bit more and realise that communication and the open exchange of information in general has a positive impact in the world."Taking the long view looks a lot like being back in the eye of the storm. It makes a lot of sense – except that, for all the humility and patience and lack of ego, there are hints that life is more hectic than they like to let on.How does Twitter compare to any of the previous startups that he's worked at, I ask. "Everything about Twitter goes faster," Stone says. "It's grown faster, we move faster . . . any decision you think we're going to need to make two years from now, we'll probably have to make it tomorrow."That, he suggests, reflects modern life – a world where we expect things to happen with increasing speed. "We've just entered an era where things are happening faster, and as a result we need tools to help us make decisions faster. Those decisions can't be sloppy, they need to be smart, so we need tools to help us operate and Twitter is one of those tools. So it's almost like it's feeding itself: we live in a world where we need things like Twitter."While that's true, it doesn't quite tell the whole story. Twitter's success so far might be a sign of the times, but it's also becoming increasingly active in shaping the world it has grown from: it is not just thriving in the information-rich world typified by the web, 24-hour news channels and mobile phones; it is succeeding precisely because it exists near the point where they all intersect.Perhaps, after all, Twitter is not just a symptom of a jump to light speed – but also a participant in taking us there. Biz Stone smiles."Maybe it is. It's hard to tell. But doesn't it feel like everything in your life is suddenly moving faster than it did before too?"@bobbiejohnson
It is not for us to question what Twitter is, or indeed to seek its deeper meaning. Did you scrutinise sudoku? Did you ponder the raison d'etre of the Rubik's Cube? Know only this: you must say what you have to say in 140 characters or fewer. Upon pain of death.Look on these 140 characters as a lexical challenge, in the manner of, say, a cryptic crossword or a haiku, not as an embarrassing opportunity to employ txt speak, LOLS or smileys. In fact you shouldnever use smileys. Anywhere in your life. Ever. Especially not that winky one.Do not addresscelebrities you are followingas if they are your friends. It may seem as if you have knownPhilip Schofieldall your life, but your friendship is a mirage involving a gopher and Fern Britton – his Twitter presence exists principally to promote a programme about ice-skating. Do not confuse these matters.Remember thatTwitter is not Facebook. Conjoining your Twitter and Facebook accounts so that they have the same status updates is wrong – like wearing spandex to Ascot or using your pudding spoon to eat soup. It's embarrassing for you, and it's embarrassing for everyone around you.Please note that re-posting something funny andpretending you dreamed it upall by your pretty little self (rather than politely Re-Tweeting), is the Twitter equivalent of buying a Mr Kipling Raspberry Swiss Roll and passing it off as your own home baking.It is also most unsavoury to use Twitter asa dating device. Consider the cautionary tale of Masterchef'sGregg Wallace, who seduced a biology teacher from Ullswater after they shared some correspondence about "jiggling cabbage" and then found details of his romantic history strewn all over the Daily Mail. Nobody wants to be in the Daily Mail, and XXXTwitter is surely but moments from being invented. Until that moment arrives, please make do with speed-dating.Similarly, if you happen to be in a relationship, remember that excessivedevotion to Twitter instead of to your belovedmay prove problematic. As our compulsory celebrity reference-point, let us take the case of Jennifer Aniston andJohn Mayer, a romance undone, it is said, by the fact that while the guitarist could not find time for his lady-love, he could certainly find time to tweet. "It's inherently silly and it's inherently dumb," he said after their split. "If you really think that Twitter is the pathway to spiritual enlightenment, well . . . It's one step away from sending pictures of your poop."Do not tweet pictures of your poop.No reallyAshton Kutcher, please don't.@missbarton
Is there anything more to Twitter than a popularity contest for borderline sociopathic losers who can't hack friendship in the real world? The answer, amazingly, is yes, but it's just as well to admit that much of the appeal of joining the twitts (some say twitterers, but we're going with twitts) is to amass vast numbers of followers-slash-friends whom you've never met and amass alleged social capital. As a twitt you could followSarah Browninto the hitherto secret recesses of her world. And witness her stand against Italian veal. And, like, pretend she's your friend. Result!On the plus side, it is incredibly easy to become a twitt: it's free and easier to register for than, say, M&amp;S's flower delivery service. Twitter isn't for the verbose:Marcel Proustcould never have tweeted. You get 140 characters to say whatever you want – eg "remind me why I'm doing this again?". These 140-character blurbs are called "tweets".You follow other people whose daily minutiae you might be interested in, and when they tweet, it shows up on your page. When they follow you, your tweets show up on theirs.Why do so many bother? As the sociologist Zygmunt Bauman noted in his book Liquid Love, the sense of belonging or security that the so-called liquid modern (that's you, twitts) creates consists in being cocooned in a web of messages – texts, emails, or tweets.  Feeling connected makes one feel less anxious about social ostracism. In the Twitterverse, the number of your followers, like a website's click-through rate, demonstrate online wantedness and potency. No matter if such social capital is more apparent than real.Better yet, you can connect with celeb twitts. How lovely to follow leading twittStephen Fryand read, say, his 140 characters on checking into his hotel (plus his snap of the view from the window). God bless Fry and his desire to fill the blank interstices of his every moment with online yipyap about, you know, stuff: he and others (Demi,Snoopand – this is hilarious –Coldplay) thereby allow us to go cyberstalking without the risk of prosecution. Do you want to receive this intimate message fromDavina McCall– "OK. I'm going to try and make myself go to sleep. night night peeps"? Maybe you do. Thanks to Twitter, now you can!Aren't there – for the love of tweet – better reasons for Twittering? There are. It offers the comfort of strangers: in the Twitterverse everybody is – so the people I follow tell me – much kinder than they are on social networking sites such as Facebook. You can market yourself. You can organise tweetups, to meet like-minded people. If you're creative, you can ask others to help you come up with ideas.When all else fails, Twitter can be a source of news. The big – and trivial – news rises to the top of the Twitterverse. Michael Jackson, Gaza, Mrs Slocombe, Mumbai – all have been big in the Twitterverse this year. Not bad for a service that launched three years ago and that was never aimed at having such global clout. That said, by this time next week Twitter could be as forgotten as Second Life. RememberSecond Life? Me neither.Stuart Jeffries (@stuartljeffries)
It's here! Well, nearly.The Secret of Monkey Island Special Editionlaunches on Xbox Live Arcade today and - for me anyway - it's probably the biggest release of the summer. Not bad for a remake of a 19-year old game. But how will it play?Will it respect the original game while being shiny enough for the HD generation? Will it attract new players keen to see what the fuss is all about? Or will it just remind us how things have moved on? I'll be downloading later today - will you? If so post your impressions below. Let's hope it lives up to the hype...
Last weekI met up with Twitter co-founder Biz Stoneto discuss life at the company, and to find out what things are like inside the most talked-about startup in the world.This is an edited transcript of the interview: it's quite long, so I am splitting over three posts. Today, in the first part, we hear about the maelstrom of activity around the company; its brushes with fame and how it is trying to cope with the spotlight.Tomorrow, we'll be looking at Twitter's role in the world, and whether the company listens to criticisms of it.Twitter has been the subject of an awful lot of attention over the last few months. Do you ever get overwhelmed?Biz Stone:One way to explain is it that it's a little bit being in the eye of the storm, kind of. It's not hectic per se.There's a very healthy acknowledgement that we have to stay focused on what we're working on and not to get too caught up in the spotlight. There's a knowledge that these things go up and they come down again. No matter what, we'll just keep working on trying to make Twitter better.Some of the cultural things we've got here that we're fortunate to have are just a general level-headed, unassuming, humble, humorous, funny atmosphere. We like to have fun and stay humble.Every Friday at Twitter we have something called "tea time" - it's something we kind of stole from Google; they have something called TGIF, that's when the co-founders and the CEO stand up on stage, greet new hires, talk about what happened that week and take Q&amp;A.We took that and flipped it around, so that anyone in the company can talk about what they did that week. It takes about an hour and half to go through it all, but it's a very good culture-building exercise because everyone gets to learn what everyone else is doing... and we make fun of each other.How important is that? Those things are clearly part of the culture at companies like Google, but what do they mean to Twitter?BS:We focus a lot on culture specifically at Twitter because of this spotlight, and of the fact that we don't want to end up like the child actor who found success early and grew up all weird and freaky. We want to remain OK; just because we found success early and in many ways got lucky doesn't mean we're all a bunch of geniuses. It means what it means.Lots of you have been involved with startups before - chief executive Ev Williams sold Pyra to Blogger, for example. How have those experiences influenced you this time around?BS:It has influenced us. We've both grown up a lot. Watching Ev really sink his teeth into the role of CEO, take it very seriously. He very genuinely wants to innovate - not just from a product or technology standpoint, but from a company standpoint. For me, I've learned about what it means to focus on a culture, to build social responsibility and the idea of a company as a super-organism.Can you explain some more?BS:Previous companies I'd done before that I left, I left because I didn't really like where the culture was going and I wanted to leave. I was too young to realise that I could have an impact on changing it; if I didn't like it I could work harder.There's a lot we can learn from smart people out in the world. One of the things I like so much about president Obama is his global vision that it's not a zero-sum game, where one country is going to win the game of earth. We have to work together. I love that philosophy, and ot fits with Twitter because we work with so many companies. The variety, the open-ness, and believing very basically that the open exchange of information is something that can impact the world in a positive way - from that belief, so many decisions are made easier.Should we open this up further? Yes.Should we continue to support all these APIs and nourish the ecosystem? Of course.A lot of decisions are made easier when you know some basic stuff.Do you get bored hearing stories about how 'Twitter will kill Facebook' or people wondering whether it will push somebody else out of the way?BS:I think a lot of folks are just wired that way. It's product A or product B, like those blind taste tests. There is something healthy about friendly competition - it's like a scrimmage or a pick-up game... that's good. But the truth of it is that we're all working together.Look at all the companies in Silicon Valley: they all have, to varying degrees, open systems that interoperate with one another. People are using these systems for different reasons. There's room for everybody, although I think people are often wired to think that way.It's like Coke versus Pepsi - I noticed the other day that they are following each other on Twitter.You've had a lot of brushes with celebrity. Those are bizarre experiences for people behind a startup... even a high profile technology company. I can't imagine someone like Eric Schmidt, for example, going on the Colbert Report.BS:That would be awesome. I would love to see that. Eric Schmidt is super-smart... he could go toe-to-toe with Colbert, I think.But does being part of those things strike you as strange?BS:They are definitely memorable moments. I happen to be a huge fan of Colbert, so when I was sitting there at the table watching him before he came over to interview me, I was thinking 'I'm watching Colbert, he's funny'.And then suddenly I realised I'm not watching: I'm on the show.But those things are great opportunities for us, and when we do them we're thinking about the whole Twitter team. Hopefully what we can do in those situations is display integrity and character and try to embody what we think Twitter is all about - to the extent that we're able to do that in five minutes on a chat show where they're insulting you the whole time.It's a lot of fun, it's an honour - but it's also, more importantly, a really good opportunity for us as a young company to try and take advantage of - not necessarily to pitch the product, but try to represent  the character of the company.&bull; Tomorrow: Silicon Valley's echo chamber
Microsoft finally revealedthe pricing for its Azure cloud computing serviceat its Worldwide Partner Conference in New Orleans today. And they don't seem to be significantly different from what Amazon charges for its still-new Windows-based cloud, though Amazon also offers a cheaper Linux-based option.The Wall Street Journal ran the story with the headlineMicrosoft Announces Aggressive Cloud Computing Priceswhile Information Week ran withMicrosoft Beats Amazon By A Whisker In Cloud Pricing.Azure's appeal, of course, is that you can develop your cloud apps with the same people and the same tools you are already using to develop traditional Windows applications.  Ideally, moving an app into the cloud should just involve a drag-and-drop. Microsoft is still a long way from that, but it's on the road.To start with, Microsoft is targeting software developers, with a sort of "Bring us your IP" strategy. Developers typically don't have a lot of money, but they can use Azure with zero capital investment on a pay-as-you-go basis. There are separate charges for the initial offerings: Windows Azure, SQL Azure and .Net Services. No doubt more applications will be added.I've talked to a couple of developers and the main appeal seems to be that Azure allows them to gain scale and reach. You can take a small local database, for example, and make it international or even global in a relatively short time.In the longer term, Microsoft will make a play for large corporate businesses that currently operate their own data centres or even private clouds. This will work for Microsoft because corporate servers typically have rather low usage levels, particularly out of office hours. Microsoft can reduce the cost by increasing utilisation by 3x or 4x; and because it's already running properties such as Hotmail, it has huge economies of scale. (Amazon works the same way, obviously.)In the short term, Microsoft can't be too aggressive on pricing because it needs its partners to make a profit from selling and implementing the service. (It's offering 15% to 30%.) When it moves into the corporate market later next year, it will offer Azure services as part of its enterprise license agreements.Azure should comfortably outdistance Amazon and Google because for Amazon, it's a sideline, while Google caters for a much smaller applications market.As always, there's the question of how much of its traditional business Microsoft might lose by companies moving to the cloud, but I'm sure it's done the sums. Users typically pay very small fees when they buy apps, if you calculate the rate per month. Renting them is cheap for a short while but, over the years, the payments add up.
The iPhone has applications for almost everything, from helping people to choose the best wine for a meal to locating supermarkets in Holland. Now there is one to help them to stay chaste until marriage.For just 59p, consumers can download an application that allows them to take a purity pledge and then display a silver ring on their phone to prove their commitment to abstinence.Its creator, Island Wall Entertainment, claims the product will appeal to the younger generation and those people who have not already committed themselves to a life of abstinence and chastity.The company's director, Henry Bennett, said: "We're not charging for the idea. We're just covering our costs. It's all about reaching a new market. If you wanted to buy a purity ring, you could spend as much as £100."The application has a pre-recorded pledge for both genders that the user must accept before being able to display their ring on a loop.Bennett believes the digital purity ring will complement, rather than substitute, existing pledges and purity rings as well, as reach out to new demographic.The application may also allow school pupils to circumvent uniform rules banning jewellery. In 2007, Lydia Playfoot lost her high court battle to wear her purity ring at school when a judge ruled she had not been discriminated against."We have contacted Lydia's representatives to see if she is willing to talk about her case, but certainly having a ring on a phone would be one way for teenagers to take a pledge without breaking school uniform policy," Bennett said."We are preaching to the converted, and we're going for people who wouldn't buy a ring. The app is not the be-all-and-end-all of purity pledges: it's an entry point."In the US, around 8m people have taken a purity pledge; in the UK, the figure is around 250,000. The country is regularly described as the teenage pregancy capital of Europe, and last week it was revealed that a £6m campaign to cut teenage pregnancies had failed, leading to an increase, rather than a drop, in the number of girls getting pregnant.Despite these statistics, Bennett thinks the purity ring app "might take off".Asked whether the virtual nature of the ring might lead people to forget their vow of abstinence in the heat of the moment, Bennett replied: "If you've taken the pledge, you're likely to follow it through."
While Aleks Krotoski is still off sweating over her PhD, the Tech Weekly presenter baton is handed to Bobbie Johnson in sunny San Francisco, California for a special on-the-road edition of the show.This week Bobbie meets up with the people behind two of the hottest sites on the web: Twitter co-founder Biz Stone describes what life is like on the hype rollercoaster right now, and then he drops in to the offices of Wired to meet up with the co-founder of social news website Reddit.It's been impossible to ignore Twitter over the past few months - the site has rocketed in popularity since and now has around 35 million users.  As it increasingly plays a role in the way information gets spread around the internet - playing a role in the anti-government protests in Iran, Bobbie Johnson visits Twitter HQ to speak to co-founder Biz Stone.We also hear from Alexis Ohanian, co-founder of the user-driven news site Reddit.com. It has also become one of the biggest movers of traffic on the web. In 2006 it was bought by Wired, and it remains incredibly popular among hackers and geeks around the world, and Alexis how it got started, and the role of the aggregator in news publishing, as well as how he brought the XKCD cartoons to print.There's also this week's news on Google's new netbook OS, the 118 800 mobile directory enquiries service, the the media and tech habits of 15 years olds.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
"Humanitarian considerations" that have arisen in the case of Asperger's syndrome sufferer Gary McKinnon mean he should not face trial in the US for hacking into American military computers, the high court heard today.In a last-ditch attempt to overturn earlier court decisions that the 43-year-old "UFO enthusiast" should be extradited, his lawyers accused prosecutors of ignoring the "disastrous consequences" of facing trial and a possible lengthy prison sentence in an American "supermax" prison.The case also comes as the Tories are expected to devote an opposition day debate in parliament tomorrow to McKinnons' extradition, after David Cameron said he was "deeply saddened and worried" about the case.McKinnon's barrister, Ed Fitzgerald, told the high court: "The Crown Prosecution Service wrongly failed to address the specific human rights issues, and the humanitarian issue, raised by the claimant's Aspergers syndrome."The CPS, as a public authority, had a duty to consider whether its failure to prosecute [in the UK] has inevitably exposed him to an avoidable and unnecessary risk of serious psychological suffering," he added.The hearing comes after McKinnon signed a statement earlier this year admitting he had committed an offence under UK law by hacking into 97 computers belonging to the US navy and Nasa. The incident, which the US government says is the "biggest military hack of all time" and cost more than $700,000 (£430,000) in repairs, has led to talks between UK prosecutors and the US department of justice since charges were originally brought against the 43-year-old in New Jersey in 2002.Although previous attempts to halt the extradition – which reached the House of Lords last year – failed, McKinnon's lawyers have since obtained a diagnosis of Asperger's syndrome after consulting two psychiatrists last year."Both experts referred to the grave risk to his health if he was extradited to the US, and [autism expert] Professor [Simon] Baron-Cohen referred to the risk to his life," Fitzgerald said. "[The director of public prosecutions] failed to confront the human rights arguments for prosecutions in this country rather than in the US," Fitzgerald added.Both former home secretary Jacqui Smith and the current home secretary, Alan Johnson, have said they would comply with US requests for McKinnon's extradition, while prosecutors argue that although McKinnon has admitted to "computer misuse" under UK law, it is less serious than the offence of "computer fraud" alleged against him in the USThe CPS, which defended its positiontoday , claims that the damage caused by the offence took place in the US, and that the investigation and most of the witnesses and evidence were located there. In February the director of public prosecutions, Keir Starmer, said there was not enough evidence to try McKinnon in the UK, an argument which McKinnon's lawyers deny."This was inconsistent with the CPS's own finding that there was sufficient evidence to prosecute," Fitzgerald said. "McKinnon's computer hacking conduct all took place in the UK, insofar as he was located here and using a computer in his home in the UK when he gained unauthorised access to the US systems."McKinnon, from Wood Green, north London, is described as "vulnerable" and "misguided" by his supporters, who contrast the efforts to extradite him with terrorist suspects who have been kept in the UK."I will not give up this fight until the government intervenes to protect my vulnerable son," McKinnon's mother, Janis Sharp, said. "When considering the extradition of Abu Hamza, the then home secretary said 'Had we evidence in this country of a crime committed here then of course the police and the attorney general would have taken action'. Well, if that's the approach for a convicted terrorist, why not for a gentle, misguided Asperger's sufferer like Gary?"
As you can see the 'Best of Chatterbox' machine has quickly settled into its familiar routine of appearing several days late. It's mostly my fault, though, for not posting sooner, and besides, this edition is brought to you by relative newcomer to the 'best of' fold, Craggy Island.This week's image was sent in by ImperfectRex. There are a couple more lined up but we still require your photographic genius. Just send in digital snaps (in landscape format) to gamesblog + at + googlemail + com - they must be game related, preferably in an exciting or unusual context.Now read!MondayThe dying embers of Glastonbury chatter spiced up this hot July Monday on the 'box. While a few bloggers had attended, and popped in to tell all later in the week, the Monday was all about the TV coverage and the vitriol it generally provoked, which was particular aimed at some of the presenters. Opinions were probably best be summed up by the opinion of Bigworv:"Some bloke called Reggie introduced Ghost Town by The Specials at length, and was talking as if it was some unknown gem that I wouldn't have heard and he was a wonderful human being for introducing it into my life."As for other presenters, Laverne and Radcliffe attracted some rare praise, but the bulk of the chatter (and the fury) was aimed at Jo Whiley. Let's just hope that neither she nor her family members read the blog...The Glastonbury chatter also revealed a Chatterbox celebrity stalker, Dizzyisanegg, who delighted us with his hazy memories of meeting Lauren Laverne:"Met once. She was lovely. Annoyingly I'd taken off my Kenickie T-shirt before going out and was pished by the time I spotted her on the street. I said hello, there was a bit of chat, good night, etc. She said where are you from, I told her then I said 'ohmygodIhadonmykenickietshirtearlierIcan'tbelieveItookitoff'. Seriously, I loved kenickie and was torn away from her by my flatmate who said something like 'I'm sure he's very pleased to meet you, but he'll thank me for removing him from this situation in the morning".Sometime later he added:"Just emailed my old flatmate about that to make sure it really did happen. She said 'Do you remember the other girl from that night?' Pretty puzzled so 'no' was the answer. Apparently I was taking a lady back to our flat but broke away mid conversation to go and chat to Laverne. That girl was never heard from again and apparently I didn't notice she'd left for about 20 minutes."Who would have thought that Kenickie were ever that popular?[I would! I loved them too. Acetone is still one of my favourite songs of all time - Keef]TuesdayOn Tuesday we all seemed to have been affected by the heat andm apart some chatter about the tennis and the oppressive humidity, things got off to a slow start. There was some conversation about poker, both online and with the presence of other 'real' people, but the day's chat didn't really get going until talk moved on to foreign cinema recommendations. For those of you requiring subtitled goodness try:AmelieIrreverible (though may not be to everyone's taste)Tell No OnePan's Labyrinth(Andso many others)Talk then moved on with a question about fatherhood and gaming from JuanBlanco:"A question for all those Daddies out there! Baby Blanco should be arriving on this planet in about 4 weeks time! Is babyrearing &amp; gaming a possibility - or is it game over?"Useful replies from PirateCaptain, Salubriousone, Pepperino  and Killerbee. The consensus appeared to be that you could still game after the introduction of your new addition, but that short and sweet games were definitely the way to go. For that reason, online could be difficult as you may have to stop at any time. Let's hope that all goes well for JuanBlanco and that he finds it more rewarding and successful than his beloved Tamagoitchi...WednesdayWas all about toadying up to Guardian contributor AdamBoult and cracking the "what games to buy for PS3," chestnut. Recommendations were for all of the usual suspects:Fallout 3Dead SpaceWipeout HDValkyria ChroniclesKillzone 2Far Cry 2GTA 4Assasins CreedBioshockResistance 2Motorstorm: Pacific RiftChronicles Of RiddickLittleBigPlanetUnchartedPredictably, choices proved controversial and there was quite a lot of division amongst the ranks about what should make the cut. Tony and Phil King were lonely voices suggesting Lair...The other big story was the death of Goody's PS3. Let's hope that this doesn't become a common theme, as there are quite a few Chatterbox regulars whose machines are now out of warranty. Most people will probably be interested to see how he gets on with requesting that the shop pay for an out of warranty repair.ThursdayWas most notable for the late appearance of TonyHayersEvilTwin. Apart from that, we saw a considerable amount of chat about the Wii Motion Plus, with many of us shelling out for yet more of Nintendo's white plastic tat.Also the long-standing flirting between Cunning and Automatic led CBPodge to post a comparison between well-known Chatterboxers and characters from Friends:Joey: HayersRoss: CunningMonica: Sheep2  - hates germs, so we can assume he's obsessively neat and seems to look better the older her gets.Phoebe: Smellavision - does weird arty stuff.Rachel: AutomaticChandler: Everyone elseNot sure that it fits completely, but Smike certainly secured his position as Chandler's angry flatmate Eddy, with the following outburst:"Anyone who likens me to any character on Friends is a Dead Man!!! I will find out where you live and make you suffer!!! Aaargh! Just thinking about Friends has made me angry."Clearly a Will &amp; Grace fan.FridayNo real Friday question this week, perhaps we are running out? Closest thing being an inquiry as to whether we were lefties or righties from JuanBlanco.  There was quite a bit of chatter about regional accents with Irish, Scouse, Scots, Brummie, Bristolian and Geordie all getting a mixed reaction as the conversation strayed into sectarian territory. Luckily, we all stepped back from the brink...The week rounded off with a discussion about what type of carrier bag the fashionable Ned-around-town uses in a rainstorm (Farm Foods seemed to be a favourite). This was followed by the age old question of whether you would rather be a Ninja or a Pirate? Isn't that what caused the famous violent disagreement between Karl Popper and Ludwig Wittgenstein at the Cambridge moral science club in October 1946?The listsMoviesForeign films in generalTransformers2The Good, the Bad and the UglyGamesBloodbowlDemon's SoulsOblivionPES (new League season)Monster Hunter Freedom UnitedSacred2Grand Slam TennisFallout3
Tesco - you know, big shops, profits, that sort of thing - has unveiled an API for its shopping service. So in future, buying stuff from it won't be limited to Tesco.com or its shops.The details, first noted by ,Programmableweb, make for brief reading - but some delving into the terms and conditions for the API make more interesting reading. (An API is a way of getting at the data stored in Tesco's database, about for example what sort of bananas it has, and perhaps how many there are and in which stores. Amazon has offered an API to its products database for years - and theGuardian too has an APIfor its stories.)The details at present are rather limited:The Tesco API gives you access to the vast grocery and more catalog of the third largest retailer in the world. The initial API is SOAP-based, but a new REST-based API is under development. As of July 2009 the API documentation is available to registered developers only.Curses! Except it's fairly simple to register - Nick Lansley, who has been at Tesco since 1987, and was one of the people behind Tesco.com, is clearly the person behind it. Why, he's evenblogged about it.There's also aTs&amp;Cs pagewhich makes it clear that - for now - the API is "for play, not serious work".Then again, there's that familiar corporate feel..You will not use data sent or received (including, but not limited to, product search results) from any part of the API-CTP service in any marketing or publicity that portrays Tesco.com or any other Tesco PLC company in a negative manner.and:You agree not to create any application or use data from the API-CTP that is to be used as part of a protest or dispute. This condition is here to discourage negative use of the API-CTP.And just to emphasise that this is very early days,You must not deploy applications that use the API-CTP which your users will then come to rely on. (For example, you may create an application that makes it possible for a disabled person to shop for groceries independently. But if they rely on this application at this early stage, they may suffer considerably if the API-CTP fails).But, refreshingly,You agree that will honour the spirit and 'fair play' of this agreement and not look for legal loopholes.OK - we will as long as the lawyers will.So: what would (or will) you do with a Tesco API? And is this the first supermarket with an API? (Amazon doesn't count.)(Article history: updated with explanation of API.)
