Acer Liquid running Android. Photo byJeanbaptisteMon Flickr.Some rights reservedA surge in demand for the latest smartphones has taken the industry by surprise and left it facing a shortage in the key end-of-year holiday sales season, a chief of Acer's mobile phone unit told Reuters."The industry as a whole is struggling with supply. It is a bit of a scramble," Aymar de Lencquesaing said.Research firms have ramped up forecasts for 2010 smartphone sales. IDCsaid in Septemberthat it expects the market to gro overall by 55% in 2010, with 269.6m "converged mobile devices" shipped, compared to 173.5m in 2009.But that is causing shortages of components, with manufacturers scrambling for parts such as phone screens.Acer, the world's second-largest PC vendor, entered the smartphone industry last year. It will sell "a little bit under" one million phones this year, giving it market share of less than 0.5%, de Lencquesaing said. It aims to reach 6% of the market in 2014, which would mean selling 30m smartphones.The company is looking to use other software platforms in its phones alongside Google's Android system. "We like to look at open operating systems in this market - then you have to look at Android, you have to look at Windows Phone 7 and you have to look at MeeGo," de Lencquesaing said."We will probably again have Windows Phones, under Windows Phone 7. There is room for more than one operating system."MeeGo is a new smartphone platform, developed by Intel and Nokia , with phones using it expected to reach consumers next year.Meanwhile slowing growth in PC sales has led to falling demand for DRAM, the short-term memory used in desktop and laptop computers, where spot prices have fallen 30% in the past quarter and are expected to drop by 40% in the fourth quarter.By contrast spot prices for Flash memory are rising rapidly as tablet and smartphone makers compete for supply.
Internet heavyweights Google and Amazon are reportedly moving closer to separately investing billions of dollars in the lucrative online voucher market.Amazon is reportedto be ready to invest up to $150m (£96m) in daily deals service LivingSocial, a move that would bring it into direct competition with Google, which issaid to be readyinga $6bn (£3.8bn) deal for the market leader, Groupon.But if those involved shake hands, both deals could be forestalled by antitrust investigations. Groupon, founded only in 2008, has more than 33m subscribers worldwide, while LivingSocial – No 2 in the online voucher market – has more than 10m. Both companies also offer UK-based deals.Groupon, which has made three acquisitions of its own in recent weeks, would easily be Google's most expensive acquisition to date, ahead of its $3.1bn purchase of the advertising network DoubleClick in 2007. Chicago-based Groupon bought uBuyiBuy, Beeconomic and Atlaspost to increase its reach in the Far Each; on Wednesday it also launched specialised services based in Honk Kong, Singapore, Taiwan and the Philippines. "We see enormous potential in the Asian marketplace," president Rob Solomon said in a statement.The Chinese internet search behemoth Baidu launched its own Groupon-like voucher service yesterday. The product, which is part of its Youa e-commerce platform, was launched with little fanfare and limited offerings, suggesting it wanted to preempt any announcements from fellow international heavyweights.Amazon's reported $150m investment for a 7% stake in LivingSocial, meanwhile, would value it at about $1bn (£640m). According to theWall Street Journal's All Things Digital, LivingSocial's revenue is poised to hit more than $500m (£320m) in 2011.Groupon sends its members – 2.5m of whom are inside the UK – daily emails with about 200 discounts for goods and services, such as Abelli photo books. The deals are activated only when a minimum number of people agree to make a purchase, allowing Groupon to negotiate more lucrative group discounts on some products. Chris Muhr, UK and Ireland managing director of Groupon,told the Telegraphthat the margins will only reduce as the market expands. "It's a very high profit margin, especially for an online business," he said. "In the long run you have to compare it with other forms of marketing. We are in that game. We are a marketing tool."Compare us with Google. You have to factor in the [search engine] optimisation work you have to undergo to benefit from [Google] Adwords, and if you do that we are very cheap. As the industry grows and ages the margins could come down."The news site Mashable, quoting sources familiar with the two companies' advertising budgets,saysLivingSocial and Groupon each spend more than $1m a month on advertising through Google. But this spend would presumably be wiped out for Groupon if it were to be enveloped inside Google, just as the cost of acquiring advertising for its video service YouTube is not broken out separately."The more Google acquires, the more antitrust issues they are opening themselves up to," a source said to be familiar with the situationtold Reuters. "That has to be considered."None of the companies would comment on the reports today.
What's the deal of the day? It seems like it might be another massive story for the social buying sites, withAmazonwidely expected to announce a $150m investment inLivingSocial, a rival deals site toGroupon, later today.While not quite pulling the reported $50m monthly revenues of Groupon - which is expected to beacquired by Googleshortly for $5.4bn - LivingSocial claims its origins as a Facebook app meant it started life with a stronger viral base and was able to get off the ground with fewer resources.Photo bysmemon87on Flickr.Some rights reservedThe UK scene is a little different, though both LivingSocial and Groupon have made in-roads, LivingSocial UK launching in June 2010 and Groupon accelerating its presence here bybuying MyCityDealin May.We've been in touch with Phil Wilkinson, co-founder of UK discount siteKeynoir(though he describes it as a 'local discovery engine' rather than a discounts site), who's helpfully illustrated each player in the social-buying space starting with that Groupon/MyCityDeal acquisition. That was Groupon's way of buying into the market by picking up the 'Asda' of the space in Europe.LivingSocial is rather like Sainsburys: Wilkinson claims its UK business is growing slowly. Groupon, we have to assume is the Tesco of the social-buying space.There'sKGBdeals, owned by the 118118 people) which is akin to Lidl.Wowcher,CrowdityandGroupola(I sniff trademark problems with the latter) are all much smaller.And then we haveKeynoir, which launched in April. As you might expect, Wilkinson claims their product is higher end (Waitrose, if you will) because 40% of their deals are exclusive and more handpicked, they claim. Keynoir is backed byIndex and PROfounders Capitalbut as the major European player left, will it be next for acquisition?Wilkinson said the Amazon/LivingSocial tie-up was a no-brainer. "LivingSocial has made it very clear it wants to compete directly with Groupon and that it is currently in the number two position with eyes on pole position. To do this, it needs a big strategic partner with huge muscle and distribution, enough to compete with a 'Goopon' competitor. This can only be someone like Amazon or Microsoft."He said Amazon's acquisition ofWootdemonstrated a wider interest in ecommerce, though with no local commerce experience it would be likely to keep LivingSocial on the sidelines. "Once you get to a certain size, you can't run enough deals to keep up with demand and thus start turning towards a self-serve 'marketplace' so companies can run their own deals. This is something both Google and Amazon has vast infrastructure and experience with."Aren't both the Amazon/MyCityDeals and Google/Groupon deals bad news for Keynoir? "It's actually good news, because they could slow down once part of the Google behemoth; there are already articles highlighting why Google is losing engineers to Facebook - it's too slow and bureaucratic - but they've done amazingly well so far to keep innovating."If Google keep them separate, a la YouTube, it might be a different story. Keynoir in particular is aimed at a different demographic - we always said we never wanted to be 'another discount site' but rather help people discover new handpicked things to do and go to around your city - with the deep discount/daily offer justifying making the purchase today. This space has lower volume than the mass market play of Goopon."My email exchange with Wilkinson ended abruptly when I asked if Yahoo had approached Keynoir about a possible acquisition. That was a "no comment", but take from that what you will. I'd keep an eye on them.• In other news,BitterWallethas a delightfully timed story of a not-so-great deal on LivingSocial, which apparently offered a £20 discount on Christmas trees that were made £20 more expensive just before the deal was announced.•Update: Peter Briffett, LivingSocial's general manager for UK &amp; Ireland, got in touch to protest that LivingSocial is actually "the 'Fortnum and Mason of local discovery engines" and that the Christmas tree offer was a glitch."At LivingSocial we always give true and fair deals - our customers expect this every day and the businesses we partner with are under contractual obligation to provide goods and services at the deal price. Our Christmas tree offer was a great deal and continues to be so - there was a temporary glitch but this has been resolved."
An interesting confluence with the publication earlier today of theOfcom report about UK consumers' technology habits,today's net neutrality letter to Ed Vaizey, and some new comments from Skype's director of government and regulatory affairs for Europe, Middle East and Asia, Jean-Jacques Sahel.The net neutrality letter you've already read. The Ofcom report, let's remind, includes the finding that Britons have taken up smartphones at a remarkable clip, and that mobile pricing in the UK is lower than other countries "except for very low-use connections" (where "countries" means the UK, US, Italy, France, Germany, Spain). In fact if you go with Ofcom's report, then everything in the mobile world is tickety-boo, and getting better all the time.There's always a need to look at reports like Ofcom's slightly askance: it's obvious that a communications regulator - aka quango - that has some interest in preserving itself while there's a bonfire of the quangos going on is going to, perhaps, seek out the data that supports the idea that it's doing great work (the data in the report comes from a variety of sources, rather than being generated by Ofcom itself).So while hearing the positive spin about the UK mobile market from Ofcom, here's the negative view from Sahel at Skype:"There is a false belief that there is not yet any problem with the open internet in the UK. In fact, the UK is already one of the most restrictive countries in the world when it comes to access to the internet on mobiles."UK citizens face restrictions for over-charging - depending on operators - on uses of the internet such as voice over IP, audio, video, streaming, peer-to-peer. And this has nothing to do with the need to manage traffic for technical reasons in times of congestion to improve consumer experience."This goes completely against the minister's welcome call for "consumers [to] always have the ability to access any legal content or service, [and] content and service providers [to] have the ability to innovate and reach end users. So action on the ground is needed now, if we want to ensure that on one hand, end-users have access to all of the Internet, rather than much less useful subsets of the internet as chosen by operators, and that the UK's digital economy sector remains able to innovate and trade online, and people express themselves freely online, without having to suffer from these artificial barriers and costs."We are getting involved, as are a number of other online innovators, consumer groups and organization that care about freedom of expression, because preserving the open character of the internet is crucial if we as a society and economy, want to continue to enjoy all the benefits of the internet."At a time when we desperately need to drive demand and hence economic recovery, we need to stimulate internet innovation. It's innovative content, apps and services that will drive continued consumer demand for broadband and therefore return on investment for operators."Making innovation more expensive and difficult, and/or making the internet something that only wealthier people can enjoy fully, will disrupt the win-win environment we've had so far on the Internet, which has brought so much to the economy and society, and it will seriously harm both consumer choice, freedom of communication and information, and the UK's global competitiveness."So - special pleading by Skype, or right on the money? Or does Ofcom have it right?
Uh oh, here we go again. BBC current affairs series Panorama is looking at the games industry on Monday night – but through what kind of lens? Asreported by MCV todayit would seem the programme will be looking at... the addictive power of games. Apreview on the BBC websitestates:As pester power kicks in and the computer games' industry launches its latest products on to the Christmas market, Panorama hears from youngsters who've dropped out of school and university to play games for anything up to 21 hours a day. They describe their obsessive gaming as an addiction. Reporter Raphael Rowe, meets leading experts calling for more independent research into this controversial subject, and reveals the hidden psychological devices in games that are designed to keep us coming back for more.It is, of course, wrong to judge the programme before it actually airs, but..."Reveals the hidden psychological devices in games that are designed to keep us coming back for more."I'm just wondering; are they refering to the 'hidden psychological devices' that we converts tend to know as, 'reasonably good game design'? Are they similar to the 'hidden psychological devices' that screenwriters use to ensure audiences don't fall asleep halfway through a movie? Or perhaps the 'hidden psychological devices' used in portentious TV trailers to ensure viewers go on to watch the show?"Reporter Raphael Rowe, meets leading experts calling for more independent research."More independent research? More?! Academia is absolutely flooded with research on gaming addiction. I'm hoping the producers of this documentary have at least glanced at theByron Review– an exhaustive analysis of digital entertainment which lists copious amounts of research (little of it in any way conclusive, by the way – a comment made in the report itself).Of course, taking a negative stance on gaming is not in itself a risible endeavour – there are plenty of dark stories to be told about this industry. But gaming addiction? Really? Again? This is 2010, isn't it? Games have been around for 40 years. Society hasn't collapsed. There are game addicts, of course, but occasional addiction is an absolutely inevitable by-product of the chemical processes that bring us pleasure. Any pleasure.But, let's watch the material first, assess it objectively and judge afterwards. You know, just like good documentary makers do.
Are there any good small electronic notepads that one can use with an electronic pen rather than with a keyboard? I need to jot down notes during the day, and at the moment carry a small paper notepad the size of a cigarette packet. But in this day and age, I can't believe there's not an electronic equivalent that enables you to take notes, file them and print them if  necessary.Tara BYou could have bought something like that in a previous century, but times have changed and you may want to consider different options. The first and most obvious is to use a smartphone either with a built-in keyboard (such as a RIM BlackBerry or an Android phone) or a "soft" on-screen keyboard (such as an Apple iPhone or an Android phone). Try both types to see which you like best, and if possible, have a look atSwypetext input software as well. The second and rather less obvious option is to use a"digital pen" system such as Livescribe Echo. This uses special paper, but at least it's still paper.I always try to answer the question as asked, rather than saying "you don't want to do that". However, dozens of companies have been trying to produce what you've asked for sinceJerry Kaplan founded GOin 1987, and none of them managed to replace paper. The most successful attempt was the the Palm range of PDAs (personal digital assistants), which were small enough to carry everywhere and provided electronic note-taking usingGraffitisoftware. You had to write your notes one letter at a time in a box on the screen, but people who practised a lot could become very proficient at it.After that, numerous manufacturers including Compaq (iPaq), HP (Jornada), and Dell (Axim) produced rival PDAs that used Microsoft's PocketPC software, and later versions had excellent handwriting recognition capabilities. I'm sure these systems still have fans, but I gave up on them fairly quickly. I found I had to write slowly and carefully to have my bad handwriting recognised, I had to wait for the recognition software to do its work, and almost inevitably I had to make corrections. It was quicker and easier to make notes on paper then type them up later.Microsoft solved these problems with its Windows XP Tablet PC Edition and OneNote 2003, which was adopted by some journalists I know. These tablets required an active digitising screen that worked with a stylus, much like a Wacom graphics tablet, and the software now recognised "ink objects". In other words, you could write in digital "ink" as fast as you liked, and decide if you wanted some or all of it converted into text later. The reason for using the OneNote application rather than the operating systems input panel was that you could make an audio recording that synchronised with your handwriting. If you plugged in an external microphone, the recordings were pretty good.Problem solved? No. These Tablet PCs were not the size of a cigarette packet but often the size and arm-bending weight of a laptop computer. Companies and a very few individuals still buy things likeHP EliteBookswhich work as both notebook and tablet PCs, and are built to MIL-STD 810G US military standards. However, the lightest is 3.3 pounds and has a 12.1 inch screen. Both Vista and Windows 7 now have much better ink and touch capabilities than XP, but even a netbook-style convertible is too big for most people to carry around.As we now know, pen-based Windows computers (going back toWindows for Pen Computingfor Windows 3.1 in 1991) failed to attract consumers. Indeed, the market has actually gone in the opposite direction: away from using a fine stylus to using fat fingers on capacitive screens. These are now standard on smartphones and tablets like the Apple iPad, and they're good at what they do, but they're not designed for handwriting recognition. You can buy a special stylus such as the DAGi or Pogo if you need to draw diagrams, but I think you'd usually be better off entering text using the on-screen keyboard.In the end, then, I suspect the best alternative to a smartphone is to use a digital pen that doesn't need you to carry around a machine with a screen. However, it does need a special kind of paper, invented by a Swedish technology company calledAnoto. This is available innotebooks of various sizes, which adds to the running costs. You also have to buy special ink cartridges for the pens.Anoto sells its own digital pens, but there are alternatives that use the same system. These include the Logitech io2, the Fly pentop computer, and two Livescribe SmartPens, the original Pulse and the new Echo. The only one I've used myself is the first Anoto, almost 10 years ago, so you'll have to find the one that suits you best.An Anoto-style pen has a tiny infra-red camera in the tip, so it knows where you're making marks on the special paper. You can transfer the image to a PC, and then use third-party optical character recognition (OCR) software such asVision Objects' MyScriptto convert it to text. The specific version would beMyScript for Livescribe, which you must download first for a 30-day free trial.The Livescribe pens also record audio while you're writing, and you can pick a point in your paper notes and listen again to whatever the person was saying. This is what makes Livescribe pens popular with students, lawyers, journalists and so on. If you're on your own, you can make voice notes or tell a story. You can save, upload and share sessions, which are known aspencasts.A pen like this comes closest to retaining the casual aspects of writing notes on bits of paper, but you do have to remember to turn the pen on.
A coalition of internet and venture capital companies and pressure groups have written to communications minister Ed Vaizey calling for a clear political commitment from the government to preserve net neutrality. They say it must adopt five key principles – including openness, minimisation of data traffic management, and a strong regulatory framework.The open letter, which is signed by representatives from eBay, Skype, Yahoo, the music site we7, the software service The Filter, VOIP provider Truphone, the Open Rights Group, the National Union of Journalists, the reviews site Reevoo, the e-retail representative Interactive Media in Retail Group (IMRG), Eden Ventures, Ariadne Capital, Consumer Focus, TechHub, the consumer group Which?, Article 19 and the Coalition for a Digital Economy (Coadec), says that it welcomesVaizey's earlier statements on net neutrality.But the government's support of net neutrality principles must be enshrined into law to ensure that internet users do not face "arbitrary restrictions" when accessing content such as the BBC iPlayer or YouTube, the open letter says.The BBC is not a signatory to the letter, but it is understood that this is not because it disagrees with the suggestion, but because it was not able to clear it through internal regulatory procedures before the other parties wanted to push it forward. BBC representatives have repeatedly spoken in favour of an open net without ISP-based restrictions that would prevent people accessing its content.Vaizey last monthappeared to open the door to a "two-speed" internetwhere service providers such as BT and Virgin Media would be allowed to charge content providers such as the BBC for faster transmission to the nation's homes. However, helater clarifiedthat ISPs should not be able to prioritise one provider's content over another and that they should not be able to relegate traffic-hungry services to an internet slow lane.Today the coalition of 19 organisations urges the government to reflect this commitment with "action on the ground", warning that it is a "crucial" subject for the "wellbeing" of society and future competitiveness of the UK's economy.Traffic management, the letter says, "should be kept to a minimum" and used purely for "technical, security or legal reasons", such as managing high volumes of internet users at peak times. Internet providers should also be transparent about traffic shaping policies and invest in infrastructure to ensure that "new models of internet access [such as mobile and 3G] do not compromise openness"."The internet should remain open so that everyone is able to send and receive the content, use the services and run the application of their choice, on the device of their choice, within the law," the open letter states."End-users' choice of which applications, content, and services to view, use or run is already restricted in the UK today, especially when accessing the internet on mobile. The government's commitment to the open Internet must be reflected in action on the ground to remove any such arbitrary restrictions to the open internet."The letter, which was also sent to culture secretary Jeremy Hunt and business secretary Vince Cable, further calls on the government to enact new EU legislation on electronic communications. Media regulator Ofcom, it says, should play a more proactive role in ensuring that the nation's internet users are not being harmed by restrictions on access to some services.It also calls for a "wide-ranging policy debate" on what it calls a "crucial subject for the future competitiveness of the UK's economy and wellbeing of UK society".Internet providers – particularly two of the largest, BT and TalkTalk – have wanted to charge the providers of traffic-hungry services such as the BBC iPlayer to ensure their content is delivered swiftly at a time when its network is coming under strain from increasing use of such services. The arrival of the iPlayer in particular in 2007 meant thatISPs' bills from BT's Wholesale division(which transfers data across the network to ISP endpoints) rocketed, causing suggestions that the BBC should have to share some of the cost of the transfer.But content companies, such as Google's YouTube and the BBC, have long argued that such measures would stifle online innovation and freedom of expression.BT insists that ISPs "should be free to strike commercial deals" with content providers who want "a higher quality of service delivery". A BT spokesman said ISPs were "unlikely to discriminate against particular traffic" since customers could "easily switch" to a rival provider.But Robert Hammond, head of digital communications at Consumer Focus, warns that the internet will become "dominated by big companies who can pay for privileged access" if the measures outlined in the open letter aren't put in place."The web should enable all voices to be heard equally," he said. "The government suggests that consumers will be able to navigate round the restrictions a two-tier web will put in place by switching internet provider. This is wishful thinking at best. Any information on how providers prioritise different websites will be unintelligible techno-babble buried away, and in reality, will not help consumers make informed choices."
Photo byi eated a cookieon Flickr.Some rights reservedGoogle has instituted a crash program that has tweaked its ranking algorithms so that retailers who annoy customers by giving poor service won't gain from it.The change follows anin-depth report by the New York Timeswhich explained how a glasses reseller called Decormyeyes.com had gained top ranking on searches for various spectacles brands - because it featured in dozens of angry complaints on forums, which Google's rankings wrongly took to mean that it was popular.In a blogpost, Amit Singhai, a Google 'Fellow' says that "being bad to your customers is bad for business" - though it clearly had not realised this until after the NYT story appeared."By treating your customers badly, one merchant told the paper, you can generate complaints and negative reviews that translate to more links to your site; which, in turn, make it more prominent in search engines. The main premise of the article was that being bad on the web can be good for business."The tweak to the rankings systems - which it has not detailed - had to be subtle. There were various options.• blocking the particular company wouldn't solve the larger issues• "sentiment analysis", which looks at the words used and tries to tease out whether they are positive or negative, would have a negative effect on unpopular politicians, who you might need to find to contact (who can forgetGeorge W Bush's miserable failure?)• expose Google's reviews and rankings for merchants alongside the results - but that wouldn't demote the low-quality ones, and might lead some people to still go there.Interestingly - or ironically, Singhai thinks - some of the best links to decormyeyes.com came not from furious forums, but from sites such as Bloomberg, which were reporting about lawsuits against the company. (You knew it would have to be the media's fault eventually. Not Google's.)But here's the search engine to the rescue:"Instead, in the last few days we developed an algorithmic solution which detects the merchant from the Times article along with hundreds of other merchants that, in our opinion, provide an extremely poor user experience. The algorithm we incorporated into our search rankings represents an initial solution to this issue, and Google users are now getting a better experience as a result."He says Google can't be sure whether this will be a complete solution - "attempts to game Google's ranking, like the ones mentioned in the article, go on 24 hours a day, every single day. That's why we cannot reveal the details of our solution - the underlying signals, data sources, and how we combined them to improve our rankings - beyond what we've already said".But we'd be interested to hear whether you've seen any companies that have been downgraded as a result of this tweak. The decormyeyes example (which was egregrious: it really is worth the time to read the article, which we linked to in theTechnology newsbucket on Monday) seemed to have vanished pretty much on the evening that the article was published.The other point that it also shows: Google can't really pretend this its rankings are anything but human-designed. It also points to the growing importance of social search, where you find things through what people really recommend - not just what they link to.
Was it really five years ago today that British gamers got their hands on the Xbox 360? Apparently so. Too me, it feels like the 360 has been with us for a lot longer. Maybe it's because the original Xbox had such a short lifespan and was clearly – in hindsight – a testbed for the 360. So what are you best memories of the Xbox 360 so far?For me, the launch itself was mixed. I remember scoffing at Microsoft's claims on how HD would be soon the dominant TV display. Oops.  The launch lineup wasn't great either, although Kameo had its moments. Worst of all were the problems with the hardware. Current 360's are very reliable, but my original 360 lasted a few short months and since then I've gone through five – one for every year of the console's life.Hardware aside, the 360 has delivered some of my finest gaming memories. Mass Effect 1 &amp; 2 have been the highlights, but even on non-exclusive titles the online console experience has – despite the PS3 improving rapidly – almost always been best on the 360. Yes, you have to pay for Xbox Live, but I still think it is worth it.Then there are achievements and gamerscore. It's fair to say that Microsoft were probably as surprised as anyone as to how popular these elements became. Sony followed suit with Trophies and it's clear that no console in the future will launch without a similar reward system built in.Anyway, five years on from launch, what are your favourite memories of the Xbox 360 so far?
Think of your favourite ever horror game. Did it give you nightmares? Or at least make you want to keep the hall light on? No? Then it has failed as a piece of horror entertainment.The term 'horror game' has become something of a misnomer, a generic term applied to any title that serves up lashings of viscera, or the odd ghost or monster. The latest example is Splatterhouse, Namco's furiously gory re-imagining of the old arcade and 16bit console series. This hack-n-slash fest is a cacophony of spraying blood and flying body parts and it makes lavish references to '70s exploitation cinema, '80s slasher films, and the works of HP Lovecraft. But it's about as scary as a Sunday afternoon costume drama re-enacted by Care Bears.It is not alone. Horror should be a key facet in the video game armoury – the unique element of interaction is seemingly purpose-built to drag us into nightmarish experiences. But, mostly, horror games are merely blood-soaked adventures or shooters, which borrow the clothes of successful horror movies without ever occupying the body of terror within.Why?The first and most obvious explanation is that truly successful horror usually relies on the twisted vision of a single auteur. From James Whale to James Wan, the cinema of terror has been defined by mavericks and weirdos, often working with small crews and using movies to explore their own fears and neuroses. Only William Castle could have made The Tingler, only Wes Craven could have watched Bergman's The Virgin Spring and come up with the tonally bizarre Last House on the Left, and I'm hoping that only Tom Six could have imagined The Human Centipede. These aren't works that would come up through a boardroom discussion on USPs.In video game development, it is very rare for this sort of singular creative input to make it through the rigorously structured and often painstakingly democratic production process. Within the average 150-person dev team there will be various strata of producers, creative directors, designers and marketers each jostling to impose their own conceptual foibles, while ironing out idiosyncratic design quirks. There are budgetary concerns, too – a mainstream publisher can't risk $30m on one man's nightmarish fancies (in this respect there are similarities with Hollywood, where horror flicks tend to involve specialist independent production companies and smaller budgets). Furthermore, as mainstream game development is still largely a technical rather than artistically-led endeavour, the sort of warped horrors imagined by the likes of Lucio Fulci or Ruggero Deodato are almost certain to be jettisoned in favour of another end-of-level boss, or never entertained at all.Within these production constraints it's hardly surprising that horror games are mostly about cheap shocks and even cheaper gore: these are the systematic elements of horror most easily producible in a largely egalitarian, highly technical team environment. The ingredients required to make a gamer jump are fairly easily reproducible – you just need sudden unexpected movement and a loud noise. The most famous moment in the original Resident Evil is when the zombie hounds crash through a window as Jill Valentine makes her way gingerly through the Umbrella mansion. The moment takes place in a short corridor – a transitional space which doesn't look or feel like a set-piece location, so we're not expecting anything. It's a basic mechanic designed to exploit very recognisable human reflexes. The early Resident Evil games also made use of expressionistic camera angles to warp and obscure the player's view of their surroundings – and again, this is a well-known cinematic technique. All the designers had to do was sit down and watch the Cabinet of Doctor Caligari. Or any George A Romero movie.Meanwhile, in the video game space, gore is cheap. In a film, an elaborate scene of bloody violence might well cost hundreds of thousands in CGI, prosthetics, stunt work and cinematography. In a game, it's no more or less expensive than any other scene, so it's easy for elements such as tension and subtly to be cast aside in favour of endless disembowelment – hence, games like Splatterhouse and Mad World, which display all the Hitchcockian suspense of a monday morning down at the abattoir. Also, from Mortal Kombat onwards, designers have known that pulling a character's arm off is a great way to entertain the traditional demographic of teenage boys – and pulling a character's arm off is, once again, a technical rather than artistic challenge. And then there's the fact that blood is a useful visual tool: it adds organic movement and matter to a static environment; it contrasts with the standard video game palettes dominated by blacks, greys and browns; and it can be used to break the fourth wall, oozing and spraying across the screen, bringing the player into the action. No wonder we see so much of it (unless we buy our games in Germany).The problem is, robbed of any kind of psychological depth, these horror mechanisms become empty sideshow tricks within games that are merely gruesome pantomimes. Splatterhouse fails as a horror game because it is not at all scary. But then neither – really – is Resident Evil. They go through the motions, they have monsters and body parts and a few dark ideas, but there's very little substance or meaning behind it all. In comparison, the most memorable horror movies and novels prey on deep-seated collective fears and psychosexual hang-ups. With Carrie, for example, Stephen King meant to explore the fear of female sexuality, rather than the fear of being impaled on falling gym equipment by a telekinetic murderer; and it was a similar fear and disgust that underpinned William Friedkin's masterful treatment of The Exorcist. Psycho and Alien gorge on facets of Freudian theory and the Kleinian concept of the archaic mother. Vampire movies can hint at everything from fears of contamination to the power of the id.Games generally don't do this. There are titles that have delivered effective supernatural chills – the Project Zero series, Siren: Blood Curse, Alan Wake – which, by default, summon fears of death and the uncanny. Dead Space, meanwhile, made excellent use of darkness and scary audio effects to ramp up the tension. There may also sometimes be inadvertent moments of symbolic horror – with its vengeful ghost mother, F.E.A.R has an element of what cultural critic Barbara Creed referred to as the monstrous feminine. But there appear to be no established systems of exploring and conveying shared primal fears through games. Silent Hill is often labelled as psychological horror, because it deals more in surreal imagery than in straightforward shocks and monsters – but there's little sense of universality in the demons that stalk the series. Inan article on survival horrorfor The Idler, Gavin Craig asserts that Silent Hill 2, in which the lead character is haunted by the death of his wife, seems to be built around Freudian notions of psychosexual guilt. Craig also sees the lead antagonist, Pyramid Head as a Jungian archetype – and there's certainly weight to that argument. But Pyramid Head is too obscure, too specific, to be generally scary in the same way as, say, HR Giger's Alien or Frankenstein's Monster, both of which are rife with metaphorical significance.To me, it's not surprising that the most unsettling games haven't been horror games at all. Rockstar's Manhunt, with its utterly nihilistic premise and remorseless violence is a grimmer game than 100 Splatterhouses crammed into a tourture chamber together. Heavy Rain, meanwhile, is about neglect and remorse and parental duty, and manages to disturb through a series of psychologically challenging mini-games and motifs. And Bioshock, riddled with images of genetic horror and twisted folkloric tropes, is arguably more nightmarish than any Silent Hill title.  Interestingly, both Heavy Rain and Bioshockwereeffectively overseen by auteurs – David Cage and Ken Levine respectively. The weird (though crucially meaningful and recognisable) concepts they were willing to explore may have been smoothed out in a less directorial development environment.What Heavy Rain also proved was the effectiveness of setting a psychological thriller in a recognisable universe peopled by believable characters. Ethan and Madison are not demon slayers running around a mythological castle swirling gigantic swords at over-sized monsters, they're just regular people. Indeed, one of the singular creative crimes of the mainstream video game industry is its inability to engage with the real world. Of course, there's absolutely nothing wrong with escapist entertainment, but there should be an alternative, and the idea of horror is not being fully exploited until studios begin to consider the ample horrors our own world provides.But then we probably shouldn't be looking toward mainstream developers for truly terrifying game experiences – just as we wouldn't look toward mainstream movies. The indie community, a place where small teams and lone coders are still free to explore singular horror visions, is making more interesting inroads. Check out the frequently disturbing works ofJonatan Soderstromor surreal adventure gameThe Pathby Belgian studio Tale of Tales. It could also be that the future of the true horror game is with digital download titles. The monochromaticLimboby Playdead managed to conjure a true feeling of dread out of its sparse, shadowy landscapes.These examples are diverse, and you'd have trouble effectively categorising some of them as 'horror'. But they have more to say about fear than games like Splatterhouse ever will.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox...
Photo bydagtjon Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 13 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNokia: MeeGo will not displace Symbian as enterprise OS &gt;&gt; ZDNet UK"Nokia has said it will stick with Symbian as its main business-phone platform even when MeeGo, the handset-maker's new top-end operating system, is released."On Tuesday, Nokia business smartphones chief Ilari Nurmi told ZDNet UK that Nokia had "great converged device plans based on the MeeGo platform" and there were "different types of needs and wants in the enterprise market", but the new OS would not be pitched at the enterprise as a replacement for the ageing Symbian."I'm starting to wonder whether even Nokia knows what the hell its OS plans really are.5 of the Best: Free and Open Source Data Mining Software &gt;&gt; TechSourceJust in case you find yourself, you know, doing some data mining.When are WP7 Payouts Active? &gt;&gt; App Hub ForumsApparently developers will have to wait until February 2011 to get their cheques. Some developers aren't thrilled..IBM chips: Let there be light signals &gt;&gt; CNET News"IBM has achieved a major milestone in making the dream of silicon photonics, in which computer chips send signals of light rather than electricity, into reality."Complex, but interesting.Interesting Ways: using computer in the classroom &gt;&gt;edte.chA long and interesting list of links to items such as QR Codes, blogs, web conferencing and more. Fabulous.When You Should Give Your Android Phone a Factory Reset &gt;&gt; TestedProvided as a public service.Online, Anonymity Breeds Contempt &gt;&gt; NYTimes.com"Even in the fourth century B.C., Plato touched upon the subject of anonymity and morality in his parable of the ring of Gyges."That mythical ring gave its owner the power of invisibility, and Plato observed that even a habitually just man who possessed such a ring would become a thief, knowing that he couldn't be caught. Morality, Plato argues, comes from full disclosure; without accountability for our actions we would all behave unjustly."HP Pulls Out of the Windows Home Server Market, Leaves Vail Out in the Cold &gt;&gt; We Got Served"The move will be seen as a significant blow to Microsoft, who partnered with HP throughout the development of the first Windows Home Server release and launch of the MediaSmart Server back in 2007. Whilst the company did not make any connection between their decision to drop Windows Home Server and Microsoft's recent announcement to cull Drive Extender from the platform's next release, lower than expected sales undoubtedly contributed to the demise of the MediaSmart Server, with little hope of a meaningful sales boost from next year's hobbled release."Basically, not good for the home server market. Looks like the Xbox is it.Microsoft strong-armed into adding WP7 homebrew - ChevronWP7 discontinued as developers enter discussions &gt;&gt; TechEye"The developers behind the ChevronWP7 jailbreaking tool have discontinued it after striking a deal with Microsoft to integrate homebrewing options directly into the operating system itself."Google Buying Groupon Is A Flawed Idea &gt;&gt; Business Insider"Groupon is a feet on the street business employing over 3,000 people globally. So at $600 million in annual revenues, that amounts to only $200,000 of annual revenue per employee. Google on the other hand does about $30B in revenues with around 25,000 employees, which works out to $1.2 million in annual revenue per employee and that's including all the employees that work in Google businesses that produce no revenues at all. In other words, Google is a technology company and Groupon is a people company."What app drains your Nokia battery most? &gt;&gt; Nokia ConversationsIt's hard to know whether to laugh or cry at this rather incompetent attempt at crowdsourcing. "So, as mentioned in the poll itself from last week, we decided to remove the 'Other' option from the poll. As many of you noticed – 'Other' appeared to be the most draining feature on the phone. But as we don't know what 'Other' is, we couldn't really count it as a feature, so we asked for your next two big drainers."Make your own iPhone App | Free iPhone App Maker &gt;&gt; AppMakrIntriguing.Sneak peek at the new Save experience &gt;&gt; Delicious blogDelicious changes its user interface for bookmarking, but forgets to deal with that little annoyance called the "users", who are somewhat restive once it is introduced - for the worse, some think - further down the thread. (Yes, we're among those who don't like the change, which reduces functionality.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
I often remind my non-gaming friends that gaming now has a good claim to be – financially at least – thebiggest entertainment industry in the world. It causes raised eyebrows when I explain this statistic includes entertainment which many people don't really think of as "games", such as casual or social games including Farmville and Solitaire. But, say my friends, those aren't games. Games are the multimillion-pound titles you play on a console.This attitude is prevalent across our culture: when news media or TV dramasdiscuss gamingwe know they're not talking about people playing Hearts or Peggle. "Real" gamers play Halo or Call of Duty, not The Sims and Bejewelled.Because those "real" games have one thing in common: they're games played more by men than by women. Time-poor women tend to play shorter games, which require less commitment. As Margaret Robertson, development director ofHide and Seekand agames journalist, pithily remarks: "How do you get women to play your game? Tell them it'll only take 20 minutes." She says many women enjoy longer games, but "swear off them after losing four hours to them one night unexpectedly".Our culture tends to denigrate things that are associated with women. It's OK for women to wear trousers, for example, but not OK for men to wear skirts. Transmedia writer Andrea Philips has pointed out this carries over intogaming– because our society tends to think "girl stuff sucks", so "games that girls or women play more are less valid. Maybe even . . . inferior."But of course this is sexist nonsense. All games are "real" games. And all gamers are "real" gamers.• This article was amended on 7 December 2010. In the original, the heading said: Can women be 'real' gamers?. This has been changed because it did not accurately reflect the content of the piece.
Twitter has rejected as "absurd" the notion it suppressed or interfered with the accounts of student protesters or co-operated with the police in monitoring tweets about demonstrations.Much of the organising of the marches and occupations at universities and colleges over recent weeks has been organised through social networking sites, particularly Twitter and Facebook, something which has hampered police efforts to keep abreast of protesters' plans.In recent days several Twitter users involved in the demonstrations against education cuts and higher tuition fees, notably a group of students occupying part of University College London (UCL), have complained that their Twitter accounts were unavailable. The UCL students were forced to change to a new @UCLocc after UCLOccupation failed to work for several hours.Separately, there have been allegations – mainly on Twitter – that the failure of the #demo2010 Twitter tag to show at the top of popular "trending" lists indicated it had been suppressed.Matt Graves, a spokesman for Twitter, said there was "absolutely no truth" in any of the claims and said the site had not been approached by police or any other official groups."Twitter has not been contacted by UK authorities or by any UK police force regarding the use of Twitter by student protesters," he said. "Any suggestion that we have suspended or interfered with the Twitter accounts of protest groups or with hash-tags related to the protests is absurd."Twitter is committed to fostering the open exchange of information because we passionately believe it can have a positive global impact. When people can exchange information freely and publicly they are able to accomplish great things.He added: "We have seen people use Twitter to help each other during fuel shortages, track the spread of wildfires, check in during earthquakes, organise major charitable events, spread urgent news efficiently around the world, and – quite famously – to organise political protests around the world. We have not, and will not, do anything to stand in the way of people using Twitter for the open exchange of information. Period."Twitter has proved invaluable for student activists to organise groups of protesters, particularly to stay mobile and avoid being penned in by police.During yesterday's marches the biggest demonstration, in London, split repeatedly to avoid police kettling tactics. Although spontaneous, the tactic was also organised on Twitter.Other large demonstrations took place in Brighton, Birmingham, Bristol, Manchester, Newcastle and Oxford. In London, 153 people were arrested. Of those, 136 were detained after police kettled and then arrested activists refusing to leave Trafalgar Square at nightfall.The use of kettling has proved controversial, and Jenny Jones, a Green party member of the Metropolitan police authority, has requested evidence from protesters about police methods during recent protests.The Education Activist Network said today another day of action would be held on 11 December, when parents and teachers would be urged to join students opposed to the government's plans for a sharp increase in tuition fees.A spokesman, Mark Bergfeld, paid tribute to students who took part in the demonstrations yesterday. He condemned police for making so many arrests, describing the protests as "absolutely brilliant".He said: "We are building on recent protests and it is clear the movement is growing. More and more young people are displaying their anger at the government's plans and we now want to get parents and teachers involved."A large protest is being planned for the day MPs vote on tuition fees, expected before the end of the month.
What are they?The Viewsonic Android-based 7in ViewPad tablet, and the Samsung Android-based 7in Galaxy Tab tablet.CategoryHardware – specifically, tablets running Android.You'd use it in the...Home/ office/train/tube/anywhere/Yup, all of those. You'd probably use it slightly more when travelling or in the home; it's not quite an office product, but theTech Weekly team took a Samsung Galaxy Tab to Dublin last weekand found it useful for writing show notes with only the virtual keyboard.First impressions: what are they like to look at, to hold, to use?They're both surprisingly small, and yet (when you're used to phones) really quite big. Of course the real comparison that people (such asSteve Jobs, in particular) think should be made is with the 9.7in iPad and larger tablets.The iPad does have just over twice the area of either of these devices. Yet it's only if you put them right next to one that you notice it. Use either on its own, and you're simply dealing with a screen, which means that you're dealing with them on their own terms.The Android interface, being designed for phones, actually works well on a 7in tablet: the icons are that bit bigger, and wonderfully easy to hit (learn, Windows 7): there's no chance of hitting one target when you're aiming for another. (Hitting the wrong target in haste, well, that happens all the time, doesn't it?)Both the ViewPad and the Galaxy Tab are slim enough to slip into an outside jacket pocket or (ladies) any but the smallest handbag. You'll hardly know that they're there. These are a different class of device again from a smartphone (although they can do 3G) or a large tablet like the iPad orNovatech nTablet.They both have cameras on the back – on the ViewPad, it's halfway along the top of a long edge, while on the Samsung Galaxy, it's at the top left of a short edge. It turns out that ViewPad has it right: it soon becomes second nature to take a picture holding the ViewPad like a big wide camera, in which case you'll never get a finger in the way of the lens. Not so with the Samsung, where you'll often find (especially if you lend it to younger users) that you get a big pink splodge in the picture. Yes, that's your finger.The Samsung does seem to take nicer pictures which have better colour balance. But the ViewPad is miles ahead in convenience on pictures.The Samsung Galaxy Tab. Photograph: Odd Andersen/AFP/Getty ImagesWhat does it really do well?ViewPad:excellent Flash playback (very useful on sites such as YouTube); nice animation when you're scrolling through the list of applications – the top and bottom lines seem to recede over a cylinder edge, so they get squashed from the top (or bottom). It's a pleasing animation. And there are lots of applications downloadable from the Android Marketplace.Samsung:typing is easy, though best in portrait mode. Lots of applications via Android Marketplace.What's its worst failing?ViewPad:none that really stand out, apart from the camera pictures being slightly green – but that could easily be adjusted in photo editing software.Galaxy Tab:lousy Flash playback. Given that this is meant to be its strongest card over the iPad (that, and portability) you'd think more care would have been taken. But a side-by-side comparison with the ViewPad confirms that it's nothing to do with networks, and somehow everything to do with the Galaxy Tab. (Other sites have reported the same, so it's not a peculiarity of our testing.) There's also the slightly annoying particular USB inputs, which seems to be its own; you have to use its charger to charge it.What's the cost?ViewPad:£399.99inc VAT (at 17.5%), though it's also being offered with a trade-in scheme where if you trade in any working laptop or netbook up to four years old you can claim £100 back, plus £10 for shipping. Details of sellers and details athttp://www.viewpadupgrade.com/.Samsung Galaxy Tab:£449 on Amazonwith no data plan. (Note that that's more expensive than an iPad, which will give you longer battery life and a bigger screen for £20 less.)• Orange issellingit for £529 with a £5-per-month rolling 500MB data allowance, or £499 with a 12-month £5-per-month contract. To be honest you'd do better to buy it from Amazon and stick on a contract.• O2offers itfor £529 with 2GB data for £15.• Vodafoneprices itat £499 with various data plans ranging from £3 to £25 per month. That's still more expensive than Amazon.• 3 doesn't seem to be selling it. Probably wise - you'd do better, if you want a data plan, to buy one of3's MiFi donglesand create a 3G-to-Wi-Fi hotspot.What's it up against?Each other, and the myriad of 7in Android tablets that have begun to appear, and Apple's iPad, and Novatech's nTablet. However these aren't quite devices in the same space as the iPad. They feel more like convenient little replacements for laptops – sort of netbook-tablets, if you like – which carve out their own space and deserve to be judged in that way, not in comparisons to larger machines. Otherwise it's a bit like comparing a netbook to a laptop: they're similar, but not identical, and each has its own reason for existing.That's not how the division is being portrayed, because rivals are using the iPad as a leg up to peoples' understanding, but these could easily thrive while the iPad vanishes. The latter isn't likely, but these don't depend on the iPad to be useful.Blind us with the tech specs, then:ViewPad:7in touch TFT, 800 x 400 capacitive display, ARM11 600MHz processor, 512MB NAND Flash internal storage. Up to 32GB of storage can be added using the microSD slot. Built-in 3 megapixel rear-facing camera, microphone, speakers. Battery life 4-6 hours. Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, GPRS, 3G GSM. Android 2.2.Galaxy Tab:7in touch TFT, 1024x600 capacitive display, ARM Cortex A8 1GHz processor, 512MB NAND Flash, 16/32GB internal storage; up to 32GB can be added with microSD. 3MP rear-facing camera, 1MP front-facing camera, microphone, speakers. Battery life claimed up to 7 hours for watching video. Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, GPRS, 3G GSM, Android 2.2.What's it good for?Both are good for convenient portable mobile simple computing – checking email, browsing, watching video, writing short notes. You wouldn't want to write a novel on the virtual keyboard, but that's the case anywhere. The Galaxy Tab comes with an Office-compatible program, but you could just get that off the market.What are its failings?The Galaxy Tab suffers from poor Flash playback, and a rear-facing camera that's in a non-ideal position. (The ViewPad does far better on both.) Plus it's absurdly pricey, where the ViewPad is a reasonable price – at least you're not paying more for something that's smaller than the iPad.Will I have to read the manual?You shouldn't unless you have hassles with 3G connectivity.Would I still be using it in six months' time?Yes with the ViewPad. Quite possibly not with the Galaxy Tab, unless it gets very much better Flash playback in a hurry.What will it talk to, and how?The net, via Wi-Fi or 3G. USB connectors for computers and cameras and Flash storage.How scared should I be of dropping it?Neither is going to enjoy a concrete floor, but they seem generally robust.What are their USPs [unique selling points]?Being tablets that are smaller, and so more portable, than the iPad. (In ViewPad's case, cheaper too.) Being able to play Flash – though only ViewPad makes a good case there.Rating out of 5 (0 = avoid at all costs, 5 = buy at all costs)ViewPad: &#10029;&#10029;&#10029;&#10029;&#10025; If you can think of any time of day when you'd like to slide a little tablet out of your pocket to email/browse/view a video/listen to some songs, this is for you. (If the score were out of 10, this would be 9/10.)Samsung Galaxy Tab: &#10029;&#10029;&#10029;&#10025;&#10025; It's pricier than the iPad, and its smaller dimensions don't make up for the fact that its Flash playback isn't much cop. On that basis, you might as well get an iPad – pretty much all the video you want (and none of the stuff you don't) is already playable on that. (If this score were out of 10, it would be 5 rather than 6.)Finally, is it worth it?ViewPad: yes.Galaxy Tab: no.
Meet your office heater. Photo byconskepticalon Flickr.Some rights reservedIn these freezing times (at least up and down the UK - west coast US readers, look away now), many more are either working at home or in small offices where, with the price of heating being what it is, it's not always as warm as it could be.But you always have your computer, don't you? Even the average laptop is essentially a 65W heater sitting right there in front of you. Trouble is, a lot of the time it won't do that - it's only when you get the processor nice and hot that the fan will kick in and start pushing the warm air out to you.So the question is, what do you do to make the processor start heating up? Obviously, the smart money is on opening some application or other that will get it working.Our lunchtime question for you, then, is: which application do you start to get your computer's fan running?A quick poll on Twitter found support for• YouTube (Flash has an interesting tendency to get fans to kick off)• iTunes•Folding@HomeorSETI@Home(which use any spare CPU to do parts of bigger calculations)What else? Tell us your favourite CPU-sucking app..
Perhaps Ireland's most seasoned internet entrepreneur, Ray Nolan made a lot of money sellingHostel World, which wasbought by an investment firmin November last year for close to $500m.Nolan has a high profile Ireland and has become a regular mentor and adviser to small businesses. But he also has his own new projectWorky.com, which is trying to create a better space for job seekers somewhere between Facebook and LinkedIn. Fresh from aSkyScannerboard meeting in Edinburgh, Nolan explained the problem Worky is trying to solve: ever found something wholly unsuitable for a prospective employer when Googling yourself?"In five years' time everyone will have a professional profile," he says. "The  proof of the pudding is in the searching, and we can't rely on Facebook and Google to hide embarrassing data about us. In the last six to eight months there's been a big move to start protecting your professional profile, and to protect elements of Facebook from being published outside."So is it a social network? "It's what you want it to be, a place to promote yourself. It has everything a social network has, but you can't have a CV in Facebook and get Googled in a picture of you at a party. We need to own our professional profiles before somebody else does."Funded by Nolan off the back of that Hostel World deal, and with 100,000 users in 150 countries, Worky already has a healthy userbase in Ireland, the UK and US with 1,000 new users joining each day, Nolan claims. It launched in May last year, with about $1m and 10 developers to get it off the ground.With theiPhone appout today, Worky hopes to become that little bit more addictive -  particularly with its analytics tool that show's who's browsing your profile.• What's your pitch?"Worky is like Facebook for work. We build you a profile, SEO it and measure it. So you can build CV online, promote yourself and measure the stats to show who has viewed your profile. We automatically match 2.5m jobs from 25 countries against your profile. You can check jobs on your phone using the Worky app and apply from your phone, get status updates from companies you want to follow on a private network and follow companies you want to work for."• Who's the competition?"Recruitment sites are like bad versions of what used to be on newspaper sites. The real issue for employers is that people already in jobs aren't not  really looking, but we'll show jobs to those people."We're nearer to Facebook than LinkedIn in terms of the tone of voice we use on the site, but in terms of functionality it's a place for your professional life, not your social life. Worky has a much more friendly interface than LinkedIn and the positioning isn't as lofty. Then again if LinkedIn's a social network, then so are we. But LinkedIn doesn't promote you outside of LinkedIn. We offer what they have, but they don't offer what we have."• How do you make money?"Job listings are free and then we charge for promotional opportunities. We do have some advertising. And we'll sell you your domain name, host it and SEO it and provide statistical analysis for $50 per year."• What makes your business unique?"I could register RayNolan.com and set up a site, but that could take two to three man days. The trade off is to do it with Worky.com, so you pay $50 for one year to get your domain name, put your Worky profile on that URL and we'll SEO it for you. So if someone Googles you, they find your site. This is your little piece of the internet."worky.com
Just what the world needs, you may be thinking, another sci-fi shooter set on a devastated future Earth. Ah, but Sega's Binary Domain, due out on Xbox 360 and PS3 next year, is being overseen by Toshihiro Nagoshi, the creator of the brilliant and offbeat Yakuza titles. And although the game is about humans battling an invading robot army, Nagoshi claims to be fed up with standard sci-fi blasters."What I wanted to create this time was a dramatic and energetic sci-fi shooter," he said recently, in earshot of whoever wrote Sega's press release. "When you hear sci-fi you may think of cold, clinical environments but with Binary Domain I wanted to combine this with a deep human drama. The keyword we have in mind for this project is 'Life'."Indeed, it seems that there is to be some ontological soul-searching amid the highly strategic battles.As the release continues:Fighting through the derelict lower levels of the city, players control an international peace-keeping squad that soon starts to question their surroundings and the choices they made. Are the robots becoming more human, or are humans becoming more like machines?Hmm, it's Vanquish meets Bladerunner? Rainbow Six meets Akira?!Interestingly, both Sega and Nagoshi himself are keen to pitch this title at Western audiences, and hope that the theme of humanity wrestling with its own consciousness (as well as with giant battle droids) will have a universal appeal. The sentiment also echoes an ongoing crisis of confidence in the Japanese game design sector where studios are faced with both a declining native market and a global audience that has turned away from Japan's arcade-inspired titles, toward US mega-brands like Call of Duty, Halo and Grand Theft Auto (developed in the UK, of course, but for a US publisher).Personally, I'm a little worried about Nagoshi's leap into the Tokyo of 2080ad. What makes the Yakuza series so vibrant and enjoyable is the games' side-quests and cultural meanderings, the strip tease joints and karaoke bars, the lively rendering of Shinjuku nightlife. It's doubtful any of that will survive a robot apocalypse. But let's wait and see.For now, check out the trailer and let us know what you think.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
When the LCD TV broke.. Photo byTomi Tapioon Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSteve Jobs: AirPlay Video Streaming Coming to Safari and Third-Party Apps in 2011 &gt;&gt; Mac RumorsWait, isn't Apple meant to not comment on unreleased products and features?Why the Kindle Is Losing Me &gt;&gt; TechcrunchSarah Lacy is going off the Kindle, specifically its lack of page numbers: "The logic seems to be that because the Kindle allows you to change the font size, you can't have page numbers because there are a different number of words on your Kindle pages. I guess some brainiac didn't think there'd be any reason to add a feature that correlates those "locations" to the actual page numbers. Newsflash Amazon: You can't force the academic world to change pages to locations in footnotes and assignments. You want that market? You have to design for it."When is a Leak not a Leak? Using Heapshot Analysis to Find Undesirable Memory Growth &gt;&gt; Bill BumgarnerAnyone can play this if they have a Mac: it finds memory leaks that other apps won't, and you can target any app with it. Find where all that missing memory is.What's the Windows equivalent?Forget Net Neutrality, Comcast Might Break the Web &gt;&gt; GigaomSuggesting that Level 3 has had pressure put on it to pay for video to pass onto Comcast's network. Though others now suggest it was not such a 'neutral' contract.iPad 2 camera supplier selected, remains mum &gt;&gt; Unofficial Apple Weblog"Digitimes is reporting that a supplier for the lens module (optics and CCD sensor) for the iPad 2 has been selected by Apple. Largan Precision, the Taiwanese supplier for the 5-megapixel lens module used in the iPhone 4, filed documents with the Taiwan Stock Exchange noting that the company has been selected as the sole lens module supplier for the iPad 2 with shipments beginning in the first quarter of 2011."Global Dependency Explorer &gt;&gt; Cephea (requires Safari or Chrome)Glorious HTML5-reliant display of world trade flows. Requires Google Chrome, Safari or other WebKit-based browser. (No Firefox or Internet Explorer.)Microsoft Sees Revenue Opportunity in Phone Patents | Ina Fried | Mobilized | AllThingsD"At a dinner with reporters on Monday night, Microsoft top lawyer Brad Smith said that the company also sees a chance to make money from its vast pool of smartphone-related patents. He wouldn't quantify the revenue opportunity, but conceded it doesn't expect to be able to get as much per phone as it does when someone uses its software." About $20 per phone presently goes on patents, and most of that goes to Qualcomm. But in smartphones, Microsoft and Apple hold a lot of the IP. But it may take "several years" to work through the patent issues. Our diagram may need a few updates in the meantime..Flock's Newest Social Browser Launches, Finally Supports Mac &gt;&gt; Gigaom"The new browser makes it easy to integrate five different social networks in side the browser, the latest being LinkedIn. The company had initially launched a Chromium-based social web browser (version 3.0) in June 2010 exclusively for Windows Platform. The new version of the social browser now supports Apple's Macintosh OS." Er, like the old one did, you mean? Still, a better feel than Rockmeit. Oh, you'd forgotten that already?Simple London Underground performance status &gt;&gt; placrQuick glance-and-go visual showing how well (or badly) Underground lines in London are running. Is there an equivalent for other cities in the UK, or anywhere else?Tube Performance Dashboard &gt;&gt;placrFor when you need to know if your London Underground train is running, or isn't. Neat. Why not set it to open every morning before you go to work?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Firstly, a round-up of new features in the Cataclysm expansion:Two New Playable Races:Adventure as one of two new races - the cursed worgen with the Alliance, or the resourceful goblins with the Horde.Level Cap Increased to 85:Earn new abilities, acquire potent spells, and tap into new talents.Classic Zones Remade:Familiar zones across the original continents of Kalimdor and the Eastern Kingdoms have been altered forever and updated with new content, from the devastated Badlands to the broken Barrens, which has been sundered in two.Revamped Talent Trees:Every talent tree has been significantly overhauled, giving players clearer and better class customisation choices than ever before.New High-Level Zones:Explore newly opened parts of the world, including Uldum, Grim Batol, and the great sunken city of Vashj'ir beneath the sea.New Race and Class Combinations:Explore Azeroth as a gnome priest, blood elf warrior, or one of the other never-before-available race and class combinations.Guild Advancement:Progress as a guild to earn guild levels and guild achievements.New PvP Zone and Battlegrounds:Take on PvP objectives and daily quests on the island of Tol Barad, a new Wintergrasp-like zone, and fight for glory in two new Battlegrounds: Twin Peaks and The Battle for Gilneas.Rated Battlegrounds:Prove your PvP prowess on the battlefield to earn fame, Arena points, and potent upgrades.Archaeology:Master a new secondary profession to unearth valuable artifacts and earn unique rewards.Flying Mounts in Azeroth:Explore Kalimdor and the Eastern Kingdoms like never before.Interview: Chief project manager, J Allen BrackWhich of the new features in Cataclysm are you most excited about?Different players will be interested in different sorts of things. We've got people who have made a lot of different alts [alternative characters]. I think for them the two new races,the worgenandthe goblins, combined with the new levelling-up experience, are pretty compelling. Then, we've got people who focus on one character and don't really do alts. The levelling-up with all the new dungeons and raids and the guild achievements will probably be the thing that appeals to them.I was going to ask about the guild achievements. Some people think it might split the big guilds or make the smaller guilds less competitive. What are you views on that?It's interesting. I've heard both fears: that the smaller guilds might not be able to compete, and that the bigger guilds are going to split. I think it's hard to say. We did come up with what we think is a reasonable balance: our goal is definitely not to split guilds. Or have guilds at a huge competitive disadvantage.One way we mitigate that is that there is no additional power you get from guild perks, no 1% DPS talent, additional armour or weapons. All the guild perks are convenience and/or cosmetic. Even if your guild is the biggest guild in the world or your guild is much smaller and doesn't feel it can compete. They're not really competing where it really counts which is raw player power.World of Warcraft is  now up to12 million subscribers. Do you think that number is set to rise, or has it reached its peak? Also, which of the new features do you think will be most attractive to new or returning players?Traditionally, we are pretty terrible at predicting what happens with subscription numbers. The thing we try to do is focus on making WoW the best that it can be, and so far that's worked pretty well for us. In terms of returning players, it goes back to what you're really interested in. The goblin race has been a hugely requested race for a long time, and I think a lot of people who played the game in the past will be interested in seeing how it's changed.I have to say I spent some time flying through the old zones and seeing all the changes has made me want to level yet more alts.Exactly. I spent last night trying to do all the quests in Northern Barrens, and tonight I'll do some other old zones. It's pretty exciting.And how was the notorious channelBarrens chat?You know what, it was pretty funny. There were people trying to start it back up. The funniest thing was something along the lines of: "How do I know this is the real Barrens chat?" The instant response was "Because you're talking in it, dude."Returning to goblins and worgen, what would you say is each races unique selling point?The idea we started out with was: "Let's do a race that actually transforms in some way". And that evolved into this idea of taking the worgen, which is a story we've wanted to tell for a really long time, and make it so that people can change between their human and worgen form. For the Alliance, they represent a bit more of a sinister race than a lot of the others. They certainly don't have the purity of theDraenei. When we were developing them we thought of them as kind ofthe Forsakenfor the Alliance.A bit like the inverse of what theBlood Elvesdid for the Horde?Exactly. They've got a little bit of a darker side and a little bit of their own agenda. They're part of the Alliance, but they still have their own demons.Well, I'm Horde through and through, but I'll be rolling a worgen.[Laughs] We had a lot of debate about which race was going to end up where. There are people who are big fans of the Alliance and people who are big fans of the Horde, and we had to think what the right thing for the game was. We ended up deciding worgen for the Alliance. As for the goblins, they've been a requested race for a long time. They're a pretty whimsical character which is another reason for doing the goblins on the Horde side. There's not a lot of whimsy on the Horde.We don't havegnomes, basically?Exactly. So that was kind of the motivation for those guys.TheHorde capital city Orgimmarhas been drastically changed and many of the zones dramatically transformed. But other capital cities –Undercity,for example – and lots of other zones have remained largely untouched. Are there any chances thatDeathwingmight run amok again during the expansion?(Laughs) I don't think it's likely for capital cities. One thing we wanted to do was really establish that Orgrimmar andStormwindare the capital cities for the various factions. That's what we put a lot of energy into doing. Obviously, Orgrimmar got a huge facelift. But we put in an equal amount into Stormwind in terms of artist time. When the expansion lands, and people can fly over the city, the work will become apparent. Converting Stormwind into a flyover city was about a year of work. And about a year for Orgrimmar. So I don't think it's likely that we'll touch Undercity or any of the other cities right now.Any plans forOutlandandNorthrend(zones created in the previous two expansions)?We have started to talk about what we need to do because there's currently no congruity between the story that we are telling in Cataclysm and the one in Outland. It feels a little weird to have the whole "Deathwing is back and has destroyed the world" and then you walk into Outland and you're like "Hey! There's this guy, Illidan". We don't exactly know how we're going to tackle that yet, but we definitely want to find a solution.TheLooking for Dungeon (LFD)feature of Wrath of the Lich King was one of the expansions' highlights. Are there any plans to introduce cross-server raids?The LFD is probably one of the things I'm most proud of. It is a true game-changer and has really done amazing things for the game. I think it's a fantastic feature and we have definitely talked about extending that to raids.There's a couple of problems that are specific to raiding that are different to dungeons. Dungeons are far more casual in terms of the player skill you need to be successful. There's also the raid lock-out issue: how do we handle the player that you need to have in order to be successful? You do two bosses under the new system, then the raid falls apart.There are some ideas we have. The new raid lock-out system we have would help facilitate a raid finder. I think it's possible we would do a cross-server raid system. I don't know what it would look like exactly.Cataclysm is bringing shared loot and lock-outs between 10- and 25-man raids. Is this a continuation of Wrath of the Lich King's policy of letting the more casual player see more of the endgame? And do you intend to carry this on throughout the expansion?Well, we've evolved the raiding philosophy with every expansion. And we've tried to make changes based on what we did before. The origin for the shared lock-out was not "Hey, let's make raiding more casual". It was actually trying to solve a couple of problems that existed with the Wrath raiding locks.For instance, you would do your 10-person raid and then you would start working on your 10-person heroic and that was pretty challenging. Sometimes you would work for days, kind of like in the old pre-Burning Crusadedays where you would spend days or weeks on a boss before you got it down. You got the boss down, you got loot, and it was an incredible feeling. Then, the next day you would get into a 25-person raid, and half of them had never been on a raid before and you'd kill the boss on the second attempt, and you would get the same loot that you'd spent days and weeks getting on your 10-person heroic.So, while there was more players required for the 25-person version, the effort did not feel like equal work. That was really the seed of doing something different for Cataclysm. Doing the shared lock-out is our attempt to try and equalise that. The extra effort required for the 25-person version will be rewarded by giving more loot.It's a contentious issue, and frankly, it's contentious every time. What I can say is we're going to try this and if there are problems or it's not working out the way we expect then we'll make changes.Wrath of the Lich King brought many excellent changes like dual-speccing and the Looking for Dungeon finder we talked about. But one aspect I, and many others, didn't enjoy so much was the rise ofgearscore culture. Are there plans to tackle this? Or are Blizzard happy to leave it to the players to sort out?It's a tough issue, because you've got the people that feel like gearscore is the end-all metric of how things should work. And then you've got the unpleasant use of it, the raid or party leader who says "People without gearscore x cannot enter this raid/party. I'm not going to play with people of that gearscore." It's definitely a issue.Our feeling is that that proverbial horse has left the barn. And there's really no way to put that genie back in the bottle. So the question is: what do we do about it? It's not nearly the resolution of the add-on, but to have our own gearscore helps bucket people of similar gearscores together, so that there is not the huge disparity between the haves and the have-nots.Excellent stuff, Thanks for your time.No problem at all. Enjoy the game.
"This is not a battle! This is not a war!" Richard Branson declared, guns blazing, at the launch in New York today of his new digital venture – a monthly interactive magazine custom-designed for the iPad.Fighting words from the Virgin tycoon, intendedto squash reportsthat his entry into the exploding iPad applications market brings him head-to-head with Rupert Murdoch who is soon to launch his own digital-only iPad publication, the Daily.Having told his audience of about 50 journalists and technophiles in a downtown Manhattan hotel suite that he was picking no fight with Murdoch, Branson went on to say that hewaspicking a fight with Murdoch over quality."If it's a battle, it's a battle over quality. Based on 30 years of reading News of the World and other papers [Murdoch] publishes, I think on quality we'll be willing to be judged."So that's clear then. This is not a battle, though it is a battle over quality.Then Branson unveiled his "new baby" which, after several incarnations, hassettled on the name Project. Never short of a soundbite nor shy of hyperbole, he described it as "the first truly digital magazine by creative people for creative people".For the price of a cup of coffee – "an expensive cup of coffee," Branson said, earning brownie points for honesty – the iPad user can download Project through the Apple app store. For £1.79 or $2.99 a month you will have about 100 pages of content poured into your tablet computer.Project's editor, Anthony Noguera, said the small team that developed the product – including Seven Squared, an agency part-owned by the Guardian Media Group – had tried to combine the best of print magazines with the opportunities of digital technology.The launch cover features actor Jeff Bridges whose sequel to Tron (1982), Tron: Legacy, is scheduled to hit cinemas in two weeks. At first glance the cover is conventional, staid almost, with a portrait of Bridges and elegant cover lines.Touch the iPad screen and it comes alive. Bridges starts to walk across the magazine front, which takes on the distorted feel of the sci-fi film.Inside, there is a gallery of photographs from Bridges's previous films; touch any one and the actor's grainy voice is heard recalling the making of each work.A travel feature about Tokyo is illustrated not only with photographs shown off to striking effect, but also videos that take you into the heart of the city.An item on a Jaguar car in prototype allows users to look around the inside of the vehicle as well as to listen to the engine sound.By bringing together traditional words and pictures with digital sound and video, Noguera said he hoped Project would stand out amid the cacophony of the internet. "This is a much more immersive experience than a website. When you talk to iPad users they say they are reading more than they ever have."Specialist digital publishing websites that had the chance to test-drive the app were not entirely convinced. CNET said the Bridges videos were"cringeworthy to watch"and questioned the concept of a digital magazine that saddled itself with the restrictions of print.PaidContent found it to befrustrating and confusing, and more in tune with a print magazine than with the iPad.Project will have some obvious strengths and weaknesses when it does come up against Murdoch's effort, which is expected to go live in the new year.As a monthly with 20 full-time staff, Project will be more static than the Daily with its 24-hour turnround and staff of 100, although Branson promises regular updates and additional content.On the other hand, Project promises to be highly interactive, with links to blogs and open access to users to comment on and contribute to its content.TheDaily has already been criticised, even before launch, for having no links in or out of its iPad pages.
Foundem is a shopping comparison site whose founders woke up one day in June 2006 to discover that the worst had happened: it had vanished from Google.Being banished from the search engine's listings is a frequent experience for determined spammers but Shivaun Raff, Foundem's chief executive and co-founder, and Adam Raff, its chief technology officer, have never seen themselves that way; nor, they think, has Google. The problem was that they couldn't get Google to explain precisely why it had removed them. The banishment lasted three years, they say. In that time their "vertical search" engine – which, rather than Google's "horizontal" gaze across the internet, looks deep inside particular sites, notably shopping sites such as Kelkoo and Kayak – couldn't get noticed.Even so in December 2008 it won an award from The Gadget Show as the UK's best price comparison site. In October 2009 Which? ranked it third for flight searches, and it provides on-site shopping searches for Future Publishing, IPC and Bauer.Until December 2009, when Google re-listed the site – after repeated lobbying from the company – it was almost invisible on Google, while continuing to rank highly in searches on Yahoo and Microsoft's Bing."Google's treatment of Foundem stifled our growth and constrained the development of our innovative search technology," argued Adam Raff, in a New York Times opinion piece last December  "[Google's] covert 'penalties'… can strike legitimate and useful web sites, removing them entirely from its search results or placing them so far down the rankings that they will in all likelihood never be found." Google says it "de-indexed" the company because much of its content – about 87% – was copied from other sites, which it says leads to automatic downgrading in its search results.The decision by the European commission to investigate Google over allegations that it fixes searches to benefit its products and shopping listings is a clear relief to the Raffs, who hope that the commission will look into whether there is manual tinkering at the company, rather than the impassive algorithms Google insists it relies on .Shivaun Raff is concerned that Google is turning ostensibly neutral search results into powerful marketing for itself, and leveraging its dominance of search into every other sector.
A tiny British shopping comparison site has triggered an investigation by the European Commission into whether Google is abusing its monopoly position by deliberately lowering rivals' sites in its search results.The European Commission announced today that it will carry out an investigation into Google's business practices – the first such in the world and one certain to be watched with interest.The case could take years to be decided but could lead to Google facing billions of euros in fines, and strict regulations about how it can lay out its search results, especially when they include its own services. Fines can reach 10% of revenue, which would amount to $2.4bn (£1.54bn) based on the company's 2009 earnings figures.The investigation follows complaints by three companies –Foundem, a British price comparison site; Microsoft-owned Ciao; and the French legal search engine justice.fr – that links to their services appear too low on Google's general search results. They also noted that when Google offers similar services – such as online price comparison – it puts its own links higher on the sponsored search results that companies have to pay for."We're very pleased the commission has taken this important step, but we're not surprised," said Shivaun Raff, chief executive of Bracknell-based Foundem. "European law says that if you have a dominant position in a market, you have a responsibility to behave in a way that doesn't crush competition in the market."Microsoft and Intel have already discovered that the EC takes a hard line on abuse of monopoly: both companies have sufferedfines of more than €1bnfor monopoly practices; by comparison, in 2001 the commission's US counterpart, the department of justice, relaxed a September 2000 ruling thatMicrosoft should be split up into two companies.For Google, which has grown rapidly from a standing start in 1997, the EC probe poses the first real challenge to its dominance in search, where it has up to 90% of searches in almost every market worldwide, except China and Russia.Google responded robustly to the claims. "We built Google for users, not websites, and the nature of ranking is that some websites will be unhappy with where they rank. Those sites have complained and even sued us, but in all cases there were compelling reasons why their sites were ranked poorly by our algorithms. For example, Foundem, one of the sites that has complained publicly and to the European Commission, duplicates 79% of its website content from other sites, and we have consistently informed webmasters that our algorithms disadvantage duplicate sites."Raff insisted that Google is leveraging its power in search to boost the position of its other properties, such as maps and video, which would constitute a potentially illegal abuse of dominance in one field to gain share in another.However, American commentators backed Google.Danny Sullivan, of the analysis company Search Engine Land, saidthat the complaint about favouritism made no sense."Google is a search engine," Sullivan said. "A search engine's job is to point you to destination sites that have the information you are seeking, not to send you to other search engines. Getting upset that Google doesn't point to other search engines is like getting upset that the New York Times doesn't simply have headlines followed by a single paragraph of text that says 'read about this story in the Wall Street Journal'."Joseph Lampel, professor of strategy and innovation at Cass Business School, suggested that the investigation was "probably inevitable" after the EC's examination of Microsoft: "Any company so dominant in a sector is always going to face criticisms from some of the smaller players. However, the case against Google is much more technically subtle than the Microsoft investigation. It is the equivalent of a retailer having 70% of the UK market and displaying its own branded goods on eye-level shelves while relegating other brands to lower shelves where they are less likely to be noticed by consumers."Raff suggested that the case could open the door to a DoJ investigation in due course. "We have spoken to the DoJ in spring this year in Washington," she said. "They were very interested." The EC has notified the US department of justice of its investigation, which is likely to take "at least a few months".Meanwhile, Google is reportedly in talks to buy Groupon, an online discount service, in a deal worth up to $6bn according to reports in the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal'sAll Things Dailyblog. The price would be twice as high as its previous largest, of the advertising system DoubleClick in 2008 for $3.2bn.Groupon, a two-year-old startup based in Chicago, offers daily local bargains ranging from yoga classes to discounts from national retailers. Neither company has commented on the rumours, which began circulating at the weekend. The deal would reportedly include $5.3bn in cash and $700m in earn-out payments. Google is thought to want Groupon for its strong local connections, which would strengthen its ability to target adverts to locations.
Sir Maurice Wilkes, who has died aged 97, was the most important figure in the development of practical computing in the UK. Not only did he lead the development of EDSAC, the first stored-program digital computer to go into service in the 1940s, he and his colleagues at Cambridge University also made significant contributions to software development, and built one of the first high-speed distributed computing networks, the Cambridge Ring. His vision was less about producing bleeding-edge designs than about developing machines that could reliably do calculations for the university's scientists and engineers – people like himself. In the early 1950s, EDSAC, the Electronic Delay Storage Automatic Calculator, was the basis for the world's first business computer, LEO (the Lyons Electronic Office), which was used to run the operations of the eponymous tea-shop company.Wilkes considered himself lucky to be in at the birth of the computer industry that grew out of the wartime development of ENIAC, the Electronic Numerical Integrator and Computer, which had calculated shell trajectories for the US army. The Americans planned to follow this with a more sophisticated machine that could run stored programs, and Wilkes was given an overnight loan of John von Neumann's seminal paper, First Draft of a Report on the EDVAC, the Electronic Discrete Variable Automatic Computer, which explained the concepts. Wilkes recognised that this approach was the future – computers became known as "Von Neumann machines".In 1946, he was invited to lectures on the Theory and Techniques for Design of Electronic Digital Computers at the University of Pennsylvania, the birthplace of ENIAC. Wilkes got there late, but met many of the American computer pioneers, including Harvard University's Howard Aiken and ENIAC's developers, John Mauchly and Presper Eckert. He thus become one of relatively few people who had some idea how to build a computer, in theory, and began to sketch the design of EDSAC on the Queen Mary on the way home.Building a stored-program computer was still a huge challenge, but Wilkes had the determination and the means to do it. After returning from his work on radar during the second world war, he had been made head of the Mathematical Laboratory, which later became the Cambridge Computer Laboratory. "I didn't have to ask anybody, 'Could I build a computer, please?',"he wrote later. "I didn't have to arrange any budget. I was in charge and I could go ahead. I was the only one who knew anything about building computers, so if I said, 'You build a computer this way', they said, 'Yes, right, that's the way.'"By today's standards, EDSAC was amazingly primitive. It used valves – vacuum tubes – for computation, like ENIAC and Colossus, Bletchley Park's secret code-breaking machine. Its first memory units used sound beams traversing baths of mercury, which required very precise manufacturing. But EDSAC was up and running in 1949, and performed useful calculations for many years. "We never tried with the EDSAC to exploit to the full the technology of the time, because even a slow electronic computer would be so fast. You don't want to take a bigger jump than you need," he said. The jump from mechanical to electronic computation was the biggest jump there was.In the days when computers were big, expensive things, they could earn their keep by taking on a small number of very large tasks. Wilkes had other ideas. He envisaged EDSAC performing relatively large numbers of smaller tasks for Cambridge researchers working in fields such as mechanics, economics, crystallography and radio astronomy. This led Wilkes and his team to develop ways to make computers easier to program and to use. In 1951, Wilkes and two colleagues published the first book on computer programming: The Preparation of Programs for an Electronic Digital Computer.Wilkes also came up with the idea of microprogramming as a way of controlling the computer's operations, by building complex high-level instructions from small ones – microcode. The lab's second valve-based machine, EDSAC 2, which came into operation early in 1958, was the first computer to have a microprogrammed control unit. The technique was used later in the IBM 360 mainframe, and became a fundamental part of modern computing.He also helped pioneer networking, having seen some early work in digital telephony at the telecommunications firm of Hasler in Berne, Switzerland. He immediately saw the potential for using the technology to connect computers instead, and started the Cambridge Ring project long before the idea of computer networking became fashionable. Some commercial Rings were installed, but the industry adopted Ethernet instead.Wilkes was born in Dudley, Staffordshire, to Vincent and Ellen Wilkes. He was very proud of his father, who had started working for the Earl of Dudley's estate as a 16-year-old office boy and worked his way up. He attended the King Edward VI school, in Stourbridge, and in 1931 went to St John's College, Cambridge, where he studied mathematical physics. As a graduate student in the Cavendish Laboratory, he researched the propagation of radio waves in the ionosphere, gaining his PhD in 1938. After returning to Cambridge in 1945, he became head of the Mathematical Laboratory (1946-70),  head of the Computer Laboratory (1970-80), and in 1985 published Memoirs of a Computer Pioneer.After "retiring" from Cambridge University, he worked for DEC (Digital Equipment Corp), the US minicomputer giant, and was adjunct professor at MIT in Cambridge, Massachusetts. He enjoyed it a lot, and said he wished he had worked in industry sooner. Back in Cambridge, he worked at the Olivetti Research Laboratory before rejoining the Computer Laboratory in 2002 as an emeritus professor. David Hartley – his former student, later colleague (as director of the university's Computing Service) and longtime friend – said he continued to go in to work there until his mid-90s.Wilkes was the first president of the British Computer Society, a fellow of the Royal Society, and a fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering. His  numerous awards included the Faraday medal from the Institution of Electrical Engineers in London, and in 2000 he was knighted.In 1947, Wilkes married Nina Twyman, a classicist he had met in Cambridge. She died in 2008. He is survived by his son, Anthony, and two daughters, Margaret and Helen.• Maurice Vincent Wilkes, computer scientist, born 26 June 1913; died 29 November 2010
Photo bySu-Laineon Flickr.Some rights reservedIf you've ever stared at your inbox and your contacts list and thought about the number of people through your organisation who must also be in touch with the same businesses and contacts, and that it would be useful to be able to merge all those and figure out who the useful people are - well, so has Connor Murphy, chief executive ofDatahug. His idea is that algorithms can work through your inbox and those of your colleagues and show you who you talk to and who you should be talking to. The company has been going for 12 months, and has already had seed capital and won a €20,000 prize for best startup in a local competition. Murphy, 31, runs it with Ray Smith, aged 30, an engineering graduate.The product is one of the emerging generation of apps that rely on the "semantic web" - trying to extract meaning from words, rather than straight data. Murphy says that "your real professional social graph is sitting there in your inbox, waiting to be analysed".• What's your pitch?"We analyse the emails coming in and out of the business to analyse who knows what - we give your contacts a 'hug rank' which shows how frequently you interact, and gives deeper insight into who you really spend your time communicating with. It's a web app, software-as-a-service, in the cloud. It shows you your real social graph at work. It's Linked In on steroids. You could use it to do seating plans at conferences - so they'll put people who work closely together next to each other."• How do you make your money?"On a price-per-user-per-month model. Per inbox that we index. We're really looking for the big enterprise organisations. An organisation with 150,000 people at €5 per month would be the aim - then we can do deeper analytics across the organisation."People think email is free, but it takes 76 seconds to read each one on average and 64 seconds to process it. If you send an email to 100 people in your organisation that's 200 minutes cost across the entire organisation. We can analyse it so you can see who's putting the most cost on the company. We need to make people aware that time spent on email is a company resource and that it's expensive."• How are you surviving the downturn, and will the problems affect you?"It's not really affecting us - our market is global. There's a Gartner report on executive goals which says their No.1 priority is building new and deeper and closer relationships with their clients. All our market research says there's potential in the US, UK and Australia. We're seeing costs coming down, and the government's still supportive of the technology sector. We're expecting to spend a lot more time in airports [travelling to clients]. We think there's going to be about five years of pain but there's going to be a lot of value here in Ireland. Everybody's got to go through the [economic] cycle in the next few years."• What's your background?"I graduated in 2002 in maths and computer science from the University of Cork. Ray was doing a doctorate at MIT's Media Lab with controlling games with your brainwaves - really amazing stuff. We've known each other about five years. Then he joined Accenture, while I was at PA Consulting in London and the US. That's where we saw the problem: we were in big organisations but you couldn't leverage the contacts that people had throughout them."• What makes your business or product unique?"The data is already sitting there; we put a rich layer on top of it. The 'hug rank' is unique - we've got patents based on semantic patterns. It's like Google's PageRank, which looks at which pages point to which other pages and builds its rankings on that basis, but to email. It looks at whether an email is sent to one person, or 50, how quickly it gets answered. It's a bit likeGoogle's Priority Inbox, sure, but much deeper. I showed it to some journalists at the [Irish] Sunday Post and they saw the benefit right away. The real social network is sitting there in your inbox. Linked In might have a million business contacts, but how many of those are just pinging you to say they have? They're not who you really connect with. We can go back one year, five years and really give you a picture of your connections."• Who in the tech business inspires you?"People in the Irish tech industry -Jerry Kenellyfor all the time and money he's invested; Alan Coleman ofBritebill, who's ex-Accenture and knows about enterprise-level sales."• What's your biggest achievement?"Ha! Convincing Ray Smith to join. He'll go through walls to get things to happen. He's a genius - there isn't a problem he can't solve."• What's your biggest challenge?"We're a new category, so there's new positioning for clients - it's difficult to articulate what we do. We've got to get our elevator pitch right."• What's the most important web tool that you use each day?"Dropbox, Skype, Google Mail, Google Tasks, Microsoft Azure, Amazon S3. My laptop could blow up tomorrow and it wouldn't make any difference. It's all in the cloud."• What is Datahug built in?".Net and XHTML, Javascript, JQuery, SQL Server, CouchDB in the background."• Name your closest competitors?"Linked In,Xobni, and enterprise CRM such asSalesforce. We want to be a bit like Twitter, to have an API and have people build apps on top of ours."• Where do you want the company to be in five years?"Approaching €50m revenues and 200 people, well-established as the leading supplier in enterprise relationship management, with offices in the US, UK and Australia."• Sell to Google, or be bigger than Google?"We can get bigger than Linked In, and they've got a $150m valuation. If we got Accenture as a customer, with 100,000 people, with the statistics we're doing, that would be a social graph as big as Facebook, 500m people - they have so many contacts in so many companies. There are loads of companies out there and we can set up a mini-Facebook for them."
Tech Weekly visits Dublin to check out the thriving local startup scene. The tech community has benefited from assistance through development agencies such as Enterprise Ireland that help to foster and fund new tech businesses.  Ireland has also benefited from the presence of tech giants such as Google, Apple, Facebook, Microsoft, HP, Dell and others in the country.But will all this success be put into jeopardy? Ireland has just accepted a €85bn bailout from the International Monetary Fund – will talented developers emigrate as their financial situations worsen? Will the tech giants that were attracted by favourable corporation tax rates leave the country if the government has to raise the rate? It would appear not however, and most entrepreneurs in the programme were upbeat about future prospects.Charles Arthur and Jemima Kiss tour the city, meeting up withEnterprise Irelandto hear how it helps fund and foster the country's new digital businesses. We also meetJoe Drumgoole of Cloudsplit, who tells us how punishing the cost of failure is in Ireland, and how startups shouldn't be worried – just learn from the mistakes.Dylan Collins of Joltdiscusses Ireland's success as a hub for online gaming, and his role as a mentor for other startups, andRob Martin of Infactaexplains how Ireland's infrastructure such as broadband has been challenging for his business.Plus we get some interesting projects to pitch us their ideas at a listener meetup.You can find links to the startups and projects mentioned on theGuardian Technology in Irelandpage.Don't forget to ...• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Nothing like some tit for tat sales figures to keep us entertained this freezing Tuesday. Following on from Microsoft's earlier announcement –Microsoft Kinect: 2.5m sold– Sony has announced that its new Move controller has sold 4.1m units worldwide.  Move has been out for just over two months in the US and Europe, and a month or so in Japan.Sales figures for individual Move games have not been given out, but Sony highlights the following titles as being "successful" Move titles: Sports Champions, Start the Party, EyePet Move Edition, MAG and SingStar Dance.  Killzone 3 and LittleBig Planet 2 are two of the Move-enabled biggies for nest year.So Move has sold more than Kinect so far. Yes, Move has been on the market longer than Kinect, but could this trend be here to stay? Or will Kinect beat Move in the longer term?
Superhero fans have always amused themselves by arguing over who's the strongest or fastest, and back in the 80s and 90s this was catered for by comic books such as Secret Wars and the Infinity Gauntlet.Nothing much was ever resolved, but it was an exciting alternative to Top Trumps before Hollywood brought mainstream attention to the Marvel universe. All things considered, it sounds like the perfect setting for an arcade adventure with beat-'em-up elements, right?Well, yes and no. Sadly, this version is based on the US cable TV cartoon version of the story, including that cast of squat, Hasbro toy heroes. It's a bit like Sesame Street doing its own version of the Exorcist, but once you get over the silliness it's not really that bad a game.For a start, there's a massive variety of playable characters, from stalwarts such as Wolverine and Iron Man to virtual gods such as Galactus and Thanos and less familiar characters such as Bucky and Nova. The game is split into 12 episodes, each based around its own humorous theme with a pair of heroes collecting fragments of the Gauntlet's six Infinity Stones.The episodes feature an assortment of puzzles and arcade-style challenges, from hacking simple electronic circuits to firefights against a succession of increasingly repetitive grunts. However, at the end of the level there's a boss battle to survive which will have you drawing on your limited number of jumps, blocks, charges and ranged attacks as well as a special power that must be charged up and is easily the most distinct part of your arsenal.Two players have the best of the action, as single players have to rely on fairly dodgy AI for the second hero – which usually results in him standing around refusing to defend himself. Luckily, the game is fairly forgiving of incompetence and you can always switch between heroes by pressing the Start key.Infinity Gauntlet is one of those games that really hammers home the generation gap. As a comic fan, the dumbing down of one of the great Marvel storylines is little short of sacrilege. However, a seven-year-old fan of the TV show would probably see it very differently – particularly with such simple, instinctive gameplay and a lightweight but amusing storyline featuring the voices of Mark Hamill and George Takei. Try as I might, I just can't hate it.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
You can't fault Microsoft when it comes to shouting about the sales of its new Kinect motion controller, but with 2.5m units now sold globally you probably can't blame it.While Move on the PlayStation 3 is an excellent step up from the Nintendo Wii, it seems as though Kinect has really caught the imagination of punters. Or maybe it has had better advertising.Whatever, Kinect is big right now (cue joke about wishing my front room was too).  Microsoft's Xbox boss, Don Mattrick, thinks the target of 5m Kinect sales before Christmas is within reach.We are thrilled about the consumer response to Kinect, and are working hard with our retail and manufacturing partners to expedite production and shipments of Kinect to restock shelves as fast as possible to keep up with demand.  With sales already exceeding 2.5m units in just 26 days, we are on pace to reach our forecast of 5m units sold to consumers this Christmas.Despite some issues with the size of my front room, the Kinect has gone down pretty well here so far – the Kinectimals game in particular. But what about you? Still a fan? Not interested at all? Or waiting till Christmas?
The European Commission today launched a formal investigation into Google following allegations that the internet giant has abused its dominant position in the search and advertising market.Google is facing an EU anti-trust investigation following complaints from rivals about "unfavourable treatment" of their search services within the search engine giant's "natural" unpaid as well as sponsored listings.Complainants,including Microsoft and UK firm Foundem, which is also involved in a US inquiry into Google, allege the company gives "preferential placement" to its own services. The complainants allege that Google unfairly "lowers the ranking" of unpaid search results of some services, such as price comparison websites, in a bid to "shut out competing services".In addition the probe will look at allegations that Google imposes "exclusivity obligations" on advertising partners preventing them from placing "certain types of competing ads on their web sites"."This initiation of proceedings does not imply that the Commission has proof of any infringements," said the Commission. "It only signifies that the Commission will conduct an in-depth investigation of the case as a matter of priority."Google refuted the accusations but admitted that there is "always going to be room for improvement" and pledged to work with the Commission."Since we started Google we have worked hard to do the right thing by our users and our industry, ensuring that ads are always clearly marked, making it easy for users to take their data with them when they switch services and investing heavily in open source projects," said a Google spokesman."But there's always going to be room for improvement, and so we'll be working with the Commission to address any concerns."In Septemberregulators in Texas launched the first broad anti-trust review of Google's search and advertising practices in the US. While federal regulators in Washington have investigated the impact on competition of Google's business deals in the past, Greg Abbott, Texas attorney general, is the first regulator to look more broadly at its core search business, amid growing concerns about the power the online business wields.Getting the Commission to quiz Google is a victory for firms such as Foundem, which has complained for years that thevagaries of its search algorithm have huge consequences for the number of visitors to its website, which compares the prices of anything from flights to microwave ovens.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
(Can't see the map? It'shere.)Where's the best value for money for broadband? South Korea? The UK? No - it turns out to be Hong Kong, according to a study by the broadband consultancy Point Topic.The data, which is collected on a quarterly basis by the company, showcases the best deals on offer to consumers around the world."Consumers in different countries are faced with very different broadband tariffs, dependent on geography, market and network maturity, local competition and various levels and sources of subsidy," said Fiona Vanier, senior analyst at Point Topic.Themapabove shows an adjusted measure of the cost - specifically, the logarithm of the cost, subtracted from the largest value of cost. This means that larger numbers actually match to lower, rather than higher prices: in Hong Kong the provider, HKBN, offers fibre to the home, with a 1Gbps connection, which costs the equivalent of $0.028 per megabit.The next in the top ten are Japan, Romania, Sweden, Latvia, China, Singapore, Russia, Germany and Finland. The UK finally appears at No.24, ahead of the US which is at No.30.In the standalone tariffs that Point Topic tracks, bandwidth can vary from 150kbps (which arguably isn't broadband, though it tends to be the continuous state of the connection rather than the speed that most focus on) up to 1Gbps.Many come with data limits, email addresses or static IPs, and that is before accounting for "special offers".To help comparison, Point Topic analysed the amount a consumer pays for a megabit of bandwidth, and analysed the cost over a year."Nine of the ten best value tariffs are either pure fibre or hybrid offerings where fibre is a significant part of the local loop. The exception is Germany where Unity Media offer a cable service that is very competitive," said Vanier. "Prices are stabilising in many markets around the world and overall in the last quarter there was an average increase globally.  However there are plenty of countries that are still rolling out new networks and ISPs that are announcing new tariffs. Even in relatively mature markets, like Singapore or Italy, there is room for improvement."Faster downstream speeds usually mean a lower price per megabit but the bandwidth has to be used for those savings to be achieved."Bandwidth will continue to increase as fibre edges closer to the consumer. Higher speeds generally mean better value for the consumer. All that remains is to work out how best to use it," concluded Vanier.
QR Code waffles in production. Photo byericskiffon Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMS Tags vs QR Codes &gt;&gt; Terence EdenDid you know that Microsoft is trying to get into the 2D codes business? Terence Eden expains why he thinks it shouldn't.ISPs must play their part in stamping out piracy &gt;&gt; The GuardianHelienne Lindvall asks: why is Pirate Bay still up?Acer CEO Talks Android, Chrome OS and How to Take on the iPad | Ina Fried | Mobilized | AllThingsDAcer announced and then delayed an Android tablet, and is now talking about Android (but not Froyo, or Gingerbread, but only Honeycomb - 3.0? - onwards. And that Windows is the only real choice for a tablet. But that they're working on MeeGo too.If you asked me, I'd say he has no idea what's the best idea.Microsoft Joins Crowded Market for Web TV Streaming &gt;&gt; AllThingsD"Welcome to the club, Microsoft!"Now please stand next to Apple, Google, Amazon and Netflix. But don't crowd the cable guys over in the VIP section. And remember to keep your wallet handy!Of course Microsoft wants to beam TV shows to your house, for a fee. Everyone else does!"The price of DRAM is dropping &gt;&gt; DRAMeXchange"DRAM contract price has declined 30% QoQ in 4Q10 and we expect DDR3 1Gb contract price will decline around 40% in 4Q10." Reasons: falling PC demand. Would be interesting to compare this against the spot market for Flash memory.Around 100,000 Windows Phone 7 devices sold according to Facebook usage data | WinRumorsAssumes that pretty much everyone who gets a WP7 phone will log into Facebook. Precise tracking suggests the number should be around 126,000. OK, it's not in iPhone territory - but I'm not sure who thought it would be, really. Oddly, Windows Rumors says "only" 100,000 have sold. Why "only"?Open Data: How Not To Cock It Up &gt;&gt; Tom SteinbergSteinberg founded MySociety, but also lurks inside government now, pulling and pushing data levers. From a speech he gave to hackers the other week. It has some concrete points on how to make open data work, but also this nice observation: "For the forseeable future we should adopt the approach of someone who is trying to woo a rather unconvinced lover. Their friends – risk averse public servants and lobbyists - keep telling them that they should dump us and get on with the wooing someone more worth while (the deficit, or china), and that this open data toy-boy is just a shiny distraction with good cheekbones. We need to keep showing up with flowers and kind deeds (ie success stories) to show that we are worth not kicking out of bed. The academic research community could do a huge job here, focussing their efforts in the near term in better understandings of what sort of value open data is starting to create."Deciding how to hire: the Programmer Competency Matrix &gt;&gt; Starling SoftwarePrint this out before you interview someone for the next programming job.Map of the World's Countries Rearranged by Population &gt;&gt; Big ThinkSurprisingly, the inhabitants of the US won't have to up sticks. However, the next Test series wouldn't be in such warm environs..Map of available parking spaces for Barclays Cycle Hire bikes throughout the day &gt;&gt; Can I Park It?Note that it also gives you a forecast - it's not just static.Symbian Foundation web sites to shut down - Symbian Developer Community"Recently, we announced thatthe Symbian Foundation will be transitioning to a licensing body. In practise this will mean a reduction in the day-to-day operations of the Foundation by the end of the year.&#10; &#10;"As a result, we expect our websites will be shutting down on 17th December. We are working hard to make sure that most of the content accessible through web services (such as the source code, kits, wiki, bug database, reference documentation &amp;amp; Symbian Ideas) is available in some form, most likely on a DVD or USB hard drive upon request to the Symbian Foundation."Sic transit gloria open source.Switching from PC to Mac and back: three lessons learned so far &gt;&gt; Ed BottBott is living in a world where he has both side by side and switches between them at any time. His conclusions so far: the hardest thing to get used to is the keyboard shortcuts; he doesn't even think about running antivirus on the Mac; you can choose from a much wider variety of products on PCs.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
When Steve Jobs in January described the new iPad tablet computer as "magical", PC manufacturers perhaps didn't imagine that the magic would be to subtract money from their bottom line and add it to Apple's.But that's how it's turning out. The research firm, Gartner, has slashed its forecast for the number of PCs that will be sold this year from 363.5m to 352.4m. And that higher figure was itself a downgrade from March, when the company thought that 366m PCs could be sold this year.The reason for the downgrade is growing interest in Apple's iPad and similar tablet computers, allied to shrinking budgets among consumers.The abrupt drop is part of a trend that will become a long-term one, according to Ranjit Atwal, Gartner's research director. "Over the longer term, media tablets are expected to displace around 10% of PC units by 2014," he said, adding that the new forecasts reflect "expectations of weaker consumer demand, due in no small part to growing user interest in media tablets such as the iPad".Other analysts think that growing user interest can already be quantified. Last week, Citigroup's analysts forecast that 35m tablet computers, including 26m iPads, will be sold in 2011 – and that those will lop off 11m PC sales that would otherwise have been made by companies such as HP and Dell.Craig Berger, of FBR Capital Markets, offers higher estimates for 2011 – of 40m tablets sold by Apple and 30m by other companies – and says that the economics of tablets "are not good for PCs". He calculates that every five tablets sold means two lost PC sales. Berger's numbers would suggest 28m lost PC sales – and given that Gartner has already trimmed its numbers by 10m this year since the iPad launched, Berger's figure might not be fanciful.Meanwhile, Gartner forecasts that worldwide PC shipments for 2011 will reach 409m units, a 15.9% increase from 2010 – but substantially reduced from its earlier estimate of 18.1% growth for next year. It's entirely possible that further downgrades will follow.Is this the end of the PC business that has sustained dozens of PC makers, and Microsoft in particular, over the decades since the launch of the very first version of Windows on 20 November 1985, just over 25 years ago? Microsoft makes its money from the licences for Windows on PCs, plus sales of its Office suite to a sizeable proportion of PCs that are used by businesses.But if the PC sales engine starts to slow, so will Microsoft's. And Gartner has bad news on the business front too: it predicts that by 2013, 80% of businesses will support tablet computers for their staff, and that rather than providing employees with business services and devices – that is, PCs – 90% will support corporate applications on employees' own consumer phones, tablets and laptops.Ray Ozzie, who last month stepped down as Microsoft's chief software architect – a post previously held by Bill Gates – has already warned the company about this scenario.In October, in an elliptical farewell email, which he also put on his blog, he urged its executives to look ahead to a "post-PC world" and warned: "Those who can envision a plausible future that's brighter than today will earn the opportunity to lead." Or, to put it another way, those who stick to the PC-centric view will get left behind.The PC market's growth is not uniform. It has almost stopped in the US and Europe. The only bright light at present is emerging markets such as Asia, which Gartner says are driving sales: by the end of next year such countries will make up more than 50% of the world PC market, while "mature" markets – especially the US and Europe – will face "mounting challenges" as both businesses and consumers put off new purchases and instead buy smartphones or tablets instead.And even in emerging markets the story is not all good news for the traditional PC companies. "There is a good chance that consumers will simply leapfrog PCs and move directly to alternative devices in the coming years rather than following the traditional pattern of purchasing a PC as their first computing device," suggests Gartner, blaming PC makers' failure to innovate.Chip speeds are not doubling as they once did; where a decade ago, faster graphics and processors were guaranteed every few years and made new PCs a must-have, most people now have more computing power than they need. And even though Microsoft can say that Windows 7 is its fastest-selling version of Windows ever, the reality is that many businesses are downgrading their licences and instead running Windows XP, from 2001, while many consumers are also sticking with XP.That could mean that companies which usually head the PC sales numbers will see their revenues head south too, unless they can leap onto the tablet bandwagon. HP, Acer and Toshiba – which, along with Dell and Lenovo, make up the top five sellers worldwide – have all announced moves into the tablet market, although analysts predict they will find it tough amid brutal price competition.Oddly, the only computer maker that seems immune to this cannibalisation of the market is Apple, which has seen its computer sales grow significantly faster than the market this year. Maybe Jobs was right. The iPad is certainly having a magical effect on his company – even if not on any others.Personal computer timeline1975:Microsoft founded by Bill Gates and Paul Allen, who offer BASIC computer language for the now-extinct Altair computer.1976:Apple founded by Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak. They begin selling Apple I computer boards.1981:IBM introduces the $1,500 IBM PC; Microsoft DOS available as an option.1984:Apple introduces Apple Macintosh, with "windowing" interface.1985:Microsoft ships Windows 1.0.1992:Microsoft ships Windows 3.1.1993:Total of 3 million people in the US connected to the net.1995:Microsoft ships Windows 95, which sells 1m copies in four days.1997:100 million people worldwide connected to the net.1998:Microsoft becomes world's most valuable company, by market capitalisation1999:Microsoft found guilty of antitrust behaviour over the browser market2001:Microsoft introduces Tablet PC format. It doesn't sell. It introduces Windows XP, which sells by the million.2001:Number of PCs sold between 1981 and 2000 totals 835m.2003:1bn PCs shipped2004:Microsoft found guilty of monopoly behaviour by European Commission.2006:Intel estimates 1bn PCs connected to the net worldwide.2009:PC sales fall for the first time since 2001.2010:January – Apple launches iPad. May – overtakes Microsoft in market capitalisation.
As is so often the case, the boyfriend is to blame. When Ashley Kerekes from Massachusetts had her name affectionately shortened to "The Ashes" she didn't think anything of using this moniker for her Twitter account – at least not untilthe actual Ashes beganand cricket fans across the globe started unwittingly namechecking her in their tweets.At first,@theashesbatted away mentions with "I'm not the cricket feed", which was soon upped to a sterner: "Check profiles before you send mentions, it's incredibly annoying and rude." Finally, she cracked, screaming: "I AM NOT A FREAKING CRICKET MATCH!!!!!", prompting her cheekier new followers to respond: "We know, you're a five-dayseriesof cricket matches, specifically between England and&nbsp;Australia."Happily, once top commentators such as Jonathan Agnew (@aggerscricket) picked up&nbsp;on the story, she rediscovered her sense of humour, offering to read up on the rules of the game to please the 5,000 new followers she had acquired in one weekend. Meanwhile, the Sydney Morning Herald has reported that Kerekes now plans to sellT-shirts emblazoned with the slogan "I'm&nbsp;not a freaking cricket match!!"(We know, you're a five-dayseries.&nbsp;. . etc).There's even a hashtag:#gettheashestotheashes. Quick to spot some good publicity, especially after its recent engine troubles,Qantasoffered to fly Kerekes to Australia so she too could enjoy the visceral thrill of watching 22 men hit a ball around some grass for five solid days only for it all to be declared a draw. Unfortunately the offer didn't appear to extend to Kerekes bringing along a friend, so she has so far declined the offer.And asone wagnoted, there was "no mention of a flight home. Is this Australia's way of keeping @theashes?"
Rarely can a micro-blogging site have relayed anything as plaintive as the seven-word, three-exclamation-mark message that an exasperated American babysitter shared with the world yesterday.Stumped and hit for six after technology and her nickname conspired to bowl her a celebrity googly, Ashley Kerekes decided to set the record straight. "I AM NOT A FREAKING CRICKET MATCH!!!" she howled into the Twittersphere.The 22-year-old's existential crisis began last week when the Ashes started and Twitter users noticed her name:theashes.The ensuing bombardment was enthusiastic and relentless. In the space of a few days, as hercri de coeurechoed around cyberspace, the ranks of her followers swelled from 300 to 8,200. By today, Kerekes was a bona fide Twitter celebrity, with the offer of a free trip to Australia to watch her very own (freaking) test match."I was out Christmas shopping with my aunt and I got a Twitter from a friend of mine telling me that some guy was trying to get information about me," she told the Brisbane Times. "I'd turned off notifications on my phone right after my first outburst so I had no idea. After that I went looking around and found that I had hundreds, maybe thousands, of messages about the Ashes."Most of them, it seems, left her a little confused. "What the hell is a wicket?" she tweeted yesterday, eliciting the waggish reply: "A sticky wicket is a way of finding badgers in English forests."Her celebrity, she said, was due entirely to her other half. "My boyfriend gave me the nickname years ago, maybe because of the cricket tournament. We don't remember," she said. "He's been calling me the Ashes for ever."Despite the "amazing" celebrity, Kerekes said she had no plans to change her username. "I've been into social media for a long time, but I was never this popular," she said.Her popularity has already sparked a #gettheashestotheashes movement on Twitter, aiming to get Kerekes to Australia to experience the timeless joys of leather on willow for herself.It appears to be paying off. Today, the Qantas press office tweeted that the airline was bringing "@theashes to Australia for the Ashes", while Vodafone Australia has offered to "pony up #theashes tickets &amp; a phone so she can tweet".Not to be outflanked by the commercial giants, Kerekes has also come up with her own money-spinning scheme and is now selling T-shirts emblazoned with the legend: "I AM NOT A FREAKING CRICKET MATCH!!!"However, she is adamant that she is not being greedy. "I hope no one is offended by me making T-shirts," she tweeted this afternoon.  "I probably make two cents a shirt. I'm not trying to get rich, just have fun."A little later, the babysitter-cum-cricket-fixture signed off with a wink to her new friends: "Howzat. I'm off to bed. See you tomorrow."
After Friday's Pirate Bay verdict, the attorney representing the movie companies in the case, Monique Wadsted,told Svenska Dagbladetthat she predicts "this sort of piracy will be over in two years time". "After this verdict, and when all the pioneers are older with children and a family, this amount of piracy won't exist," she elaborated. So can rights holders breathe a sigh of relief? Does Friday's judgment really spell the beginning of the end of illegal downloading?The defendants in the trial are hoping the Swedish supreme court will accept an appeal – not an easy thing to achieve, but still possible as there are no legal precedents.  But even if their appeal is rejected, the fact is the Pirate Bay is still up and running – the only difference being that no one has any idea of who is running.In the past, much of the Swedish media portrayed the Pirate Bay founders as young rebels fighting the corporations in a struggle between "old media" and "new media". Of course none of them are kids, though some of the replies they sent to people asking them to take content down were quite childish – they're men in their 30s and 50s who were running an ad-funded business. So they are right, to a certain extent, when they compare themselves to Google.Did they display such cockiness in their responses to rights holders' take-down requests because they didn't think they were doing anything illegal, or was it due to some sort of anarchistic idealism? Or did they think they could take advantage of the internet's lack of respect for national borders?The complainants in this case have chosen to not go down the"Al Capone route"and question whether or not the ad income of the Pirate Bay was properly declared, but the issue of where a crime is committed still featured in the court's verdict. After all, a Swedish court can only deal with crimes committed within its jurisdiction.Once the Pirate Bay servers and its co-founders moved abroad – Fredrik Neij lives in Thailand, Peter Sunde in Germany, Carl Lundström in Switzerland and Gottfrid Svartholm Warg in Cambodia – it would've been much more difficult, though not impossible, to bring a case against them.And even if there's a legal conviction, today it's not enforceable, as proven by the continued existence of the Pirate Bay. Does this mean we should accept that, in practical terms, there are different laws for the internet than for the rest of society? This is not just a concern for copyright holders – it also concerns invasion of privacy, libel and many other illegal activities that take place via the internet.I agree with Per Strömbäck of theSwedish thinktank Netopiawhen he says intermediaries such as internet service providers have to take more responsibility. Once a court has established that a site is committing illegal activities, the ISPs should have a duty to block that site, using technical methods that are similar to those used to protect against viruses, so that it wouldn't be an invasion of personal privacy. Without the co-operation of the ISPs and other intermediaries, even a conviction by the supreme court is toothless when it comes to the internet.To portray the Pirate Bay case as a fight between freedom fighters and the corporations is simplistic. Many rights holders who asked the Pirate Bay to take their content down, to no avail, were not corporations. But, more importantly, the question is: how do we protect the individual's legal rights when corporations, such as many ISPs, refuse to take any responsibility for what goes through their pipes? Till we deal with that issue, I'm afraid legal convictions, such as this one, mean very little.
In spite of all the talk about tougher controls, entering the UK has never been easier. In the past month I have twice passed through immigration without showing a passport. I just simply gave the immigration officer a laminated ID card that I tend to use whenever I'm out and about which has a few words written in a certain foreign language. Let me point out, I do however, always have as backup my passport, just in case my ID card fails; it's just being in the IT security industry, I'm intrigued to see if it's accepted.What may you ask does this have to do with cyber-terrorism? Simple – you don't solve a problem by just throwing money at it unless you really understand what the problem is. For example, how much has been spent on implementing biometric passports? I'm sure they're good things but if you don't even have to produce it then what's the point? My biometric passport didn't fail; it was the process that failed.So in my opinion the issue is not so much about whether or not the government is spending enough on cyber-terrorism but is the money being spent effectively. Every time a new initiative is suggested, industry analysts and vendors rush to endorse the proposals, especially when they realise that this is going to mean easy selling of technology to the public sector. The IT industry is no different to any other.For example I'm sure that tyre manufacturers would rush to endorse the enforcement of using winter tyres as a means to "improve road safety and save lives". Speed camera manufacturers are always going to endorse more speed cameras as a means to "improve road safety and save lives", and likewise IT companies are going to endorse tighter security as a means to tackle cyber-terrorism and protect key infrastructure and defense assets. After all every one of us heads of to work in the morning wondering what we can do to help the national interest.Some time ago NIST (National Institute of Standards &amp; Technology) issued the advisory that 1024-bit RSA keys will no longer be viable after 2010 and the recommendation, which has been broadly adopted, is to move to 2048-bit keys. But the question is whether doubling key sizes from 1024 to 2048 means that we are more secure. Now of course the industry absolutely endorses this recommendation. And the fact that doubling of the key size from 1024-bit to 2048-bit increases processing power requirements by anything up to eight times has nothing to do with this.Am I being cynical – maybe, but the bottom line is that vendors are going to see a massive increase in sales of hardware without having to do anything other than wave a NIST recommendation in front of their clients; and since we all live in fear of being caught without proper "insurance", we'll rush out and do exactly that.In May of this year an inter-governmental summit met to discuss the issues of cyber-terrorism. Some of the key speakers stated that cyber attacks were growing in intensity and sophistication. Concerns were raised about the vulnerability of systems and that potential attackers are gaining more skills. The director-general of the French network and information security agency, said he had nightmares about attacks on the electricity system, transport, water supplies, the financial sector and hospitals, which are dependent on computers.But the problem is not solved by just beefing up encryption algorithms. Today my car has everything I could imagine to protect me, from anti theft systems, anti-locking brakes, you name it. But at the end of the day all this technology is not going to protect me or the pedestrian who is crossing the road while I'm pre-occupied answering emails on my mobile while driving. You don't address cyber-terrorism simply by technology. People and processes are the weak link.Over the past few years what has become increasingly apparent when I talk to organisations is that in spite of all the technology thrown at systems to try to improve security, ultimately the failure to manage this which is still by and large a manual affair leads to potentially disastrous errors."There is a breakdown in the chain of command. There is an over reliance on manual processes to manage encryption and security assets.There are no effective systems in place to track where security assets such as certificates and keys are, what are their active lifetimes, how they were generated, who issued them, who approved them, who is responsible for them, etc. I recently talked with an organisation that had a security failure because the individual responsible for the system had left the organisation and no one had assumed control of what he was doing.In other words it's not just about technology it's about management of the technology. According to a recent article in CSO magazine "the two most terrifying words to those involved in encryption are key management. Effective key management is as important as protecting the data itself".So how does a typical organization secure and manage encryption assets – the keys required to encrypt data in transit? How are the keys protected against loss, misuse or theft? These become especially important questions given that, according to research firm Gartner, the majority of data breaches are executed from inside organisations. In most cases, these assets are not being protected.These assets are, in essence, the keys to the UK. With them, an insider with privileged access can, working alone or with an outside hacker, gain access to the protected data and as long as this is not addressed then no one should sleep well at night.So is the answer to my avoidance of having show my passport to improve the biometric key, or is it to improve the management process? Maybe the risk of cyber-terrorism could be significantly reduced with a smaller budget spent more effectively.
For mature gamers such as myself, Donkey Kong Country holds a treasured place; the game that started a memorable Indian summer for arguably the greatest console ever made, the SNES. With the Wii's reputation for quirky and innovative gameplay under new threat from Microsoft's Kinect, could this be the game that rekindles affection for the format?Considering the fact that 16 years have passed since the release of the original, Donkey Kong Country Returns could have been mapped out in the mid 90s (albeit with the later addition of motion control). It's all about conquering each of an initial eight lushly-coloured worlds, gathering bananas for health and hidden extras, and grabbing puzzle pieces or letter icons for bonuses. Graphically, it's about as pin sharp and colourful as we've seen on the Wii but the formulaic early gameplay does rely too much on nostalgia for its appeal. Occasionally, you may be shot into the screen to access a hidden area, but compared to the way Sonic Colours seamlessly blends 2D and 3D action, it is slightly underwhelming.However, once you get through a few levels – particularly to the fondly remembered mine-cart sections – level design improves significantly. Each new terrain (including factories, treetops and, of course, jungles) brings its own vivid detail and natural enemies, including the boss battles, which are as big, boldly coloured and as fiendishly unpredictable as they always seemed to be.It's also as rock hard to play as the original, although you can enlist Diddy Kong's help (by hitting a DK barrel) or ask a buddy to play him. But the main reason for the difficulty is having to restart every level from the beginning if you lose a life. Personally, I find this a sneaky way of making the game seem artificially challenging, but there are plenty of fans for this less-forgiving approach, so it's horses for courses.Equally divisive will be the interface – which can either be played using Wiimote and Nunchuck together or a sideways-held Wiimote. Both work well enough until you get to specific points that require shaking the controller while moving at speed (for instance stunning enemies or rolling across pits) where control definitely suffers. Practice makes perfect, of course, but I'd rather games were fair as well as tough.So no, it's not perfect and it probably won't catch the imagination in the same way that the original did . But DKCR is a colourful, creative romp with one of Nintendo's oldest creations, and with all the hidden levels, bosses and treats thrown in, you'll still be playing it after Christmas.
With two-thirds of the UK population now playing video games on a regular basis, the chances are you'll have a gamer to buy for this Christmas. But if somone else has bagged Call of Duty, Kinectimals and Red Dead Redemption off their Xmas list, you might well be stuck for present ideas. Have no fear – here's a hand-picked selection of game-related goodies, perfect for any child (or adult) of the digital era.Mega Bloks Halo CollectionMegabrands, various pricesIf your favourite gamer has a complete collection of Halo titles, a little treat from this impressive range of figures and vehicles will go down well – however old they are. Amid the collection are favourite craft from both the United Nations Space Command and evil alien Covenant forces. I've been sent two of the vehicles – the Arctic Rocket Warthog (£19.99) and The UNSC Scorpion (£29.99) – and they're nicely detailed and interesting to put together. My sons are too young to play the games, but they've thoroughly enjoyed bashing the tanks into one another, ruining hours of my hard work. The build quality is reasonable, if not quite up to Lego standards (though you'd be paying twice as much for Lego Halo, of course), and there are lots of nice little features thoughout the range, such as hinged cockpit windows and firing rockets. Personally, I'm waiting for a Red Dead Redemption or Bioshock series (build your own Big daddy!), but this will certainly do in the meantime.Street Fighter Artworks bookCapcom, £17Japan just has the best video game books, and this lavish example is packed with character and background artwork from the past 20 years of Capcom's fighting game series. The A4 book boasts more than 300 pages with 1,500 illustrations, including an array of fascinating concept sketches from the publisher's veteran artists – many of them never seen before. And if your gamer friend loves it, Play Asia also stocksa similarly beautiful bookdedicated to the latest title in the series, Street Fighter IV. Perfect coffee table accessories for the modern digital home.Mario Kart Projector keyringsTomy, £2.50 eachShaped like miniature Wii remotes, these teeny gashapon (or capsule toys) project one of six Mario Kart characters onto your wall, or any flat surface. They're great stocking fillers for Mario fanatics, and if you buy from a specialist retailer such asGacha World, you get to pick exactly the kart you want, rather than grabbing a random one from the box in your local comic shop. If you can't find these, there are also some nice little Mario Kart pull-back cars, also available in gashapon form. Buy two and have races across the table after Christmas dinner.SOG: The Secret Wars of America's Commandos in VietnamDutton, £5.99Someone special in your life is almost certainly blasting their way through Call of Duty: Black Ops at the moment – if so, they'll love this book by John Plaster. He was a member of a special operations group, like those depicted in the Black Ops campaign, operating in Laos and Cambodia during the Vietnam war. Plaster advised developer Treyarch on the game's Cold War plot and was a huge influence on the project. It's an engrossing read, with lots of intriguing detail about covert CIA dealings.Zelda T-shirtCafepress, £18.50Game clothing can be pretty grotty, but these Zelda T-shirts from online retailer Cafepress are not bad at all. Available in several different colours, the shirt has an old skool graphic of a sword along beside the classic line: "It's dangerous to go alone. Take this." If you know someone who has loved the Zelda series of action RPGs from the very beginning, they'll wear it with pride – despite (or perhaps because of) the fact that it will be meaningless to almost everyone else who sees it.Fun, IncVirgin Books, £12.99If you know someone who constantly gets into arguments at dinner parties about why video games are a valid cultural product, this is the book to get them. Chatfield is an absolute genius and his brilliant, engaging analysis of the games industry is utterly unique. It might also be a good gift for anyone in your life who isn't as convinced by games as you are. By the time they've read it, they'll be fighting you for the joypad. On second thoughts, that's maybe not the best idea.Metal Gear Solid bagTokyo Toys, £34.99This officially licensed heavy-duty messenger bag will ensure your favourite Metal Gear Solid fanatic has something nice to carry their stuff around in. Depecting Snake in all his rugged splendour, it'll apparently hold a 17in laptop, so your loved one can check their top secret intel wherever they are. Otherwise, it's just the thing for packed lunches. Comes with an adjustable shoulder strap – which cold probably double as a stealth weapon or escape rope, should the situation demand it.Settlers of CatanMayfair games, £25Many fans of military strategy titles like Advance Wars and StarCraft have already discovered this hugely successful multi-award-winning board game, in which players trade resources to build powerful settlements. Because the hex-based playing area can be laid out differently every time, the challenge is always changing, creating a deep, varied strategy experience. It's a great choice for families with older children, and may well start up an interest in other similarly high brow board games that have inspired video game designers, including the ancient Chinese classic, Go. Oh, and one called "chess", or something.The King of KongRevolver Entertainment, around £5Seth Gordon's engaging documentary has been available for a couple of years now, but there are still gamers who haven't seen it, which is a heinous cultural crime. King of Kong follows the rivalry between legendary Donkey Kong champion Billy Mitchell and newcomer Steve Wiebe as they seek to better each other's scores. A Profound examination of gamer psychology – and also painfully funny at times.And the ultimate present...Customisable retro arcade machineLiberty Games, £1995Nothing says "I love you" to a gamer like buying them an arcade cabinet of their own – and this one is very special indeed. Manufactured by Liberty Games in Surrey, this full-sized machine can be customised to the user's precise specifications. Choose the colour of the cabinet, the artwork, even the name that goes across the header – and because the technology inside the machine is a powerful PC rather than a single dedicated arcade board, it can store and play hundreds of different titles. You're free to select your own retro gaming library or you can just settle with the 200 pre-installed classics – the machine also has its own Wi-Fi internet connection so you can download new titles when you fancy. Each game is playable via the authentic, arcade-standard joystick and button controls (owners can even opt for illuminated buttons). Sound comes courtesy of a built-in Logitech x-240 2.1 speaker system, while the monitor is a 27in LCD display. Awesome – but if you live with the intended recipient, hiding it until Christmas morning might be tricky.
Is there really much more to be done in the online events sector?EventElephantthinks so, and is taking on the likes of Ticketmaster with its customisable event management tools. What's different is that rather than using a branded ticket-selling service, organisations can set up an event on Event Elephant and use their own branding, picking from a range of design templates.At the start of the year, 60% of its users were in Ireland and 40% UK but already that has reversed, indicating how quickly Irish firms saturate their domestic market. Founded in 2008 and with 12 staff in Dublin and London, Event Elephant claims it has 400 event organisers joining every month.Marketing manager Una Coleman, who moved to the firm from IT in the finance sector, says the startup is typical in being focused from the start on building an international market."Where can we go as a small economy? We epitomise the opportunities for Irish organisations - we have expertise, organisation, we're English language and we can tap the diaspora," says Coleman. "Our ambitions are international. We estimate there are 250m events annually in a market worth €16bn and 80% of those have no online solution."• What's your pitch?"Event elephant is an online event registration platform, so any event organiser, whether it's a large festival with 50,000 attendees, a golf club running an annual fundraiser event or an IT company running one-day workshops, can set up their event and use our online event registration platform to develop a branded event website online, sell tickets online and take secure online payments.• Who's your competition?"Ticketmaster is the recognised brand in our field but we are a more niche service, so our advantage over them is that event organisers can create their own branding. The key advantage for event organisers using our technology is that they retain control of the attendee database. We also have Facebook integration; that's grown from 105 Facebook referrals in May to 11,000 in September. And we have 6,000 event organisers signed up now."• How do you make money?"We take commission that's 4.5% of the ticket price, then we have graphic design services too. It's about giving event organisers something different, and we target five niches of entertainment, sport, conferences, networking and training."EventElephant.com
UK top 10 video games chart, week ending 27 NovemberPositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Gran Turismo 5(3+)PS3 (100)12 (1)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (40)Wii (4)PC (3)33 (2)Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood(15+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (42)24 (4)Fifa 11(3+)Xbox 360 (39)PS3 (39)Wii (8)DS (6)95 (5)Just Dance 2(3+)Wii (100)76 (3)Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit(PG)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (43)Wii (2)PC (2)27 (6)Wii Party(3+)Wii (100)88 (–)Art Academy(unrated)DS (100)49 (7)Wii Sports Resort(3+)Wii (100)7110 (13)Fallout: New Vegas(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (31)PC (9)6Leisure software charts compiled by Chart Track, &copy;2010UKIELtd
The MeeGo way of working. Products not shown. Photo byrsuplidoon Flickr.Some rights reservedThe open source experiment at Symbian is over: Nokia is shutting down the websites that let people download the software for free.Quite where Symbian goes after this is anyone's guess - it mightforkif anybody wants it enough - but Nokia has already indicated that it's moving its operating system over to Meego, which means that Symbian is now a dead end. The Nokia N8 (read thereview) was the last of the N-series phones to use Symbian.And now, that's closing. As itsays over at the Symbian Developer Wiki:"Recently, we announced thatthe Symbian Foundation will be transitioning to a licensing body. In practise this will mean a reduction in the day-to-day operations of the Foundation by the end of the year."As a result, we expect our websites will be shutting down on 17th December. We are working hard to make sure that most of the content accessible through web services (such as the source code, kits, wiki, bug database, reference documentation &amp; Symbian Ideas) is available in some form, most likely on a DVD or USB hard drive upon request to the Symbian Foundation.""And if you're wondering "  Where can I get the Symbian platform source code after the sites are shut down?" the blunt answer is "Source repositories will cease to be available when we shut down the developer.symbian.org site (and its Japanese and Chinese equivalents), probably just after 17th December 2010." So, nowhere.What chance of a fork in the road? Probably pretty small. There may be some companies making white-label smartphones in the Far East and China which want to use the Symbian OS, but the signs are that they're more likely to go with Android (because it's a more modern-looking front-end) - China Telecom already uses its own build of Android.It's nothing likeEric Raymond's interpretation, since Nokia has long since indicated that it isn't taking Symbian further in smartphones (though it could do in dumbphones - call-and-text phones). And with the number of companies that actually used Symbian shrinking (Sony Ericsson is leaving it behind too), there wasn't much expectation that it would survive much longer.There's only one problem at the moment with MeeGo: nobody outside about 10 developers with l33t hax0r skills has got it running on a phone. Reports emerging form some of those close to MeeGo suggest that itmight not be until June 2011that the first MeeGo handset appears from Nokia.MeeGo, as background, is a collaborative effort between Nokia and Intel; the latter from its Moblin project. The twojoined forces in February. Intel wants MeeGo so it can get into the smartphone and tablet market, where ARM presently dominates.And what about MeeGo, you ask? Well, to quote the press release, "The MeeGo software platform will be hosted by the Linux Foundation as a fully open source project, encouraging community participation in line with the best practices of the open source development model."A bit like Symbian?But here's the real challenge that Nokia has. As long as no other phone maker takes up MeeGo, it will actually be OK (assuming MeeGo cuts the mustard, which is quite another question). Nokia will have its own useful OS.However if it starts having to fight others, as phone makers are doing over Android, then the whole thing goes oddly to pot. The weakness of Android right now is that the tension between phone makers, who simply want to get product out of the door, and mobile networks, who want to keep the phone makers keen by playing them off against each other, means that the OS is becoming fragmented (and there's no point denying it: everyone from the two-man Irish games company to the makers of Angry Birds to Netflix is grumbling about it). MeeGo could go the same way if Nokia can't hold it to itself.And so the phone company finds in the strange position of having an open source project that it should hope no other phone maker will want to use, just as it closes off another open source project which was quite widely used but didn't develop at the pace it needed to.The shutting down of Symbian to the outside world shows that actually, closed-source works pretty well in the smartphone world (RIM and Apple have made very tidy profits from it). It will be interesting to watch MeeGo's development - and open/closed - arc from here.
Games of films inevitably set alarm bells ringing – they have a reputation which simply could not be any more dire. But Tron: Evolution's name alone should be enough to reassure fans of the forward-looking 80s celluloid classic.The forthcoming film sequel is called Tron: Legacy, and with this game, Disney Interactive has cannily opted to fill in some of the backstory from the period between the two films. So you're there – playing a security program made by Kevin Flynn – when the corrupt Basic CLU makes his first bid to wage war against the ISOs, the recently introduced sentient programs. As ever, it's up to you to save the world.In terms of look and feel, Tron: Evolution is absolutely spot-on. Your character has the requisite black shiny suit and helmet with neon flashes, and there are plenty of light-cycle-riding sequences. The entire game is restricted to a palette of black and silver with green, blue and orange neon highlights, which looks very cool. The bulk of the gameplay is fairly reminiscent of the likes of Assassin's Creed: you have an array of parkour moves such as wall-runs, vaults and a magnetic grapple – often assisted by the environment (there are specific vault points and delineated areas along which you can wall-run). Combat features heavily: you're equipped with a light-disk which you can throw at enemies or hold in order to hit them with melee attacks. There are countless combo moves, and as you progress, you can upgrade combat abilities with bombs and so forth.The combat proves surprisingly tactical – you have to nail the correct attacks according to what class of enemy you encounter, and you must vault over rechargeable stations to power up your disk, and wall-run over energy areas to regain health. This clever mechanic, plus the fact that you constantly level up so have a big say in how you upgrade yourself, keeps the combat fresh throughout.The light-cycle sequences are fairly basic, although they require a lot of precision – luckily, they are heavily checkpointed. If you play the game on a PlayStation 3, you can use a Move to control your light-cycle, wielding it as if it was a set of handlebars, which is a tad gimmicky.Tron: Evolution has another clever innovation. It's designed to be as mass-market as possible (fear not gamers, it's quite challenging as long as you don't opt for the Casual difficulty mode), yet contains a multiplayer element, which is something non-gamers find scary. It includes Game Grid sequences, in which you essentially experience the multiplayer aspect, but against AI-controlled bots, which are replaced by real human opposition as you make progress.Given the prevailing opinion about games of films, Disney Interactive has to be applauded for sidestepping all the traps that you might have expected it to fall into with Tron: Evolution. It manages a pretty impressive balancing act: non-gamers obsessed with Tron will love its ambience and authenticity, and may even discover they like games more than they thought. Yet it contains enough clever ideas, and is well-enough structured, to keep hardcore gamers interested, particularly given that it takes place in that seductive Tron universe. Any more efforts like this, and we'll have to stop habitually sneering at games of films.
Just a quick news flash: Gran Turismo has claimed the number one position in the UK all formats game chart, knocking Call of Duty: Black Ops from its fox hole. For the week ending November 27, Activision's Cold War shooter has also been usurped from the head of the Xbox 360 chart, this time by Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood. Over in PC land, the excellent FM 2011 has retained its league-leading position, with CoD: Blops hiding out in second.So is this just a momentary wobble or should we still consider Black Ops the favourite for Christmas number one? And does any of this matter now that Wikileaks has consigned the planet to diplomatic armageddon? I'm guessing it does.The full chart will pop up on Gamesblog later...
Pick one big trend gaining serious traction in the past year and it'll beGroupon, which offers a different daily discount deal to users in their local area. So no surprise that after days of speculation, it looks like Google has just sealed the acquisition deal for, claimsVator.TV, $2.5bn. The ink's still wet on this one, we're led to believe.Groupon is that valuable thing in the hot web space - it makes serious money, especially for a site that launch in 2008. Revenues are reportedly more than $50m a month and in April it was valued - according to reports of itsattempts to raise funding- at more than $1.35bn.Google has been negotiating the deal for a while. TechCrunch picked up a fewsuggestive textsfrom September between Groupon chief executive Andrew Mason and Google's M&amp;A head Neeraj Arora, by way of some kind of rumour reinforcement. Yahoo tried twice, unsuccessfully, to buy the firm for earlier this year, with the price anything up to $4bn.Groupon has 20 million subscribers and has expanded to 29 countries, includingWowcherandthe still-in-betalaunched in April this yearKeynoirin the UK.There had been speculation eBay would buy Groupon after a logicalpartner dealbetween the two in October.What does the deal mean?Google has the cash in the bank to make that kind of offer - and a massive incentive to do so with a company that already makes phenomenal profits. There's a logical fit with Google Places, Google's localised listing service for businesses. Interestingly, the introductory page for Google Places gives a listing example with 'Coupons' listed under it, so not much redesign required there to fit Groupon into the picture.Here's a very smiley Groupon chief executive Andrew Mason intwo interviewswith AllThingsD's Kara Swisher. Bet he'sreallysmiling now.
My weekend gaming was - bar a quick session of Ashes-inspired International Cricket 2010 - family focussed. Most of the time was spent on Kinectimals and Donkey Kong Country Returns. The latter is a great nostalgia trip. Shame it had to replicate the insane difficulty level of old too. Did gamers simply have more patience then? I certainly must have done.Kinectimals on the Xbox 360/Kinect is firmly aimed at the under 10s and went down well with my five year old daughter. This was despite Kinect having a few issues with my front room - mainly it not being quite big enough - that caused a few annoying pauses while the camera rescanned. A bit of furniture fiddling sorted things out though and generally I'm a fan of Kinect.  The space thing is an issue though.Anyway, what about you? How was your gaming weekend?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
Photo byquinn.anyaon Flickr.Some rights reservedA burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle's Chrome OS Is Prepared for a Netbook - NYTimes.com"'When Google made their decision early on with the Chrome OS project, Android was in its infancy and the tablet market didn't really exist,' said Ray Valdes, a research vice president at Gartner who studies Internet platforms. 'Now things have changed, and I think Google is likely recalibrating its strategy and product mix to take that into account.'"There's a growing suspicion that unless Chrome can do a better job on desktop and laptop computers than it had been expected to, it will stall just as the netbook market is doing.Tom the Dancing Bug: A Security Issue at the Office &gt;&gt; Boing Boing"Isn't there a better approach to stopping these thefts than simply reacting very specifically to the &lt;em&gt;last&lt;/em&gt; incident?"Casting some light on the white-box [smartphone] phenomenon &gt;&gt; Carolina Milanesi, Gartner"Our 3Q10 [smartphone] market share document has caused a bit of excitement as it appeared that we changed our methodology on how we track white-box sales. Our methodology has NOT changed but the market HAS."Amid economic doldrums, Apple has a spectacular year &gt;&gt; San Jose Mercury News"Apple, no matter how many economic dark clouds may hover, never skimps on research and development. In calendar year 2009, at the nadir of the great recession, Apple's R&amp;D spending jumped 20 percent to $1.4 billion. That contrasted with a 4 percent drop in spending on research among the SV150, the Mercury News' annual report on Silicon Valley's 150 largest publicly traded companies. While the SV150 as a whole cut payrolls by 6%, Apple went on a hiring binge, adding 2,300 employees to the fold, a 7% increase in its work force."The pace of hiring accelerated during the company's fiscal 2010, which ended Sept. 25. Over the preceding four quarters, it added 12,300 employees, raising its number of full-time workers to 46,600, a 36% jump. In the same period, Apple's R&amp;D spending soared 38% and it opened 44 new retail stores, ending the year with a total of 317 outlets."It may only be a 7% increase in workforce, but that's still a lot of people.How Did The Beatles Sell 2 Million Songs On iTunes? Mostly Facebook (Not Search) &gt;&gt; HitwiseOn the first day that Beatles songs were available on iTunes, 26% of traffic to Apple.com cae from social media, about twice as much as came thruogh search. Then again, might it have been social media reflections of mass media reports? That's not explained.Switch | The multi-user web browser for iPadCertainly what the iPad needs: multi-user functionality, even without multi-user function.Interview: A chat with the guys behind ChevronWP7 &gt;&gt; GeekSmack"An unlock tool for WP7 which allows people to sideload applications to the OS without needing to go through the Marketplace process." It's near enough jailbreaking.The Vulture Transcript: Sci-Fi Author William Gibson on Why He Loves Twitter, Thinks Facebook Is 'Like a Mall,' and Much More &gt;&gt; NYMag.com"I was never interested in Facebook or MySpace because the environment seemed too top-down mediated. They feel like malls to me. But Twitter actually feels like the street. You can bump into anybody on Twitter." He only follows 87 people. Interesting to look at who they are.For DecorMyEyes, Bad Publicity Is a Good Thing &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comFascinating tale about how negative comments about a site pushed it *up* Google's rankings, meaning that worse customer service actually made people more likely to buy things from it (if they weren't cautious before purchase). Oddly, given that Google professes not to make changes to the search rankings by hand, the site involved (decormyeyes) doesn't turn up in the first page of searches for various glasses search terms.Windows password cracker &gt;&gt; Ophcrack"Ophcrack is a free Windows password cracker based on rainbow tables. It is a very efficient implementation of rainbow tables done by the inventors of the method. It comes with a Graphical User Interface and runs on multiple platforms."Consider that using this could easily break the Computer Misuse Act unless you have the machine owner's permission to do so. Use at your own risk.Patent skullduggery: Tandberg rips off x264 algorithm &gt;&gt; Diary Of An x264 Developer"There's been a lot of very obnoxious misuse of software patents in recent years.  This ranges from patent trolls wielding submarine patents to overly-generic patents being used to scare everyone else out of a business.  But at least in most of the cases, the patents were an original idea of some sort, even if that idea was far too general to be patented."The situation just got worse.  We now have a company scraping open source commit logs and patenting them."You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
