"Gotta give a thumbs up to RIM's marketing team. I'm sure they were involved with the BlackBerry product placement in this video," saysCrackBerry.com.According to a comment, it's "the new T-Mobile edition BlackBerry Curve in Sunset (red)," and follows the use of a "pale gold BlackBerry Curve" in a Gwen Stefani video. Gwen is auser.It seems to be a popular device among a certain set. Paris Hilton and sister Nicky went to the BlackBerry Curve launch party in LA, and "also in attendance were Eva Longoria, Marcia Cross, Katherine McPhee and numerous other Hollywood starlets," saysGossip Girls. Withpictures.BlackBerry users seem to be quite good at spotting which stars are using which handsets, and it has developed into an amusing game at theCelebrity BlackBerry Sightingssite. Its list includes Barack Obama, George Clooney, the late Heath Ledger, Hugh Jackman and David Howell 'The Edge' Evans. It also includes Britney Spears, Lindsay Lohan and Naomi Campbell.You just have to hope that when Naomi is using her phone in public, BlackBerry gets a name-check, but if she chucks it at a maid, it's just any old "jewel-encrusted mobile phone"Now you can vote: BlackBerry or iPhone?Since the Guardian attracts more nerds than Hollywood starlets/actors/musicians/whatever, I reckon it's a shoo-in for the iPhone ;-)
Robert Fearon is an effusive, vocal individual. What's more, he's created a game that's perfectly safe for work, but has an unfortunately NSFW title:WarTwat. Call it a comment on today's society, a reaction to the contemporary trends in gaming, or perhaps call it an indie game. I asked Robert (aka Oddbod) about his game, and why - regardless of its name - it's received accolades from many of the industry's shining stars.There are naughty words in full after the fold.Explain your game to my mum in 140 words.I'm not sure if I should be attempting to explain this to your mum.I mean, what if she's got a dicky heart? Perhaps her eyesight is failing? There's so many what if's that I wouldn't want to be responsible for hospitalising the woman. What if she's a prude? It's called War Twat after all. She might find that really offensive.I can't really answer that without knowing more about your mother, but on the off chance that she's not a prude or not suffering from some health condition that could result in me having to deal with the consequences of someone dying after playing my game - it's a game where you shoot things and get shot at a lot. It also has graphics designed by a 4 year old. It's got handbags, diggers and double decker buses with lasers.How do players control the game?There's only 4 directions and fire, so a keyboard or a joypad will suffice. There's no rocket science here. Move the ship, shoot stuff, don't get shot.What is your background?Binman, office muppet, store manager, general grunt, person who swears at faded rock stars for stealing stuff from support bands, trained studio engineer and person who did some tap dancing training by accident but has now thankfully forgotten how to move his feet in a straight line, never mind dance. Now retired and spending my time being a full time carer for the good lady wife, a small child and a black kitten from Bolton who attempts to punch half the other cats in the neighbourhood. He was never cut out for suburbia. Neither am I, really.I also run a few web sites about indie games (RetroRemakes&amp;MerseyRemakes). Some good, some not so good. And the web sites.Name your competitors.In all seriousness, I have none. Cactus is the only guy I can think of who does similar stuff, but he's not competition - he's just awesome. Perhaps the guys who may have been responsible for Polybius if it really existed?How many players do you have now and what's your target in 12 months?At last count 9,000ish people had attempted to playWar Twat. I'd estimate that approximately 20% of these are now scarred for life, a further 30% booking appointments at the opticians and the remaining 50% wondering why they bothered.In 12 months time? I dunno, can't say I care too much about the numbers, just one person playing and enjoying the game is fantastic.What's your biggest challenge?I had a specific goal in mind when writingWar Twat. It's a reactionary game at its heart.I got tired of the huge amounts of assets that games now require, the ever increasing complexities of control systems, the shoehorning of story lines into games that quite clearly don't need them, the casualisation of games that mistake lowest common denominator for accessibility, the games as art set crapping out conceptual rubbish that means nothing to anyone but a minute subset of people who really want to believe this stuff... Warren Zevon once said "The purpose of art is not to educate. The purpose of art is not to proselytize or sway the vote. There's something else for that, and that's fine, but it's not art. Not fine art. The purpose of fine art is to say, 'Gee, this planet's not so bad. Look at this nonsense the human race is coming up with' ". Man, I can't disagree with that.The biggest challenge forWar Twatwas writing something that embodied everything I care about. Something that takes all the visual elements I love and have loved and runs with them to the extreme. I was creating something that can never be anything other than a game. There's no hidden subtext, nothing metatextual about it. You can't write a thesis or artists statement about it. It can't in a million years be mistaken for a mainstream title. It is, for all its brutality, pick up and play, quick to restart and easy to understand. It had to be tough, nasty and unfair but it had to be damn fun to boot. It had to be, to all intents and purposes, a game.That was the biggest challenge and without blowing my own trumpet too much, I think I achieved what I set out to do.What's the weirdest development experience you've had so far?Aside from trying to ask a 4 year old child what he'd like to see in the game you mean? Well, probably being asked by a fine Scottish hardcore band to produce a special edition for them with custom graphics and their music playing over the game.Not what I expected, but I'm more than happy to oblige until Luke Haines or Pete Wylie ask me to write a game...What's your distribution/publishing plan?I wish I had one.War Twatis free to download and free to play. It's sort of donationware but without the heavy hard sell. I'd sooner people get to play and enjoy the games than cough up cash.I'd like the time to work on an XNA version of the game or be able to invest in some sort of console port, but just too much to do in life right now and money is short. Mind you, if someone offered to port it and the terms were favourable enough...Are Indie games the latest killer app?God no. I don't see how you can possibly say that. It's not like all indie developers are pushing in the same direction or anything. There's so many things that come out of the indie scene from cookie cutter hidden object games to art terrorism that it's rude to bundle them all together like they're some sort of gestalt entity. A rubbish game is a rubbish game no matter where it originates and there's rubbish games in the Indie scene just as there are in the mainstream. There's also lots and lots and lots of really great games spanning a ruck of genres and styles too and given anyone can be "indie", we've certainly got the weight of numbers in our favour compared to the mainstream industry.Yet, there's innovation everywhere if you know where to look, but perhaps yes, maybe the race for graphical fidelity, multi million mega dollar budgets and ever increasing hardware specs is reaching the end of its natural life and that's where indies have the advantage. We generally don't have the budget to compete on that sort of level so we have to make the games speak for themselves. In theory, at least. Like everything in life, it doesn't always quite pan out that way.The mainstream industry sort of knows what to do, but I can't help but think the bean counters haven't got their heads around it yet. Maybe once we get past the casual shovelware boom we'll see where the land lies.It's not like bedroom development is a new thing either, certainly when I was growing up it was the norm for one spotty kid in his room to bang out the next big thing. Perhaps we're not the latest killer app, just reclaiming our rightful heritage?Heck, I dunno. I'm just some guy on the internet who makes games and swears a lot. I just see everything as games, no matter where they come from. Edge reviewing Noitu Love 2 alongside the other titles with absolutely no distinction is the best step in the right direction we've had in ages. More like that please, less killer app more killer game talk, regardless of origin.Are you the next big thing?I'm me. I'm happy with that. I don't know what the future holds but as long as I'm happy and the people I care about and love are happy, I'll settle for whatever life throws at me. If that's being the next big thing, so be it. If it's not, I'm sure I'll live. I can't quite see it somehow though, not unless the universe turns inside itself and the entire fabric of reality bends around me.Mind you, it'd be nice to see enough cash to not have to worry about the next set of bills that land someday, so if anyone really wants to elevate me to "next big thing", if it pays, I'm in!
While everyone must empathise with the Fairbrother family's distress (Mystery of the bowdlerised blog as Beijing frees four after Tibet protest, August 7), perhaps we should not accept claims of hacking too quickly. The Internet Archives website stores historical versions of many websites. The page that was allegedly hacked is indexed, and going toweb.archive.org/web/20061019002939/http://www.whatabouttibet.com/lucyf.htmlconfirms that the text is unchanged since it was seen by the Archives in October 2006. Of course, it is possible that the Internet Archives website was also hacked into. But the effort required increases dramatically, and I doubt that someone would go to this much effort to make a pro-Tibet protester appear more moderate in her opinions than she actually is. In the end, memories are unreliable, people change their views over time and, sadly, writers often write much less beautifully in their online postings than they do otherwise.Zhou FangPeterborough
Lurching wildly from must-have PS3 games to animal fighting duos, this week's Chatterbox staggered toward the taste barrier, took a quick peek, then belly flopped over. If it all got too much for you, here's a carefully edited replay...We start with Friday. Race Driver GRID comes up for discussion with several 'box regular's defending its easy sling-about handling. "It's the sort of game you could only dream of when a kid. Looks amazing, and the damage is just quality, and it's real cars," says TonyHayers effectively summing up the game's appeal in 25 words.This is somehow supplanted by spit-roasting - fortunately, of the outdoor eating variety. "I could probably manage a small piglet, but the missus wouldn't be too pleased," concludes Goody84 ambiguously. Newcomer Smiffington pops up to ask whether there are any must-have buys on PS3. General consensus? The likes of MGS, COD4, Uncharted, GTAIV and Warhawk are as close as you'll get.The Pes 2009 trailer appears to a ripple of interest (though not as much as the Barry George acquittal), but the afternoon drifts out on some useful best man speech advice (use visual aids, do a CV of the groom, keep it short...).A couple of keen readers sneak in on Saturday, with Roarrr raising a valid point about the PlayStation Store, "Watched some more GTR R35 clips... if you log in via US PSN the clips are free but you cannot watch unless you have us wallet, but in EU they are 69p?? How can that be justified?" How indeed. Roarrr alsolinksto Kotaku's story about John Carmack, who claims the Xbox 360 version of Rage will look inferior to the PS3 one due to DVD issues. His views are dissected and assessed with comparative objectivity; there's an understanding that neither Sony's nor Microsoft's consoles are perfect, the former due to the complexities of the Cell processor, the latter due to its aging innards.Monday kicks off with weekend gaming chatter and some DIY anecdotes (how the hell does a crowbar come into painting?). There's a general love/hate relationship developing with Battlefield Bad Company - love the destruction, hate the fact you can't see who's shooting at you. Then Carvalhosgonads trots by with this week's most unlikely conundum:Something quite weird happened on sat, had a phone call from a completely random woman (misdialed), but had a brief chat just to be polite, she's been texting me ever since so I've replied .... just general chat stuff, she wants to meet up .... should I go or am I gonna get murdered?A flurry of advice follows, none of it wiser than Milkncheese's compassionate and sensible counsel: "Whilst there is a small chance that this woman will turn out to be the lady of your dreams, it's almost inevitable that you will actually wake up the following day in an ice filed bath minus your kidneys." Out of this comes a discussion about knife shows - do they exist in the UK? What happens at one? Football signings inevitably crop up (though a burgeoning Guardian fantasy football league is still low on numbers) - with West Ham's new 'keeper and speculation over an Arsenal bid for Alonso. Tactical talk about Civilization Revolutions vies for space amid dodgy pub banter (smashing up indeed) and meat-curious vegetarianism. Fantomex attempts to lift the tone by asking for toilet-based colloquialisms.From here, Subway comes in for a bashing, while Kevin Pietersen attracts support, and Geometry Wars draws praise. In stark and improbable contrast to the morning's scatology, a discussion on the wonders of Italy breaks out. "Tuscany is lush," says Chubster2010 - EM Forster couldn't have put it better. Finally, is it 'should have' or 'should of'? Come on, we all know really...Tuesday - my birthday! Lots of love for Space Invaders Extreme and GRID, TonyHayers meets Claire Danes, some talk of bicycles. The congestion charge rears its controversial head. In the afternoon, EnglishRed makes an angry point about offline two-player - or the current lack of it:I can't see why split screen offline mutliplayer is lacking from most current gen games- if a game like COD4 can have 4 player split screen how come games like Motorstorm (which I love by the way) cant have 2 player split screen? Every game with multiplayer should have an offline multiplayer option.There does seem to be a general assumption thateveryoneis now on super fast broadband, with whopping friends lists. A fair amount of agreement follows before the subject of stamp duty 'holidays' makes an astonishing appearance. More interesting is Limnl's mention ofFloodsim, a flood simulator commissioned by Norwich Union - "this is the first time I can remember a financial institution creating a game," he says, though many of us would like to see the 'stars' of Halifax's ads in some sort of sadistic beat-'em-up. There's only one way forward from here and that's chopping board hygiene...Wednesday morning - I have my first hangover for several months, and talk on Chatterbox is of keeping cats, or more specifically keeping cats off the sofa. CBPodge points to PC Gamer's 100 best PC games of all time, vote up. It's going to be Quake or Team Fortress/Half-Life. It should be Civ 2. Or Total Annihilation. You can votehere. First mention of the Olympics - it seems no-one is really that bothered - everyone is too busy considering the ultimate animal tag team. Squirrel and bear? Mongoose and lion? Jelly fish and crocodile? (I may have got a couple of those wrong.) Meanwhile, championship football, Gemma Atkinson in C&amp;C Red Alert 3, the world Pooh sticks championships - am I imagining all this? The day ends on a more grounded and extremely familiar note: the Resident Evil 4 controls. Do they add to the drama and tension of the survival horror experience or are they just awkward and obtuse? 'Bring back the door animations!' someone shouts - this week, it's not evencloseto the most ridiculous suggestion...Quotes and questions"Why is it, that in the whole of brighton there is only one shop that sells Balloons in bulk?"Swash asks the question that's on everyone's lips"Is having a cigarette break once an hour taking the proverbial out of my employers or should they be seen as fair game for not having enough work for us to do??"Silverfox073 on a familiar moral question for smokers. Especially work-shy smokers."Where's the wisdom in wisdom teeth? I can't see how an aching mouth and splitting headache can ever be described as 'wise'. They should call them torture-teeth.."Chubster2010 on dental naming conventions"Just went for a smashing shop. Incidentally, can anyone stand Smash? It really isn't potato."Fantomex makes my favourite tangential leap of the week."Come off it, give me a break. Blossom isn't anywhere near the same league as My So-Called Life."Limnl on the most pressing media debate of the week.GamesCivilization Revolution Race Driver GRID Battlefield Bad Company Too Human PES Bad Company SoulCalibur IV Geometry Wars Space Invaders Extreme Alan Wake Siren Blood Curse BraidMusicFrightened Rabbit Smashing Pumpkins BeatlesMoviesDark knight Shoot 'Em Up Blade Runner Funny GamesTVSummer Heights High My So Called Life
Once upon a time, news about Apple was all about computers. Computers, computers, computers. But now the fastest-moving news is about the iPhone.First up is the apparent discovery of a subsite within the Apple site where, it seems, phones can call home to see whether an application needs to be nuked. Jonathan Zdziarski, author of the book iPhone Open Application Development and an iPhone Forensics manual (odd, we thought there as a ban on discussing programming for the iPhone) says there's ablacklisting mechanism built into the iPhone.The page is athttps://iphone-services.apple.com/clbl/unauthorizedApps- though you'll see from looking at it that it's just a proof of concept. But it does sit within Apple's domain. Might work; might not. Has anyone caught their iPhone phoning home to it, though? That's what's not clear.Update:John Gruber, who has "an informed source at Apple",saysthat it's actually for banning apps from using the Core Location API (which tells you where you are): that's what the "clbl" in the URL stands for ("core location blacklist"). Which reduces the breadth of the banning, but still leave it there.And the other news is that a madly-overpriced application - Make Me Rich, costing a mere $999 - has been pulled from the iPhone App Store. Not surprisingly, it wasn't popular, since all it basically did was to, um, make the author rich. (There was also something about "'features a "secret mantra' that 'may help you to to [sic] stay rich, healthy and successful.'") And it didn't please some of the people who accidentally bought it - see the comment in the picture above.Armin Heinrich, the author, would be sitting quite pretty from a few sales, you'd think. That might be wrong: if people buy it on their credit card and then claim it back as an erroneous (or fraudulent?) transaction, Apple has already taken its 30% cut ($300, near enough) but Heinrich has to pay back thefull$999 to the credit card company. So he ends up $300 out of pocket. Oh dear. I am rich? I was rich, now I'm not. That's quite a maneouvre.But so far, no sign of I Am Rich on the app-killing page. I don't think Steve Jobs would really green-light such a move, anyhow.
I couldn't resist this one. Microsoft exec David Gosen - who incidentally used to work at Nintendo - hastaken a swipeat what he calls the "gimmicky" Wii Fit."We've seen some research that says 60 per cent of people who bought a Wii Fit play it once and don't play it again."As long as he isn't presuming that this 60% all rush off and buy an Xbox to play one of the identikit shooters that clog up the 360's release schedule then he may have a point. Sort of. My totally unscientific gut feel on this is that yes, many players do give up on Wii Fit, but this is probably as much to do with laziness as gaming fatigue. That's certainly the case for me (plus the fact the board is rubbish for cardio exercise). Is someone who adds Wii Fit to their unused pile of miracle slim fitness gadgets and unopened workout DVDs necessarily going to put off buying and playing Wii games generally? Or does Gosen have a point? Could Wii Fit put new players off gaming for good?
I missed out on theHide &amp; Seek Festivalin London because I had to, ahem, go sing at Glasto, but oh great joy, the phenomenally-received pervasive gaming festivalis coming to Brighton- it's first foray outside the capital - on 21st August for night of silly gaming. You can bet your bottom dollar it's in the gamesblog's gcal...If you fancy your hand at the Lost Sport of Olympia, or directing a bunch of lost stag party attendees around the seaside town, or any of the other games arranged byAlex Fleetwoodand his team, head to theLighthousefrom 6pm. There are many many fun things to do on their list, so head down and tell us what you think! You can check out the other Sandpit eventshere.
Research in the US suggests that surgeons who play on the Nintendo Wii console are more dexterous, have better hand-eye coordination and make fewer errors. Dr Mark Smith* even proposes that doctors in training have an hour on the Wii nightly to improve their performance.An article in today'stechnology sectionalso says,There have been numerous studies carried out across the globe that all come to the same conclusion: surgeons who play videogames have better hand-to-eye coordination and dexterity..."We can always tell the surgeons who are gamers, because they're naturally better," says [Dr. Mark] Smith. (He's also keen to point out that within a very short time period, non-gamers are on a par.) "But what we're finding with the Wii is that the surgeons that use it regularly are achieving results that far outstrip those who have just gamed before. And that's because the Wii is very different."But don't get your hopes up if you're a 40-hour-a-week PlayStation or Xbox player; the difference, according to the article, is the Wiimote.Gosh, didn't they manage to crack onto a winner with this new console? Whilehard-core gamers bemoan the lack of 'true' softwarefor their market, the bods in Kytoto are popping the champagne corks. They may make overtures about producing games for the old target market in future, but I'm betting the real focus is on the games they're producing for the casuals.And with headlines like these, the PR in the mainstream only gets better and better.Rolling. In. It.*nothing to do with The Fall, but I can imagine Mr. E. Smith singing something aboutthe Wii-ah in the surgery-ahor summat.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
An item at MetaFilter headedthe is and it are you ofis discussing a challenge atCodebox Software: you have five minutes to type in the 100 most common English words.Anything over 50 seems to be a pretty good score, though of course you can argue about Codebox's list.....
The culprits behind a hacking attack aimed at a British pro-Tibet protester are unlikely to have acted with the knowledge of the Chinese government, according to one expert.It emerged overnight that a web page written by Lucy Fairbrother – who wasarrested in Beijing yesterday– may have been targeted by hackers who doctored the text.According to friends and family of the protesters and those who run theWhat About Tibetwebsite, text on one page wasaltered after the pro-Tibet protests to reflect views that were not Fairbrother's own. One line they claim has been added reads: "I admit that I have been under much influence of militant Free Tibet organisations back home."It is not clear how the page was changed, but Xu Wu, a professor of communication at Arizona State University and author of Chinese Cyber Nationalism, said that any state involvement was highly unlikely."The Western stereotype about China is that everything happens there or originates from China must be the result of government manipulation," said Professor Wu. "If this understanding was somewhat accurate 30 years ago, its validity has decreased ever since, and even becomes utterly misleading if not laughable nowadays."Those who defaced the website most likely form part of a new generation of Chinese nationalist campaigners, he said, who use the internet to rail against what they see as Western propaganda against China and its citizens. As a loose grouping of individuals, they are "not a natural ally of the CPC [Communist Party of China] government", he added, although they sometimes agree with the actions of the authorities in Beijing."In many aspects, they are more aggressive, assertive and action-oriented than the government," he said. "A lot of these characteristics can be attributed to the demographic features of this group of people – young, energetic, ultra-confident and most important, technology-savvy. They utilise the internet and online technology as their communication centre, organisation platform, and execution vehicle to extend their cause, most of the times far ahead of the government's response cycle."Professor Wu said that Chinese cybernationalism was at its peak around the turn of the century, during a series of diplomatic stand-offs between the US and China. Today, he said, the government's relationship with hackers is more complex."The resurging trend of individual cyber-attacks, or at least based on the accusations from Western governments, is largely carried out by a new group or new generation of youngsters, who view the CPC government as too weak and too soft toward foreign pressure or insults, and take justice in their own hands," he said.The popular view of China's population as a downtrodden mass who feel restricted by their government's censorious approach to the internet was also inaccurate, said another expert.Talking on theGuardian's Tech Weekly podcastearlier this week, the head of the Oxford Internet Institute said that the black and white view of the internet and politics often taken by the western media did not portray the true situation."There are all sorts of shades of grey. For example, service providers can provide information to users, but not news," said Professor William Dutton. "Absolutely the greatest filter between China and the rest of the world is language – 90% of all communication on the internet is within China because of the language barriers."
If you want to get a new blog off the ground in a hurry, it's going to be pretty hard to beat Scandalist, which offers what may be the ultimate Web linkbait:The Top 100 Celebrity Scandals Of All Time. And because they are in reverse order, it will take a few page hits to get to the top five:5: Michael Jackson Molestation Charges 4: O.J. Simpson Murder Trial 3: Princess Diana Dies In Car Crash 2: The Monica Lewinsky Affair 1: The Murders Of Notorious B.I.G. And TupacOK, I cheated by taking them off thepress release.It's a VH1 site."After taking a look at how quickly we were able to grow the VH1 Blog on VH1.com, we decided to look at ways we could go deeper with our blog coverage of pop culture and our VH1 shows and events separately," said Tom Calderone, President, VH1. "With a dedicated staff of writers, Scandalist.com will serve as a distinct, yet complimentary site for fans of pop culture, entertainment news and all things celebrity."It's American, so noProfumoscandal etc.
In today's paper, I admit that my Olympic dreams are a fantasy of yesteryear, and that I will not take to the podium and raise a lump of gold above my head. Seriously, this is a big thing for me. I guess it's part of the getting older thing; I'm recognising my limitations.But enough of the group therapy, I've also admitted that I'm not close to good enough to make it into a computer gaming Team GB if the sport were to make it into 2012. Unless, that is, if the games on the starting lines were things other than Counter-Strike clones.I've suggested Parappa the Rapper. It's quick, has potential for extra style points and requires a modicum of skill. Others which I feel have the potential are Dance Dance Revolution (points for prizes, plus a judge's score for flair), Wipeout (speed racers, go) and Mario Kart on the N64 (time + extra points with power ups). Sure, they're not battles to the death like the multiplayer first person shooters, but neither is synchronised swimming.Any others you might suggest before Isubmit my application to the IOC?
Self-confessed new media whorePaul Carr - who once started some sort of dotcom but is now grooming himself as the Toby Young of London's technocracy - is finally getting ready to launchhis book. Tonight's the launch party, and if you're not invited, don't worry: there'sstill room. I'll be in Yorkshire - but if anything fun happens, I knowyou'll tell me.
A bizarre twist to the story of the two British pro-Tibet protestersarrested in Chinayesterday - as we report this morning, it appears hackers have startedtrying to manipulatewebsites relating to the pair. For example,this travelogue by Lucy Fairbrotherappears to have phrases inserted like: "I admit that I have been under much influence of militant Free Tibet organisations back home".
Is there a cheap device to copy cassette tapes direct to PC?Paul NiemiecYou don't need one. Using the traditional method, all you need is a cassette player, a cable to connect it to your PC's sound card, andAudacitysoftware, which you can download free for Windows, Mac OS X and Linux. You can find instructions on theLifehacker blog. Obviously you will get better sound if you start with a good quality cassette deck, but for less critical purposes, a Walkman-style portable will do.If you are using a hi-fi cassette deck, the connecting cable will probably have two phono plugs at one end and a 1/8 inch mini-jack at the other (often called a Y cable). If you are using a portable device, it will probably have a mini-jack at both ends. For preference, plug it into a line-out on the Walkman, rather than the headphone socket. If not, turn the volume down or it will be too loud. (Ideally, plug in all the cables with everything turned off.)The Lifehacker instructions suggest digitising the sound using the LAME MP3 encoder. This is a good but "lossy" compression system: it sacrifices some detail to save a lot of storage space. If quality is critical, however, you should capture the sound as a WAV file, and store it using a lossless format such as FLAC. You can still make compressed MP3 or AAC versions for everyday use.The process is basically the same if you buy a specialised recorder such as ION Audio's Tape2PC deck, except it connects to the PC via a USB port. (Also, Tape2PC uses Apple's iTunes, which gives slightly inferior quality to Audacity/LAME, though this may not matter with most audio cassette recordings.)An even simpler and cheaper approach is not to use a PC at all.In this case, all you need is an MP3 player that has adirect encoding (line-in)feature, plus a stereo line-in cable (sometimes called a Direct Encoding Cable) costing about a fiver or less. Players with the line-in feature include the Creative Zen V+, iAudio X5, MPIO HD200, iRiver X20 andmany more(orhttp://bit.ly/aj0002).Note: Check the specs! For example, theZen V+offers "Line-in Recording: WMA (128 kbps and 160 kbps)" and you may not want to record to WMA. I wouldn't....Backchat: John Blackburn suggests the sharewareCD Waveinstead: "This software is simpler than Audacity and has the very useful (and, indeed, important) feature of being able to split the music into tracks, either automatically or with manual assistance. CD Wave will save the resulting tracks as WAV, MP3, OGG or FLAC files. WAV is for making audio CDs and MP3 is for the car. FLAC files are lossless, as you say, and are about half the size of WAV files."Tim Gossling points out that it does have track splitting: go to Analyze and select Silence finder to automate the process "with probably varying degrees of success, particularly for classical music," he says. "Manual splitting is done via Project and Add label at selection: click in the label field and type in a title. File|Export multiple will then generate multiple files, each named with the track label."
I live in Bournemouth which apparently is about to become the UK's first "fibre city". We've had the offer of free installation but there is actually little real info on what's involved.Barbara OldhamBournemouth will be England's first "fibre city" and Dundee will be Scotland's (fibrecity.eu). Basically, H2O plans to deliver 100Mbps broadband by routing fibre optic cables via the sewer system. It has already wired council offices, the Bournemouth International Centre and Pavilion Theatre.FibreCity will also need to connect to homes, and says this will be done by cutting channels just 20mm wide and 100mm deep to a cable-style box on your wall, so it should not be too disruptive.There is not much info beyond that because FibreCity will only be the carrier. It will sell capacity to other companies, such as cable TV and broadband suppliers. They'll be the ones who'll try to sell you services for a monthly fee.Since the installation is free, it's probably worth having the connection if you might be interested in things like that. If you don't take the free installation, you will be able to pay for it later.
Have you any advice for cleaning CDs and DVDs?Denys VaughanThey are usually best left alone unless they skip or cause other problems. If they need a clean, you can blow the dust off then wipe them down with a damp lint-free cloth. Distilled water and microfibre cloths are recommended.The main thing is to wipe gently from the centre to the edge, even though it "feels wrong". If a bit of grit scratches across the disc, the hardware error correction will probably deal with it. If you scratch around the groove, you may lose lots of bits in a row, and the error correction will not be able to cope. (A CD is recorded in one long spiral, from the centre.)If the disc is so dirty that it needs more than water,isopropyl alcoholis the solventrecommended on the web(orhttp://bit.ly/aj0004).Web extra: isopropyl alcohol is also used to clean contact pins, cassette deck heads, the lenses of lasers in optical disc drives and similar things. Bear in mind that it is toxic and flammable.
I recently bought a hard disk recorder to timeshift TV. Can I assume the hard disk works like a PC hard disk and needs a periodic clean-up?Jim CurranYes, hard disk recorders (sometimes called DVRs for digital video recorders) work much like PCs running Windows Media Centre or MythTV, and sometimes have defragmentation problems. The manual may offer an "optimise" function such as Sky+ Planner rebuild, which will at least do a tidy-up and could recover some storage space.If you can connect a PC via a USB port, you may be able to see the DVR's hard disk as an external drive. If it uses the FAT file format, then standard Windows utilities should work on it -- but try this at your own risk!DVR disks are subject to failure, the same as PC hard drives, and should therefore be regarded as temporary storage. Anything you want to keep should be burned to DVD.Web extra: Does anyone have a tip for defragging a particular video recorder?
Have you tried the Microsoft spellchecker in Outlook Express, on the word "Obama"? Oops.Martin SaundersThe spellcheckers in Hotmail (seeThe Huffington Post) and Microsoft Office (Outlook Express does not have one) had not been programmed to recognise Obama, and therefore suggested the closest match in their dictionary: Osama. (Next closest is Bema.) Microsoft is fixing it ...Web extra: This was reported as early as February 1 onABC News, which noted:We work the six-day weeks and Saturday-night primaries knowing we're always one mistype, one careless spell-check, one high-intensity breaking news story, one lightning-speed "publish to site," one angry editor away from turning "cap" into "crap," "throng" into "thong" and "Obama" into "Osama."The simple solution, of course, is to add Obama to your custom dictionary....
Silverfall: Earth Awakening is a no-nonsense swords-and-sorcery roleplaying game (RPG) for the PC, the kind of game that will bother the top end of the German gaming charts but barely register in the UK. A shame, really, because Silverfall is a solid slice of goblin-bashing. There is a plot of sorts - the usual save-the-world gubbins - but Silverfall is all about killing stuff, finding loot and then using the proceeds to buy better weapons and armour so you can go out hunting again. Depth is added by spell and party creation, but combat is still key. Owners of the original game can transfer their characters over, but Earth Awakening allows new players to start afresh. Graphically, the world is pretty enough, with some nice environmental variation. Silverfall: Earth Awakening is unlikely to cure your World of Warcraft addiction, but for those fancying a break from Azeroth there is some entertainment to be had.
Most tennis games give you precise control, but over a very limited number of shots. As a result, the more you play, the more unrealistic they seem. Top Spin 3 reverses this with a new way of hitting the ball that's more akin to golf than tennis games. First you move to the shot, then you hold down the stroke button before releasing to determine strength and angle. The end result is a near-infinite number of strokes, over which you sometimes have no control at all. It's a pity, because Top Spin 3 looks amazing, with fluid animations, 43 stadia and convincing player likenesses. If only winning rallies weren't a matter of luck as much as skill.
Professor John Chaplin of the University of Southampton likes solving fundamental fluid mechanics problems. But, say colleagues of this formidable theoretician, he also enjoys experiments in large water tanks. Chaplin has just been awarded &pound;430,000 by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council to find out how well an Anaconda wave energy converter will perform.The Anaconda isn't his idea, though: it's the brainchild of semi-retired physicist Professor Francis Farley FRS and Professor Rod Rainey, head of floating structures at WS Atkins Oil and Gas. Farley has worked on wartime gunnery radar, particle physics and wave energy while Rainey is an expert on floating offshore structures.Battle of the bulgeFarley and Rainey's invention is a giant rubber tube closed at both ends, filled with water and anchored in the sea with one end facing oncoming waves. It relies on "bulge" waves, which form inside when a passing wave squeezes the tube. As the bulge wave moves down the tube, the wave that caused it runs along the outside at the same speed - making the bulge wave inside grow even bigger. This action turns a power-generating turbine at Anaconda's far end.Rainey first dreamed up the idea after thinking about Professor Michael French's Lancaster Floating Bag from the 1970s, which dampened wave action at harbour entrances. Rainey wondered about exploiting bulge waves and predicted a resonant interaction with the sea. "Not fully convinced by his formulae, I tried another mathematical approach and discovered to my surprise that the bulge should grow rapidly along the tube, running just in front of the wave," Farley says.Some experiments then followed, gluing together thin rubber sheets to form water-filled tubes. "Great fun, but rather messy," says Farley, who has worked on several wave energy projects.They then patented the concept and turned to John Chaplin at Southampton University who works on wave/structure interactions. "I get rung up once a month or so by mad inventors," he says. But, given their academic prowess, Farley and Rainey were worth listening to. "They came here with various tubes they'd built in their garages. We tried the idea out in one or two tanks," says Chaplin. Watching these experiments convinced him. "It seemed to have a very good prospect of escaping two big problems that all wave power devices have to face." These are generating power from modest waves and surviving rough seas.Using a flexible material like rubber has an advantage. Normally, rigid wave energy devices are matched to wave frequency which determines a structural size. "The Anaconda escapes that because you can achieve similar resonance by making the speed of the bulge wave - the natural speed of the bulge wave in the tube - match the speed of the water waves outside," says Chaplin.Now, a two-year EPSRC project (The Hydrodynamics of a Distensible Wave Energy Converter) will investigate Anaconda's potential as understanding the wave response is essential (it bulges, bends, twists, and stretches). In collaboration with its inventors and Checkmate SeaEnergy (which has a licence to manufacture), Chaplin and his colleague, Professor Grant Hearn, will undertake experiments and computational studies.Powerful AnacondaThe Anaconda prototype is 25cm in diameter and in varying lengths with a simulated power take-off. Eventually, a turbine will use a unidirectional flow between high and low pressure tanks in the tail (water flows into one tank and out of the other thanks to one-way valves). Work with 50cm diameter tubes will investigate behaviour in different wave conditions, measure various parameters, and estimate power output.A full-scale 100-tonne Anaconda will be 200 metres long and 7 metres in diameter. It will produce 1 megawatt (enough for 2,000 homes) at a cost of 6p or less per kilowatt hour.Anaconda's development - rubber tube and power take-off - is at Checkmate Group's engineering division, Avon Fabrications. Making huge tubes is challenging although, in Rainey's view, rubber is a "pretty formidable marine material". He has no fears about the design despite wave power's "terrible history" of failure.Farley believes that Anaconda has a good capture of wave energy, is flexible, and is cheaper than other devices. "We could see the first full-size device deployed off the UK coast in around five years' time," adds Chaplin.Despite such confidence, energy expert Professor Ian Fells worries about Anaconda's survivability at sea. Fells has long been involved in marine energy and appreciates the difficulties (and great expense) of scaling devices up. "They have to think very seriously how well this will cope with very large waves which occur now and then," he says.&middot; This article was amended on Friday August 8 2008. We mistakenly attributed a comment by Professor Francis Farley abouttrying another mathematical approach to Professor Rod Rainey. This has been corrected.
London's Oyster card has beencracked, and the final details will become public in October. NXP Semiconductors, the Philips spin-off that makes the system, lost a court battle to prevent the researchers from publishing. People might be able to use this information to ride for free, but the sky won't be falling. And the publication of this serious vulnerability actually makes us all safer in the long run.Here's the story. Every Oyster card has a radio-frequency identification chip that communicates with readers mounted on the ticket barrier. That chip, the "Mifare Classic" chip, is used in hundreds of other transport systems as well — Boston, Los Angeles, Brisbane, Oslo, Amsterdam, Taipei, Shanghai, Rio de Janeiro — and as an access pass in thousands of companies, schools, hospitals, and government buildings around Britain and the rest of the world.The security of Mifare Classic is terrible. This is not an exaggeration; it's kindergarten cryptography. Anyone with any security experience would be embarrassed to put his name to the design. NXP attempted to deal with this embarrassment by keeping the design secret.The group thatbrokeMifare Classic is from Radboud University Nijmegen in the Netherlands. Theydemonstrated the attackby riding the Underground for free, and bybreaking intoa building. Their two papers (one is alreadyonline) will be published attwoconferencesthis autumn.The second paper is the one that NXPsuedover. They called disclosure of the attack "irresponsible," warned that it will cause "immense damages," and claimed that it "will jeopardize the security of assets protected with systems incorporating the Mifare IC." TheDutch courtwould have none of it:  "Damage to NXP is not the result of the publication of the article but of the production and sale of a chip that appears to have shortcomings."Exactly right. More generally, the notion that secrecy supports security isinherently flawed. Whenever you see an organization claiming that design secrecy is necessary for security — in ID cards, in voting machines, in airport security — it invariably means that its security is lousy and it has no choice but to hide it. Any competent cryptographer would have designed Mifare's security with an open and public design.Secrecy is fragile. Mifare's security was based on the belief that no one would discover how it worked; that's why NXP had to muzzle the Dutch researchers. But that's just wrong. Reverse-engineering isn't hard.OtherresearchershadalreadyexposedMifare's lousy security. A Chinese company evensellsacompatible chip. Is there any doubt that the bad guys already know about this, or will soon enough?Publication of this attack might be expensive for NXP and its customers, but it's good for security overall. Companies will only design security as good as their customers know to ask for. NXP's security was so bad because customers didn't know how to evaluate security: either they don't know what questions to ask, or didn't know enough to distrust the marketing answers they were given. This court ruling encourages companies to build security properly rather than relying on shoddy design and secrecy, and discourages them from promising security based on their ability to threaten researchers.It's unclear how this break will affectTransport for London. Cloning takes only a few seconds, and the thief only has to brush up against someone carrying a legitimate Oyster card. But it requires an RFID reader and a small piece of software which, while feasible for a techie, are too complicated for the average fare dodger. The police are likely to quickly arrest anyone who tries to sell cloned cards on any scale. TfLpromisestoturn off any cloned cards within 24 hours, but that will hurt the innocent victim who had his card cloned more than the thief.The vulnerability is far more serious to the companies that use Mifare Classic as an access pass. It would be very interesting to know how NXP presented the system's security to them.And while these attacks only pertain to the Mifare Classic chip, it makes me suspicious of the entire product line. NXP sells a more secure chip and has another on the way, but given the number of basic cryptography mistakes NXP made with Mifare Classic, one has to wonder whether the "more secure" versions will be sufficiently so.&#183;Bruce Schneier is a security technologist and author:schneier.com/blog
It was John Gilmore, founder of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, who said that the internet interprets censorship as damage and routes around it. For years, the Chinese authorities have done their best to prove him wrong. Now, with the Beijing Olympics upon us, a group of hackers has launched an attempt to stamp out censorship there - and they want your help to do it.This week the Chaos Computer Club, a German-based hacking group, used its website, ccc.de, to launch a toolkit designed to help journalists reporting from the Olympics to get uncensored access to western websites. The toolkit will be made available to journalists on a USB key that the CCC is calling the Freedom Stick.Closed doorsThe Chinese authorities have censored access to western sites from within the country for years, but in the run-up to the games, the issue has become increasingly problematic - and public. The authorities have been sputtering towards the idea of an open internet, first declaring that journalists could access previously filtered western sites, and then reneging on the idea at the 11th hour. According to the Open Net Initiative (opennet.net), which monitors state surveillance and filtering online, the Chinese government has now opened access for the media to many sites, but it is still using techniques to stop access to sites when users search on certain keywords. What is not clear is whether everyone in China has access to the sites that have been opened, nor whether they will remain available after the games are over.CCC's downloadable toolkit contains software that provides access to Tor, a network of computers designed to make internet traffic anonymous. Tor consists of volunteer computers that relay traffic between each other without knowing its ultimate source or destination. It makes it difficult for observers to track where internet traffic is going, or who sent it.Tor isn't new. It was originally based on technology developed by the US navy. But it is appropriate for the job, says Fred von Lohmann of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, which sponsored the development of the network until 2005. "Tor lets you see what the world looks like from someone else's net connection," he says.It isn't foolproof though, points out Johannes Ullrich, chief research officer at the SANs Institute, an online security research and training centre. "Observers could look at the Tor server's end-to-end exit points. You have to connect to Tor, and it downloads a list of the possible Tor nodes that you could connect to," he says. If the Chinese find the Tor nodes that people are connecting to, or the servers that provide the list of public nodes, they could block those, too.Bridge over troubled internetBut the CCC hoped to have an answer for that this week, involving computer users against censorship based outside China. Last year, the creators of Tor developed a system of bridges, another kind of node operated by volunteers that pass traffic between other users and the Tor network. "Tor is getting really tricky for the Chinese to stop, because getting a list of all the bridges is almost impossible," says Frank Rieger, who sits on the Tor board and is also involved with the CCC.The more people that operate bridges around the world, the harder it will be for the Chinese to block Tor. There'sa guideto operating a Tor node. And the more Tor nodes there are, the better the network's performance will be. "So our wish is that people out there who can spare the bandwidth for open exit and middle nodes will contribute. It's not something that we can entirely do alone," explains Michael Horn, a networking expert who volunteers for the CCC.Access to websites for journalists visiting China shouldn't be that difficult. Rieger explains that some news agencies are already setting up proxy servers - private computers located outside China, which journalists can connect to using an encrypted link. These computers then act as a hopping-off point on to the public internet, giving the journalists unfettered net access. But the journalists have to keep the addresses of these servers quiet in case the Chinese authorities block access to them.Raising awarenessJonathan Zittrain, professor of law at Harvard and a chief investigator for the Open Net Initiative, argues that journalists visiting China aren't really the issue. News organisations outside the so-called Great Firewall of China should be trying harder to get their news through to the wider Chinese public rather than getting it to a few privileged reporters. "When those organisations put out their news, what effort are they taking to ensure that other people in China could get access to it?" he asks.News agencies have lots of options, including mirrored websites, Torconnected servers, having news articles converted to computerised speech and read over a Skype channel, and even producing a digest of the daily news that could be distributed on BitTorrent. The US government's International Broadcasting Bureau has been using anti-censorship techniques for years to distribute the country's non-military international media, including the Voice of America, to countries whose governments would rather not have it. Other groups such asReporters Without Bordersare also heavily involved in promoting anti-censorship for news reporters.And that, ultimately, is the real battle. Visiting journalists are privileged players in China. They have the outside connections that they need to get unfiltered access.But the CCC's real goal is to raise awareness. It is trying to mount a broader assault against Chinese net censorship that will continue after the Olympics, as citizens there continue to use Tor and public proxy servers in larger numbers. This isn't a sprint to the finish - it's a long-distance race.
Wythenshaw hospital, south Manchester, gets some good reviews. "My husband was seen quickly with a testicular lump ... the chest x-ray was sent electronically to the consultant ... admitted three days later for surgery." The speed of the service was "fantastic", Mrs C comments. Another patient is less impressed, complaining of "unnecessary stress" caused by lack of communication, a consultant "an hour and three quarters late" who "very obviously did not want to answer my questions".The reviews are among those published by Patient Opinion (patientopinion.org.uk), a privately run web service which sends patients' feedback about their NHS treatment to subscribing organisations. The two-year-old site has an awkward bedfellow - the Department of Health's official NHS Choices website (nhs.uk), with a budget of about &pound;20m a year. Among NHS Choices' functions is to collect patients' reviews. "It's a bit like working alongside a rather large elephant," says Dr James Munro of  Patient Opinion. "You're never quite sure where it's accidentally going to put its feet."However, under the government's free data policy, the two sites have found a way of working together. Patient Opinion is one of the first independent services to take reviews from NHS Choices and mash them with its own data. Combining both sets of reviews, which are searchable by location and medical condition, increases the quantity and geographical spread of data, Munro says. The company's subscribers get better value, he says, and people who post comments on NHS Choices can be sure that they will be directed to the right person.For the Free Our Data campaign, it's a perfect example of the possibilities created when public bodies allow data re-use. Under the policy set last year by central government's Power of Information review, NHS Choices has agreed to make all its (non-personally sensitive) data available for third parties to interpret and mash up. Patient Opinion gets its reviews via an RSS feed; however, more sophisticated data will be available coded in XML, the NHS says.Free NHS data now has cross-party support. A Conservative policy paper on the  NHS says that a Tory government would as a matter of principle make NHS management data freely available to patients, as an alternative to the government's top-down approach to running the NHS.Clearly, management by patient feedback has its limits - doctors and managers can't bow to every patient's every whim - but making data available is a step in the right direction.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
I've now tried five of the new mini-notebooks, and the Acer Aspire One is one of the best. It offers good quality at a low price. But the Linpus Linux Lite version 0.5 that came preinstalled almost drove me batty, so I'd go for Windows XP instead. The Aspire One is very similar to the Asus PC Eee 900, with its 8.9in screen, but the case is almost an inch wider. This is enough to transform the keyboard from being very hard to use to one big enough for fast touch-typing - though it's quite not as good as the one on HP Mini-Note.The Aspire One feels much nicer than the Asus machines, with rounded corners and a glossy top. It has plenty of connections, including three USB ports, two SD card slots, an Ethernet port and an external monitor port. It also has an 8GB Flash drive and 802.11b/g Wi-Fi, though not Bluetooth. But at 249 x 170 x 29mm, the Aspire One is still small and, at just under 1kg, light.I was apprehensive about the performance, given its skimpy fixed 512MB of memory, 1.6GHz Intel Atom N270 processor and built-in Intel 945 graphics. However, I found it worked very well for the sort of tasks subnotebooks are aimed at, such as word processing, email and browsing. It had no problems playing videos, including .wmv, DivX and YouTube.Acer's Linux has a simple front end for instant access to a dozen applications including the Firefox 2 browser and the OpenOffice.org word processor and spreadsheet. Several other applications are sourced from Acer, including the media player, messenger program, calendar, contacts and Aspire OneMail. The simple file manager is horrible. I'd much rather have had Thunderbird, VLC etc but there is no obvious way to change them, and I couldn't find any help on Acer's website.My main problem was that hovering the cursor over things activated them very quickly. It should be easy to fix, but I could find no way to slow it down or stop it. Constantly worrying about the cursor position was no fun at all. Also, the Aspire One didn't suspend/hibernate on closing the lid.AtAmazon.co.ukprices, this base version looks very good value at &pound;219.99. The more attractive top-of-the-range model has 1GB of memory, a 120GB hard drive, and the more familiar, more capable, Windows XP Home for &pound;299.99. There are several options in between.Pros:Small, attractive design, good screen and keyboard, light, cheapCons:Short battery life, 0.3MP webcam, hard to changeacer.com/aspireone
Unlike most 27-year-old men, Jeff Henke has never owned a videogame console. So after eight years of conscientious swotting to qualify as a doctor it came as somewhat of a shock to Jeff to learn that his homework now includes an hour a night on the Nintendo Wii. "This isn't exactly what I pictured of when I thought of medical school," he says. "But I'm not complaining."Henke is a second-year resident surgeon at the Banner Good Samaritan Hospital in Phoenix, Arizona, and for the past year he has been a willing guinea pig in a study measuring the effects on surgeon proficiency from regular gameplay on Nintendo's popular console. And the results are impressive."The surgeons develop an increased efficiency, less errors, more fluid movement - basically they're just better," says Dr Mark Smith, director of the hospital's Simulation Education and Training (SimET) Center. To be precise, the doctors who regularly played on the Wii scored 48% higher on tool control and performance than those who didn't.Not all fun and gamesThere have been numerous studies carried out across the globe that all come to the same conclusion: surgeons who play videogames have better hand-to-eye coordination and dexterity. So does this study in Phoenix merely reiterate that point, or is there something that sets the Wii apart from the crowd?"We can always tell the surgeons who are gamers, because they're naturally better," says Smith. (He's also keen to point out that within a very short time period, non-gamers are on a par.) "But what we're finding with the Wii is that the surgeons that use it regularly are achieving results that far outstrip those who have just gamed before. And that's because the Wii is very different."The difference being down to the "Wiimote", the motion-sensitive controller that transforms real-life movements into movements on the screen. Just over a year ago, Smith's partner at the SimET Center, bioinformatics expert Dr Kanav Kahol, first started pondering the Wii's potential."The whole point about surgery is to execute small, finely controlled movements with your hands," says Kahol. "Then we saw people using the Wii and noticed the precision of some movements looked very similar."Kahol and Smith rounded up 16 surgical residents, split them into two groups and started one of the groups on a strict diet of videogaming, the other being a control group. Some games proved to be of more benefit than others. "You don't gain a lot from swinging an imaginary tennis racket," says Kahol.It soon became apparent that the game benefiting the lab rats most was Marble Mania (called Kororinpa in the UK) - a game that requires slight hand movements to guide a marble through a maze. Hand movements were tracked using a Cyberglove covered in sensors and the readouts showed the manoeuvres had a 90% correlation to those of a surgeon performing a laparoscopic surgery."Minimally invasive laparoscopic surgery is a very fine art," says Smith. "A laparoscope is inserted into the abdomen through small incisions. There's a camera in the probe and surgeons work off monitors. Very small instruments are used and they are controlled by the smallest of hand movements."Put like that, the similarities are not too hard to see. Additional training is obviously required to get doctors accustomed to working from a screen and using the laparoscopic instruments. Increasingly, this training is done using virtual reality machines whose value can run into the hundreds of thousands of dollars, only affordable to wealthier hospitals. Whereas a Wii and a copy of Kororinpa can be bought for around &pound;200 - even less in the US.Wii will cut youNow the hospital has created stations where the controllers have been extended to make them feel more like probes to the user, and doctors warm up on them before going into surgery.And the hospital is developing its own basic games - such as picking up rings and putting them on pegs - but the movements are very sensitive. And in the next two years the team at the SimET Center hopes they will be ready for mass production. In the meantime, many in the medical world are excited about the implications of Smith and Kahol's findings."Of course there are the obvious advantages: better surgeons," says Susanna Barascu, a Romanian senior surgeon who has spent most of her career working in developing-world countries, with the past 10 years in Africa.She says: "During minimally invasive surgeries there is reduced exposure of vital organs, meaning a reduced risk of infection. There is also reduced blood loss, meaning reduced need for transfusions. And patients can get out of hospital and back home sooner."In the countries I work in, where risk of infection is high and supply of blood and beds is short, any cheap development that can lead to fewer open procedures is incredibly exciting." And for those who are just embarking on their careers the excitement lies in the direction the profession is heading."The future of surgery is utilising remote onscreen technology," says  Henke. "But what makes it exciting are minds like Dr Kahol and Smith's, who look at everyday inexpensive technologies and think, 'How could I use that?' "With such conviction and a first-hand benefactor of such thinking, one could be forgiven for thinking that Henke musts pend his evenings at home in front of his Wii honing his skills. Doesn't he?"Well, I know I should really buy one for home ... but I still keep holding out hope that the hospital might give me one for 'research'."
Dirty electricityElectricity is a highly polluting form of energy. It is clean at the point of use (which is why you, Panorama and lots of other people presumably think it is environmentally friendly) but mostly it is generated using fossil fuels - and this is the problem (What is going to power our cars, July 31). Somewhere, typically miles away from the user, is a power station belching out CO2 and NOx. Typically, electricity is no more than 20% efficient because of losses in the power station and distribution losses so 80% is wasted. So it is worse than gas and an electric car is far worse, for example, than a diesel in terms of CO2 emissions. So please stop perpetuating the myth that electricity is a clean fuel.John Miles,Professor, School of  Engineering, Cardiff UniversityA lot of time is being spent trying to figure out what the car of the future will run on. It would be better spent if we'd admit there isn't a future car and that our basic assumptions about society and economics need examination.nakedcapitalism.comArid displayIn a study that was anything BUT scientific or double-blind, Microsoft presented a display of Vista's assets in a carefully orchestrated dog and pony show (Newly asked questions, July 31).onsitenola.wordpress.comCheerio, WikiaWe're tired and shocked and bewildered by [Wikia's] new ads that obscure and move around and basically ruin our content, and so we're in the middle of a planned move to our own server (Read me first, July 31). It's funny that we've caused this much of a stir.shortpacked.livejournal.comSmall isn't beautifulThe article in today's Technology Guardian (Pointing the internet in a new direction, July 31), and Jack Schofield's response to a letter on this topic, fail to consider the user experience.I can understand that the user statistics are interesting to you, but there are better choices than bit.ly. First, using mixed upper and lower-case letters means I can't read and memorise the short form then type it into my browser. Second, if I set up a bookmark to bit.ly, the webpage which appears has an additional "/go" appended, so I can't just type the short URL on the end.Romilly Bowden,Bognor Regis[We'll aim to create simpler URLs with bit.ly - Tech.Ed]Gaming a platformIt sounds like a saturated market in which it's difficult to succeed (Gamesblog, July 31). The potential not merely for revenue but as a platform to forge one's skills as a designer is attractive tho'. How do you get started?e-m-e-r-a-l-d.livejournal.comPowerful argumentsFinally, someone who speaks common sense (We need leadership on energy, not hot air, July 31). We should have been acting 10 to 15 years ago. We have the greatest natural resources in wind and sea power and refuse to use them.David Alford,via emailWhy doesn't the government want individuals to generate their own energy? Because if all of us were generating our own energy from solar imagine how much revenue the government would lose from the decline in profits from the energy companies. Unless of course they come up with some clever way of taxing us for sunlight.Paul Wake,LondonGreat article, it's a shame you didn't write that to Thatcher/Major when they were destroying energy infrastructure.Anthony Burton,Leamington SpaLike your drift, but the fact is that the only real solution is to go largely nuclear, urgently. I'm not against solar panels or tidal barriers, but wind farms are ugly, low-yield and unreliable.Brian Crabtree,via email&#183;Read all this week's letters in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology&#183;Write to: Letters TechnologyGuardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER. Telephone: 020 7239 9925, fax: 020 7239 9933, email:tech@guardian.co.uk
Tomorrow is the start of the Olympic Games, the pinnacle of atheticism, where the top sportsmen and women in the world reach for their lumps of gold. Their achievements are the results of decades of effort and sacrifice. When I was a kid, I sat in front of the televised coverage for the duration, hooked like a crackhead to every sport, glued to each event's moment of glory, dreaming of my own day on the podium.Many years and many beers later, I've watched the transformation of the Games from a handful of events into a sprawling mass of more than 400 niche feats, from BMX Hot Dogging to the 50km speedwalking dash. My MTV-generation attention-deficit mind wandered from one sport to the next, never sticking long enough to develop any discernible skills. Now that I'm old enough to have friends I could have babysat for, I'm admitting defeat. The only games I can realistically win are based on the television set in the comfort of my own living room.But even if computer games made it into the event lineup in London 2012, I'd have to regretfully refuse the invitation to join Team GB. I'm afraid I've fallen hopelessly behind in my twitch skills and would be effortlessly trounced by any of the professionals at the top in the computer game pyramid. Their personal training regimes in front of the screen rival the hours of physical outlay from the meatspace Olympians. And after almost a decade of impromptu late-night brawls on Konami's button-masher Track &amp; Field with no discernible cool-down, my most useful gaming tool - my precious thumb - is a shadow of its former self.Dogged by RSI, console-invoked early arthritis and a general dislike of sugar-heavy energy drinks, nowadays I prefer nice cups of tea and a 10pm bedtime after a soak in the tub. If someone pings me on Xbox Live after 9:30pm, I have to think twice in case it conflicts with my date with the sandman.Furthermore, I have a mortgage to pay, so my machines are embarrassingly vanilla. I have no souped-up graphics card, no overclocked processor and certainly no water-cooling system. My case is as magnolia as the interior walls of a flat for sale during a credit crunch. I am embarrassingly low-tech, the equivalent of a pair of Keds. I could never compete with the latest high-performance Nikes.Then again, who's to say that the official Olympic computer game would be the 2012 version of Counter-Strike? I'm a mean Parappa the Rapper player. When it comes to an Olympic-quality rhythm-action performance, you can expect a perfect 10. As Parappa himself said, you gotta believe! I believe it - my gold is waiting.
Dell books StudioDell has added a range of hardback book-sizeddesktop PCswith colourful cases to its Studio range.Chemical BrotherhoodThe Chemical Brothers' websiteis soliciting geotagged photos or very short videos of your favourite track for a video.A DAB OnePure has announced the rechargeable,eco-friendly One Elite DAB/FMstereo radio (&pound;69.99), which provides "up to 35 hours" of mobile listening per charge.Eyes on beachThe European Environment Agency is tracking the environment via its Water Watch andEye on Earthprojects using Microsoft's Virtual Earth.Answer the questionA Cambridge company is being backed to produce a search engine thatunderstands natural languageand can answer questions.BT signs Kim &amp; AggieChannel 4's cleaning queens are "the new faces ofBT Home IT Support," and will be offering decluttering tips.Qwerty to carryNokia claims itsE71 smartphoneis the thinnest device with a full Qwerty keyboard.World wide muralTo celebrate its 40th anniversary, Intel has launched theWorld Mural Projectto encourage young people to explore the future of IT.
What on earth is a "piano"?Roll over, Rick Wakeman, and tell all the other multi-keyboardists the news: this guy plays recognisableclassic melodies on multiple telephone keyboards. How long did it take him to find out?Pigeons suck at gamesYou may wonder what this is. Well, it's just anormal iPhone userplaying the hugely popular Tap Tap Revenge rhythmical music game. Oh, and there are also some guy's fingers.It'll drive as far as ChinatownThis is Jack Nicholson with ahydrogen-fuelled (by solar-powered electrolysis) car. In 1978. So where is it now?&#183;Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
Good design is really rare. From this I think we can conclude that it's really difficult. I was thinking about this as I watched the comments pile up earlier this week on theTechnology blogpost pointing to a rant about the usability - or otherwise - of free software. But as the commenters pointed out, it's not only free software that suffers from this problem, which implies logically that the problem lies not in the cost of the software, but in the process and the people involved.For instance, I've never come across a piece of software from Microsoft that left me breathless in amazement at its combination of simplicity and power. With Microsoft, you get either/or. You get software that does a couple of things and doesn't trouble you, or you get something that can do something near to a billion things, and tells you all about most of them all the time. I still find it a frustrating business visiting the network control panel in Windows XP: it's like the sketch, decades old but still relevant, ofthe man going into a hi-fi shop and asking for "a gramophone". At which the shop assistants turn like radar dishes and begin mercilessly poking fun at the man, asking absurd questions about what he wants. XP's network control panel treats me the same way. There are all sorts of weird things in there, most of which I'm not interested in. And the ones I am interested in are hidden or wrapped in such obtuse language that I give up.You're thinking that I'm going to say that Apple is a paragon of good design - and on both the hardware and computer software front, it often is. It frequently conforms to the idea that the zenith of design is reached when you can't take anything more away, rather than when you can't add any more.But here's the interesting thing. Apple is very good at design: you can measure its abrupt improvement in hardware design back pretty much to the day when Steve Jobs rejoined the company in 1996. The role of Jobs was to champion the winning design; because before that Jonathan Ive's genius was well-hidden in the boring beige boxes Apple churned out.However, Apple's top-down approach to design is a bust when it comes to its approach to the software for the iPhone. Developers for that are up in arms.People are astonishingly angry at the fact that Apple first won't let them talk about how to develop for the iPhone - because everything about programming for it remains under a non-disclosure agreement - and second, hasn't let them get at its most useful application programming interfaces (APIs). Mike Ash, a programmer at the independent Mac developer Rogue Amoeba, has posteda long and annoyed rantabout this in which he says that after a month using the iPod Touch, with its new software: "I feel like I've gone back to the dark ages." Multitasking is a thing of the past, and it's impossible for third-party developers to design well, because Apple's keeping the best parts of the API hidden. Apple can design something that will multitask but others can't. The developers want in too.Apple's constant refrain is that it's all about making sure the phone isn't going to be destroyed by applications doing what they shouldn't. It's starting to wear thin, though. Palm opened its platform to outside developers, which helped it kill Psion. Apple's disdain for badly designed outside software is hurting it more than it knows. The developers who were ready to be its friends are turning into its enemies. And let nobody forget that Steve Ballmer's most memorable leaping-about moment - screaming "Developers! Developers! Developers!" - was greeted with applause. From developers. Look at how well Microsoft has done and compare it with the iPhone, which is teetering on a brink.Good design is rare. But eager developers are even more rare. Let them in, Apple.charles.arthur@guardian.co.uk&middot; This article was amended on Thursday August 7 2008. We originally suggested that Mike Ash was ranting about an iPhone, when in fact he was discussing his iPod Touch. This has been corrected.
What's the difference between selling up and selling out? In theory, the difference between the two is simple. Imagine a graph that pits the amount of money you get against the fulfilled potential of your idea: selling up is when you make a deal at the top of the curve, selling out is leaving at an earlier - sometimes much earlier - point.Like most of us hopeless optimists, Tom Foremski, the former Financial Times reporter who now runs the popular blog Silicon Valley Watcher, (siliconvalleywatcher.com) isn't a fan of sellouts. And he's particularly annoyed with those who have an idea so good that it could really threaten existing players. It's something he calls "blackmail" innovation: threatening to stir things up with a revolutionary technology before selling it to the very people you were planning to line up against the wall. These startup thugs, he suggests, simply hold companies to ransom rather than aim to fulfil their potential. It's a form of hi-tech heist.According to Foremski, Ribbit - which simplifies communications between computers and phones and sold itself to BT for &pound;53m last week - was a perfect example of blackmail innovation in action. Here was an idea that pitched itself as an industry-destroying disruptor (the company's tagline was "Silicon Valley's first phone company") before eventually swooning over the size of the sum it got.On one hand, it's a fair comment, but on the other it's a tough point to argue - particularly since the place where the line gets drawn can shift depending on where you are standing. For some companies, selling for a million quid is a great idea; for those with the chance to be the next Microsoft or Google, anything short of world domination is giving in too early. Offering your telecoms business to BT might seem like feeding your baby to a shark, but not all those accused of being sellouts are ditching their optimism. What happens if the purchasing power is, in itself, a disruptor?After all, when Google flexes its muscles and buys a young, innovative-looking company, it can be hard to tell if it's acting as an incubator for change or just a crusher of startup dreams. For every Dodgeball or Jaiku (parcelled off and stuck on a shelf) there's an Applied Semantics (now the cornerstone of Google's profits). Whether it's a shark or not depends on where you're standing.The truth is that innovation blackmail and selling out is becoming an increasingly attractive option. With the world's financial outlook so torrid that even the most strapping City magnates are being shrivelled up by paranoia and turned into tiny human prunes, we can't expect much different. Nobody gets into the startup business just to be average. You've got to have big ambitions: change the world, make a fortune, get famous - or perhaps all three. The scrutiny that young dotcoms are under means very few entrepreneurs are simply hoodlums who think they'll blackmail their way to a retirement fund. But there are two real exit strategies for a startup founder: to flip or float.Option two is disappearing fast, with the parlous nature of the stock market meaning that the number of flotations is drying up, while the looming recession means that the chance to flip might not come again. It's easy to feel righteous and indignant and shake our fists when the people behind our favourite startup sell up earlier than we wanted them to. Perhaps it's not blackmail, but simply pragmatism. After all - honestly, right now, if there were &pound;53m on the table, would you do any different?
Capturing cassette tapesIs there a cheap device to copy cassette tapes direct to PC?Paul NiemiecJS:You don't need one. Using the traditional method, all you need is a cassette deck, a cable to connect it to your PC's sound card, and Audacity software, which you can download free. You can find instructions on theLifehacker blog. Obviously you will get better sound if you start with a good-quality cassette deck, but for less critical purposes, a Walkman-style portable will do. If you are using a hi-fi cassette deck, the connecting cable will probably have two phono plugs at one end and a 1/8in mini-jack at the other (often called a Y cable). If you're using a portable device, it will probably have a mini-jack at both ends. For preference, plug it into a line-out on the portable, rather than the headphone socket. If not, turn the volume down or it will be too loud.Lifehacker suggests digitising the sound using the LAME MP3 encoder. This is a good but "lossy" compression system: it sacrifices some detail to save a lot of storage space. If quality is critical, however, you should capture the sound as a WAV file, and store it using a lossless format such as FLAC. You can still make compressed MP3 or AAC versions for everyday use. The process is basically the same if you buy a specialised recorder such as ION Audio's Tape2PC deck, except it connects to the PC via a USB port.An even simpler and cheaper approach is not to use a PC at all. In this case, all you need is an MP3 player that has a direct encoding (line-in) feature, plus a stereo line-in cable (sometimes called a Direct Encoding Cable) costing about a fiver or less. Players with the line-in feature include the Creative Zen V+, iAudio X5, MPIO HD200, iRiver X20 andmany more.Fibre to the homeI live in Bournemouth, which apparently is about to become the UK's first "fibre city". We've had the offer of free installation, but what's involved?Barbara OldhamJS:Bournemouth will be England's first"fibre city"; Dundee will be Scotland's. Basically, H2O plans to deliver 100Mbps broadband by routing fibre-optic cables via the sewer system. It has already wired council offices, the Bournemouth International Centre and Pavilion Theatre. FibreCity will also need to connect to homes, and says this will be done by cutting channels just 20mm wide and 100mm deep to a cable-style box on your wall, so it should not be too disruptive. There is not much info beyond that because FibreCity will only be the carrier. It will sell capacity to  cable TV and broadband suppliers etc, who'll try to sell you their services.No political commentHave you tried the Microsoft spellchecker in Outlook Express, on the word "Obama"? Oops.Martin SaundersJS:The spellcheckers in Hotmail and Microsoft Office (Outlook Express does not have one) had not been programmed to recognise Obama, and therefore suggested the closest match in their dictionary: Osama. (Next closest is Bema.) Microsoft is fixing it ...Cleaner discsHave you any advice for cleaning CDs and DVDs?Denys VaughanJS:They are usually best left alone unless they skip or cause other problems. If they need a clean, you can blow the dust off then wipe them down with a damp lint-free cloth. Distilled water and microfibre cloths are recommended. The main thing is to wipe gently from the centre to the edge. If a bit of grit scratches across the disc, the hardware error correction will probably deal with it. If you scratch around the groove, you may lose lots of bits in a row, and the error correction will not be able to cope.If the disc is so dirty that it needs more than water,isopropyl alcoholis the solvent recommended on the web.It's a hard driveI recently bought a hard disk recorder to timeshift TV. Can I assume the hard disk works like a PC hard disk and needs a periodic clean-up?Jim CurranJS:Yes, hard disk recorders work much like PCs running Windows Media Centre or MythTV, and sometimes have defragmentation problems. The manual may offer an "optimise" function such as Sky+ Planner rebuild, which will at least do a tidy-up and could recover some storage space. If you can connect a PC via a USB port, you may be able to see the DVR's hard disk as an external drive. If it uses the FAT file format, then standard Windows utilities should work on it - but at your own risk! DVR disks are subject to failure, the same as PC hard drives, and should therefore be regarded as temporary storage. Anything you want to keep should be burned to DVD.&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atjack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
Nearly a quarter of children between the ages of eight and 12 are evading the age restrictions imposed by social networking sites Facebook, Bebo and MySpace, a poll of young people revealed last night.The results suggest that more than 750,000 children are illicitly using the sites - which are supposed to be limited to teenagers and adults - potentially exposing them to risky communications with strangers.The poll of 1,000 children was commissioned by Garlik, an online information company, which said parents are responding by secretly logging on to their children's social networking pages to detect any reckless online behaviour.A parallel poll of 1,000 parents found 72% try to protect their children by monitoring the contacts they make online. It found 26% of parents have set up their own social networking page from which they can spy on the children's activities.Tom Ilube, chief executive of Garlik, said: "The fact that parents feel compelled to monitor their children on this scale should send a powerful message to the big social networking sites."With three quarters of a million underage users in the UK, Facebook, MySpace and Bebo need to take their own age restriction policies far more seriously to help allay parents' real fears."Facebook and Bebo set a minimum age limit of 13 for users to register online and Myspace sets the limit at 14.The poll found children spend an average of one hour a day on social networking sites. About a quarter of eight- to 15-year-olds admitted having strangers as friends on their social networking page. A fifth claimed to have met strangers they had encountered online. Two-thirds said they posted personal information on their pages, including their school and their mobile phone number.Ilube added: "Children are at the vanguard of the social networking phenomenon, using sites such as Facebook and Bebo in the same way other generations used the telephone. With the summer holidays upon us and kids spending hours on the internet, busy parents can't be expected to monitor their children's activities all the time."The poll of parents found 58% said they had become more diligent than a year ago at monitoring their children's use of social networking sites, and 89% said they had spoken to their children about the dangers involved.
Yes. Actually, no. Oh, okay then, yeah ... but no. What are we talking about? NetShare, the &pound;6 App Store ex-download that's confused many an iPhone owner this past week.NetShare appeared on Apple's App Store last Thursday. It granted iPhiles the ability to turn the God phone into a modem, wirelessly tethered to a notebook (OK, a MacBook) - thus allowing it to do what pretty much every other Godless phone can do already.And then, 20 minutes later, NetShare disappeared from App Store. The hand of God? Well, it was Apple that took it down.Then, just a couple of hours later, and without explanation, NetShare was back online for purchase. Only not readily - searching for "NetShare" on App Store would have got you nowhere. No, you needed a find a special link to the NetShare download on App Store.Fortunately, the internets are good at looking for things and an unquantifiable number of folk paid for and downloaded NetShare. Including Guardian Technology. For our &pound;5.99, we have an iPhone-powered Wi-Fi hotspot. We've even got it working with PCs. It's great.And then, the next day, Apple pulled NetShare again, and permanently. Well, as permanent as the deadline for this piece, anyway. Why? We think because such a tool might - might - contravene the terms and conditions of Apple's various carriers, who wouldn't want the iPhone muscling in on their valuable mobile broadband tariffs.To check our thinking, we asked Apple. The company said: . (No, that's not a typing error. It's a colon, then a space followed by a full stop. The space summarises Apple's indifference to questioning by anyone, let alone the press.)So we asked the company behind NetShare -Nullriver. It said: "We've talked to Apple. It is working to try to get NetShare back online. We can only guess [that its removal from App Store] has to do with carrier agreements. Apple provided very little information."NetShare might be App Store history. But Guardian Technology is still running a NetShare-powered Wi-Fi hotspot on an iPhone connected to the O2 network. Is this OK? We thought we'd better ask O2. It said: . Ah, sorry, that was an editing oversight. Here's what O2 told us: "Use of the NetShare application would infringe the terms of service for iPhone 3G customers. O2's [terms and conditions] specifically say that the Sim card may not be used in, or connected to, any other devices including modems."Oh dear. Apple has allowed an application to be sold on its App Store that violates the terms and conditions of its sole UK carrier. This means some people have paid money via Apple's App Store for an application that they cannot legitimately use on their Apple product.Will Apple be issuing refunds to these customers? We asked Apple. It replied: .
The shadow of Wii Play - the game that all those previous non-gaming families played to death when they bought Wiis - hangs over Big Beach Sports. It comes from exactly the same angle: dumbed-down versions of popular sports, with cartoonish graphics and characters that look like wobbly-head dolls. It contains six sports: volleyball, American football, boules, cricket, football and "disc golf", in which you have to get a Frisbee into a basket by taking the smallest number of throws. Not unexpectedly, the quality of the games is variable: American football and football are pretty dire, and the cricket mini-game is a bit too random. But the volleyball and boules in particular - classic sports that we've all played on the beach - work well, making good use of Wiimote throwing gestures, and the disc golf is OK. Anathema for hardcore gamers, but cheap fun for young kids. But when the Wii Motion Plus add-on brings more rigorous motion-tracking, games like this will seem like anachronisms.
Google's new Knol system has come under fire for making itself open to spammers seeking to push their products up the search engine's rankings - in effect with the blessing of the company, which has previously sought to exclude them from its listings.Knol, which was announced in December but only opened for wider use last month, is already being targeted by people who have realised that its characteristics are a godsend to spammers.Knol is meant to be a competitor of sorts to Wikipedia, the "encyclopaedia anyone can edit". The difference is that rather than having a single page with multiple (sometimes competing) authors for each topic, Knol in effect encourages people to compete to write articles on the same topics to see which one gets the most authority, and so comes highest in search results. Anyone can write a Knol page - which does not need to be checked."There are a large number of issues with the [Knol] service ranging from accountability, authenticity to credibility and general SEO concerns. What they all stem from is that Google has in essence created a toolset that's ripe for abuse, and given those with no scruples financial incentive to abuse it," noted theMashable blog, which added that its design is "so optimistic as to the potential depravity of human behavior that it borders on ignorance."On the Internet, you must imagine all the negative possible uses for your product when you design it for mass consumption."Writers of a Knol can earn money from clickthroughs of Google Adsense ads on their pages. That has attracted those seeking to encourage readers and clickthrough.Jonathan Bailey, editor of thePlagiarism Today blog, notes that aYouTube videoalready explains to other spammers how to use Knol to push their results up Google's rankings. Google has already come under fire for the sheer amount of spam hosted on its free Blogspot blogs - and now that may be repeated on Knol.Google has taken some precautions: outgoing links from Knol pages have "nofollow" links, meaning they will not count towards its ranking; and people can leave comments and reviews on pages.But its weighting algorithm seems to favourcontent on Knol pagesrather than those "outside" Google, and content there is automatically given a Creative Commons attribution licence - which, the Plagiarism Today blog notes, could let content that has been illicitly copied and put on a Knol page spread far and wide."Wikipedia has the benefit of being a true community effort ... Google Knol is simply too tempting of a spam target to ignore," it notes. "If it achieves the rankings many predict it will, it will definitely have a bullseye on its back."And the online criticism is not the only problem. A Dutch vacuum cleaner salesman is reportedly demanding &euro;1m (&pound;790,000) from Google forknol.com, the website his company owns.
Chuq von Rospach, who worked on Apple's email lists for a long - very long - time before leaving last yeargives an insightinto what it's like to work for Eddy Cue, the man who is now going to take over the MobileMe messup:Eddy's name isn't familiar to most apple people, but he's in his way as important to apple's success as Jonathan Ives [sic; it's actually Ive]. His specialty: the back-end infrastructures that make Apple's online universe tick. His groups did the Apple online store, iTools (later .Mac), iTunes store, etc, etc. It's the not-sexy part of the company, but it's the guts that make all of the sexy front ends actually work.I'm actually amazed that Eddy hasn't been poached by a startup, much as I'm amazed that [chief operating officer] Tim Cook hasn't been poached -- but the reality is that if you survive and become one of Steve's [Jobs's] inner core of people he trusts (and that ain't easy) -- you tend to stay. Apple doesn't generally get poached by startups or other places at the exec level often, anyone notice?A lot of that is because it's not easy working for Steve, but if you can do it, you get to do really great stuff, and that's addictive. trust me. you just don't see people running off from apple to CEO a startup the way you do Yahoo or Google, not out of the top few levels of the company.Eddy's real specialty is to be able to take what Steve asks for, implement it, hit the target dates, make it work, and KEEP THE DAMN THING A SECRET UNTIL STEVE ANNOUNCES IT. That's a big reason why his team is self-contained. It also means his people can do what needs to be done to implement things that never existed before and which don't fit into normal IT "this is how we do things" standards. he and his teams spends most of his time off in uncharted territory where a need to be innovative and flexible is a must, and yet they have to do it on huge scales.That much, we can understand: building infrastructure that will scale in a really big way - don't forget, the iTunes Store is the biggest single music retailer in the US now - is not the sort of thing you learn from Infrastructure For Dummies. However, it comes with a cost:On the other hand, Eddy's no easier to work with than Steve is, for obvious reasons. I invariably warned people not to hire into his groups unless they wanted to donate their life to the cause. When I was there, I worked pretty closely with various parts of his world, and it was populated with equal who were just as maniacal about this as Eddy and steve and people who were in process of burning out. Not much middle ground (but it works).(full disclosure time: Laurie worked with Eddy way back when; me, I once almost got re-orged into his world until management remembered my vow to die before working for him, and re-arranged reality to fit (otherwise, lists.apple.com never would have existed....) -- but I had a chance to deal with him while I was there and I've got a lot more respect for him now than I used to. I still wouldn't want to work in the kind of grind his organization demands, though, but it does pretty good work under really scary conditions.So if you were thinking of applying for that job on the tiger team looking for firefight MobileMe... just remember the phrase "donate your life to the cause".
A San Francisco-based group going by the name ofDirect Action to Stop the Warhas carried out a protest against theAmerica's Armyseries of FPS games. The titles are commissioned by the US military and act as a recruitment tool - there have been Xbox and mobile phone versions as well as a downloadable PC iteration. DASW claims that, as the game has a Teen rating, allowing 13-year-olds to play, it effectively represents an attempt to target and recruit children. From the website:The military recruitment of children under the age of 17, however, is a clear violation of international law (the U.N. Optional Protocol on the Involvement of Children in Armed Conflict). No attempt to recruit children 13-16 is allowed in the United States, pursuant to treaty. In May, the American Civil Liberties Union published a report that found the armed services regularly target children under 17 for military recruitment. The report highlighted the role of "America's Army," saying the Army uses the game to "attract young potential recruits . . . train them to use weapons, and engage in virtual combat and other military missions", adding that the game "explicitly targets boys 13 and older."The site also quotes an 'informal study' which claims that four out of 100 new recruits inFort Benning,credit America's Army as the primary factor in convincing them to join the military. Additionally, "a 2004 Army survey found that nearly a third of young Americans ages 16 to 24 had some contact with the game in the previous six months". These are compelling stats, but they're vulnerable to a familiar ambiguity - is the game seducing players into taking an interest in the army, or does it merely appeal to people who arealreadypotential recruits?Today's protest was aimed at videogame publishers and developers involved in the production and development of the games, including Ubisoft. No word yet on how many people turned up, or what specific form the protest took, but it'll be interesting to see if Ubisoft reacts at all. The French publisher has a long-term contract to distribute console versions of the series, the latest of which - America's Army: True Heroes - was released last year.So is it reasonable for mainstream publishers to work on games with a military recruitment agenda? It could easily be argued that most - if not all - military shooters provide a positive representation of the army experience. You don't get speed-addled fighter pilots dropping bombs on allied vehicles in Call of Duty IV; there's no opportunity to torture and abuse prisoners in Battlefield 2 Modern Combat. Criticism, or even acknowledgement, of the moral ambiguities of warfare are largely absent. Is America's Army just the most highly visible and explictly pitched example of a wider programme of tacit approval? If so, is it wrong?
Threespeech has just postedan interviewwith Naughty Dog designer Richard Lemarchand, in which he talks up Sony's new low-level programming tools, aimed at encouraging coders to employ the machine's SPUs, or Synergistic Processing Units. This array of mini-RISC processors can be utilised to carry out simultaneous number-crunching tasks - the idea is to provide a more efficient computing architecture, but until recently most developers weren't touching them. Lemarchand reckons Sony has come up with the answer:There's a set of tools called Edge that were developed on the Naughty Dog premises, actually, by a group of very, very senior games programmers, some from Naughty Dog and some from elsewhere. I think it's tremendously visionary of Sony to make these tools, which are largely low-level libraries.It's code that runs on SPUs, and it's to do with things like animation compression, generalised compression and rendering optimisations. These guys are really old-school programmers: guys who are always looking to shave another cycle off an operation. And part of the skill of developing for the PlayStation 3 is getting the GPU to farm jobs out to the six SPUs - seeing which SPUs are idling and can take up some of the slack in a frame-to-frame kind of way.That's why we think we're probably only using 30 or 40 per cent of the power of the PS3 right now, and there's this great, untapped potential. All third-party developers can get the Edge libraries for free and are going to be able to use them in their own ways, to get more and more and more out of the PS3 over the years.It's interesting that Lemarchand talks about distributing tasks depending on which SPUs are idle. There are two ways to employ the SPU array - lobbing out jobs to whichever unit is free (which is what Lemarchand suggests), or attributing specific tasks to specific SPUs; for example, put one aside for AI, one for physics, another for character animations. It's the latter that most developers seem to have gone for, despite the possibility that it's the least efficient method. It's ironic that, if studios reallyareonly getting at a third of the machine's power, it's the parallel processing array designed to speed up calculations that's holding them back.
American authorities have uncovered a massive global computer hacking and credit card fraud ring spanning the US, eastern Europe and Asia, officials said this week.The US justice department has charged 11 individuals from the US, China and three former Soviet republics with stealing more than 40m credit and debit card numbers and selling them to criminals in the US and Europe, in a case that highlights the increasing vulnerability of world commerce to hackers and identity thieves.The indictments culminate a three-year investigation involving law enforcement authorities from at least four countries.America's top law enforcement official, Attorney General Michael Mukasey, said the financial toll in the case is "impossible to quantify at this point".Justice department attorney Michael Sullivan said that most of the victims were in the US, but said officials have yet to identify all those whose credit card numbers were stolen."I suspect that a lot of people are unaware that their identifying information has been compromised," he said.According to justice department officials and court documents, the ring mined credit and debit card numbers by driving alongside US retail stores in search of wireless internet connections. Among the companies attacked were TJX Companies, owner of TJ Maxx clothing outlets; Barnes and Noble;  OfficeMax; Sports Authority and others.Upon gaining access to the computer networks, the defendants installed "sniffer" software that would surreptitiously record card numbers, justice department officials said. The defendants then sold the numbers over the internet to individuals who encoded them onto blank credit cards and withdrew tens of thousands of dollars at a time from cash machines.According to court documents unsealed this week, three of the defendants, Sergey Pavlovich of Belarus and Dzmitry Burak and Sergey Storchak of Ukraine, used a website on which credit card number traffickers bought and sold numbers, with Pavlovich taking a percentage of the sales.In addition, two other defendants, Maksym Yastremskiy of Kharkov, Ukraine and Aleksandr Suvorov of Sillamae, Estonia, known on the internet as JonnyHell, tricked staff at a Long Island, New York, restaurant into allowing them access to computer cash registers, the justice department said in court documents.They then installed sniffer software that captured credit and debit card numbers. Justice officials said Yastremskiy pocketed more than $11m from the sale of the stolen numbers.One of the defendants, Albert Gonzalez of Miami, was an informant for the US secret service, the agency tasked with protecting the US president and combating financial fraud and counterfeiting.He faces life in prison if convicted on all charges.Mukasey said the case highlights the global economy's vulnerability to computer hackers, although he urged consumers to remain confident in the nation's electronic payment system."Computer networks and the internet are an indispensable part of the world economy," Mukasey said yesterday. "But even as they provide extraordinary opportunities for legitimate commerce and communication, they also provide extraordinary opportunities for criminals. Where criminals are able to breach computer security systems, as alleged here, they have enormous ability to cause harm."But John Pescatore, a wireless security analyst at US consulting firm Gartner Inc, said the retailers could have prevented the breaches with available technology."These stores just did not take the right precautions and the bad guys said 'Cool, we can sit in the parking lot and break into the retailer through the wireless network,'" he said. "This was a failure by the companies cited. It was the equivalent of if your bank didn't lock the door to the vault."The defendants were charged with crimes including identity theft, possession of "unauthorised access devices", and offences connected to the stolen card data.Two Chinese defendants, Burak, Storchak, Pavlovich and a person known only by the internet nickname "Delpiero" remain at large.Turkish police captured Yastremskiy in July 2007 when he was in the country on vacation, the justice department said. Suvorov was apprehended in March by German police in Frankfurt. The US seeks his extradition.The defendants maintained operations in China, the Philippines and Thailand, the justice department said."So far as we know, this is the single largest and most complex identity theft case ever charged in this country," Mukasey said.
Yahoohas been forced to admit shareholder opposition to CEO Jerry Yang's re-election to the board of directors last week was much stronger than it first reported.The company blames a vote counting error by a third party company for under-reporting the opposition to Yang and chairman Roy Bostock, both of whom received about twice as many negative votes than the numbers announced on Friday afterthe Yahoo annual meeting.Broadridge Financial Solutions, the company that counted shareholder votes, has admitted it made a mistake. Instead of 14.6% withholding their votes in Yang's reelection to the board, the real amount was 33.7%.The percentage of shares withheld for Bostock almost doubled to 39.6% from 20.5%.The errors – blamed on "a truncation error [that] occurred in reporting share numbers that exceeded eight digits" – did not affect the outcome of the election but they justified the request by Yahoo's largest shareholder, Capital Research Global Investors, for a recount after it suspected its decision to withhold support for Yang was not reflected in the results.Capital and others withheld their votes in protest at how the board handled takeover negotiations withMicrosoft, which wanted to buy the company in a deal worth about $42bn (£21.5bn).Yahoo finally withdrew from negotiations in June.On Friday, the dissidents won concessions. Carl Ichan, a corporate raider and proponent of the takeover, was elected to the board as part of a previously agreed truce between him and the company. He also will be able to recommend two additional members.Icahn saw his election to the board as a compromise as he realised he could not win a proxy fight to remove the whole board. If Microsoft – or another potential buyer - returns to the negotiating table, Icahn will be in a stronger position to influence the outcome.AsIcahnnoted on his blog: "The board has agreed in the settlement agreement that any meaningful transaction, including the strategy in dealing with that transaction, will be fully discussed with the entire board before any final decision is made."Although the voting error did not change the results, experts are hinting that Bostock may be forced to step down as support for him is particularly weak.He received a smaller percentage of votes than former CEO Terry Semel did last year. Semel resigned from his position six days later and stepped down from the company's board in January.The news of the voting glitch was announced after the markets closed on Tuesday. When trading began Wednesday morning, the company's share price dropped a fraction to about $19.70, which is about $1 above their 52-week low.They traded as high as $34.08 earlier this year, after Microsoft went public with its takeover plans.
Withrecent concernsover how to protect kids on the net, nanny software makerSentryhas come up with a handy guide on "the 10 words every parent should fear". Based on its list of phrases that parents most like to block, we have some scary stuff - "suicide", "alone" and "dope" for example. But fourth on the list - coming ahead of 'hate' and 'depressed' - is thereallyscary one:emo. A million My Chemical Romance fans weep.For those of a strong disposition, here's the press release in full:WEB WORRY WORDS: THE NEW THREAT TO OUR CHILDREN INTERNET SAFETY EXPERTS REVEAL THE TEN WORDS EVERY PARENT SHOULD FEARAs children as young as five now use the internet without supervision, how can mums and dads be sure that their child is not taking part in conversations or messaging that will lead them into danger?Research published today by internet safety experts Sentry Parental Controls reveal the ten most common words that parents are blocking their children (under 16s) from using or searching for in order to help keep their child safe from internet predators, exposure to inappropriate material or dangerous social networking groups.The top ten words that parents are monitoring are:1. Suicide2. Alone3. Dope4. EMO5. Bully6. Depressed7. Skinny8. Breasts9. Willy10. HateThe ten chosen worry words were drawn from Sentry's extensive work in the US and UK looking at what words parents most frequently have to block on their home computers using the Sentry software. Blocked words then send an alert signal to parents when children use or are sent messages featuring these words.While parents naturally worry about their children accessing explicit sex sites or finding out more about drugs, there are other far more subtle aspects of our children's behaviour - such as searching for skinny celebrities or taking an unusual interest in death - that should act as red flags for us to start talking to them about their concerns.
Some new figures fromHitwiseshow that the high-street retailers (HS) -- people who have physical stores as well as online stores -- are gaining market share over the "pure play" (PP) online-only retailers, at least in the UK. (This doesn't necessarily mean the online retailers are suffering a decline, just that they are not growing as fast as the total market.)Hitwise says:According to Hitwise's report, "Can Retailers Have a Happy Christmas During the Credit Crunch?" , between July 2007 and 2008, UK Internet traffic to the online properties of high street retailers increased by 18.7%, compared with a drop of 10.2% for online only retailers.Against that, Experian has reported a "2.6% year-on-year decline in actual physical visits to retailers" for July, so it looks as though one factor is that some people who would have gone to a Tesco store, say, are now going to Tesco online instead.For the record, "The top 5 online high street retailers in the UK during July 2008" in terms of their "share of UK Internet visit to Shopping And Classifieds websites" were:1. Argos.co.uk 1.69% 2. Tesco.com 1.27% 3. Next.co.uk 0.90% 4. Marksandspencer.com 0.74% 5. Johnlewis.com 0.58% share)How this will play out over the long term is, of course, another matter.....
Mozilla Labs, from the people who brought you Firefox, has put out acall for participation. It says:Today we're calling on industry, higher education and people from around the world to get involved and share their ideas and expertise as we collectively explore and design future directions for the Web.And later:We're hoping to lower the barrier to participation by providing a forum for surfacing, sharing, and collaborating on new ideas and concepts. Our goal is to bring even more people to the table and provoke thought, facilitate discussion, and inspire future design directions for Firefox, the Mozilla project, and the Web as a whole.Concepts may take the form of Ideas, Mockups or Prototypes.It has put up three examples as Vimeo videos.Naturally this is done in the spirit of openness. If you think your idea could be the foundation for a $1bn company, this probably isn't for you....
Chris Broganhas a blog post about his colleague Nick Saber, who got locked out of Google: "Sorry, your account has been disabled."This is devastating not because of the loss of an email account (and Gmail can be backed up by forwarding and/or POP3) but because of the use of asingle IDto access multiple services: it's dangerous to put all your eggs in one basket. As the story points out:Suddenly, Nick can't access his Gmail account, can't open Google Talk (our office IM app), can't open Picasa where his family pictures are, can't use his Google Docs, and oh by the way, he paid for additional storage. So, this is a paying customer with no access to the Google empire.OK, so it creates a small storm in the Google-obsessed teacup that is the blogosphere, but there is nothing new about it. It probably happens to hundreds of people every day, if we include not just Google but Yahoo, Microsoft and all the little "cloud based" companies. This is something I keep writing about, most recently here:Never assume your data is safe, even if it's online.Look, if you have data online, you can lose access to it at any second, through hacking, an idle whim, a simple mistake, or some financial or even natural disaster. In fact, calling it "the cloud" is a good metaphor, because it's insubstantial and easily blown away. It's not Google's fault, it's the nature of the beast.Sure, "the cloud" will work for most people most of the time, but (as with Windows) if you have a lot of users, you'll get a lot of errors. With a billion users, 10% having problems -- which they probably will, over 10 years -- is 100 million personal disasters.But the bottom line is this: if you lose access to your data because it only exists in one online service, it's not Google's fault, it's yours. Deal with it.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
New microchipped passports designed to protect against identity theft by terrorists and criminals can easily be faked, it was claimed today.Tests showed that personal information could be cloned and manipulated within an hour before being inserted into new chips, the Times reported.The paper said it had exposed "security flaws" in the passport system by asking a researcher to clone the chips on two British passports and implant digital images of Osama bin Laden and a suicide bomber. The altered chips were then passed as genuine by reader software used by the UN agency that sets the standards for such e-passports.The tests showed that bogus biometrics could be inserted in fake or blank passports, the Times alleged, saying the flaws also undermined assertions that 3,000 blank passports stolen last week could not be forged.The identity and passport service at the Home Office remained confident, however, that the British biometric passport was "one of the most secure passports available", saying no one had been able to demonstrate they could modify or change information contained in a chip, and that if they did, it would be obvious to the reader.A spokesman added: "Continuing investment in biometric technology and enhanced security measures will help ensure that passport security is maintained now and in the future."The tests for the Times were conducted by Jeroen van Beek, a security researcher at Amsterdam university who can read, clone and alter microchips so they are accepted by the software recommended for use at airports by the International Civil Aviation Organisation.Van Beek could not be contacted today, but the Times said he had used his own software, a publicly available programming code, a £40 card reader and two £10 radio frequency chips. Within an hour, he had cloned and altered chips so that they were ready to be planted in stolen or fake passports.A baby boy's passport chip was altered to contain an image of Bin Laden, and that of a 36-year-old woman was changed to hold a picture of Hiba Darghmeh, a Palestinian suicide bomber who killed three people in 2003. The identities had been chosen deliberately to demonstrate that neither van Beek nor the Times was trying to fake viable travel documents, the newspaper said.Van Beek was quoted as saying: "We're not claiming that terrorists will be able to do this to all passports today or that they will be able to do it tomorrow. But it does raise concerns over security that need to be addressed in a more public and open way."The Times said its tests also raised questions about the £4bn identity card scheme, which relied on similar technology. The plan could open more opportunities for criminals to match real information about clients , including fingerprints and pictures, with stolen identity details.An international system exists under which faked chips could be spotted at border points because they would not match key codes when checked against an international database. However, only 10 of the 45 countries with e-passports have signed up to the system, and only five are using it.The Home Office says it will use the code directory from the end of this year, but the Times claims fakes from countries that do not share key codes could go undetected.
