Monday!
Today isNational Women in Engineering Day, which is dedicated to raising the profile and celebrating the achievements of women in engineering. Women currently represent only 7% of the engineering workforce in the UK, the lowest percentage in Europe. If this trend continues, the UK will be in a significantly weakened position to find the 87,000 new engineers it is estimated the country will need each year over the next decade (according to Engineering UK). The lack of women in engineering is a very significant problem, contributing to skills shortages which damage the economy. The shocking reality is that the UK is only utilising a small fraction of the potential workforce in this vital sector. It also means that women are missing out on interesting and rewarding career opportunities.That is why the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) and other organisations invest a great deal of time and resource into attracting more women into engineering. We have made some good progress in the last 20 years, but a lot more work needs to be done. But industry must be proactive too, especially in marketing their jobs to women. There are some good examples of companies who show creative ways of reaching out to women with their job adverts and flexible working patterns, and the results have been very positive. There are excellent young women who need to be convinced by industry that they can have a rewarding career in engineering.The challenge may be great, but with an emphasis on raising awareness, recognising talent and promoting key ambassadors in these fields, it will be possible to dispel this stigma and provide inspiration to females for years to come. As well as playing our role, we will continue to encourage others to play theirs, in particular by insisting that the gender imbalance in engineering remains high on the government's agenda. As a former apprentice myself, I have loved my engineering career from the very start. I want other women to enjoy the excitement and prospects that a career in engineering brings.Michelle RichmondInstitution of Engineering and Technology&nbsp;
Richard Taylor has signed on for Jobseekers Allowance twice since October and has received two payments. Each time he signed on, his payments were stopped almost immediately because he couldn’t prove that he was searching for work 35 hours every week. “I don’t own a computer and I am reliant on my local library,” he said. “You can book two hour blocks of internet use in advance, but if you just turn up you can only use it for 15 minutes.”At the Jobcentre, Taylor was given a list of all of the local libraries in Newcastle with internet access. “They think everyone has the internet, but I don’t. They don’t understand how hard that is. They’ve clearly had it explained to them that there are plenty of places to get online to fill out job applications, but they don’t know how cut-off I feel.”Since losing his job in October, Taylor has been living off handouts from his father and friends, but says his situation has made him depressed and anxious. “I’m in a lot of debt because of this whole situation,&quot; he says. &quot;I’m 30 and I think they think I’m sitting at home playing Xbox and getting free money.”Taylor is not alone in not having internet access. According to Office for National Statistics, 17% of households in the UK didn’t have internet access in 2013. The problem can be lack of skill or the cost of equipment, but there are some who simply aren&apos;t interested.Yet at the same time, government services are becoming &quot;digital by default&quot;, and access to services, such as the universal credit system, will primarily be done online. The government’s Digital Efficiency Report suggested that digital transactions are 20 times cheaper than by phone, 30 times cheaper than by post and as much as 50 times cheaper than by face-to-face meetings, meaning that the government could save between £1.7 and £1.8bn each year if all transactions were done online.Many services can now be accessed fromthe gov.uk websitewhere services from 34 government departments and 331 agency and public body websites have been merged into one, with the aim of making these digital services so easy to use that it is the preferred way of accessing them.Chi Onwurah, MP for Newcastle upon Tyne Central, isn’t against government services going online. She believes that a “digital government offers a huge opportunity to change the relationship between the government and the people [who use its services]”.She is concerned, however, that the current government is going &quot;digital by default&quot; simpy to cut costs while forgetting about people who don’t have access to the internet or the digital skills to use it; that latter number is estimated to be 19% in April 2014, according to BBC Learning, down slightly from 21% in October 2013.To address the issue, Onwurah has launched the Digital Government Review with fellow MP Michael Dugher to determine how the government’s digital services can best benefit the people who need them.“When Ed Miliband talks about people powered services, digital is what will help enable people to take control of their services and not simply be at the centre of service delivery, but actually be co-designing those services so that they can design it how they see best,” she said.An independent advisory board has led the review with representatives from central and local government, consumers, and tech industry groups. The panel called on submissions from the public on how digital services should be designed, as well as examples on where digital services are working well and how they should be improved.Staff at Newcastle&apos;s Citizen’s Advice Bureau (CAB) told Onwurah during an event in May that many users felt excluded by online services and were relying on CAB staff to help them fill out forms. Libraries have proved unsuitable because of lack of support from staff, no privacy for users and short time limits on shared computers. Other CAB staff reported that benefits claimants were increasingly replying on food banks because of the problems of accessing services online.“The Government Digital Service has done a lot of great work in making government services more digital, but there’s a profound difference between digitising the DVLA, and digitising services which are directed at the poorest and most vulnerable,” Onwurah said. “This is putting the cost of going digital onto them and not where it belongs, with the government - which will be reaping the financial rewards of going digital.&quot;The idea that unemployed people are paying the price of digitalisation I find absolutely unacceptable.”Grant Blank, a survey research fellow at the Oxford Internet Institute, thinks the government is realistic about the number of people who can’t access services and understands that it will have to offer assistance. The Digital Inclusion Charter launched in April 2014 begins to address the problem, he points out, aiming to reduce the number of people offline by 25% by 2016 working with such organisations as the Tinder Foundation and Go-On UK.Despite this, the charter estimates that 10% of the population may never gain basic digital capabilities.A Cabinet Office spokesperson said: “We will always provide assistance for those who need help in accessing government services online. The world is changing and when you can bank online at midnight and shop from your bedroom, people rightly expect high-quality digital services from government.”The spokesperson added: “Our ambition is to reduce the number of people who are offline by 25% by 2016. To help achieve this, we have brought together for the first time 40 public, private and voluntary sector organisations to sign a new UK Digital Inclusion Charter. This includes a national programme of support to help get more people online.”But according to Blank, current government support “is not great”, describing an instance when he emailed a question about an online form, and received an automated reply saying he&apos;d have a response within two weeks. “A modern response would be to have a chat online directly or a default fallback with a phone number to call,” he said.There are also people who may be capable, but have never used the internet and see no need to start. They just aren&apos;t interested, explains Blank.Angus Gammack is a case in point. A retired dentist in his 80s who lives outside of Exeter, Gammack says that unless the internet becomes absolutely essential he is very happy to stay offline. “I keep in touch with people using a telephone,&quot; he says. &quot;I have a son in America, and we phone him when it’s convenient for both of us.&quot;“The internet is classically an experienced technology in the sense that you can’t see many of its advantages in the abstract, you actually have to experience it to understand how it can work for you,” Blank said.“At some point, though, people who want government services are going to have to be online. And this is a real conundrum for the government; if you look at who’s offline and who wants government services, they’re the same people.”According to Blank, people who tend to be offline are disproportionately older, in poorer health, have lower income, less education and aren’t employed, but these are the people who want to make disproportionate use of its services and will need assistance with ‘digital by default’.This, says Onwurah, is causing real hardship in the short term. &quot; We believe in the longer term this will lead to a disenfranchised class of those who can’t take part in a digital society. And to be a citizen in the future, digital skills are going to be as important as the ability to read and write”.•Martha Lane Fox, a &apos;force of nature&apos;, to get Britons online
E3 attracts video game developers, publishers and exhibitors from around the world to Los Angeles each summer, all hoping to get to grips with the latest technological marvels. We pick the surprise standouts of the event.PlayStation TVReleased in Japan last November, this microconsole shares essentially the same innards as the handheld PS Vita – it's even called PS Vita TV in Japan. The machine can play Vita games bought on the proprietary memory card format or stream content from a PS4 using the same system link software as its portable cousin. It can also access the back catalogue of hundreds if not thousands of games on the PlayStation Store. Launching late 2014 at £80, the PS TV is another step towards digital and streaming content for Sony.Near Field Contact ToysA boring-sounding umbrella term but these hi-tech figurines which come to life through video games show no signs of losing their vice-like grip on kids' attention. Skylanders remains the champion of the field, now in its fourth iteration withSkylanders Trap Team, but Disney Infinity has proven surprisingly strong, merging characters from across the Disney vaults into one game. Now Nintendo has joined the party with amiibo, colourful and well-sculpted figures that connect with Wii U games and allow training of toy Mario and pals between different titles. The notoriously conservative Nintendo's arrival in the field is an indication this trend isn't going anywhere.Nintendo, full stopE3 2014 marked a welcome return to form for Nintendo, seemingly having a renewed confidence in its content. Nintendo introduced new IPs for the Wii U, including puzzle platformerCaptain Toad: Treasure Hunterand arena shooterSplatoon, where you battle for dominance as a team of squid/human hybrids. Mario Maker, a creation tool allowing players to make their own Super Mario levels, is also a rare case of Nintendo trusting its fan base with any control of its most important mascot. A new open-worldLegend of Zeldawas the true star though, offering a remarkable new world ripe for exploring, and promise of a newStar Foxis almost as exciting.Just Dance NowUbisoft's dancing game  is an unlikely contender for tech innovation, much less its mobile offshoot. YetJust Dance Nowhas the potential to revolutionise online play. Thanks to some patent-pending (read: can't talk about it yet) wizardry, the game allows players to test their moves using only the accelerometer in their smartphone and any browser-based device. The communication between the two has effectively zero latency, allowing for real time scoring and play. Dancing games may not be your thing but if the tech can be applied elsewhere, the ramifications for online gaming could be huge.Virtual realityOnce thought a gimmick, VR seems set to make huge strides in the near future. Oculus Rift has become the big name in the industry since its $1bn acquisition by Facebook, but Sony's in-house effort, currently dubbed Project Morpheus, is also showing promise. Having tried several games and tech demos over the week – a downhill street luge and being trapped in a shark tank on Morpheus, plus a pants-wettingly terrifying session on Sega'sAlien Isolation on Oculus– it's hard not to come away thinking VR could be the biggest change to the games industry since the arrival of 3D worlds. And outside of games, the potential for entertainment, sports, education and business is practically endless.
1 Steel Battalion – the cockpit controllerCapcom's Steel Battalion asked players to climb into the virtual cockpit of a towering military robot; the giant "mechas" so popular in Japanese science fiction. But it didn't stop at the virtual, for the game came with a huge controller, about 85cm wide. It had about 40 buttons, joysticks, switches, levers, thumbsticks, dials and – on a separate module placed on the floor – foot pedals. The game, which saw its mecha stars exchange fire on a battlefield, was in equal measures punishing and finicky. A battle started with a complex boot-up routine with much switch-flicking in the hanger, as if bringing to life an eccentric workshop contraption for the first time. Players were then expected to consider windscreen wiping and such during battle and, should they lose control and see their robot tumble to the floor, the game's entire save file was erased unless a finger could find the covered ejector seat button in time. While the controller worked only with Steel Battalion and its first sequel, the third game in the series went to the other extreme; it was played using just the hands, in front of Kinect. Forty buttons, it turned out, really did need to be there to make it feel remotely exciting.2 Rez – The Trance VibratorRez remains the defining release of the synaesthesia genre, which presents games that try to fuse audio, visual and interactive experiences into a single entity. Developer Tetsuya Mizuguchi furnished Dreamcast and PlayStation 2 with Rez with much pounding bass, which served as a backbone for the rest of the abstract sci-fi shooter. Action would often feel as if were dictated by bass lines, while the visuals pulsed to the same beat. In recognition of which, publisher Sega released the special package version of Rez. If you picked up a hint of innuendo in the name, you weren't alone. When it turned out the special package contained a large vibrating block that throbbed to Rez's bass lines, to be held against the body while playing, the floodgates opened, and ever since the device has been haunted by jokes about its role as an improvised sex toy.3 Konami – The LaserScopeThe concept of the LaserScope no doubt thrilled children in 1990. A head-mounted lightgun conceived to fire through voice control, it felt enticingly futuristic. Aesthetically, it was a peculiar apparatus; an ungainly hybrid of Alice band, Madonna mic and a starship fighterpilot's helmet, ultimately resulting in a gadget that suggested a telephonist trapped in a nightmare vision of the future as imagined by someone obsessed with 1980s pop culture. It had two significant flaws: playing during a game's more intense moments presented a definite threat to the user's neck, but it was the voice activation that attracted the most cutting criticism on release. Saying "fire" was supposed to unleash a shot, but it didn't always work. Equally you could also say anything else, breathe too heavily or be unlucky with background noise and the LaserScope would also – or depending on its mood, wouldn't – fire a shot.4 Densha de Go – various train controllersThe Densha de Go series sprung to life in Japan's arcades in 1996, spawning numerous console ports and sequels of the train simulation game. Many came with a dedicated controller, with a collections of levers and buttons for what is an unlikely subject to attract a specialist gaming peripheral: guiding a vehicle along rails that already dictate its route. And, in an act of charmingly ludicrous design, some Densha de Go controllers feature their own dead-man's handles. In the real world the dead-man's handle serves a crucial purpose, here, in a simulation, it is a wonderful anomaly – part of the peripheral that only actually achieves its function when interaction with it ceases. A glorious idea, with a philosophical whiff of quantum theory to it – a "button" that only does its job when not pushed … Not that it seemed to bother the legions of wannabe train drivers, who lapped it up.5 ASCII – Gamecube keyboard controllerThe Gamecube online action-RPG Phantasy Star Online Episode I and II let users communicate while playing by using a keyboard. Keyboard support for the console, however, was rather limited and swapping back and forth between gamepad and text entry was far from ideal. Recognising this, ASCII came up with what sounds like a simple idea; they combined a keyboard and gamepad in a single controller. It stretched out a standard pad's common form, dropping keys into the newly formed gap between the thumbsticks and buttons. The problem was that, while ultimately functional, a gamepad the width of keyboard place sit at the very fringe of ergonomic design. And, of course, to use the keys to type you still had to put the Frankenstein-monster of a contraption down. Just like swapping between two controllers, then.6 Resident Evil 4 – The ChainsawResident Evil 4 gave the popular horror series a subtle new move into the territory of traditional third-person shooters. As such, gunplay was the game's most significant combat mechanism. Yet both the Gamecube and PlayStation 2 releases of the well-received title saw their own official chainsaw-shaped controllers made available as an option for the most dedicated Resident Evil fans. And so it was that they could shoot enemies in the game using a plastic, power tool-shaped pad designed in a way that did little to recognise the reality of the shape of human hands. But while uncomfortable, thematically confused and grotesque in realisation, the blood-splattered chainsaw controller boasts an outlandish allure few other gaming peripherals can inspire in collectors.
How has technology changed the working life of a historian?It has transformed it in many ways. Digitisation of archives means we can search records and primary source material from the comfort of our own offices. Some old-school historians are furious about this, actually. A perk of the job used to be that you could travel abroad and work in an archive somewhere quite glamorous for weeks on end. Now we stay at home and do it online. For me, though, even more exciting is how it has allowed us to reach out to people. It's made history collaborative and accessible. I can tweet about what I'm working on, and people will suggest ideas or come up with documents. It has opened a pipeline between geeky history people like me and the rest of the world. We used to just publish in academic journals, now we can share our research with huge numbers of people. And I love showing off and telling people what I'm up to!Has it changed making history for TV?Massively. I've made programmes with dramatic reconstruction, CGI, stop-frame, everything. I've just finished making a BBC film about myths of the first world war and the whole thing is CGI animation. It doesn't involve me walking around a field, being a bore. There are visual representations of how many people died, action sequences, funny bits, cool music … It's profoundly exciting. But the beauty of it is, man or woman walking around a field hasn't died out either. That's still going on. So are radio lectures. A rising tide floats all boats. Technology just gives you more choice. It allows you to work out the best way to engage an audience and bring alive what you're trying to describe.What's the most impressive hi-tech artefact you've come across?If you're interested in innovation and technology, that applies to all eras. When you handle an 18th-century Brown Bess musket or a first world war Vickers machine gun – weapons spring to mind because they're often at the cutting edge of technological change – or John Harrison's marine chronometer, they take your breath away. It's unbelievably exciting to witness something that has changed our world.What's your favourite gadget?My BlackBerry. I'm one of the few who haven't converted to iPhone. Touchscreens are infuriatingly rubbish for writing and editing pieces of any length, but the BlackBerry keyboard is great for that when you're in a battlefield or not near your laptop. If I ever spot another middle-aged square with a BlackBerry, I always assume they're a journalist or writer of some kind. People try to tell me, "Apple have run efficiency tests and an elephant can accurately type their name on the new touchscreen blah blah". But that's a PR exercise in a lab in Stanford. In the real world where I live, I can type and edit much faster on a Blackberry.Are you into apps?Yes, what an extraordinary thing they are. I use tools such as Archaeology andOrdnance Survey MapFinder. There's an awesome app calledHome Front Legacywhere people can log on to first world war sites countrywide. I've produced a series ofTimeline appsmyself and caused a furore for saying that, in many respects, they're better than books. They're not just text but have video, maps and newsreel archive. It's basically a book with added information, usability and dynamism. But I still got lots of abuse for saying it, obviously!What's your most expensive gadget?Probably my iPad mini with 64GB memory. Camera-wise, I tend to use my trusty old BlackBerry one, embarrassingly enough. I'm not really a watch guy but I'm getting into wearable tech and might buy one of those Samsung smartwatches soon.Bought any gadgets you've never used?I had a Nokia Communicator in the late 1990s. I thought it was the answer, but it was too big for a phone and too small for a laptop.Do you use text-speak or emojis?Never. I see it as a challenge to stay grammatical in a confined space. But I can see why the odd smiley face is useful because sometimes people think I'm being rude or sarcastic. My mum is Canadian so I often find myself replying "Thanks, buddy" which can sound passive-aggressive.You're@thehistoryguyon Twitter – do you love or loathe it?Anyone who doesn't loveTwitteris an idiot. They're being a ridiculous Luddite or taking a stance. Twitter is a way of filtering the news. You tailor your own timeline so who you follow reflects your interests. Mine is populated by politics and history. It's a phenomenal news service, far better for me than any conventional news outlet because I built it myself. I've made new friends on Twitter, interacted with some incredible people, had some of my most satisfying professional experiences and found out lots of fascinating things about the world. It's been a hugely enriching experience.How about other social networks?I'm a big fan of the streamlined, uncluttered nature ofInstagram. It does the best bits ofFacebookwithout any of the tiresome interruptions. I've also just got intoPheed, which is the last thing I need – another social network.What's your all-time favourite computer game?I've never really been a gamer because I know I'd get addicted, but I did go through a phase of playingCivilisationas a student. I got obsessed with empire-building and didn't leave the house or answer the phone for days. Games that allow you to think you're Napoleon are like crack for me. Had I been born a 1,000 years ago, I'd be carving out an empire somewhere.Have you tried 3D printing?No, I haven't. I subscribe to the theory that there are three different types of technology. Stuff from before you were born, which is brilliant and why even question it. Then there's technology invented between the ages of 10 and 30, which is exciting and you're going to harness it to make your fortune. Then there's technology invented after you're 35, which is completely pointless and stupid. I'm at that tipping point now, but I don't want to become that guy. My dad always embraced technology, so I'm going to try too. I find 3D printing scary and other-worldly but I'll force myself to get into it. The idea that communities can print solar panels is game-changingly brilliant but every time I read about 3D printing, I think I'm going to have a heart attack.Do you feel the same withGoogle Glass?I'm a huge believer in wearable and biometric tech. I look forward to the day when I can walk down the street totally naked, and all my passport, money, keys and communication tools are in my head, fingertips and eyeballs. I presume it'll become Google contact lenses before long, then count me in.If you could time travel, where would you go?I'd take a helicopter over the battle of Trafalgar to see all the big ships. The idea of these massive wooden floating fortresses blasting each other at point-bank range in the middle of the ocean is so bizarre, I'd love to see what that looked like. I'd also love to visit the 18th century when the industrial revolution kicked off. But my God, you'd love to get back home. We have no idea how lucky we are to be born into the modern world.
Amazon is the retailer everybody loves, and loves to hate. There's a huge range of products that are only a screen and a click (or fingertip touch) away, with low prices allegedly helped by elaborate tax avoidance schemes.There's the super-convenient Kindle, with content that is the subject ofhardball negotiations, such as those with the publisher Hachette, which has led to some books being "made unavailable" for order. Most recently, Amazon has apparently stopped people from reading some cartoon ebooks bought through Amazon, which used to be available on smartphones. You can now read them only on Kindle. Unsurprisingly, the internet is outraged. Amazon is being a monopolist! It's shutting off access to content! Take it to court!Not so fast. Having followed a number of technology anti-trust cases, it's clear you're not going to get any lawyer interested in prosecuting Amazon for lowering the prices that consumers pay. Nor are you going to get much of a reaction if you complain that content on other platforms is being restricted. (You can buy those same cartoons for the iPad or iPhone via Apple's iBooks store. They won't work on the Kindle. You don't see anyone yelling that Apple is being a monopolist for that.)Everyone can see what Amazon's plan appears to be: become the dominant supplier of books and ebooks by selling them at rock-bottom prices, a move that drives rival sellers out of the market. Once that's done, it's not beyond the realm of imagination to think it might raise prices and milk the profits. Equally, in negotiating with content suppliers, it might demand they supply at lower wholesale prices because it has the largest number of buyers, who will thus generate economies of scale for suppliers. In other words, it wants to be both a monopoly (the dominant supplier) and a monopsony (the dominant buyer). It's heading that way for Hachette, which sells 60% of US and 78% of UK ebooks through Amazon. It's also not unimaginable that Amazon would stop making that content available on other platforms, to tie people more tightly to its own.Nothing about this, however, is vastly different to what other companies do. We've heard about supermarkets screwing farm gate prices down to the ground. Apple hasn't made the iTunes music store – the largest online music supplier – available for Android devices (though it says it's leaving Beats Music as a cross-platform service).Falling foul of US antitrust law requires three elements: a monopoly position; abuse of that position; and harm to consumers. (In Europe it's slightly different; harm to consumers isn't so crucial, though it still has weight.) When the US department of justice sued Microsoft in 1998, the judge found the first two easily: the Windows monopoly; use of that monopoly to push out the insurgent Netscape. But how to justify the third, when Microsoft had cut the cost of getting a browser from around $35 (as Netscape sort-of charged) to zero?Judge Penfield Jackson based his verdicton the potential for harm as a result of computer viruses if everyone used Internet Explorer. (It seemed something of a stretch at the time, though he was proved right.)In another case, when the US Federal Trade Commission investigated Google over antitrust allegations, and the claim that it fixes its search results to favour its own company divisions (such as Google Shopping) to the disadvantage of others, the first two steps were similarly simple. Yes, Google has an effective monopoly – 65% or more of the US desktop search market (more in Europe). Yes, it did tweak its search results in its favour,the FTC said. But – and it's crucial – the FTC decided consumers didn't suffer. Indeed it thought the changes helped users.By contrast, when Apple got together with book publishers and figured out a way to fix prices, theUS government and European commission walloped it, and them. See the difference?So all the internet noise about Amazon being an abusive would-be monopolist? It's just doing business the way businesses do. What's changed is that the wonder of the internet means we can see these manoeuvres going on almost in real time. If or when Amazon begins behaving monopolistically, we'll probably be able to spot it, and jump on it. For now, keep watch. But moderate the outrage until there's something to be properly outraged about.
Price £31,995MPG 44.8Top speed 155mphThePeugeot RCZ Ris a small car that goes very fast. With its pronounced wheel arches, star-centred alloys and exuberant twin exhausts it wouldn't look out of place in a Hot Wheels toy box. It's an Audi TT for show-offs. And it really is quick, too. In fact, it is the most powerful production car ever made by Peugeot. It's so responsive, the ooomph so immediate, that when you drive it, it's easy to imagine a giant child hovering above you, drool spilling from his toothless mouth as he zooms you across the parquet.That huge toddler whizzed me down to theNational Motor Museumin Beaulieu – a place of misty-eyed pilgrimage for me, a place of eye-rolling boredom for my 12-year-old daughter, who failed to dodge the offer of a "nice day out with Daddy". For me and the Peugeot, however, it was the perfect destination as Beaulieu was all about speed and toys that weekend. Speed: it was celebrating the 50th anniversary of Donald Campbell achieving 403mph in his astoundingBluebird CN7 at Lake Eyre in 1964. Toys: the museum had just broken the world record for the longest bumper-to-bumper line of toy cars. Volunteers took 10 hours to lay out 24,189 cars over 1.91km.After all the autophilia it was a&nbsp;joy to climb into the RCZ R for a&nbsp;proper drive home. Peugeot launched the model in 2010 to mark its 200th anniversary (it started out in tools, hence the lion logo with its saw-like teeth). The RCZ's classic lines coupled with the seductive double-bubble rear window made it an instant hit and since then Peugeot has harnessed that impetus to try to change itself from a&nbsp;workaday car-maker to a&nbsp;want-one car-maker. And it's working:Auto Expressnamed it the most-improved manufacturer and its RCZ was awarded the best sports car.Now, to pipe more fondant on to its cake, the company has handed the RCZ over toPeugeot Sport, the Paris-based division which gave us, among other delights, the908 Le Mans racer of 2011and last summer's Pikes Peak winner.Sébastien Loeb drove the 12-mile course that climbs 5,000ftwith 156 hairpins in a heavily modified Peugeot 208 in a fraction over eight minutes. The video alone will have you reaching for a sick bag.Peugeot Sport has now taken the  already amply endowed RCZ and boosted the turbocharged 1.6-litre petrol engine to create 267bhp –  40% more power than before. It's  also stiffer, has lowered suspension and upgraded brakes. For the extra five grand the race package costs you also get a matt black roof, special 19in wheels and a large rear spoiler.To drive, the car is supple and eager – it's more of a cougar than a lion. The gearbox is incredibly flexible – you can hit 60mph while still in second, something I normally only do by mistake. It handles Britain's degraded roads well, especially as its stiff suspension has been set up for the smooth Tarmac of the continent. It's a&nbsp;thrilling yet economic performer, and those two opposites rarely come in a single package.Should you buy one? Yes, of course. Will you buy one? No, of course not – especially as the un-tweaked RCZ is all the toy racer you need. But it's nice to think, one day, you just might.The journey to workPyramid selling: The Royal Signals, White Helmets Motorcycle Display Team join forces with motorbike insurance broker Carole Nash to promote Ride to Work Week 16-20 June. Photograph: Matt WrittleThe White Helmets Motorcycle Display Team joined forces with motorbike insurance brokerCarole Nashto promote Ride to Work Day (ridetoworkday.co.uk). Dressed as City bankers the team performed their famous human pyramid in front of the London Eye and the Houses of Parliament. On Ride to Work Day, motorbike and scooter riders around the world show just how enjoyable their daily commute is. What we need now is a similar capital stunt on Boris bikes…Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visittheguardian.com/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place. Follow Martin on Twitter@MartinLove166
Q If I've downloaded in advance some podcasts to listen to while I'm exercising, why, when I'm actually at the gym or wherever and want to listen to them, have the files disappeared from the iPhone meaning that the app asks if I want to stream them via 3G – which uses up data and besides the reception is patchy by the rowing machines.Luke via emailA This is likely to be caused by low memory on your device, the way that iOS handles file management, and the way your podcasting app stores files.When iOS devices are running low on storage space, they will automatically clean up any files that they can from currently installed apps. These files mostly come from a "caches" folder inside the app, and is where developers are supposed to store files that can easily be replaced.However, some developers use the documents directory or flag the files to prevent automated cleanup. I can recommendInstacastorCastro, both of which are excellent alternatives to the default Apple Podcasts app that offer excellent design and feature sets. Instacast also has the added benefit of syncing with Mac and iPad versions.Q What is the most future-forward way of storing and playing my music collection? I have well over 1,000 CDs, and in the last few years have purchased lots of songs via iTunes. Currently I mostly play my digital music via a hi-fi separates system which I've plugged my iPad into. Although the iPad doesn't have anywhere near enough memory to hold my whole iTunes collection, so choice is restrictive. Ideally I'd like to whittle down the CDs to a couple of hundred at most and sell the rest, burning what I might actually listen to beforehand. Then I'd like to be able to store my entire digital collection somewhere (a hard drive, the cloud – not sure my Airbook would hold them all) and be able to listen to it at home via my hi-fi – or in the future some Sonos type set-up which is also connected to my TV. Being able to listen to the entire catalogue in one other room and outside my home would be handy, but they are not priorities. I don't use any streaming services at the moment, but would like my new set-up to have that option.Luciano via emailA This is a good question, and is not necessarily straightforward because there are quite a lot of options available to you. The simplest way to store your current music collection would be to rip the CDs to an external hard drive as a longer term backup, and to act as a local copy if you wish to add songs manually to your devices. You could also store a copy in a NAS (Network-Attached-Storage) like a Synology or Drobo to play the files around your home.To stream your music from anywhere, you could upload up to 20,000 songs toGoogle Play Music, and then play back from any browser, iOS or Android device for free.Alternatively, withiTunes Matchyou can get iTunes quality copies of up to 25,000 songs that will be available on all your Apple devices or Windows PCs (through iTunes), including the Apple TV, both locally and by simply streaming. These files can then also be played over AirPlay to any speakers using either built-in software or the AirPort Express for anything with a 3.5mm audio jack, as well as via iTunes Home Sharing to local Apple devices or to Windows (via iTunes).Depending on the range of your library, you may be able to find everything on a streaming service likeSpotifyorRdio(in my experience Spotify seems to have a wider range of music), and after ripping your CDs for the sake of longer term backup, move to using one of these services for your daily consumption of media.Using a mix of the above is likely the best way to go, and I'd definitely make at least one hard drive backup, there's no guarantee that the cloud service you sign up to today will exist in a few years' time and you don't want to lose your collection.Q EE's coverage seems to have gotten worse in London since the merger. Surely the network should have got better?Nicola via emailA You would assume that combining the masts of two companies would result in an improved service on existing 2G and 3G networks. However, this is not necessarily so for a few reasons.The main contributor to the problem is that some masts have been converted for 4G signals. 4G provides much faster transfer rates and coverage. However, older devices that do not support 4G or are on plans that do not allow access to 4G networks will experience a worse signal around converted cell towers.Q I'm starting to travel quite often and find that my tablet and smartphone are running out of battery a little too often, what can I do to extend their battery lives?Howard via emailA Although battery lives are improving, they still often fall short of lasting long enough for a day or two of constant use which when without a socket (while travelling for example) can be quite irritating. Fortunately, there are some relatively simple ways of extending battery life without changing your usage or breaking the bank.The easiest way to do so is with an external battery block or device case. External batteries have been around for a while and units can now be found for relatively low prices.External batteries come in two forms, device specific cases that are usually a little more elegant but have lower capacities, and (usually bulkier) stand-alone units that allow you to plug in any USB cable(s) that you might have with you.Although the device case models are a little more portable, stand-alone units are more versatile, especially if you need to charge a phone and tablet – as a single unit can fill both roles. I have a 10,000mAH unit from Anker, but many others are available.
Kitted out as a flight sim,Ace Combat Infinityis in fact a feverishly energetic air combat action game.Set in a near future where alleged terrorism and civil conflicts have divided the Earth's populace, this outing lacks the graphical polish of the series' best entries, but it's solidly exciting and does a fine job of making even the most timid player feel like an ace amid the heavens.You won't have to part with cash to downloadAce Combat Infinity– it's part of the divisive "free-to-play" model that has proved so profitable for developers – but eventually you'll likely need to purchase fuel to take to the skies. The £12 elite pack gives you a fair chunk of game for the price, and if occasionally investing the odd few quid doesn't sound unreasonable to you,Infinitywill provide a decent game with a heavy tilt towards online co-operation. However, if free-to-play enrages you, it is unlikely quell that fury.
How intriguing to see theDuchess of Cambridge at Bletchley Parklast week, apparently listening to recordings of radio intercepts. In a way, she was an appropriate royal to open the newly restored Bletchley Park, because her paternal grandmother worked there during the war, and one of the veterans present, Lady Marion Body, had known her. In one of those coincidences, Kate's visit to the epicentre of Britain's wartime code-breaking effort came on the same day that theGuardianpublished the Home Office's 48-page argument that GCHQ'swholesale, warrantless monitoring of British citizens' communicationsvia Google, Facebook and Twitter is lawful because all these communications go to the US and back and are therefore&nbsp;"external" communications not covered by the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (2000).It's terrific that Bletchley Park has not only been rescued from the decay into which the site had fallen, but brilliantly restored, thanks to funding from the National Lottery (£5m), Google (which donated £500,000) and the internet security firm McAfee. I've been to the Park many times and for years going there was a melancholy experience, as one saw the depredations of time and weather inexorably outpacing the valiant efforts of the squads of volunteers who were trying to keep the place going.Even at its lowest ebb, Bletchley had a magical aura. One felt something akin to what Abraham Lincoln tried to express when he visited Gettysburg: that something awe-inspiring had transpired here and that it should never be forgotten. The code-breaking that Bletchley Park achieved was an astonishing demonstration of the power of collective intelligence and&nbsp;determination in a quest to defeat&nbsp;the gravest threat that this country had ever faced.When I was last there, the restoration was almost complete, and I was given a tour on non-disclosure terms, so I had seen what the duchess saw on Wednesday. The most striking bit is the restoration of Hut 6 exactly as it was, complete with all the accoutrements of the tweedy, pipe-smoking genuises who worked in it, right down to the ancient typewriters, bound notebooks and the Yard-O-Led mechanical pencil that one of them possessed.Hut 6 is significant because that was whereGordon Welchmanworked. He was a Cambridge mathematician who was one of the four earliest recruits to the Park. (The others were Alan Turing, Hugh Alexander and Stuart Milner-Barry.) History has tended to overlook Welchman, who has always been overshadowed by Turing, so it's good to see that his importance has finally been acknowledged ina fine biography by Joel Greenberg. And yet he played as significant a role as Turing in Bletchley Park's success. When he arrived, he realised that the station was essentially a cottage industry in which a few mathematical genuises cracked codes. If it was to play a serious role in the allied war effort, he reasoned, it had to be turned into anorganisationthat took in intercepts at one end and outputted usable intelligence at the other, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year. The cottage industry had to be turned into a mass-production system.And it was. One of Welchman's legacies was an organisation that, at its peak, employed 10,000 people working in shifts round the clock, all of whom had to be fed, watered, billeted, managed and transported – in conditions of the utmost secrecy. Even today, it looks like an astonishing managerial and administrative feat.The most striking thing about Bletchley Park is the unanimity that it evokes. It is universally regarded as one of the glories of our age, evidence that sometimes human ingenuity and determination can produce truly wonderful results. And the reason for this unanimity is obvious when you think about it: Britain – and the world – faced an existential threat. The enemy that the country faced was unquestionably evil. If Hitler had triumphed, then the consequences would have been too terrible to contemplate. So there was, and is, no ambiguity about Bletchley Park.And yet there's an ironic twist to the&nbsp;story. Two of the huts in the Park were where what is now GCHQ originated. The opinion polls suggest that most Britons think that the vast, sprawling organisation that is the modern GCHQ does a good or, at any rate, important job.But there is a significant minority that is troubled about the "mission creep" that has been revealed by Edward Snowden and now confirmed by the Home Office document. The spooks are puzzled and offended by this. Do the critics not understand, they protest, that there's a war on? Ah, yes, but this "war on terror" is a rhetorical device, not the existential threat that Bletchley Park was created to combat. That's the&nbsp;difference and it matters.
Platform titles don't often transfer well to the iPad's touchscreen – the precision needed for exacting jumps is hard to replicate with the sometimes unresponsive tactile controls. Thankfully, charming indie titleThomas Was Alone(iPad, Bossa, £5.99) manages to get the interaction between avatar and player spot on.Narrated with a wry tone by Danny Wallace, it invites you to control a red rectangle, Thomas, as he becomes a self-aware artificial intelligence in a grey digital landscape. Some simple running and jumping follows, before the eponymous hero is joined by further quadrilaterals, including Chris, a grumpy, squat square, whose jumps are limited, and arrogant, tall, yellow John, a superb manoeuvrer. More are to follow, with ever varied abilities. You must combine the skills of the four-sided, two-dimensional travellers so that they leap about the levels and reach the end points together.It starts simply, but becomes impressively challenging as the, at first, antagonistic shapes must help the differently abled to reach seemingly impossible destinations. The sophisticated combination of platforming and puzzling makes for a gripping adventure.
WhileSpace InvadersandAsteroidsmight be the grand old cultural highlights of the 2D shooter in popular consciousness, later classics such asR-Type,GradiusandRaidenhave long achieved cult status among the cognoscenti. The latter is the latest to make an appearance on contemporary consoles, with PS3 exclusiveRaiden IV: Overkill.Reworking 2007 arcade titleRaiden IV,Overkillis a traditional shooter that unashamedly serves a rather niche taste. The sci-fi setting underpins a towering difficulty level, while the simple dodging-and-shooting, dogfighting gameplay veils intricate scoring systems.This release offers several versions, including the original arcade arrangement. Overkill mode, however, is the star, introducing new levels and a scoring mechanism that showers points on players who risk focusing firepower into the remains of recently defeated enemies. Distinct from the "bullet hell" style that is the genre's current most popular flavour,Raiden IV: Overkillis far more evocative of shooters from the 1990s, and played properly – using a single credit per turn – it is an absolute thriller.
The firstLondon Technology Weekdrew together a cast of characters and ideas as varied and unpredictable as the sector they represent. From driverless cars to the ironic revelation that the capital's broadband network is sub-par, there was much to glean from five days of visionary thinking.1. It's deputy mayor vs OracleKit Malthouse, London's deputy mayor for business and enterprise, is no fan of tech giant Oracle.Malthouse told a tech week meeting that his top priority was to "take Oracle down", to much laughter in the room. Boris Johnson's sidekick later revealed that his issue with the company was its unwillingness to give a discount to the Greater London authority during austerity-driven budget cuts in 2010.2. Extended metaphors really get venture capitalists' blood goingSequoia Capital is a big hitter in the world of tech finance and, on this evidence, a master of the hackneyed phrase. Sir Michael Moritz, chairman of Sequoia Capital, gave a laboured endorsement of the capital's tech credentials. He said: "In Silicon Valley we are often too busy bathing in our private sunshine. But the change in London's technology climate has got us checking our weather apps. The weather alerts show that there will be plenty of opportunities to invest in technology companies based in London in the coming years – some of which will become global powerhouses."3. We're great at inventing things, not so good at what comes nextHigh housing costs in London do not help tech firms in attracting quality candidates, it is claimed. Photograph: Dominic Lipinski/PAHermann Hauser, an Austrian venture capitalist who works in Cambridge'sSilicon Fen, told audiences that the UK tends to make a breakthrough and then leave commercial exploitation of it to others.Graphene, the revolutionary material, discovered by a Manchester team but now being developed furiously elsewhere, is a case in point. Hauser said: "The old adage is that it gets invented in the UK and exploited in the US. We are getting better but a lot more needs to&nbsp;be&nbsp;done."4. Housing problems hinder tech growthLucy Haynes, London director of business group theCBI, said expensive commercial and residential costs were squeezing an entrepreneurial class that does not have deep pockets, unless supported by a venture capital benefactor. "If we are to attract and retain the brightest and best minds to Tech City and to the rest of London, we urgently need to tackle the endemic housing problem the capital faces. Freeing up land and building more homes is critical to dealing with this," she said.5. Robots will not take over the world any time soonNick Hawes, senior lecturer in intelligent robotics at the University of Birmingham, offered reassurance to those who fear the Terminator franchise is a glimpse of the future. Allied to the rapid growth of the artificial-intelligence sector, advances in robotics bring some science fiction scenarios closer to reality. Hawes said, however, that sentient and independent-minded robots are not an imminent development. "Autonomy is a very difficult problem and will limit where robots appear in the future. Producing service robots – those that work for or with humans – that cope with the variability of a human environment is a very difficult challenge." He added: "AI research has only made a small amount of progress on all the challenges facing robots in 50 years – so don't get carried away," he said.6. … but when they do 'take our jobs', humans will still cut itLondon mayor Boris Johnson and former New York mayor Michael Bloomberg at the launch event of London's inaugural technology week. Photograph: Anadolu Agency/Getty Images"The jobs most at risk of automation are those that do not involve creativity, interaction, imagination, thinking," said Frances Coppola, associate editor of online magazine Pieria. "There will be a time when we pay more for the human interaction over a job performed by a robot, like a hairdresser that better understands the needs of a human beyond the actual haircut."7. Boris Johnson is firmly in favour of driverless carsThe London mayor, asked when we would see driverless cars on the capital's streets, said: "You already have driverless cars on the streets of London – parked. And we have no plans to remove them."8. Scientists digitising the brain aren't trying to build deathbotsSean Hill, of theHuman Brain Project, said: "We're hoping to learn principles that may be very useful in developing brain-like functions. But our central goal is not about developing intelligent machines. It's really about understanding the brain."9. The internet is holding back one of the world's top tech citiesIn a report produced for the event, Boston Consulting Group gave the capital a spanking over broadband. It said: "London, which does not have top-of-the-line fibreoptic connection across all boroughs, suffers from mobile dead spots." So apart from that, it is a 21st-century city for internet connectivity. Offering advice on how to improve things, Boston added: "The city should benchmark its broadband against other cities with which it competes and launch an initiative to facilitate the development of public Wi-Fi and full-scale fibre rollout."Trying to match Seoul in South Koreawould definitely be a start.10. Whatever happens, things will be very different from now onTheEconomist, an early cheerleader of the tech sector through its technology quarterly, believes that the world faces a tricky period of change as it adjusts to technology advances. "Society has to meld itself to the demands of new technology. The world is going to change dramatically, but it's going to be a very tricky adjustment," said Ryan Avent, the magazine's economics correspondent.
Near the tree trunk-shaped reception desk and the tubular slide, youngsters in skinny jeans perch among beanbags scattered on the Astroturf floor. Beneath a ceiling sprouting jungle foliage, the talk is all of apps and coding.We are in the offices of one of the most successful children's games studios on the planet, but the location is not Silicon Valley; it is a back street in the London district of Hoxton."Mind Candy could be the next billion-dollar company coming out of London," says Mark Woulfe. A 22-year-old studying for his masters in computer games at Goldsmiths, he is on secondment to the British developer whose Moshi Monsters online playground has just passed 90&nbsp;million subscribers. Woulfe is helping Mind Candy make games for mobile phones, where the most popular titles can attract more than a billion players and the financial rewards can be life-changing.Last Thursday evening, as part ofLondon Technology Week, he was talking to would-be developers about how to get into the trade. While many young Europeans are struggling to find work, those gathered in the Mind Candy offices that evening will be pushing at an open door.The technology and information sector in London and the south-east is growing faster than in California, with 382,000 people working in computing, gaming, telecoms, film and media, according to areport by South Mountain Economics, published to mark London's technology jamboree. Include Oxford and Cambridge, and the numbers are bigger than California, with 744,000 workers.In financial technology, economists say the capital employs as many people as New York. When it comes to games played on mobiles and tablets, Europe is already a bigger force thanSilicon Valley, with the creators ofCandy Crush, Angry Birds, Clash of Clans andMinecraftall hailing from Britain and the Nordic countries.John Earner is an American games veteran who chose London rather than Silicon Valley as the location for his mobile gaming startup,Space Ape. Two years ago he left his management job at the publishing giant Electronic Arts to set up in Soho, from where he makes the phone and tablet game Samurai Siege."I thought about it for many months. I'm originally from San Francisco, so going back there, given it is the vortex of tech, makes a lot of sense on paper. But I chose to make a gaming company in London because it is easier to do and because the company would be better."The quality of local talent was a big factor. Earner's co-founders are the former Mind Candy chief technology officer Toby Moore and former Skype executive Simon Hade.London's ability to attract international workers is also a plus. Space Ape employs 50 people with 18 nationalities between them. "With the rise of the app store you don't get to choose your market any more," says Earner. "You make a product and the next thing you know there are people from 150 countries using it."Down the road from Space Ape isKing Digital Entertainment. With a head office in London and its main development hub in Sweden, King is one of the most successful products of the Anglo-Norse gaming scene. The company was valued at $7bn when it floated on the New York Stock Exchange earlier this year, and thanks to its sweetie-swapping hit Candy Crush, more people play King games each month than live in the US.The money flowing into London's economy from the Apple and Android app stores is very real. This year an architectural puzzle game calledMonument Valley, created by the Hoxton design studio ustwo, made back its development costs in one week, after topping the download charts. In just over a month, the game made £1.24m."In a lot of European countries, entrepreneurship is still frowned upon," says Rytis Vitkauskas, whoseLondon startup YPlanis backed by the Hollywood actor Ashton Kutcher and American Express. "That attitude has changed dramatically in the UK. Young people now actually aspire to become entrepreneurs." YPlan sells tickets by answering the question "What shall I do tonight?" Started two years ago, it is already up and running in London, New York, Las Vegas and San Francisco.A Harvard-educated Lithuanian who worked as a venture capitalist in London, Vitkauskas's globetrotting background is typical of the new generation of London tech entrepreneurs. Many, like his YPlan co-founder Viktoras Jucikas, whose previous job involved creating computer programmes for a Goldman Sachs trading desk, came to the UK to work in finance before branching out into something more fun.Alongside digital entertainment, the capital has become a hub for big data – industry jargon for the art of organising the mass of internet-generated information into useful knowledge. In industries like banking and advertising, according to South Mountain Economics, London already has 54,000 big data workers. This compares to 57,000 in New York and 98,000 in San Francisco.One of the UK's best known venture capitalists, Sherry Coutu, whose previous investments have included Lovefilm, believes the world's first trillion-dollar company will be in big data, and it will be British. The data it will use, says Coutu, is produced by the National Health Service. "If we use algorithms to analyse how patients get diseases, we will create a trillion-dollar company. I'm very optimistic that company is going to come out of London."Controversially, the NHS has recently made patient records available, in anonymised form, to the private sector. Because the UK's health system is state-run, the information gathered by trusts is standardised, comparable and, therefore, extremely valuable to pharmaceutical firms. This is not the case in America, where healthcare is private and each  hospital sorts data in a different way.Entrepreneurs say London's tech boom owes much to government policy. Tax breaks that let film studios recoup one quarter of all money spent making films with British content using British actors and crews have doubled employment in the sector. This year chancellor George Osborne extended that help to games studios, and the impact on jobs is expected to be just as significant.James Layfield, whose Central Working rents desk space in a club-like atmosphere to companies including Rovio, maker of Angry Birds, and Microsoft, for its east London-based startup incubator, says theTech Cityinitiative has also made a difference.Launched in 2010, the government–funded body works to attract digital businesses to the UK, informs policy makers, and helps recruit talent by endorsing visas for foreign workers."The Tech City initiative was a massive piece of PR, but it was enough to catalyse something special," says Layfield. "We have seen a shift in the last few years in confidence and excitement, in a willingness to believe."
An 'X' may traditionally mark the spot on a treasure map but, on Saturday, people searching for hidden riches in central London were following cryptic messages on Twitter.An American millionaire placed envelopes full of cash all over a park and sent clues to their location out via the social networking site.People were told to look for a "large space where green meets blue. Saturday neither early nor late" that shares a name with a place in California. Those who couldn't work it out from that were told to think about where Peter Pan might go for a swim.Apparently, that was still not enough of a clue for some, so Jason Buzi – who has been revealed as the millionaire founder of the Hidden Cash project – finally gave the game away, tweeting: "Apparently hardly anyone looking in the right place. Kensington gardens near pond and Peter Pan! There you go! Now get some dough!"That prompted crowds of people to turn up to the central London park. Some picked up sticks to poke around in the long grass, while other searched in the boughs of trees.Those who found cash were encouraged to tweet pictures of themselves. One winner Adam Mills tweeted two pictures of himself with envelopes and promised to give the second to charity.@HiddenCashfound another, donating this one to charity. Good work@HiddenCashpic.twitter.com/uokmAbO1o9&mdash; Adam Mills (@AdamMillsFever)June 21, 2014There was a friendly, collaborative atmosphere among the treasure hunters, said Joanna Burke, from London. She said she had already spoken to some of those who had found envelopes and picked up some tips. But she admitted she was still thinking tactically and didn't want to give away all of her best insights."Come over here," she said, looking over her shoulder and walking a few paces away from other participants. "I bumped into someone who had just found £40 in a hole in a tree and then a girl at the same time within 20 minutes also found money in a tree," she said.Burke said she had also been told that some of the envelopes were hidden in the long grass, so she said she planned to concentrate her efforts on that. She said that, like at least one lucky treasure hunter, she intended to give any winnings to charity.@HiddenCash- amazing! ! Thank you so much!!!pic.twitter.com/Gg8FvpShGA&mdash; Jane Fletcher (@janefletcher82)June 21, 2014Some, however, were a little more single minded. Friends Paul Wheeler and Paul Kettle, from Northern Ireland, both said they were most likely to go to the pub if they found some money. They said they had been searching in frustration, however. They insisted they had worked it out from the clues tweeted from the @HiddenCash account, but that it had then been made "too easy", so a lot more people than they had expected turned up.Frenchman Fabrice Léo, on the other hand, thought he might get a good meal in a restaurant. "If I find a lot, perhaps I will give some away," he added.@SkyNews@HiddenCashI&#39;ve found the first envelope!!pic.twitter.com/fwhHPGaWQk&mdash; Wilson (@Heels_and_Ink)June 21, 2014The treasure hunt was set up by 43-year-old US property investor Jason Buzi, who hid tens of thousands of dollars in America and tweeted clues to help people find the money. The treasure hunts took place in Los Angeles, New York, Chicago and Houston. He hid 20 envelopes in London and is reportedly considering similar hunts in the rest of the UK, as well as Paris and Madrid.In an interview with the Daily Telegraph, he said: "We want to see how London goes first and then we'll decide whether to expand it around the UK. Londoners are big Twitter users so I'm sure there will be quite a crowd. You guys seem to love a treasure hunt so it could become a scramble for the money."
It is the simple, ingenious concept that lets you rent out a spare room or book cheap lodgings almost anywhere on the planet from the comfort of your laptop.Airbnb's website has upended the travel industry, with the promise of connecting ordinary people in a new, more personal way of doing business that bypasses corporations. But now the San Francisco-based company is being forced to defend itself from accusations of being just another voracious internet behemoth that flouts regulations, evades taxation and enriches the unscrupulous.Nathan Blecharczyk, a co-founder of Airbnb who is also one of the world's youngest, newest billionaires, said that the company was a force for good – and was here to stay.Airbnb would ride out thebacklash from regulatorsand critics because its business model has spread around the world and the genie could not be "put back in the bottle", he said. "There are millions of people who have experienced something that they feel very passionate about and want," he said. "There is no erasing that knowledge. And there are, frankly, many other websites where you can do exactly the same thing. And many more that will come along in the future. So I don't think there's any way to put it back in the bottle."Seated in Airbnb's new downtown headquarters, a sunlit atrium with a coffee bar and skateboards for the staff of mostly twentysomethings, Blecharczyk, 30, said authorities would have to recognise that this part of the "sharing economy" was sprouting deep roots. Airbnb, which is now valued at $10bn, offers accommodation in more than 40,000 cities in more than 160 countries. A guest checks in somewhere using Airbnb every two seconds."Step one is to speak to the times," said Blecharczyk, a lanky and affable figure who co-founded the company in 2008, along with Brian Chesky and Joe Gebbia."There is this thing that's happening and clearly it's providing a lot of value to guests and hosts. It's a trend that's not going to go away."However, authorities and commentators in the United States and Europe haveaccused the startup of avoiding taxesand violating local codes about rented accommodation – the latest in a spate of similar critiques of Amazon, Google, Uber and other internet giants.Blecharczyk, who oversees Airbnb's technical strategy, said existing policies had been around for a long time and the company wished to help authorities adapt to what he portrayed as a disruptive but nevertheless welcome new technology."A lot of good questions are being asked. We need to come up with some sensible policies, some modern policies, to balance the legitimate concerns with the legitimate benefits that this new activity provides." Each city had different rules and tax codes about renting, some varying according to whether a host served breakfast, rented just a couch, a room or an entire property, said Blecharczyk. "The last thing we want is 40,000 different policies. We'd like to establish a model or template that cities can tweak a bit." He said Asia was the next big growth area.Even if Airbnb shut down tomorrow, said the co-founder, authorities would face the same problem. "Everyone is talking about Airbnb, but there are other websites where you can do the same activity."New York's attorney general, Eric Schneiderman, hassuggested that almost two thirds of Airbnb listingsin New York were illegal and demanded user data on 15,000 hosts. A key point is a local ordinance that requires permanent residents to be present in a property if they sublet it for a period of less than 30 days. Airbnb has now removed about 2,000 listings in New York that appeared to be illegal hotels and said that it also wanted to change a law that prevented it from paying taxes.Airbnb has depicted the vast majority of hosts as "regular people" who rent out only one room and interact with guests. But last month a study of 90,000 hosts in 18 cities found that40% had multiple listings. Aseparate data analysis of Airbnb's operations in San Francisco, commissioned by theSan Francisco Chroniclenewspaperand published last week, further  challenged the company's description of its hosts. It found that two thirds of the city's 4,798 listings were for entire apartments or houses. "In a city that has chronic housing shortages, the number of Airbnb homes that appear to not be available on the rental market is significant," said Laura Teller, chief strategy officer of Connotate, a data extraction firm that did the analysis.Critics in the company's home city have also cited cases of landlords evicting long-term tenants to turn properties into Airbnb listings.Blecharczyk acknowledged that it was happening, but said landlords had a history of evicting tenants to raise rents and that Airbnb backed the city's efforts to curb the practice. "Airbnb is not the problem. It's just one of the very many symptoms of the root problem."The billionaire said that for both work trips and holidays he himself used Airbnb rather than hotels. He recently spent three nights in Latvia with a host who rented out his own bedroom and acted as a tour guide."It was all about local connections. He knew everyone around town." Blecharczyk paid $25 a night – part of a pattern of frugality by the co-founder despite his now enormous wealth. The bike he cycles on to work is new only because he had to replace a stolen one, he said. "I don't like spending money. I like to keep things simple."Blecharczyk and his wife plan to rent out a room in their newly bought house. It has one advantage that is not available to all Airbnb hosts: a separate entrance, maintaining a degree of distance from guests.
I've never loved the new, resurrected Mini. It tries too&nbsp;hard to be cool actually to be cool. And with all that brand nonsense going on, too, it's&nbsp;as much a mobile marketing concept as a car. Plus it's&nbsp;been ruined by estate agents, a&nbsp;car for Foxtons twats. Red Bull, too. And don't get me started on the&nbsp;myriad derivatives – the stupid&nbsp;little Coupe, the Countryman and the Paceman etc. Those last&nbsp;two are so vast, incidentally, they're an insult to lexicology.This, the third generation, is available only in hatchback form for now. Like last time, we're talking evolution not revolution looks-wise. At first glance it looks much the same, but it's a little rounder, and the rear lights are bigger. Predictably, it's all bigger in fact, has grown by a few centimetres in all directions, making even more a mockery of its Mini moniker. But on the plus side, there's more room in the back, and in the boot.It is a wholly new car, though, and comes with some interesting, impressively frugal and clean new three-cylinder engines. But I've got the hot one: the four-cylinder, two-litre, 189bhp Cooper S. In orange&nbsp;and black, with a number plate that ends WKD. Oh Lord, who's the twat now?To drive, it's not outrageous, but it still has enough go-kartiness to put a smile on your face on a twisty road. It can also be well-mannered, though – not sensible, but more mature than the one it replaces.Inside, it's gimmick central, with different colour glows round the dash to remind you that you're driving in sport mode (red) or eco (guess). And a red starter switch. Maybe switches are the new start buttons, which were the new ignition keys (remember them?). I&nbsp;never saw the problem with a key, to be honest. At least you knew where it was when you stopped.My two-and-a-bit-year-old loves (pressing) the red switch. In fact, he&nbsp;loves everything about this car. "We got a orange mini car," he shouts at anyone who'll listen. Shush, it's our secret, remember? I'll get you something nice later… But then another mum at his nursery notices it (it's hard not to, even when it's parked a little bit away), and says it's cool, and she looks like she knows.Plus there was one, albeit the previous model, inThe Trip To Italy, the funniest TV show of the year so far, even if it was mainly a means of getting Steve Coogan and Rob Brydon to do their Michael Caine impressions. So maybe not just for estate agents, after all. Suddenly I'm feeling more cheerful. It is certainly that – cheerful. And likable, to drive, or just to be in, pressing buttons. Hell, I don't know, maybe it is cool.MINI COOPER SPrice£18,650Top speed146mphAcceleration0-62 mph in 6.8 secondsCombined fuel consumption49.6mpgCO2emissions133g/kmEco rating6/10Cool ratingWho knows?
NO MAN'S SKY (PS4)Although only shown as a non-interactive video, No Man's Sky is an alluring Guildford-made prospect, letting you discover a vast procedurally generated universe from planetary surfaces, up through the atmosphere to orbital battles and neighbouring star systems.FAR CRY 4 (PS3, PS4, XBOX 360, XBOX ONE, PC)Transplanting Ubisoft's mercenary-stalking open world shooter to a fictitious Himalayan setting gives its designers an excuse to show off distant snowy peaks, as well as grappling-hook friendly environments.SUNSET OVERDRIVE (XBOX ONE)A batch of contaminated energy drinks turns the population of garish Sunset City into starving mutants. Naturally it's your job to eviscerate them. It promises fast, silly monster-mashing.ALIEN: ISOLATION (PS3, PS4, XBOX 360, XBOX ONE, PC)The Alien franchise sees off practically every effort to turn it into a coherent game, but Sega's attempt goes back to its creepy 1970s sci-fi roots in a title designed to engender fear, especially when played using the Oculus Rift virtual reality headset.SPLATOON (WII U)Nintendo's family-friendly take on third-person shooters involves firing paintballs to plaster arenas in your team's colour. Its 4 v 4 combat includes characters who can turn themselves into squid, swimming at high speed through ink splatters to pop up and savagely decorate the enemy from behind.BLOODBORNE (PS4)From the creator of wonderfully brutal-but-fair Dark Souls, Bloodborne is a steampunk survival horror game with zombie cannon-fodder infesting the labyrinthine faux-Victorian city of Yharham.ELITE: DANGEROUS (PC)Kickstarter-funded and supporting the Oculus Rift headset to awesome effect, Dangerous is the 21st-century face of 1984's Elite. In it you're let loose on the galaxy to wander, trade, pillage and pirate your way to faster ships, bigger guns and higher status.THE LEGEND OF ZELDA (WII U)The briefest of glimpses of this new instalment of one of Nintendo's most fervently adored series was more than enough to pique interest; the beauty of its meadows and mountains and the promise of a less scripted, more player-driven approach to tackling its joys inducing paroxysms amongst fans.THE ORDER: 1886 (PS4)More mock-Victorian shooting action, this time in pursuit of a secret society of werewolves who must be hunted with retro-futuristic weaponry, mixing the legend of King Arthur with Zeppelins, makeshift laser guns and 19th-century thermal imaging devices in a game that takes itself completely seriously.Also at the show…CUPHEAD(PC)is a wonderfully offbeat 2D shooter animated in the style of a 1930s cartoon;HALO: THE MASTER CHIEF COLLECTION(XBOX ONE)brings you every Halo game so far in joyous HD; andMIRROR'S EDGE 2(PS4, XBOX ONE, PC)is the followup to 2008's acclaimed but commercially moribund first-person parkour game.
The list of household names – Blackberry, Nokia, HTC, Motorola – that have almost bankrupted themselves trying to make a hit smartphone is long, but this week Amazon became the latest tech company to take on the challenge.Jeff Bezos stepped on stage in Seattle on Wednesday to unveil his Fire Phone. With his mother in the audience, he presented the latest in a line-up of smart devices that already includes the Kindle Fire tablet and a Fire TV box. With a 3D screen, a scanner that will recognise – and try to sell you – anything from cereal bars to songs, and unlimited cloud storage for photos, Amazon's smartphone is a technology light year away from its first black and white e-reader. However, few expect it to take sales away from the two brands that now dominate mobile: Apple and Samsung."This sequence of crazy initiatives in areas where they have no competitive advantage is about sustaining an unsustainable stock price," says Bruce Greenwald, professor of finance and asset management at Columbia Business School, who is betting on Amazon shares falling. "Amazon owns the books market, but what is happening to the value of that monopoly? They have a core business in which they are dominant, it's going away and they are thrashing around trying to justify their $150bn market capitalisation."In recent years Amazon has moved from media to general goods retailing. On the west coast of America, it sells fresh food. Through Amazon web services, it rents out server space. It  publishes books, and is also making TV shows, including a co-production with the BBC on the latest series of the Birmingham historical crime drama Peaky Blinders, starring Cillian Murphy.Bezos is famous for saying you earn a reputation by doing "hard things well". But there are those who believe Amazon is now trying to do too many hard things at once – and at the same time facing mounting competition from multiple new rivals, from TV broadcasters to supermarkets and a Chinese colossus opening in its own US backyard.When the group introduced its first Kindle e-reader in November 2007, it did so from a position of strength. Then, the iPad was just a prototype in the Apple design studios. Amazon's ability to supply any title at any price to any location was forcing book shops off the high street. Its vast catalogue of boxed DVD sets and CDs had pushed the likes of HMV into terminal decline. The world's most powerful publishing houses were dancing to its tune, and Kindle would single-handedly create the market for electronically distributing their books.Today, it is Amazon's business that is being disrupted. The company that has made Bezos the world's 18th-richest man, with a personal fortune of $30bn, is now 20 years old and is being threatened by the very medium from which it evolved – the internet."If you're not wedded to physical media [books, DVDs or CDs], you don't have to go to Amazon," says Joseph Evans at Enders analysis. As his recent study on the retailer points out, when it comes to digital distribution of entertainment, Amazon is very far from being a monopoly. "Competition from Apple, Google et al means it is unlikely to dominate video as it does books."Google is expanding the range of media in its Play Store, and Apple has a multibillion-dollar business in iTunes. Every British broadcaster, from the BBC to Sky, has a TV player. The range of on-demand content from pay-TV operators grows daily. Netflix has 48 million subscribers worldwide. By comparison, Amazon's prime instant video – the division that swallowed LoveFilm after Bezos bought the British rival to Netflix – is some way behind with an estimated 25 million. And the entertainment we consume – books, games, music, movies – is, inexorably becoming bits and bytes. Americans spent $17bn on digital music, games and video in 2013, according to Enders – 43% of all spending in the market, a proportion which has doubled since 2009.For Amazon, its focus on media – digital and physical – is shrinking, but it is still a big part of its business, hauling in nearly a third of global revenues last year. It cannot afford to be left behind, hence the line-up of devices.Just as iPad owners are more likely to buy from iTunes, Kindle owners are more likely to buy from Amazon. "Like the tablets, the phones are a vending machine for their services," says Gartner devices analyst Roberta Cozza.But giving away the devices at knockdown prices has not created a mass market for Amazon hardware. Kindle Fire, the fully fledged tablet computer Amazon first released in 2011, sold 9m units last year. Those numbers are dwarfed by Apple's 71m iPad units. And now, others such as Tesco are getting in on the act. The grocer's Hudl tablet has sold well, and if you buy season four of Game of Thrones, Tesco will throw in a free pizza and 1,000 Club Card points."Before, Amazon were one of the few offering these kind of services," says Cozza. "Now every store we have is trying to add media."The supermarkets pose a second threat to Amazon – in delivery to the home. The network of warehouses Amazon has built up since Bezos left investment banking to found an online bookstore is very much the jewel in its crown. It is estimated by logistics consultants MWPVL to have 106 vast "fulfilment centres" worldwide, totalling 75m square feet. In the UK alone there are eight large warehouses and 10 smaller hubs, allowing same-day delivery in big cities.But getting goods into the customer's hands is where the system falls short. Those who shop online tend to lead busy lives and are unlikely to be in when the postman calls. To avoid long queues for parcels at the post office, Amazon offers alternatives, such as renting a locker in a central location. But these are in such demand that reserving one can take days, even weeks. Shoppers can collect from their local newsagent using the Collect Plus service, but this is managed by a third party and there have been complaints.Meanwhile the supermarkets, particularly in the UK, have quietly built up one of the best delivery services available anywhere. A man will drive a van to your door, once a week, in a one- or two-hour time slot of your choosing, between 6am and 11pm. If anything goes wrong, someone at a call centre will pick up the phone.Amazon's answer, if somewhat tongue in cheek, has been to talk up the possibility of parcel delivery by drone.Company executives have also hinted that Amazon Fresh, the online supermarket already up and running in a handful of cities including Seattle and Los Angeles, could come to the UK. Doug Gurr, formerly head of food home shopping at Asda, has joined Amazon as a UK vice-president.City analyst Louise Cooper describes Amazon's mooted move into fresh food as "a licence to lose money". She added: "It's insane if they think they are going into food retailing in this country. The logistical infrastructure Amazon has is not for things that go off and need to be refrigerated. Maybe it's a push back against the supermarkets who have been encroaching on their world."For now, the British supermarkets are too distracted by a price war and the threat posed by the discounters to ram home their advantage. It may be some time before they match Amazon's range of goods; the retailer claims its UK customers can choose from 120m products. Tesco.com, which now stocks ranges from other retailers including electricals supplies from Maplin and baby kit from Mamas &amp; Papas, has 260,000 products and most are delivered by post or must be picked up from one of its stores.But Wal-Mart, the American market leader which owns Asda in the UK, has begun to crack e-commerce. Its online sales grew by 30% in 2013, and will reach a predicted $13bn this year."The main problem for Amazon is it is going from being a disruptive force in the market to one that is becoming mature," says Matt Piner, research director at retail analyst Conlumino. "In quite a few areas retailers are seeking to imitate its model."One competitor is China's Alibaba. On the eve of a record-breaking Wall Street listing, it is gearing up to launch its first consumer store in America, a website called 11main.com that will sell clothes, toys, crafts and hobby products.With calls to boycott Amazon over its corporation tax avoidance, taxpayers may be glad of alternatives. It is under pressure on all fronts. At its most recent results, the company warned revenues could be flat this quarter and losses as big as $455m. Wall Street has always been rewarded for backing Bezos, with the shares rocketing from $60 to $400 in eight years. The lack of profits and the absence of a dividend hardly mattered. But in January, sentiment changed. The shares are down nearly 20% since Christmas. "Amazon is a massive bubble," warns Greenwald.Not everyone believes that Bezos will pull through.
Airbnb is a website that's fast becoming the bane of the hotel industry. The Silicon Valley startup, founded in 2008, lets people list their spare rooms – or even their entire home – for holiday leases online, opening up thousands of new places to stay in cities across the world.It's one of the most frequently mentioned examples of the "sharing economy" the internet is powering; instead of companies and professionals leasing out houses and hotel rooms, individuals can make a bit of extra cash by sharing their home.But the site's listings may not be what they first seem.Data from the site analysed by the Guardian suggests that professionals and buy-to-let investors with empty properties have carved out a huge presence on the site.The rise of these semi-professional landlords is causing concern among hoteliers and is potentially an extra headache for those struggling to get on the capital's crowded housing ladder.The analysis of more than 13,000 Airbnb listings in London – by far the site's biggest UK market – shows more than 6,600 are leasing out an entire home or flat, rather than a spare room. More than 1,500 people listing properties on the site have multiple listings, with 180 listing five or more properties or rooms across London.Some of the site's super users have dozens of properties across the city at once: one, who went by the name Petra, had 127 active listings on Thursday. The account did not return requests for comment.The study also suggests many listings on the site – which vary from a £20-a-night spare room staying with a family in Newbury Park to a £900-a-night warehouse in Shoreditch – are rented out frequently, rather than just once or twice a year when the resident is away.Using the number of reviews as a minimum for how often a property has been leased (visitors don't have to leave any feedback, meaning the actual number of stays may be higher) shows that more than 3,100 of the London listings have had more than 10 visits, while 1,600 have had more than 20 stays in the short life of the UK arm of the site.The Guardian analysis echoes similar findings made in the US in , published earlier this week, which found two-thirds of listings in the city offered up entire homes.The UK findings have further raised concerns of the British Hospitality Association, which has often sought to challenge its members' dotcom rival on the grounds of health and safety and property regulations."We are very concerned that large numbers of private homes are being let on a semi or even permanent basis to tourists because it's unlikely that any of these properties have ever had any fire risk or health and safety checks," said Jackie Grech, the organisation's legal and policy director. "76% of fire deaths in the UK last year were in the home and if you have strangers staying there who aren't familiar with how things work, the risks could increase."The BHA also has some serious concerns about the opportunity for antisocial behaviours that could occur in these properties, which aren't professionally managed."Others were concerned that if Airbnb makes buy-to-let investment even more attractive, the London property market could become even harder to access for those on low-to-medium incomes, especially the younger generation."We suspect that many of these properties will be owned by buy-to-let investors, many of whom claim they are not running lettings businesses in order to claim tax exemptions," said Ashley Seager, co-founder of the Intergenerational Foundation. "As we recommended in our recent buy-to-let paper, the government should reform taxation on buy-to-let to remove the market advantage they receive and place them on a level playing field with first-time-buyers desperately seeking an affordable home of their own."However, others took a more relaxed view about the listings, noting Airbnb was still relatively small compared to hotels – which offer around 120,000 rooms in London – and the size of the city's housing market."If Airbnb is being used by a professional group of landlords to provide hotel accommodation using residential property then this could potentially have implications for the housing market. But it would have to grow a hell of a lot to have any significant displacement effect," said Matt Griffith, associate fellow at the centre-left IPPR thinktank. "It would certainly have planning implications though."Airbnb itself noted that the site has in total around 17,000 listings in London, while the city has three times as many empty homes, with latest figures suggesting more than 59,000 residential properties are vacant. It said it encouraged hosts to follow all appropriate local laws."We require all of our hosts to follow the rules in any lease agreements they might have and relevant local regulations. The situation in London regarding planning laws has been frankly confusing with an antiquated law from the 1970s," said a spokesman."Housing costs are determined by a large number of factors, not least the amount of new properties being built. There is no evidence in London or any other city that Airbnb has a negative impact on house prices or rents."Margarethe Theseira, a research fellow at the Centre for London, was given access by Airbnb to their data to look at London's sharing economy. She said the vast majority of Airbnb hosts rented out their own homes, and said that while the pressure on housing costs was real, Airbnb may even be of help in dealing with it."[T]he increasingly high costs of living in London and the years of low or no wage growth for London workers (particularly [for] those earning less than median salaries) is putting pressure on London household budgets," she said."London households spend £60.26 less per week now than they did a decade ago. Having the option to rent out a spare room can provide a valuable additional source of income for London residents."
4.54pmBSTWell, we&apos;re closing up now, and preparing for the livestream, which is happening tonight from 7pm. You can watch at theOfficial Radius Festival Twitch Channel!4.15pmBSTI&apos;m not an F1 fan, but I really like the look ofMotorsport Manager, a strategy simulation in which you run your own – yes – motorsport team. Players get to hire drivers and pit crew, build their own test tracks and design facilities and then slowly work their way through the racing ranks toward the ultimate event: the world GP championship.The game is the work of just one developer, Christian West, who&apos;s been in games development for ten years. He worked on Geometry Wars Galaxy at Kuju, where he met Sean Murray who would later leave to set up Hello Games, creator of Joe Danger and No Man&apos;s Sky. Suitably inspired, West left Kuju and freelanced for Hello Games on Joe Danger Infinity to gain the funds and experience he needed to start work on Motorsport Manager.Motorsport ManagerIt doesn&apos;t look like the work of a lone developer: the menu systems are slick and neat, the 3D racing engine minimalist yet stylish. The meat of the game is race strategy – during GP events, players have to set up the cars, bearing in mind, both the weather conditions, and the shape of the circuit. If there are long straights, a car with a high top speed is the best, but if the straights are shorter, acceleration becomes the focus.It&apos;s not too technical though, and players won&apos;t find themselves getting lost in the minutiae of gear selections. West has been hugely influenced by New Star Soccer, the iOS football sim that became a global phenomenon with its emphasis on the off-pitch lifestyles of the players.In Mototsport Manager, all the drivers has different skillsets and personalities that you have to learn to harness. &quot;The key to success is building and investing in your youth facility,&quot; says West. &quot;it&apos;s all about finding your own Lewis Hamilton.&quot;The game is released on iPhone and iPad on 23 July, and an Android version may well follow soon after.Updatedat 4.17pm BST3.29pmBSTSo tonight we&apos;re streaming again from ourOfficial Radius Festival Twitch channel. As part of the evening we&apos;re holding a Court of Indie, putting reader questions – and we mean ANY questions – to Mike Bithell, Rami Ismail of Vlambeer and Paul Kilduff-Taylor of Mode7. We&apos;ll run this section between 7-8pm. Tweet your questions to me NOW at@keefstuart!3.23pmBSTTimmy Bibble&#39;s Friendship Club stand at#radiusfestival! Come by and have a play!#TBFCpic.twitter.com/2wuvwrskJU&mdash; Clockwork Cuckoo (@cuckooclockwork)June 20, 20142.11pmBSTIt&apos;s pretty busy in here now. Rami Ismail from Vlambeer is being interviewed by a YouTuber and his camera crew right next to my desk...Updatedat 2.19pm BST2.08pmBSTIf you&#39;re near the London area, check out the playable demo of You Are The Reason at@RadiusFestivaltoday. I play a baddie in it!&mdash; Jim Sterling (@JimSterling)June 20, 20142.06pmBSTRadius Festival visitors get hands-on with Volume, the forthcoming stealth adventure from Mike Bithell.2.03pmBSTJust chatted to the makers ofVictory at Sea, a sandbox real-time strategy sim set in key naval battle zones during World War Two. The player starts off at the captain of a single destroyer, but as missions are completed and enemies destroyed, new craft can be purchased and added to the fleet.There are currently over 80 classes of vessel to choose from including battle ships, torpedo boats, submarines and aircraft carriers, and three seas to explore: the Atlantic, Pacific and Mediterranean. Although there are specific directives to complete (like taking a range of Pacific islands), how the player achieves everything is up to them. You can just sail the oceans looking for enemy fleets and destroying them if you like. However, you also have to protect your own supply routes, especially across the Atlantic.Created by a small team atEvil Twin Artworks, it&apos;s an intriguing mix of exploration and battle management. The studio received funding from Creative England, and has sought to employ game design students in its local area of Swindon. Team members have also been into schools to teach kids about coding.The game is out on PC via Steam on 8 August and is due in September on smartphones and tablets.1.31pmBSTThe Minecraft Cocktail Bot with its creators. Photograph: Elliot SmithRight, this is something I really didn&apos;t expect to see – a robotic drinks maker that uses Minecraft to select and deliver ingredients.Designed and built byVerse Publicationsbased in Vienna, Minecraft Cocktail Bot, gets players to arrange blocks in the popular building game to create their custom drink. There are eight blocks to manipulate and place into the drinks area, each representing a different ingredient. On the non-alcoholic side: pineapple juice, orange juice, lime and cranberry. And for a kick, choose from gin, vodka, rum or Viennese chilli liqueur. Each block represents a single centilitre, so you need more than one block of each flavour to create the perfect drink.Once you have arranged eight blocks of drink, you hit the serve button, and the drink is mixed for you inside the chassis of an old PC; a pipe fed through the disk tray delivers the mixture into a cup.Tom De Roeck drove all the way from Austria to show off the device, which last year won the annualRoboexoticaevent in Vienna, where various teams show off their own robotic drinks dispensers. According to Tom, this is a major tourist event in the city, attracting thousands of visitors. It&apos;s so popular, there&apos;s now a version in San Francisco named Bar Bot.Apparently, most of the entries are more mechanical, providing clever little cocktail production lines, where robot arms are employed to stir the concoctions. However, over the last couple of years, more and more entries have been using games as an interface.Tom is here throughout Radius, so stop by, play Minecraft and get a drink – all at the same time.12.38pmBSTA Radius Festival visitor plays Laura Kate Dale's role-playing game,You Are The Reason, written using the open development tool,RPG Maker.12.34pmBSTHere is Andrew Smith of Spilt Milk Studios showing off his frantic eighties action movie-inspired blaster,Tango Fiesta.12.22pmBSTSo, in case you&apos;ve just arrived at this live blog and don&apos;t know what&apos;s going on. I am reporting today from the Radius Festival in West London. It&apos;s an event that I helped set up with Georg Backer, James Dance, Tracy King and Andy Payne, to celebrate independent games development from around the world. We&apos;ve been helped by sponsors Sega, Mike Bithell and Mastertronic, who&apos;ve helped with expenses. It&apos;s been a ridiculous and fraught collaboration, but amazing fun – and the place is packed right now.We have 20 developers a day showing their latest projects, and it&apos;s free to attend – you can just turn up at theWhite Spacein Great Newport Street and join in.12.17pmBST@keefstuarthard at work at the digital coalface, liveblogging@RadiusFestival. You should go and say hello!pic.twitter.com/uyNx2izmix&mdash; Elliot Smith (@elliotsmith)June 20, 2014Can you spot@tha_rami,@agAitcheson@mode7games@SpiltMilkStudio@LaurakBuzzand@keefstuart?pic.twitter.com/gJtH8eBZCt&mdash; Radius Festival (@RadiusFestival)June 20, 201412.02pmBSTNot a HeroI&apos;ve just been watching Rami Ismail play Not a Hero, the super stylised cover shooter from London studioRoll 7. It was originally developed by coder John Ribbins as a personal project on the old game making application Multimedia Fusion – however, his co-workers loved it so much they developed it into a full game and it&apos;s now being published by Devolver.The plot follows shady politico Bunnylord who travels back in time to change the history of his gang-strewn city. You take control of a range of his agents as they blast through a series of office blocks, taking out enemies and completing mission objectives.Not a HeroThe retro-tinged pixel art visuals are gorgeous, recalling the brash, lurid colours of Hotline Miami, but this time in side-on rather than top-down 2D. There&apos;s the same emphasis on cartoon hyper violence, too: when Bunnylord catches up with the boss of a rival gang, the tiny pixel character bashes his foe with a baseball bat then blows him up. It&apos;s a seductive mix of cutesy visuals and extreme blood-splattered chaos.Adding complexity to the run-and-gun action are two mechanics; a sliding move that propels you into combat at turbo speed, and a cover option which drops you into shadows to hide from enemies or security lasers. It&apos;s been called a cross between ancient coin-op Elevator Action and Gears of War – that pretty much nails it.Not A Hero is coming to PC early next year, with PlayStation 4 and Vita versions following.Updatedat 3.20pm BST10.56amBSTJust spoken toRami Ismail, co-founder of Dutch games developerVlambeerand well-known spokesperson on indie development in the modern industry. Here, we discuss the recent E3 exhibition, the over-crowded indie games sector and why it&apos;s okay to trust Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo – although some are more approachable than others...10.27amBSTIn Space We Brawl – twin-stick space shooting mayhem from Italian studio Forge Reply.The first game I&apos;ve played today is In Space We Brawl, a hectic &quot;twin-stick&quot; space shooter from Italian developer Forge Reply. Originally written as a lunch hour side project by four members of the 15-person team, the studio liked it so much they&apos;re going to release it on PC, and maybe even PlayStation 4.If you&apos;ve ever played classic arcade title Robotron or any of the games inspired by it, you&apos;ll know what to expect. Up to four players chose from a variety of differently powered space ships, then select a special weapon, before competing to be the last craft standing over a series of blast-&apos;em-up rounds – the left analogue stick of your joypad controls movement, the right one aims your laser.The visual style has a retro-neon look to it, and the armoury, ranging from flame-throwers and shotguns (in space?!) to photon missiles is imaginative and well-balanced.There&apos;s also an interesting little &quot;bounty&quot; mechanic, allowing you to choose one player as your assassination target – if you get them, your score increases. Alternatively, you can bet on yourself to survive the round.There&apos;s no release date yet, but you can follow the team on Twitter at @inspacewebrawl or on Facebook at /inspacewebrawl.10.01amBSTA selection of screens at the Radius Festival.Updatedat 10.04am BST9.53amBSTDeveloper Mike Bithell looks on as Radius visitors play his cyberpunk stealth game Volume, follow up to Bafta-award winning Thomas Was Alone. Photograph: Elliot Smith9.44amBSTIt&apos;s Friday, and a fresh set of developers are making their way to the White Space in Great Newport Street, London for seven hours of indie gaming. Yesterday, around 400 people attended the event, flocking around games like Mucho Party, Pig Eat Ball, Stronghold Crusader II and A Good Snowman, while also making drinks from the astonishing Minecraft cocktail machine (more on that later).Today, we have Vlambeer showing Nuclear Throne, Mode 7 with Frozen Endzone and Spilt Milk with Tango Fiesta, as well as 17 other weird and wonderful titles. And tonight from 7pm, there will be more live-streaming lunacy, viathe festival&apos;s official Twitch channel– and if you missed my interview with Stanley Parable co-creator William Pugh yesterday evening, oh dear, you really shouldn&apos;t have.If you&apos;re incentral Londontoday, please do stop by the event – it&apos;s free to attend and anyone who hasn&apos;t pre-booked a ticket will be allowed in as long as it isn&apos;t too busy. I&apos;ll be live-blogging from the Guardian desk at the back of the hall.Updatedat 4.33pm BST
I have just ordered a Windows PC based on your recommendation, and now ask for your advice on anti-spyware and virus protection software for it. Any help you could offer me would be greatly appreciated.MaryMass-market malware is a numbers game, played mostly with familiar off-the-shelf exploit kits (EKs). Most of the victims are people who don&apos;t install updates to plug security holes not just in Windows but also in Oracle&apos;s Java, Adobe Flash, Adobe Reader, and other widely-used programs. They&apos;re people who either don&apos;t run anti-virus software and firewalls, or don&apos;t keep virus signatures up to date. They&apos;re people who install pirated software or fall for social engineering tricks: they install viruses hidden in email attachments, or fake Flash updates, or downloaded via links posted to Twitter, Facebook etc.I ran into one yesterday when the Labour party press team unintentionally (&quot;we were hacked&quot;) tweeted a link to an owl video that wanted me to install a &quot;Flash update&quot; that contained viruses. The first moral: only download updates from reliable, official sources, which in this case means the Adobe website. The second moral: no anti-virus program will catch everything. In this case, I expected to find viruses in the file, so I uploaded it toVirusTotalto check. Only five of the 54 anti-virus programs found malware, including Malwarebytes and AntiVir. That means AVG, Avast, Kaspersky, Microsoft and many others missed it.Just doing the right things is usually enough to keep more than 98% of Windows PCs malware free, barring accidents. (Microsoft says that the in the fourth quarter of 2013, its software removed malware from 1.78% of PCs worldwide, with Tunisia having the worst infection rate at 4.95%.) However, accidents can happen to anyone….Keep up to dateThe vast majority of malware infections exploit security holes that have already been fixed, so the most important part of PC hygiene is to keep all your software up to date. Microsoft releases patches on the second Tuesday of each month, so either let your PC install them automatically, or install them promptly. Once a patch is released, malware programmers can reverse-engineer the fix to find the security hole and exploit it.Some other programs – including the Firefox and Google Chrome browsers – will also install patches automatically. This is almost always a good idea for home users.Further, I strongly recommend installingSecunia&apos;s Personal Software Inspector. This checks all the software on your PC, tells you which programs need updating, and gives you a score. It can install updates for you, and will tell you if a program needs to be updated manually. It will also tell you if any parts of Windows need to be updated, which sometimes happens when Microsoft&apos;s attempt to install an update fails.When you install PSI, use Windows’ customise option to show its icon in the System Tray notification area on the right hand side of the task bar. Holding the mouse pointer over the icon will tell you what you need to know. Otherwise, try to get into a routine of checking PSI once a week.Anti-virus softwareThis year, I&apos;ve been recommending and installing the freeAvast 2014anti-virus program, which includes anti-spyware and anti-rootkit protection. As with many free programs, it may come with unwanted &quot;foistware&quot; (eg Google Chrome), so always use the custom installation option. Alternatives include an old favourite,AVG Free,andBitdefender Antivirus Free Edition. I note froma quick survey at PC Promagazine that Avast is currently the most popular option (19.8%) ahead of Microsoft&apos;s offerings (16.6%) and Kaspersky (16.2%), with AVG (8.8%) and Bitdefender (5%) trailing.If you keep all your software up to date and don&apos;t visit the net&apos;s less salubrious areas then Microsoft Security Essentials and, in Windows 8, Windows Defender are probably good enough. They are certainly easy to install and update, and they&apos;re light and unobtrusive. However, Avast 2014 has better detection rates and my non-expert test users haven&apos;t had any problems with it.While a lot of basic anti-virus software is free, the suppliers try to sell upgrades to more comprehensive security suites. For example, Avast&apos;s Premier edition includes a SafeZone to protect banking operations, a firewall, email checking to detect spam and phishing attacks, an automatic software updater, a data shredder, and so on. Suites are convenient and useful, but not essential.For business users and home users who are willing to pay for a security suite, then I recommendKaspersky Pure 3.0 Total Security,which is currently on sale at £34.99 for one PC for one year. Like the basic Kaspersky Anti-Virus 2014, this will attempt to roll back any malware activity. As well as a firewall, file shredder, safe money and anti-spam/phishing features, Total Security includes keyboard protection, banner ad blocking, a password manager, encryption, backups and parental controls.Alternatives include such well known suites as Norton and McAfee. The latter seems to be pre-installed on a lot of new PCs.As notedelsewhere, I&apos;m also runningMalwarebytes Anti-Exploitsoftware, which is intended to stop unknown exploits before they install any malware. It&apos;s too soon to know how useful it is, but it&apos;s free and doesn&apos;t seem to have any negative effects.Cross-checks and rescuesNo anti-malware software catches everything, so it&apos;s important to run a quick double-check from time to time. The two programs I use areMalwarebytes Anti-Malware(MBAM) andKaspersky&apos;s Security Scan. A third option isSurfRight&apos;s HitmanPro, which you can easily install on a USB thumbdrive. It&apos;s a bad idea to run two anti-virus programs at the same time, but these three are &quot;on demand&quot; scanners that you can run if you suspect your main AV program might have missed something.The reason forputting HitmanPro with Kickstart on a USB memory stickis so that you can use it to start your PC if it does become infected: it aims to load before the virus. It&apos;s therefore an alternative Kaspersky&apos;s Rescue Disk 10. However, if your PC has an optical drive, you can start it from a Kaspersky Rescue Disk created by downloading and burning an iso file. If you only have one PC, it&apos;s a good idea to make a rescue disk/USB drive in advance. You won&apos;t be able to do it if you get locked out of your PC.
Content-free chat app Yo has been hacked, just two days after it exploded into the public eye.A Georgia Tech student, together with two of his room mates, claims to have hacked the app,which does nothing other than let users send the word &quot;Yo&quot;.Yo&apos;s founder Or Arbel has confirmed that the app is having &quot;security issues&quot;.&quot;Some of the issues have been fixed and we are still working on the others,&quot; he added. &quot;I cannot reveal any information about the hacks to prevent misuse of this information. We brought in a specialist security team to deal with the issues, and we are taking this very seriously.&quot;We working on the securities issues that came to our attention. We want you to know we take this very seriously.&mdash; Yo (@YoAppStatus)June 20, 2014Owing to its very nature, Yo possesses little data which would be of worth to attackers. The company&apos;s privacy policy reveals that it collects and aggregates &quot;username, UID and &apos;YO&apos;s sent and received&quot;, and information about the device itself such as operating system, device type, and crash data. But if a user has provided Yo with their phone number, using the Find Friends feature, then Yo retains that as well.According to TechCrunch, those phone numbers have been compromised in the hack. &quot;We can get any Yo user’s phone number,&quot;Mike Butcher quotes the anonymous student hacker as saying. &quot;We can spoof Yo’s from any users, and we can spam any user with as many Yo. We could also send any Yo user a push notification with any text we want (though we decided not to do that).”Despite the security flaws, Yo has exploded in popularity since Wednesday. The app is now the 19th most popular free iPhone app in the UK, and the fifth most popular in the social networking category; and Arbel has reported that 4m Yos were send on Thursday, a four-fold increase on Wednesday&apos;s one million.When Yo was launched, on 1 April, some wrote the app off as an April Fools Day joke. That impression wasn&apos;t helped by the fact that Apple had initially rejected the app, assuming that it was incomplete rather than deliberately minimalist.But the app raised more than $1m in venture capital funding, and now has a business plan involving companies paying to send contextualised Yos. A trial is already in process: users who send a Yo to the WorldCup address will be yo-ed every time a goal is scored.•For when Twitter&apos;s 140 characters are just too verbose – the 30 types of Yo
Wind Power!'Kite surfers doing what they do!' Photograph: Paul McCarthy/GuardianWitnessThe dramatic effect of force:'Following a 'gully raker' wind gust this ancient tree was no match for the force of the wind'. Photograph: Matt Eliason/GuardianWitnessWave Power:'Can we harness it?' Photograph: TimmRanson/GuardianWitnessGraze anatomy:'Tethered goat by the roadside in Western Crete'. Photograph: richardderwent/GuardianWitnessDefying the forces of gravity:'Ropes and tractors pull these fishing boats clear of high tides at North Landing, Flamborough. Taken with my Nikon D7000 18-55mm lens'. Photograph: ID195271/GuardianWitnessSurface Tension:'Surface tension is a property of the surface of a fluid, caused by cohesive forces between liquid molecules, allowing it to resist an external force (the water and the water strider)'. Photograph: BlakGard/GuardianWitnessUnder the Trampoline:'My daughter caught mid-flip, taken from under the trampoline. This is one of my favourite shots and was taken with a 1980's Olympus XA2 point and shoot, three zone film camera - a great piece of technology and design!' Photograph: filmloverjaxs/GuardianWitnessA slow moving force. Cuba - March 2014:'Shot on a Nikon J1 through the windscreen of a moving minibus en route from the town of Trinidad to Holguin. This is not an unusual mode of transport in a country of many surprises'. Photograph: ID0770848/GuardianWitnessBrute force....'Hauling thousands of tons of freight across America daily by sheer, elegant, brute force. P.s. I have been looking for a nun to photograph for this assignment for a "force of habit" image but there never seems to be a nun around when you need one....' Photograph: fourthplinth/GuardianWitnessA human centrifuge on Hampstead Heath: 'hopefully the two empty seats were empty from the start'. Photograph: Simon Mackie/GuardianWitness
Congratulations to Paul McCarthy, who shared this wonderful image of kite surfers harnessing the power of the wind as part of our Forces project. Take a look at our other favourites in our online galleryhere.This month, we would like you to get snapping on the theme of Scale. So whether it is rising mercury within a thermometer, a tiny insect on a buffalo's back or the view from an immense height, we'd love to see your photographs and hear how you took the shot. Our favourite will appear in the July issue.To contribute your images, click on one of the blue 'Contribute' buttons, or you can download theGuardianWitness smartphone app. We will print our favourite in the next issue of Tech Monthly and compile an online gallery to boot.Closing date is 6 July.
For some three weeks now, books from the Hachette publishing group – one of the &quot;big five&quot; publishers who dominate the globe – have been largely unavailable through Amazon.com. Amazon has taken away the pre-order buttons on forthcoming Hachette titles, and current Hachette titles are either not for sale (Amazon helpfully recommends used copies from its reseller network, as well as similar books from competing publishers), or are listed as being out of stock for the next several weeks.The action was precipitated by the failure of Amazon and Hachette to come to terms on their next ebook sales-deal. Amazon is far and away the most successful ebook retailer in the world, and Hachette, like all the major publishers, depends on ebook revenue as a key piece of its bottom line. As the dispute drags on, it&apos;s becoming clear that Hachette needs Amazon more than Amazon needs Hachette.In a sane world, Hachette would have a whole range of tactics available to it. Amazon&apos;s ebook major competitors – especially Apple and Google – have lots of market clout, and their customers are already carrying around ebook readers (tablets and phones). Hachette could easily play hardball with Amazon by taking out an ad campaign whose message was, &quot;Amazon won&apos;t sell you our books – so we&apos;re holding a 50% sale for anyone who wants to switch to buying ebooks from Apple, Google, Kobo or Nook.&quot;It was a tactic similar to this that gave rise to the Amazon MP3 store. The record labels were upset with Apple&apos;s insistence that all tracks must be sold separately at $0.99, and wanted to vary the price at which their top titles and back catalogue were listed. When Apple refused to budge, Amazon leapt into the fray with the MP3 store, whose products could be readily loaded into Itunes and onto iPods, because the MP3s were sold without &quot;Digital Rights Management&quot; – the technology that was used to lock music to the Apple ecosystem. Indeed, Amazon&apos;s slogan of the day wasDon&apos;tRestrictMe.But it is precisely because Hachette has been such a staunch advocate of DRM that it cannot avail itself of this tactic. Hachette, more than any other publisher in the industry, has had a single minded insistence on DRM since the earliest days. It&apos;s likely that every Hachette ebook ever sold has been locked with some company&apos;s proprietary DRM, and therein lies the rub.Under US law (the 1998 Digital Millennium Copyright Act) and its global counterparts (such as the EUCD), only the company that put the DRM on a copyrighted work can remove it. Although you can learn how to remove Amazon&apos;s DRMwith literally a single, three-word search, it is nevertheless illegal to do so, unless you&apos;re Amazon. So while it&apos;s technical child&apos;s play to release a Hachette app that converts your Kindle library to work with Apple&apos;s Ibooks or Google&apos;s Play Store, such a move is illegal.It is an own-goal masterstroke. It is precisely because Hachette has been so successful in selling its ebooks through Amazon that it can&apos;t afford to walk away from the retailer. By allowing Amazon to put a lock on its products whose key only Amazon possessed, Hachette has allowed Amazon to utterly usurp its relationship with its customers. The law of DRM means that neither the writer who created a book, nor the publisher who invested in it, gets to control its digital destiny: the lion&apos;s share of copyright control goes to the ebook retailer whose sole contribution to the book was running it through a formatting script that locked it up with Amazon&apos;s DRM.The more books Hachette sold with Amazon DRM, the more its customers would have to give up to follow it to a competing store.Hachette is the first of the big five to have its deal with Amazon come up for renegotiation since Apple and the major publishers settled an anti-trust suit with the US Department of Justice, and whatever terrible deal Hachette objected to is surely about to be crammed down the throats of the other four, all of whom are using DRM for some or all of their catalogues.However, there&apos;s still time. The Macmillan imprint Tor Books – the largest science fiction publisher in the world, and the publisher of my US novels – gave up DRM on its entire catalogue two years ago. Each year since, the company hasreported strong increases in ebook salesand no rises in piracy levels. If Macmillan – or its rivals – want to avoid the Hachette trap, now is the time. Push out the entire catalogue without DRM,now, and arm yourself with an &quot;Amazon Refugee&quot; app that can convert all your Kindle books to run on anyone else&apos;s platform, ready to release the very instant Amazon tries this trick again.Hachette&apos;s parent company, Lagardère, is a diversified multinational, so you&apos;d think they&apos;d be a little more strategic about this whole thing. But Amazon has its own space programme and is clearly thinking about a bigger picture than Lagardère can put in scope.
Biz Stone was one of four co-founders of Twitter, building, in his words, "a moral compass and righteous soul into the company". The 40-year-old has previously worked at Google and helped to pioneer blogging and podcasting, before being namedGQ's "Nerd of the Year" and one ofTime's most influential people in the world. He has written a book,Things A Little Bird Told Me, and is now CEO of a new venture, Jelly, a Q&amp;A app that is "a complete reimagining of how we get answers to queries based on a more human approach".You seem to be quite a caring chap and are the only one of the four co-founders not to have fallen out with the others. Do you prove that nice guys can finish first?Yeah, sure. "You can be successful and also be nice at the same time" is kind of the gist of my book. You don't lose anything; you gain things. In my case, you gain notoriety, knowledge, friends. I decided one day that I was going to be nice all the time and see if that got me anywhere. And it was fantastic. It made me feel free to go up to teachers and say things like: "I have a no homework policy, here's how it's gonna go."One reviewer of your book wrote: "I wanted to hate this smug, obscenely-rich vegan do-gooder, but I concluded by thinking success couldn't have happened to a nicer guy." Is that a difficult path to tread?Most of my Twitter feed is full of people who are saying: "This book is inspirational." And then there are some people who read it as I'm a jerk. What's ridiculous is that, a year and a half ago, I was talking to an executive coach who shook my whole understanding of myself. He said: "Biz, you can't really think that everybody likes you, can you?" And I said: "I've been operating under that assumption for a long time."What's your favourite compliment or insult that's ever been paid to Twitter?Early on, when everyone was talking about how useless and trivial it was, somebody wrote: "Twitter is theSeinfeldof the internet. It's a website about nothing." And me, being in my, like, hallucinogenically-optimistic state, thought, well that's great!Seinfeld– that's a hit show!Twitter founders Biz Stone, right, and Evan Williams at their office in San Francisco.  Photograph: Jeff ChiuEdward Snowden: hero or villain?Is there an in-between? I haven't categorised him yet in my mind. I guess he's more like a vigilante. He broke the law, which in some people's mind would make him a villain. But he also exposed important truths that people should probably know. I was really proud when that Prism stuff came out – there was aNew York Timesarticle and it had one little sentence: "Twitter declined to make it easier for the government." I tweeted that sentence.You're very nice about everyone in the book. The only exception seems to be Mark Zuckerberg. I take it he's not your drinking buddy ...I respect the guy, we just didn't click. My default if I get nervous is to just joke around and he's soserious. I mean he's all about business. If we got together, he wouldn't laugh at any of my jokes and I probably wouldn't understand what he was talking about – and we would just sort of be uncomfortable for a couple of hours.You tell a story of your tricky first meeting at Facebook HQ, when Evan [Williams] asked Zuckerberg twice if he wanted the door open or closed. His response both times was "yes", so Evan decided to close it halfway. Did you ever find out which he prefers?Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey Photograph: ZUMA Wire Service / Alamy/AlamyI never did find out what he prefers in his meetings. It was so weird, it was so awkward. "Shall I leave the door open or closed?" "Yes." What is that?Were you not tempted to include any of the arguments between the four co-founders in the book?Honestly, I couldn't remember. I wish that Nick Bilton's book [Hatching Twitter] had come out before mine so I could have gotten the specifics. I know that we argued over things. I was never upset – I thought we were engaged in brainstorming. I enjoy those kind of debates. If I were an astrophysicist, I would say that those are the kind of things that planets are born from.Hatching Twitteris crammed with backstabbing. Are you saying you couldn't remember any of it?I was oblivious to any of that. My theory is that everyone was trying to do what they thought was best for the company. And some people's ideas were so different they ended up violently interacting. I don't think people have the energy to go out of their way to be like the Count of Monte Cristo and plot revenge for years.In Bilton's book, Jack Dorsey comes off pretty badly …I read the first part of the book, where Jack secretly got Noah [Glass] fired – that was a shock to me. I thought Evan fired Noah because he was acting all crazy and stuff. We had Jack saying he couldn't stand it and wanted to be a tailor and I was like, we can't have this. I'm good friends with Jack and he's a sweet person and I couldn't imagine him doing something like that. And if it did happen, I definitely didn't see it. You could chalk it up to my optimism.Do you have any regrets about the way Noah Glass (the fourth member of the team, who has been called "the forgotten founder") was treated?Well, I know some things about Noah Glass that other people don't know – in that he's actually very successful. Well, I shouldn't talk about his financial situation, but … we gave Noah a shot and it didn't work out and he was fired. It's California, it's at-will employment. And he was granted a bunch of Twitter stock. That's more than fair. Usually when somebody gets fired, they don't get an extra bonus from the company they never even worked at.Are you still in touch with him?Unfortunately not. He moved to France and then quietly moved back to San Francisco and never got in touch. I like him a lot, he was at my wedding. He's a really goofy, fun, gigantic, strong guy – I'd love to go on a hike with him. Maybe he'll read this and call me up.As something that was supposed to change the world, do you find it slightly depressing that Twitter's most-followed users are Katy Perry and Justin Bieber?Well, no, because, in order for something to succeed, it needs to be fun and goofy – you need to develop a muscle memory for using it. If you build something that's only serious, people just won't think to use it.I was struck by the fact that you're vegan and Evan is vegetarian. Should aspiring tech tycoons go veggie?Ha ha, well, everyone makes their own decisions. I've been vegan for 14 years for compassionate reasons. Evan approaches it logically, he's very pro-health and pro-sustainability. Evan worries a lot about the future of the planet. He doesn't talk a lot, but he wants to make a lasting, positive impact there. But I never want to preach anything.Your wife, Livia, seems to be the only named woman who appears in your whole book. Do you think the tech world has a gender problem?There certainly aren't enough women engineers. And that may be because of the cultural bias, starting from kids at school. It is a problem – because we lose that perspective, a more humanitarian approach.Have you got quite a few senior women in your new company, Jelly?Erm, right now ... no. We have only two women and they're not in "C-level" [executive] positions, although my company only has 10 people. But there's no women on the board of directors. So yeah, even here, there is an imbalance.What's your assessment of the British tech scene?I get a sense that there is a burgeoning startup scene in London … because the silicon part of Silicon Valley has become vestigial. Everything's in the cloud. The chief technology officer of Snapchat has never seen a server – it blew my mind when I read that. You can start a tech company now with an English major and a hired gun engineer.And do you want to give a quick tweet-size plug for Jelly? Why should we try it out?Er, no – we're just working away on it, we're changing it every week. The only thing I'd say is that one thing I learned about myself is: helping people makes me happy. So in Jelly I'm trying to build a brand and a platform that allows people to help each other. If I can succeed in doing that, I'll have sort of productised my own personality – which would be great!If you had to write your epitaph in 140 characters, what would it be?Here lies @Biz. He tried to be a nice guy.Things a Little Bird Told Me: Confessions of the Creative Mind is published by Macmillan (£16.99)
&quot;Yo&quot; is agloriously simple appfor the iPhone and Android for sending one-word messages to friends, family and strangers. It&apos;s stupid, fun and mildly compulsive.But there&apos;s more to each &quot;Yo&quot; than meets the eye. Here are the 30 types of Yo, because context is everything.The pity Yo - for when no one will Yo youThe one everyone starts out with, because you have no Yoing friends until someone sends that all important first Yo. Or no one you know is silly enough to be using Yo.The World Cup YoSomething that might actually be useful. If you Yo &quot;WorldCup&quot; it will then Yo you each time a goal is scored in theWorld Cup in Brazil, even ifgoalline technology has some people confused.The come for dinner YoSometimes more than a ping is too much, a single &quot;Yo, dinner is ready,&quot; is enough.The spam YoBecause at first it just starts as a fun random thing, but before you know it random turns into spam.The Yo that’s fresh from relaxing in a onesieBecause. Onesie.The I’m bored out of my mind, entertain me YoIt&apos;s the equivalent of poking someone on Facebook, if anyone still does that, or pinging someone on chat. I&apos;m bored, talk to me.The ‘Yo, I’ve discovered Yo, LOL. Love Mum’ YoAnd suddenly Yo is dead to you.The text Yo, because you’re too cool for schoolSome people just don&apos;t want to conform to the system.The drunk yoWhy send a drunk text when a Yo will do?The concerned for your welfare YoWhen you haven&apos;t heard anything from your bestie, but just want to make sure they&apos;re not face down in a canal somewhere.The flirty YoEssentially short for &quot;How you doin&apos;?&quot;How you doin?The passive-aggressive Yo!When that&apos;s just not right.The yo’ mamma YoBecause it&apos;s fun to be a seven year old again.The ‘I don’t recognise your user name but I’d feel rude if I ignored you’ YoReplying to random Yos is ok.The troll YoBecause anything can be turned into a trolling mechanism on the internet.The Yo from Justin Bieber that crashes the networkIt hasn&apos;t happen, yet.The sorry, I ran over your cat YoAlso applicable for the condolences, Yo.The accidental YoBecause it&apos;s easy to accidentally hit the Yo button.The quizzical YoWhen someone is saying something in hushed tones, or in an obscure manner on the internet, Yo-tell-me-what&apos;s-happening.The I’m a lazy and can’t be bothered to write anything YoFor when typing characters is just too much effort, but you must make contact.The commiserations YoFor when your team just got knocked out of the World Cup.The random YoBecause you don&apos;t know who might be on the other end of that Yo. It could be Boris Johnson or even Wayne Rooney.The apologetic YoBecause sorry is the hardest word to say.The wake up YoFor those that sleep past their alarms.The sheepish YoFor when you&apos;ve done something you probably shouldn&apos;t.The Yo tennis, YoBecause you can&apos;t blink in a Yo-off.The fuck YoWhen someone really cheeses you off, but it&apos;s an office and you can&apos;t swear, even via text.The branded Yo! Sushi, YoIt will probably happen soon.The &apos;OK, Glass&apos; YoBecause you are that kind of person.The this app is worth $1m real, actual American dollars, YoBecause that&apos;s how much funding the Yo app really got.•Angry cab drivers block the streets over the Uber taxi app
The former RBS boss Fred Goodwin&apos;s homehas disappeared from Google Street View, just weeks after the search company acquiesced to a European ruling granting users the &quot;right to be forgotten&quot;.The ex-banker&apos;s house in Edinburgh can no longer be directly viewed on Google&apos;s street-level mapping service, although the rest of the street remains accessible.Google saysthat Street View contains &quot;imagery from public roads that is no different from what you might see driving or walking down the street&quot;, and automatically blurs faces and licence plates to protect privacy. It also allows privacy-conscious users to request &quot;further blurring&quot; of a specific image &quot;that features the user, their family, their car or their home,&quot; or inappropriate content such as nudity or violence.However, the company does not have publicly accessible forms for requesting the wholesale removal of imagery.In this map of the Edinburgh suburb where Goodwin lives, the streets covered by Google Street View are marked out in blue. The circled section of the former RBS chief's road is blank, despite previously being visible on the service. Photograph: Google Street ViewGoogle declined to comment on the story, but the Guardian understands that fingers are pointed internally to a bug relating to the company&apos;s recently released feature letting users look at historic street view images. As those new images are uploaded, occasionally whole tiles of imagery can be blanked out.Lest it seem too much of a coincidence that Goodwin&apos;s house is contained with in one of those tiles, the bug can apparently be triggered by requests to blur features, which may have happened here. If that is the case, the former banker&apos;s home should appear back on Google Maps in the immediate future.Goodwin&apos;s home remains visible on Nokia&apos;s Here Maps.Previously, users had been able to see Goodwin&apos;s home directly, despite vandalism in 2009 when the executive&apos;s bay windows were smashed. The windows of a Mercedes S600 on the property were also shattered in the attack.Shortly after, Goodwin purchased a less easily accessible house in the suburb of Colinton, for £3.5m. But after allegations that he had cheated on his wife, Joyce, the couple separated, and she is reportedly living in the new house, leaving Goodwin in the previous home.In May, a ruling in the European court of justice granted citizens of the EU the &quot;right to be forgotten&quot;, requiring companies like Google to abide by data protection regulations that allow users to remove information that is &quot;inadequate, irrelevant or no longer relevant, or excessive in relation to the purposes for which they were processed&quot;.Soon after, Google made availablea web formthat allowed users to automatically request the removal of such results, and at least 12,000 people applied in the first 24 hours after it offered the service. But it is unconfirmed whether the ruling would in fact apply in this situation, as the imagery of of the road is not &quot;inadequate, irrelevant … or excessive&quot;.•Explaining the &apos;right to be forgotten&apos; – the newest cultural shibboleth
A burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIs the web really free? &gt;&gt; getwired.comTerrific unravelling of how the web now works by Wes Miller:Imagine the response if you told a friend, family member, or colleague that you had a report/blog/study you were working on, and asked them, "Hey, I'm going to shoulder-surf you for a day and write down which Websites you visit, how often and how long you visit them, and who you send email to, okay?" In most cases, they'd tell you no, or tell you that you're being weird.Then ask them how much you'd need to pay them in order for them to let you shoulder-surf. Now they'll be creeped out.Finally, tell them you installed software on their computer last week, so you've already got the data you need, is it okay if you use that for your report. Now they're going to probably completely overreact, and maybe even get angry (so tell them you were kidding).More than two years ago, I discussed why do-not-track would stall out and die, and in fact, it has. This was completely predictable, and I would have been completely shocked if this hadn't happened. It's because there is one thing that makes the Web work at all. It's the cycle of micropayments of personally identifiable information (PII) that, in appropriate quantities, allow advertisers (and advertising companies) to tune their advertising.Uber isn't worth $17bn &gt;&gt; FiveThirtyEightAswath Damodaran:the market would have to be three times my estimate — about $300 billion — or Uber's market share would have to be more than double my base case estimate — more than 20 percent — to justify a $17bn valuation. The former may hold if you see Uber's market more expansively than I do, and the latter may come to fruition if you believe Uber will have an easier time overcoming the competition and the regulatory constraints on its growth.I also examined how the value would change if Uber's slice of gross receipts were to drop from my base case estimate of 20%, again allowing for different potential market sizes.Not only does this table point to devastating effects on its value should competition force Uber to cut its 20% take, but it also reveals a danger for Uber (and its investors) in focusing too much on growth in gross receipts. Uber may be able to expand its market by charging less, but the effect on value of doing so will be negative.We'll have to wait for Fox News's valuation to be sure.Answering the 64-Bit Question &gt;&gt; Tech.pinionsBen Bajarin:many missed the single biggest feature of the iPhone that required it to be based on a 64-bit processor — encryption. I have had many long conversations with chipset architects since then and repeatedly heard encryption is THE use case that will see the most performance benefits from a 64-bit architecture. Which means, it is likely Touch ID is simply not possible, at least in Apple's deployment, on a 32-bit architecture. This could also explain why so many competing attempts at a fingerprint solution are terrible compared to Apple's Touch ID.Apple's competition is left playing catch up. This is one of the key things I am looking for Google to address next week at Google I/O. As I sit attentively in the audience, I anticipate they will answer the 64-bit question. This is essential for Google, not just because 64-bit mobile architectures are the new basis of competition but because these architectures will usher in the new mobile era. One based around a new ecosystem of security and privacy through hardware encryption.Code Spaces hosting shutting down after attacker deletes all data &gt;&gt; SlashdotCode Spaces [a code hosting service] has been under DDOS attacks since the beginning of the week, but a few hours ago, the attacker managed to delete all their hosted customer data and most of the backups. They have announced that they are shutting down business.From the announcement:An unauthorized person who at this point who is still unknown (All we can say is that we have no reason to think its anyone who is or was employed with Code Spaces) had gained access to our Amazon EC2 control panel and had left a number of messages for us to contact them using a Hotmail address. Reaching out to the address started a chain of events that revolved around the person trying to extort a large fee in order to resolve the DDOS.That's all thecustomers'data, of course.Nokia paid millions of euros in ransom&gt;&gt; MTV.fiThe blackmailer had gotten hold of the Symbian encryption key used for signing. The code is a few kilobytes in size.Had the key been leaked Nokia would not have been able to ensure that the phones accept only applications approved by the company.In 2007 half of the smartphones sold in the world were manufactured by Nokia.When Nokia paid the money it was promised that the key will not be misused. It is not known how the key ended up in the hands of the blackmailer.Nokia took matter to the National Bureau of Investigation, which began to investigate the case.The situation, however, progressed rapidly, and the ransom payment was made in the Finnish city of Tampere. The money was left in a bag at a parking lot nearby Särkänniemi amusement park.Then things went wrong. The blackmailer took the bag. Police, however, lost track of the blackmailer and the money was gone.The case is still unsolved.But surely the blackmailer had the encryption key and the money?Finding the best lost-item trackers: Tile, TrackR and Duet reviewed &gt;&gt; WSJJoanna Stern:These trackers work best when you've misplaced your items in close proximity, which is usually the case for me. (Yes, my glasses are often right on my head.)When the trackers are in range of your phone's Bluetooth radio (100 to 150 feet), the app's proximity meter indicates how close your keys or wallet may be. Tile gives you text clues ("It's about an arm's length away") while TrackR and Duet show wireless signal strength.Duet and TrackR let you set alarms that sound off on the phone and the tracker when the two are no longer connected. That is, when you've walked away from your precious belonging. TrackR's iPhone and Android apps even let you configure a song to play if the alarm is triggered. I chose the Righteous Brothers' "You've Lost That Loving Feeling."But even if you never again lose your keys, you may lose your mind with this feature. Anytime I stepped out of range—taking the garbage out, charging my phone in another room—the sensor on my keys tripped, and alarms (and that song) began blaring.The Tile seems to come out ahead (it's more accurate about location - which must be the point) but is iPhone-only.SMRC, dba promises billions to charity by architecting the digital conscience &gt;&gt; PRWeb[Company] founder, Phil Nakata, a former IBM Chief Technology Officer and former Computer Science Corporation Partner explains, "By giving everyone a trusted digital companion -- think a Siri with the intelligence of a supercomputer - we can provide everyone the individually tailored knowledge, resources, and security they need to fully express themselves. Then by taking how business is done on the web currently, and feeding it the red pill, we can use the system's business intelligence to create massive amounts of value for humanity [the individuals and their social causes], by, first, biometrically securing everyone's identities, while simultaneously giving them back the revenues and control of something which is worth trillions: their market data.""Architecting the digital consciousness"?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Friday.
Email is both a miracle and a curse. At no other time in human history and we been able to exchange messages instantly globally; but at the same time, our ancestors didn't spend hours each day sifting through memos, missives and newsletters we probably should just unsubscribe from.It doesn't have to be this way –&nbsp;here are 19 tips, tricks and add-ons that will make email a breeze.GMAILCanned responsesMuch of our time using email is wasted crafting pitch-perfect responses to emails that could otherwise be dismissed with a cheerful "thanks, but I'm going to have to pass on this!"Canned Responses, a Gmail Labs feature found in Settings -&gt; Labs -&gt; Canned Responses, allows you to save standard responses that can be inserted into emails at the click of a button.Undo sendIn an ideal world, we would never send anything we didn't mean to. In the real world, features such as undo send exist. It can be found in Settings -&gt; Labs -&gt; Undo Send and in effect delays sending your email for up to 30 seconds so that you have the chance to bring it back.BoomerangA powerful app for Gmail that acts as your personal email valet, Boomerang allows you to schedule emails to be sent in the future and can give you a tap on the shoulder when someone fails to reply to your email. It can be found by Googling Boomerang for Gmail. A version for Microsoft Outlook also exists.Multiple email addressesWeb services generally allow you only to create one account per email address, which can be a pain if you want to run two Twitter accounts, for example. Instead of having to manage multiple email accounts – one is hard enough – Gmail allows you to tweak your email address with dots and plus signs.For example, firstname.surname@gmail.com, firstnamesurname@gmail.com and firstnamesurname+test@gmail.com are in Gmail's eyes the same account. Messages sent to either of them end up in the same inbox. If I wanted to, I could create three Twitter accounts with one Gmail account.A word of warning, while multiple dots can appear anywhere in the address, a single plus symbol must come after your standard account name, as above.Combine accountsIt's possible that you already run multiple email accounts – instead of having to manage each individually, you can in effect turn them all into one email account under the Gmail umbrella using email forwarding. By going to Settings -&gt; Accounts and Import -&gt; Check email from other accounts, you can link your other email accounts to Gmail. Once you've done this, you can set up filters to treat incoming mail from different accounts differently if you wish.Labels and filtersThis is less of a tip or a trick and more of an exhortation to use your mail more efficiently. Spend some time adding filters, which can be created by doing a search and then clicking "Create filter with this search", so that emails are sorted even before they hit your inbox. And add labels to conversations. This can be done automatically using filters so that they can be more easily retrieved via search at a later stage.Archive everythingAs a general rule, we tend to be hoarders of digital information. Desperately holding on to every last message, photo and file in case we might need it in future. This makes sense with important emails, but remember that Gmail's archive function doesn't make your emails difficult to access – they're still searchable, retrievable and, most important, no longer clogging up your inbox.Send &amp; archiveThis nifty little feature, which can be activated by going to Settings -&gt; General -&gt; Send &amp; Archive, is the Gmail equivalent of filing away your messages once you've replied to them.Instead of remaining in your inbox after you have dealt with an issue, the email is automatically archived when you click send, clearing up your in-tray and letting you focus on the next email.Mute conversationsOne of the worst aspects of modern email behaviour is our tendency to cc every last person in email threads, no matter how tangentially relevant to or responsible for the topic of discussion.If you are the subject of this relentless ccing, you can mute a conversation by clicking More –&gt; Mute from within an email, which means messages from that email thread will no longer appear in your inbox. You will still be able to find it via the search bar.Is this email really for you?You can see at a glance if an email has been sent to you personally by turning on Gmail's personal level indicators. This feature, found in Settings -&gt; General, displays a single arrow beside emails that have been sent to your email address specifically, ie not to a mailing list, and a double arrow if an email has been sent to you alone. This feature isn't entirely foolproof, however.The power of searchGoogle's existence is built on its ability to search information well (and to sell ads as a result of that search, of course). So, as you might expect, the search function in Gmail is incredibly powerful once you begin to get to grips with it. I won't list all of the search operators here – Google "list of gmail search operators" – but here's some advice for anyone with thousands of messages clogging up their inbox.Search "older_than:14d" and select all the emails that appear by clicking the checkbox on the top left. Then "Select all conversations that match this search", which will be every last email you've ever received up until two weeks ago. Finally, archive them all. They're all still there if you need to find them, but now they're not hanging over your head anymore.Keyboard shortcutsAs with any software, learning some basic keyboards shortcuts will allow you to streamline your workflow by reducing the need to involve your mouse. With Gmail, you'll need to activate keyboard shortcuts by going to Settings -&gt; General -&gt; Keyboard Shortcuts. To find the full list of shortcuts, Google "Gmail keyboard shortcuts" but some basic ones include C for composing a new message, E for archiving a message and R to reply to a message.You can customise your keyboard shortcuts by going to Settings -&gt; Labs -&gt; Custom keyboard shortcuts.Gmail OfflineIn future it will be child's play to remain connected to the internet at all times, but until then Gmail Offline is useful for working when you can't get online.It can be found by going to Settings -&gt; Gmail Offline and when used in conjunction with the Gmail Offline Sync Optimizer, automatically saves emails from up to a month ago on your computer. Any changes you make or emails you compose are automatically synced when you are reconnected to the internet.Authenticated sendersOne way scammers attempt to steal your personal details is with emails that pretend to be from companies such as eBay. Gmail has a function that puts a little key icon beside emails that are from verified senders, giving you another piece of information to help you detect what is legitimate mail and what is an attempt to trick your information out of you. This feature can be activated by going to Settings -&gt; Labs -&gt; Authentication icon for verified senders.OUTLOOKCreate aliasesWhile Gmail allows you to alter your email address with dots and plus signs, Outlook takes a slightly different approach, which is the creation of aliases associated with your core account. An alias is a separate email address connected to your main address, using, for example, the same inbox and password. To create an alias, click the cog -&gt; Options -&gt; Create an Outlook.com alias.SweepOutlook makes it easy to clear masses of emails with the Sweep function. Just by clicking on one email from a specific newsletter, for example, Sweep gives you the option of deleting all instances of that newsletter at the click of a button.Keyboard shortcutsLike Gmail, Outlook offers the ability to use keyboard shortcuts to streamline your email use. But unlike Gmail, Outlook offers you the opportunity to switch them to Yahoo or Gmail style shortcuts. It's slightly less powerful than Gmail's fully customisable add-on, but perhaps more straightforward for a casual user. To create a new email you push N, but a full list can be foundhere.YAHOOCreate aliasesAs with Outlook, Yahoo Mail allows you to create an alias that lets you disguise your email address when using Yahoo Messenger or Yahoo's message boards. To create an alias, click the cog -&gt; Account Info -&gt; Manage your Yahoo aliases.Alternative and disposable email addressesIn Yahoo's case, aliases are different to alternative email addresses, which function like Outlook's aliases, and disposable email addresses, which is closer to Gmail's dot and plus sign functionality. You can have only one alternative email address, which is basically another linked account, while you can have many disposable email addresses, which act as receiving addresses only. To create an alternative email address, click the cog -&gt; Settings -&gt; Accounts - &gt; Create an extra email address and to create a disposable email address, click the cog -&gt; Settings -&gt; Security -&gt; Disposable Addresses.Delay "mark as read"If you're the kind of person who sometimes opens an email briefly without reading it or responding to it, Yahoo has a nifty little feature that will mark an email as "read" only if it has been opened for more than five seconds. If that's not long enough, you can set it to "never", so that you have to mark them as read manually. To enable this feature, click the cog -&gt; Settings -&gt; Viewing email -&gt; Mark as readiCloudCreate aliasesAs with the other email services, iCloud also has email aliases. Functioning as additional email accounts that feed into your central account, the aliases help you conceal your real email address. However, you can have only three active aliases at a time. To create an alias, click the cog -&gt; Preferences -&gt; Accounts -&gt; Add an alias.Archive instead of deletingIn case you want to retain your emails by default, you can replace the delete button with an archive button. A word of warning – this will become frustrating if spam makes up a significant proportion of your incoming email, denying you the satisfaction of hitting delete on unwanted mail. To swap delete for archive, click the cog -&gt; Preferences -&gt; Show Archive icon in the toolbar.Create rulesLike other email services, iCloud allows you to set up rules for incoming mail, helping to keep your main inbox clear. You can either choose to automatically forward the mail, move it to a specific folder, or if you want in effect to block someone, send it straight to trash. To set up rules, click the cog -&gt; Rules -&gt; Add a Rule.
In the era of big data, the battle for privacy has already been fought and lost – personal data is routinely collected and traded in the new economy and there are few effective controls over how it is used or secured. Data researchers and analysts now say that it’s time for legislation to reclaim some of that privacy and ensure that any data that is collected remains secure.“We have become the product,” says Rob Livingstone, a fellow of the University of Technology and the head of a business advisory firm.“We are being productised and sold to anyone,” he said. “We’re being monetised in essence. We are being mobilised as products with inducement of the services of we use such as Facebook and Twitter.”However, Livingstone says the dilemma facing regulators is how they can regulate the collection, storage and trading of personal data on the on the internet, when all of these activities, and the corporations themselves, operate across multiple continents and jurisdictions.The task of reclaiming some semblance of privacy is all the more urgent because the rate at which personal data is being collected is accelerating. The buzz around big data is attracting millions of dollars of from investors and brands hoping to turn a profit, while intelligence agencies are also furiously collecting information about our online activities for much different purposes.And alongside these, there’s also the black market operators that make millions of dollars a year out of things like identity theft and matching disparate data sets across the web to help identify people who might be suitable targets for a scam.Add to that emerging technologies like Google Glass and facial recognition technology (which, by the way is already being deployed by Facebook and shared with Australian state and federal police) and you’ve got a recipe for ubiquitous mass online surveillance not just by intelligence agencies, but by all. And it&apos;s unclear how all this will be used in the near or long-term future.While many of us don&apos;t think much of sharing our details online now, Livingstone says the danger is that our society may relinquish its privacy rights &quot;without due regard for future consequences” and without debate over the implications.Eerke Boiten, a senior lecturer at the University of Kent, advocates the creation of standards to better protect the data that is collected and exchanged online.“You could make it compulsory for web servers to use the secure HTTPS prefix rather than the HTTP default,” he said. “A lot of encryption capabilities on existing mobile and tablet technology is switched off by default too. You could change that.”But as to who should create these standards and who gets to decide what the standards include “is a political question”, Boiten says.“You could mandate through government though it should be mandated through the market, if enough people want it badly enough.”But that requires enough people to know and understand what they’re asking for, and then you’re back to the problem of protecting people from their own ignorance when it comes to privacy and security.But then again in the UK there has already been a consumer backlash against revelations that medical data was being onsold to marketers without knowledge or consent of the people it belonged to.But hoping and waiting for the Australian population to take notice may not be the most efficient way to get things done. In Australia, Boiten said the country’s data protection needed to be “stronger and with more teeth”.New privacy principles were recently passed into law which required all businesses earning more than $3m annually to disclose to customers how their information was being stored and used, however the new legislation stopped short of mandating compulsory data breach notifications for businesses who fall victim to security violations.A bill that would make it illegal to hide security problems was set to pass into law last year, however it failed to make it through both houses of the Senate before the election. And since the Coalition took power, the legislation has stalled.Boiten agreed with Livingstone’s assessment that companies are simply not capable of protecting their own data.“The technology is not good enough yet,” he said. “Yes there are crypto solutions but they get implemented badly and they get used badly, are inconvenient to use, and require lots of time and money in training.“Ebay is still in business. Target is still in business. Even though they both lost a significant amount of data. The incentives are not strong enough on companies to get it in right.”Or is volunteering our personal data simply the price we pay for free services?As the old saying goes, if you’re not paying for it, you’re the product. Paul Greenberg, head of the National Online Retailers Association told Guardian Australia that he was happy to share his data “so long as I’m getting something back”.“Information can be priced,” he said, “and it always has had a price. I don’t see why that will change.”“Knowledge is power, but the transaction between consumers and service won’t be about monetary terms, it’ll be about relevance. I’d happily trade you relevance for information. And I reckon a lot of people will also.”Greenberg said the privacy concerns over big data are “completely overstated”.“Maybe I don’t want people to know about my love life, but I’m happy to put a price on my privacy,” he said. “As long as I get a ROI, whether that’s in the form of relevant content, or customised goods or services”.Greenberg, however, admitted that even the most successful corporations have difficulty protecting their customers’ information from security breaches and that something needed to be done to protect them.But then there’s the national security argument of big data. Edward Snowden revealed last year that the National Security Agency, GHCQ and ASIO (amongst others) were and are conducting wholesale surveillance of its citizens online, sucking up all the noise in the hopes that its sophisticated technology can detect patterns or anomalies that could help prevent acts of terror.Boiten argued that there was little evidence to suggest mass data surveillance was efficient, or effective.“You’re doing mass data collation but what evidence do we have that it works?,” he asked.It was revealed in the wake of the Boston bombings that the FBI had been contacted by Russian authorities about the Tsarnaev brothers about a year prior to the event warning them that the two were potentially dangerous to America’s national security but they were determined not to be a threat.A number of warning signs were discovered in the computer networks of a number of US intelligence agencies post 9/11 also. It was discovered that failure to properly implement and monitor computer software that had been implemented to direct terror activity was at least partially to blame.“Data surveillance didn’t prevent the Boston bombings. We know which bit of information probably should have but didn’t flow from one place to another, which could have prevented the 9/11 attacks.“Intelligence agencies like to claim they also prevented some big things which they weren’t able to tell us about because that would give their agents or trade secrets away, but now security is increasingly a trust game. Do those programs exist? Did they ever help to prevent an attack? We’ll never know.”Sponsored contentThis content has been sponsored by IBM, whose brand it displays. All content is editorially independent.
5.24pmBSTWell, that&apos;s day one done! Don&apos;t forget to tune in to tonight&apos;s live stream chat show where we&apos;ll be talking to the likes of Mike Bithell and William Pugh, plus a whole bunch of developers. Just head to ourOfficial Radius Festival Twitch Channelat 7pm!5.07pmBSTMy final mini-preview for today is the extremely promisingTerratechfrom Payload Studios. It&apos;s sort of Command &amp; Conquer meets Lego – you control an exploration craft sent to find resources on alien planets. As you traverse the landscape, you find elements that can be used to customise your craft – or you can just attack other computer-controlled space miners and steal bits from their vehicles.Right now, there are around 80 different pieces to collect and use to modify your ride - everything from wheels and weapons to AI blocks and better drilling equipment. You can also build multiple vehicles, using the AI engines to give them self-control so they all follow you around like Pikmin. Construction is all about balance though – elements like energy and power-to-weight ratio come into play so you can&apos;t build massive armoured monsters without hugely increasing power consumption and grinding to a near halt.Interestingly, Payload is taking an open approach to development, working with its community to come up with new gameplay features and live-streaming from the office every day at 5pm to show off the design process.A Kickstarter appeal is launching on Monday so that the small five-person team can afford to add in some additional, much-requested features – like the obvious multiplayer mode. The team is hoping to launch on Steam Early Access in October.4.45pmBSTRight, this is one of my favourites so far.Pig Eat Ballby Mommy&apos;s Best Games is riotous four-player arena-based mini-game collection where everyone controls greedy pigs battling it out to consume a range of objects.Designed by Nathan Fouts, who once worked at Insomniac and proudly boasts about once working on Postal 2, Pig Eat Ball is amazingly good, furously compulsive fun. In one game you have to eat as many tennis balls as you can as they shoot out of serving machines; however, use your boost button to hit an enemy and they puke their ball up – and if anyone eats the regurgitated ball, they also throw up, so at times you get revolting mass vomit sessions, spraying green gunk across the screen.In another task, you have to make sandwiches by picking up the ingredients then shooting it all across the screen to your plate. It&apos;s possible to steal bread, pickles, cheese and meat from other players, again by boosting into them – or you can just throw stuff in the bin as soon as it spawns to spite everyone.The pixel art is brilliantly idiosyncratic; the environments a woozy mix of sushi restaurants, sports arenas and futuristic space stations. It&apos;s coming to PC, Mac and Linux in the autumn, but if Fouts doesn&apos;t bring it to console, he is as crazy as he seems.4.14pmBSTSneaky stop by#radiusfestivalon my way to work. Fantastic stuff on display. If you&#39;re in London, go! (Leicester sq). Wish I coulda stayed.&mdash; mmalex [◕\‿/✖]` (@mmalex)June 19, 20144.13pmBSTReleased in 2001, Stronghold was a Medieval real-time strategy game based around empire expansion and the wanton destruction of other people&apos;s castles. A 2002 follow-up, Stonghold Crusader, took the action to the Holy Land and was hugely popular. Now, over a decade later, developerFirefly Studiosis producing a sequel - but the delay isn&apos;t because they&apos;re lazy. &quot;We&apos;d always wanted to make it and distribute it ourselves,&quot; says senior producer Paul Harris. &quot;Now, with digital distribution, we&apos;re able to do that.&quot;Cleverly combining RTS and city building elements, the game allows up to eight players to construct castles, gather resources, then build srmies to destroy everyone else in the region. Designed by Simon Bradbury, the creator of strategy classics like Caesar III and Lords of the Realm, it&apos;s an intense point-and-click warzone, jammed with archers, swordsmen and trebuchets.Players can go all out into eight-way wars or choose to ally their armies together for team-based sessions. Firefly has also added an intriguing new mode which lets two players control the same army, perhaps with one taking charge of the economic battle, the other military engagements.Although mass military engagement is the most obvious interaction, it&apos;s also possible to sabotage enemy buildings and armies in a more sneaky style – perhaps by burning all their crops down, via your squadron of oil pot throwers. &quot;Seeting fire to stuff is very important in this game,&quot; says Harris, somberly.Stonghold Crusader II is in beta now but is releasing on Steam on 2 September.3.39pmBSTJust escaped for a spot of lunch...2.45pmBSTOur own@georgbacker(organiser of@RadiusFestival) posing in style with@mikeBithelland a delighted@GameDesignDanpic.twitter.com/mIpzbnHnMS&mdash; BAFTA Games (@BAFTAGames)June 19, 20142.37pmBSTA Good Snowman Is Hard To Find – block-shifting puzzle fun with cute snowmen and snowwomen.Alan Hazelden and Benjamin Davis met at one of the regular Midlands Indies get-togethers that take place in Coventry; the duo hit it off and decided to make a game together.The result isA Good Snowman is Hard to Makea lovely snowman building puzzler. In each garden area you have to move the three snowballs together to create the perfect icy figure – you start with three small snowballs; rolling one through a snow patch makes it bigger and you need to have three differently sized balls to make a man. So to speak.It&apos;s essentially a really cute take on classic block-shifting puzzle titles like Sokoban and Pengo. There are 30 puzzles in the current build, with later challenges featuring two snowmen for extra challenge. Success is all about pre-planning and exact use of your resources. I reckon they should add a customisation mode so you can stick on a carrot nose and charcoal eyes.It&apos;s coming to PC in the winter, with smartphone versions to follow.Updatedat 2.39pm BST2.09pmBST&quot;Now if you press X you can vomit the tennis balls.&quot; PigEatBall at#radiusfestivalwas great.pic.twitter.com/Jh3YzZXI5n&mdash; Michael Cook (@mtrc)June 19, 20142.07pmBSTThere&#39;s a line forming! (Lines are good)#radiusfestivalpic.twitter.com/8CuQdU4vqh&mdash; StrongholdCrusader 2 (@SHCrusader2)June 19, 20141.59pmBSTEarly footage of Bodycheck – a Speedball-style sports sim for VitaReleasing on PlayStation Vita this winter,Bodycheckis a Speedball-style futuristic sports sim for up to four players over local network. Think American football, butridiculouslyviolent.It&apos;s super simple to play: the X button passes or tackles, depending on whether your team has the ball or not. The circle button shoots and the Triangle activitaes your side&apos;s special spell weapon, which may be a smart bomb-style blast or a targeted fireball. The aim is to get the ball into your opponent&apos;s net by any means necessary. As fights break out all over the pitch, the health of each team member diminishes – by the end, deceased players litter the turf.Designer David Thomson ofLudometricsactually started working on the game 20 years ago, but only recently found an ancient build of it on an old PC hard-drive. He opened it up, dusted it off and saw its potential as a Vita title. &quot;I pitched it to Sony and within days a dev kit turned up at our office,&quot; he says. &quot;They&apos;ve been really supportive.&quot;The super fast action is great fun in two-player, but there&apos;s also a four-player &quot;head-to-head-to-head-to-head&quot; mode which is insanely brutal.Updatedat 2.38pm BST1.25pmBSTLook! Games! Excitement! Come to the White Space Venue and play games!pic.twitter.com/wC1MSjJfb4&mdash; Radius Festival (@RadiusFestival)June 19, 20141.18pmBSTMucho Partyis a wonderfully frantic two-player mini-game collection for iPad. Developed by Parisian studio Globz, it starts by using a simple &quot;whack-a-mole&quot; game to ascertain the skill level of both participants, balancing the subsequent challenges accordingly. Then you&apos;re off, indulging in ridiculous 30-second blasts of intuitive gameplay.In Monkey Bomb, the two players race their monkeys along parallel edges of the screen, lobbing bombs at each other; in Pretzel Hunt, you&apos;re both working in a snack factory, quickly rooting out mis-shapen pretzels. My favourite game is Mucho Tango, in which you tap foot shapes that appear on the screen at the right times to pull off dance moves – part of the fun is obscuring the screen so your opponent can&apos;t see where they&apos;re supposed to be stepping.There are 30 mini-games to play, all brightly designed and frenetic. Mucho Party was launched today on iPad and iPhone for £2.49. An Android version will follow soon.12.46pmBSTWell, the White Space is already pretty full. There are developers from all over Europe showing their games, on PC, console and smartphone.12.46pmBSTWell, after literally (ahem) a month of &quot;planning&quot; theRadius festivalis now up and running in London&apos;s West End. Co-organised by Georg Backer, Tracy King, James Dance, Andy Payne and me, it&apos;s a celebration of independent game creation, with around 20 studios and solo developers showing off their latest projects.It&apos;s free to attend, so come along to theWhite Spacein London, from Thursday to Saturday, 10.30am to 5.30pm. If you can&apos;t make it, I&apos;m going to try to live blog every day.Also, watch out for theofficial Radius Festival live stream, happening from 7pm every night, where we&apos;ll be interviewing developers and special guests!Updatedat 7.17am BST
A young Doncaster Rovers FC footballer is launching an online crowdfunding campaign to raise £2m to help fans secure the club&apos;s future.It probably helps that his other job is being one fifth of One Direction. Louis Tomlinson&apos;s affinity for Rovers is well known – he&apos;s eventurned out for the club&apos;s reserve team– but now he&apos;s putting his fame to financial use.Tomlinson has teamed up with the club&apos;s former chairman John Ryan tolaunch the campaign on British website Crowdfunder, announcing their plans at an event in London followingearlier reports that they had taken over the club.The pair have formed the Tomlinson Ryan Trust to pledge a &quot;six-figure sum&quot; to the campaign: £500,000, judging by the total displayed on the project&apos;s Crowdfunder page.&quot;Louis and John want to take Doncaster Rovers back to the Championship, and build a club capable of reaching the Premier League,&quot; explains the campaign&apos;s pitch. &quot;Most importantly, they want to make sure the local community has a club to support and enjoy for generations to come.&quot;Specifically, the campaign is aiming to raise enough money to buy a stake of up to 5% of the club, while investing in its squad, youth development and marketing to build its brand in the UK and beyond.&quot;For me, this is all about the football, the community and restoring the excitement and desire to making Doncaster Rovers the most exciting club to play for in Yorkshire,&quot; said Tomlinson.&quot;I grew up in Doncaster and have felt the love for football run through the town, it&apos;s for that reason that I have a real personal passion to make Doncaster Rovers a success story.&quot;Ryan and Tomlinson opted to use Crowdfunder rather than higher-profile international sites like Kickstarter and Indiegogo. The site has so far housed more than 4,000 projects, raising £2m in the process – so if the Doncaster Rovers project hits its target, it would double that total.•Kickstarter&apos;s biggest hits: why crowdfunding now sets the trends
After months of speculation,Amazon has unveiled its first smartphone: the Fire Phone. Its US release date is 25 July, although global distribution has yet to be confirmed.Shown off by Amazon chief executive Jeff Bezos at an event in Seattle, the device has a 4.7in screen, a 13-megapixel rear camera, and an innovative system of cameras and sensors on the front of the phone to track head gestures from users, and change the display accordingly.The Fire Phone also has a feature called Firefly that identifies songs, films, TV shows, books and products, then directs people to buy them from Amazon. It will also identify signs, artworks and wine labels, and provide more information on them.People paying $199 for the Fire Phone on a two-year contract from US mobile operator AT&amp;T will also get a year&apos;s free subscription to the Amazon Prime subscription service.Guardian columnist Emma Brockeswasn&apos;t sold on the whizzy features:&quot;The technology may be new, but the promise implicit in the Amazon phone – that it will make you faster, sharper, smarter, more desirable – turns on a simple and age-old question of salesmanship. It doesn&apos;t matter if the only features you use are text, email, Facebook and Candy Crush. (And maybe the map.) Neither does it matter that you already have multiple devices to take care of streaming music / watching video / reading e-books / processing reality on the go, including two eyes and a brain. It is new and therefore must be worthwhile.&quot;Technology editor Charles Arthur urged caution, meanwhile, noting that Amazon has a difficult challenge ahead if it wants to take on Apple and Samsung in the smartphone space:&quot;Bezos has his work cut out. Launching a phone is easy. Making it a success is not - as Facebook and HTC learnt with their HTC First phone, released in April 2013 on AT&amp;T and unceremoniously dumped a month later. Amazon is a big noise on the desktop. It still has everything to prove in mobile.&quot;But what do you think? Does the &quot;dynamic perspective&quot; system and/or Firefly make it a must-buy? Does the Fire Phone have a serious shot at tempting iPhone and Android users away from their current devices? What features would you rather have seen put in (or left out) from Amazon&apos;s first smartphone?The comments section is open for you to give your views on Jeff Bezos&apos; new gadget.
Usage of health and fitness apps on Apple&apos;s iPhone and iPad is booming in 2014, according to a study released by mobile analytics firm Flurry.The company tracks more than 6,800 apps in the health and fitness category, and claims that usage – measured by the number of times people open and use the apps – has grown by 62% this year, compared to 33% for apps in general.Flurry says that this compares to 49% usage growth for health and fitness apps in 2013, versus 115% for apps overall that year.2014&apos;s growth comes ahead of the release of Apple&apos;s iOS 8 software, which will include adedicated Health appto track people&apos;s health data, and an initiative called HealthKit to integrate apps from other developers.&quot;A glance at wellness and fitness accessories retailed by Apple in the US is a good indication on how many health, fitness and vital sign tracking devices the iPhone can replace. These accessories come with applications that are designed for daily use,&quot;wrote Flurry&apos;s chief executive Simon Khalafin a blog post.&quot;Second, there has been a lot of innovation in the apps themselves over the past two years, especially when it comes to integration with Facebook and other prominent social networks... This innovation has increased the viral distribution of these apps through the social networking channel.&quot;Flurry claims that a new demographic of &quot;Fitness Fanatics&quot; is driving the growth of this particular app category, suggesting that 62% of these people are women, skewing towards the 25-34 and 35-54 year-old age groups.&quot;We have a pretty good picture of Fitness Fanatics. They are predominantly women age 25 to 54 who are sports fans and lead healthy lifestyles, and who are likely to have children,&quot; wrote Khalaf.Flurry expects these people to be among the earliest adopters of wearable gadgets, including smartwatches and activity-tracking bands.While Apple is preparing to launch Health and HealthKit, rival Google is expected to unveil its own Google Fit service for Android devices later this month.Research firm IHS Technology recently predicted that global sales of sports, fitness and activity-tracking devices willgrow from $2.2bn in 2014 to $2.8bn in 2019, with the number of gadgets in use rising from 84m in 2013 to 120m by 2019.•Unfitbit: when fitness tracking goes wrong
Wayne Rooney will reportedly berestored to his preferred central positionfor England’s crucial World Cup match against Uruguay, with fans hoping it will spark a return to form for the striker.What about their own form on the pitch? Ahead of tonight’s match, Rooney has put his name to a new iPhone app released by British publisher Thumbstar Games:Wayne Rooney&apos;s Soccer Training.“Wayne Rooney can now help you improve your soccer skills using your mobile device,” promises its listing on Apple’s App Store. “The Workouts will develop your skills, and our technology lets you track your performance and discover where you need to improve.”Insert your own jokes here aboutcutting down on the cigarettesand resisting the urge tostamp on Portugese players’ testicles, obviously.The app includes exercises based on dribbling and turning, ball control, running with the ball and finishing, passing and receiving, and shooting. A “1 v 1 Challenges” section encourages people to use their iPhone’s camera to record their skills, and compare them against footage of Rooney.The footballer worked with Thumbstar Games and sports firm Fivestar Training on the app, which costs £2.99 for the initial download, then sells additional workouts for £1.49 each.The release of Rooney’s app came as another developer, Team Football, released an official mobile game for the England team.Official England Footballlacks an equally-official World Cup licence – hence its “World Tournament” competition – but enables fans to play as the England squad, accompanied by commentary from John Motson.Both apps will be hoping for England to perform well at the World Cup: a risky strategy, given that if the team loses to Uruguay, it will crash out of the competition before even playing its third and final group-stage match.Then again, perhaps proving that they can dribble, pass and finish better than Rooney – whether in video-recorded training exercises or in a mobile game – might be an ideal coping mechanic for fans.•World Cup goalline technology: how does it work?
Privacy in thedrone-filled ageis going to be more difficult to protect than ever. Competitors, thieves, or even just your neighbours could be spying on your every move using a remote-controlled flying camera.That’s the kind of paranoia Domestic Drone Countermeasures (DDC) is hoping to tap into with its newpersonal drone detection system(PDDS) Kickstarter project – a black box that promises to go beep when a drone flies within 15m of its sensors.“Drones are becoming more capable all the time and this is why it&apos;s alarming. They fly with payloads like still cameras, video cameras, infrared detectors, thermal detectors, among other things, and they are already being used for surveillance,” said Amy Ciesielka, founder of DDC.“Though there are legitimate uses for domestic drones, there is still concern about invasion of privacy and surveillance by various entities,” she said.In the UK it is illegal to fly a drone within 50m of a structure even for recreation, while commercial use of drones has to be cleared by the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA). But in the US personal drones are not regulated by the American Federal Aviation Administration and can currently be flown around buildings and built-up areas.The Personal Drone Detection System is looking for $8,500 in funding on Kickstarter.Black box goes beepPortland, Oregon-based DDC has been working on the technology for more than a year and promises to warn users of personal drone snooping before it’s too late. The PDDS kit cannot detect military drones as “they fly too high and are too sophisticated,” according to the company.The kit consists of three boxes – a primary command and control unit that connects via Wi-Fi to the internet, and two sensors which are placed about the home. More sensors can be connected to the primary unit for covering a larger area.If a drone is detected the command and control unit sends a notification to the user’s smartphone, tablet or computer, even while the user is away from home. The PDDS kit does not promise to actually block the drone’s invasion of privacy, yet.In April, Robert Knowlesbecame the first person convictedin the UK for “dangerously” flying a drone. He was fined £800 and ordered to pay £3,500 costs by the Furness and District Magistrate court after being prosecuted by the CAA.A starter PDDS kit costs$499 from DDC on Kickstarter, but as ever with crowd-funded projects, the system may not come to fruition.•BP allowed commercial drones by US regulators, the first to gain permission to fly over US soil, as officials work on rules to prevent rogue operators•Hollywood applies to use drones on film productions
British firms Mind Candy and MakieLab have traditionally focused on children, with the Moshi Monsters virtual world and 3D-printed dolls respectively. Their new mobile games are seeking a wider audience.Mind Candy has releasedMoshling Rescue, a Candy Crush Saga-style puzzle game for iPhone, iPad and Facebook, with Android to follow. Meanwhile, MakieLab has released a fashion-themed iPad game calledMakies FabLab.Both games are free to download and play, but include optional in-app purchases to buy virtual currency – a business model that has been controversial in recent years due to concerns that children will spend money without their parents’ permission.However, Mind Candy and MakieLab say their new games are taking a responsible approach. Mind Candy’s chief product officer Chia Chin Lee told The Guardian that Moshling Rescue “isn’t created for children”, but instead for their parents.“Moshi Monsters is a brand that parents have enjoyed alongside their children for some time now, and this is our way of giving some more of that fun to the parents,” said Lee. “At Mind Candy, we’ve always said that we want to be a family entertainment company and not just create entertainment for young children.”Moshling Rescue involves players swapping colourful “gummies” to make matches of three or more, with Candy Crush-style “boosts” and the option to compare scores with Facebook friends.The game’s virtual diamonds currency is sold in packages starting at £0.69 for 100 diamonds, rising to £59.99 for 10,500 diamonds:The in-app store in Moshling Rescue.“We are not marketing the game directly to Moshi Monsters kids or creating any Moshling Rescue merchandise aimed towards children,” said Lee, who said Moshling Rescue had been built from the ground up for adults.“Moshling Rescue doesn’t sit within the Moshi Monsters franchise and during our testing we found that our Moshling characters resonate with adults. With this in mind, we developed specific Moshlings narratives and tailored them to fit in a game for an older audience.”MakieLab, meanwhile, began life as a startup helping people to design virtual dolls, then order 3D-printed physical versions. Makies FabLab replaces its previous iPad app,Makies Doll Factory.Players of the new game create an avatar and make clothes for her, unlocking new garments and designing patterns as they go. Players can order a doll based on their avatar, and in the future will also be able to order real (doll-sized) versions of the clothes they make in the game.Makies FabLab also uses in-app purchases, with players able to buy virtual “Makie Coins” and “Super Boosts” for between £0.69 and £5.49 at a time, as well as paying £2.99 to unlock all the game’s colours and textures.“We didn’t want to restrict the game only to kids, because fashion isn’t restricted to kids, and dolls aren’t either. People think about dolls only being sold to children, but a lot of money is being spent by grown-ups who are collecting,” MakieLab chief executive Alice Taylor told The Guardian.“It’s targeted at eight to 80 year-olds, but we know that we’ll have a lot of children playing, so we wanted to be responsible: we didn’t want to go for the full £69.99 in-app purchases for example.”Makies FabLab will turn virtual items into physical products.Taylor suspects that the game’s players may be split equally between children and adults, but said that MakieLab will make changes to the way it charges if it discovers that its audience skews a long way towards one or the other.She added that MakieLab has tested its new game with children to make sure they understand that in-app purchases use real money.“We’ve had girls eight and up play it, and asked them what they think when they see the boosts and the coins. They all know what it is: that it means real money and they know not to press that button, or to ask their parents,” she said.“As an industry, we should all do this responsibly and figure this out. Nobody wants kids to go in and spend money when they’re not supposed to. But collectively the industry hasn’t yet quite figured out how you’re supposed to understand who’s playing your games.”•Kids and IAP: are developers, Apple or parents responsible?
For many, Destiny is something of an enigma. There has been grand talk about how this $500m video game, developed by the studio that made Microsoft’s flagship console series Halo, will reinvent the first-person shooter, a monolithic and lucrative genre that stands front and centre of the medium. But the nature of that reinvention has remained, despite numerous press trips to developer Bungie’s studios in Seattle, somewhat opaque.Now, finally, Destiny is playable – at least for the lucky few to be selected for its public Alpha. Once experienced, Destiny’s sell is more straightforward: this is a shooter married with a massively multiplayer online (MMO) adventure, a blend of Activision’s two greatest and most financially successful game series: Call of Duty and World of Warcraft.As in any MMO, you begin by choosing your character’s class (at this time one of three options, although logically more will follow). There’s the Titan (the character that looks and plays closest to Halo’s protagonist space marine, Master Chief), the Hunter (the class that combines weapons proficiency with space magic) and the Warlock, the mage of the group. Each class has its own weapons, skills and list of expanding abilities that are unlocked when, as in World of Warcraft, your avatar level&apos;s up. This is achieved by earning experience points through completing missions.&apos;Destiny is simply our next shooter&apos;Pete Parsons, Bungie’s COO prefers to distance the game from these obvious reference points. “Destiny is simply our next shooter,” he told me during an interview at this year’s E3 video game conference in Los Angeles, the day before the Alpha launched. “I had the great fortune to be with Bungie when we made the first Halo and, as funny as it might seem today, it was incredibly difficult to explain that game before it was launched too. But for us, this is the logical leap forward. I’m not trying to reinvent the name: it’s simply our next shooter, the game that we’ve wanted to make for a long time.”Nevertheless, Destiny invites strong comparisons to well-established MMOs, at least in terms of its structure if not its setting and feel. Missions are played out on Earth, and specifically (at least, in the Alpha) a far future Russia, where the only artifacts of Soviet power are the tank turrets poking from the verdant overgrowth. New tasks are doled out from blinking beacons in the landscape – kill a set number of these enemies, collect a set number of those items – and the satisfying compulsion loops of the role-playing game are immediately obvious.The game feels like a Halo title, however, and that’s what marks Destiny out from the crowd. Characters enjoy Master Chief’s lingering leaps (a double jump allows each character to hover in the air for a few seconds), a limited number of switchable weapons and similar thirty second loops of intense combat play.Destiny at E3 2014Destiny’s impressive, if largely hidden technological miracle, is the way in which it joins up your game with those of other players on the server, without the use of any menu screens. Rather, people are matched dynamically, able to work together in Strike teams to complete objectives, or simply go about their solitary business within the same area. Occasionally, a dynamic public multiplayer mission will pop-up while you’re in the middle of another task, a giant tank that requires four or five players to take it down, for example. But again, you don&apos;t have to engage; this is a universe that supports solitary adventurers as well as social combatants.All players earn loot from completing missions – and occasionally you’ll find treasure chests laying about. New guns, pieces of armour and so on can be used to customise your character’s appearance and to make him or her more effective on the battlefield.Some enemies drop schematics that let you forge new weapons and armour. When you tire of fighting on Earth you can exit to the safety of your spaceship which waits patiently in orbit (this too can be customised in appearance to your liking) and visit one of the game’s other areas: a player vs. player arena, where competition, not co-operation is encouraged, or the Tower, a kind of space sanctuary where you meet up with other players and buy new items using Glimmer, Destiny’s in-game currency.The lure of microtransactionsWhile Bungie has been unequivocal that Destiny will not be a subscription service like its cousin World of Warcraft, the game seems well-suited to microtransactions post-launch. Glimmer is shared between all of your characters (the game encourages you to have more than one to your name) and it’s only a short leap to imagine Bungie will sell currency packs with which players will be able to purchase powerful weapons or striking armour – particularly if there is no accompanying subscription to fund the game’s on-going development.“I think we were one of the first people to offer DLC with Halo 2 and players responded extremely well to that,” says Parsons, who won’t be drawn on the subject. “We want to keep expanding the world, but in the best way. I won’t go into the details of how that will happen but I think we’ll do it in a way that people feel excited by and supportive of.”What is clear is that, while we are now clearer on Destiny’s nature, there are many surprises left to come.•Destiny is released on PS3, PS4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One on 9 September•Destiny – how the makers of Halo plan to change the future of shooters
Auction house Christie&apos;s is selling a prototype of the first ever integrated circuit, with an expected sale price of between $1m to $2m.Designed by the Texas Instruments employee Jack Kilby between 18 July and 12 September 1958, the chip is the oldest demonstration of a functioning integrated circuit combining multiple electronic functions on a single elemental slab still in private hands. Only two older prototypes are known, one in the Smithsonian, and one in the Chicago Museum of Science and Industry. These days, such circuits are typically made from silicon, but Kilby and technician Tom Yeargan made theirs from germanium, a neighbour on the periodic table.Christie&apos;s calls the chip, which eventually ended up in the possession of Yeargan, &quot;one of the most important advancements in the history of microcomputing&quot;. The lucky buyer will get not only the prototype chip itself, mounted on a cracked glass plate, but also a letter from Yeargan detailing the chronology of its creation from 1964.&quot;At the time, I was assigned to Stacy Watelski and had been working for him on germanium transistor having a horseshoe base and dot emitter,&quot; the letter reads in part. &quot;In this work, I evaporated metal to form the base and emitter. I heated the germanium and then evaporated the metal. When metal hit the germanium, it became alloyed in.&quot;In 2000,Kilby was awarded half of the Nobel Prize in Physics&quot;for his part in the invention of the integrated circuit.&quot; He credited Yeargan, as well as technician Pat Harbrecht, for their role in the construction of the devices, quoting earlier the Nobel laureate of physics Charles Townes: &quot;It&apos;s like the beaver told the rabbit as they stared at the Hoover Dam: &apos;I didn&apos;t build it myself, but it&apos;s based on an idea of mine.&apos;&quot;Christie&apos;s adds that &quot;following a series of patent disputes in the early 1960s, the importance of the integrated circuit started to be recognised. The mass production of microchips would revolutionise the computing industry. From a unit cost of $450 in 1961 to a fraction of a cent today, integrated circuits are at the heart of all modern of all modern electronic devices. Kilby never claimed sole credit for his breakthrough but credited &quot;the contributions of thousands of engineers and scientists in laboratories and production facilities all over the world.&quot;•Will computers ever use DNA instead of silicon chips?
Antarctica remains a mysterious wasteland. That's why, towards the end of last year, Professor Chris Turney from the University of New South Wales decided to follow in the footsteps of visionary geologist Douglas Mawson, who led one of the first scientific expeditions to the region 100 years ago. Turney and his team of geologists, biologists and geographers retraced Mawson's steps, repeating the original expedition's measurements as well as conducting new studies and surveys.After a dramatic expedition – including a headline-grabbing rescue from an ice-bound research vessel – Turney has returned and is giving a lecture at the Royal Institution in London on 17 July where he will present the team's findings and discuss how private funding can play a role in furthering scientific research and its communication to the public. Chairing proceedings is theGuardian's former science correspondent, Alok Jha, who was also part of the expedition.Tech Monthlyhas two pairs of tickets up for grabs. Simply answer the following question: what was the name of the British explorer who led the ill-fated Terra Nova expedition to the south pole? Email your answer to tech.monthly@observer.co.uk before 2 July. Winners will be chosen randomly.TERMS AND CONDITIONS1. The 'Win a pair of tickets to the 'Return to the home of the blizzard event' (the "Competition") is open to residents of the UK aged 18 and over.2. The Competition is not open to employees or agencies of Guardian News &amp; Media Limited ("GNM", the "Promoter" or "We"), their group companies or family members, the Royal Institution, their group companies or family members, or anyone else connected with the Competition.3. Entry into the Competition is deemed as acceptance of these Terms and Conditions.4. To enter the Competition you must email the correct answer to the question above to tech.monthly@observer.co.uk, together with your name, telephone number and postal address. If you have any questions about how to enter or in connection with the Competition, please e-mail us at tech.monthly@observer.co.uk with "Blizzard lecture" in the subject line.5. Only one entry per person. Entries on behalf of another person will not be accepted and joint submissions are not allowed. You are responsible for the cost (if any) of sending your Competition entry to us.6. No responsibility is taken for entries that are lost, delayed, misdirected or incomplete or cannot be delivered or entered for any technical or other reason. Proof of delivery of the entry is not proof of receipt.7. The Competition closes at 23:59 on Tuesday 1 July 2014. Entries received after that date and time will not be considered.8. Two winners will be chosen from a random draw of correct entries.9. Each winner will receive a pair of tickets for the 'Return to the home of the blizzard' event taking place on Thursday 17 July, 7.00pm – 8.30pm, at the Royal Institution, 21 Albemarle Street, London W1S 4BS (the "Event"). More details of the Event can be found here: http://rigb.org/whats-on/events-2014/july/public-return-to-the-home-of-the-blizzard. GNM accepts no responsibility for any costs associated with the prize and not specifically included in the prize including, without limitation, travel to or from the Event, accommodation and/or meals.10. The winners will be notified by email by GNM on or before 3 July 2014 and given details of how to claim their prize. Due to the time limited nature of the prize, if a winner does not respond within 7 days of being notified, then the winner's prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another winner (and that winner will have to respond to the email from GNM within 3 days or else they will also forfeit their prize). If the winner rejects their prize, then the winner's prize will be forfeited and GNM shall be entitled to select another winner.11. The prize will be sent to the winners by GNM by 15 July 2014.12. The prize is non-exchangeable, non-transferable, and is not redeemable for cash or other prizes.13. GNM retains the right to substitute the prize with another prize of similar value in the event the original prize offered is not available.14. The name and county of the winners can be obtained after 17 July 2014 by sending a stamped addressed envelope to the following address: Observer Tech Monthly, Guardian News &amp; Media Limited, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU. The winner may be required for promotional activity related to the Competition and each winner shall participate in such activity on the Promoter's reasonable request.15. GNM shall use and take care of any personal information you supply to it as described in its privacy policy, a copy of which can be seen at http://www.theguardian.com/help/privacy-policy, and in accordance with data protection legislation. By entering the competition, you agree to the collection, retention, use and distribution of your personal information in order to process and contact you about your competition entry, and for the purposes outlined in paragraph 14 above.16. No purchase necessary.17. Nothing in these terms and conditions shall exclude the liability of GNM under law for fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation, or for death or personal injury as a result of its negligence.18. GNM accepts no responsibility for any damage, loss, liabilities, injury or disappointment incurred or suffered by you as a result of entering the Competition or accepting the prize. GNM further disclaims liability for any injury or damage to your or any other person's computer relating to or resulting from participation in or downloading any materials in connection with the Competition.19. GNM reserves the right at any time and from time to time to modify or discontinue, temporarily or permanently, this Competition with or without prior notice due to reasons outside its control (including, without limitation, in the case of anticipated, suspected or actual fraud). The decision of GNM in all matters under its control is final and binding and no correspondence will be entered into. GNM reserves the right to discount entries if it suspects fraudulent bulk Entries or multiple Entries have been submitted to inappropriately influence or manipulate the selection of the winners.20. GNM &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; shall not be liable for any failure to comply with its obligations &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; where the failure is caused by something outside its reasonable &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; control. Such circumstances shall include, but not be limited to, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; weather conditions, fire, flood, hurricane, strike, industrial &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; dispute, war, hostilities, political unrest, riots, civil commotion, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; inevitable accidents, supervening legislation or any other &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; circumstances amounting to force majeure.21. The Competition and these terms and conditions will be governed by English law and will be subject to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England and Wales.22. Promoter: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;Guardian News &amp; Media Limited, Kings &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Place, 90 York Way, London, N1 9GU.
Amazon&apos;s decision to launch a smartphone on Wednesday in Seattle may look to some like a bid for world domination. Many details have leaked before its launch: it will have a 4.7in screen, and be available only on AT&amp;T in the US and perhaps Vodafone in the UK; for its &quot;wow&quot; factor it will have front-facing cameras together with a screen that can give the impression of showing a moving 3D-object. And it joins the Kindle Fire tablet (first launched in September 2011, and now on its third generation) and recently launched Fire TV set-top box.But Jeff Bezos, Amazon&apos;s determined founder and chief executive, will know that the smartphone market will be far more difficult to dominate - or even to break into - than the tablet or set-top box market, and much harder than the ebook market where the original Kindle holds sway.The US smartphone market is rapidly approaching saturation: 170m, or nearly 70% of all mobile phone owners there, have one, and the remaining 48m (or 20%) who are likely to buy one, because 10% will probably stick to simple &quot;featurephones&quot;, are increasingly price-sensitive. The story is the same in the UK: 70% have smartphones, and that figure willprobably top out at 92% in mid-2016.Bezos&apos;s most likely buyers are already Amazon customers; it has 244m active customer accounts worldwide, but as half its revenues come from north America, many of those are probably in the US. His prime targets will be people who are also already on AT&amp;T (in the US) or Vodafone (in the UK), and already smartphone owners.However, Amazon will find it hard to challenge Apple or Samsung, which have the highest customer loyalty among phone brands, and dominate the US and UK. Instead, its best chance of finding converts initially will be owners of weakening Android brands such as HTC, LG or Motorola, which are losing users in the US.You might wonder whether the 3D effect - and rumoured &quot;gesture&quot; control - wouldn&apos;t be enough to tempt people to give up their iPhone or Galaxy S. Richard Windsor of the RadioFreeMobile consultancy, who has seen many 3D attempts, suggests not. LG had a 3D display phone; it sunk without trace in 2012 amidreviews noting a terrible battery life. &quot;This kind of active tracking of the user and adjusting the picture will be processor intensive. This means that battery life will be worse than competing devices,&quot; he says. &quot;The leader in developing this technology was Toshiba but it has recently given up developing the technology after failing to get it to work to a level that was considered acceptable … Amazon is right to differentiate its device, but it needs to do so in its [app] ecosystem not in hardware gimmicks.&quot;The key question therefore is: how will Bezos measure the success of the phone? Amazon&apos;s aim with its hardware has always been to lock in its most loyal and big-spending customers by offering the device at a low price, and making profit on the content that people buy through it - from Amazon, of course.&quot;An Amazon smartphone would be less about profiting from device sales per se and more a way to pocket a larger share of multiple revenue streams, such as mobile retail sales, mobile content and advertising,&quot; says Cathy Boyle, senior analyst, mobile, at eMarketer.Thus the Kindle e-reader was cheap, and appeals to people who buy a lot of books (because in the US, anyone who buys more than one book a year is buying more than the average). The Kindle Fire tablet has a high specification for its price, because Amazon wants to attract people who will buy videos, music and of course books to consume on it.Thus sheer device sales aren&apos;t Amazon&apos;s concern. According to the research company IDC, Amazon has sold about 26m Kindle Fires since itslaunch; sales spike each Christmas quarter, and trail off afterwards. That compares to 172m worldwide from Apple, and 71m from Samsung. But like Apple, Amazon tailors its app store and software so that they&apos;re a funnel for buying from it.Bezos is also being canny by using a version of Google&apos;s Android which omits Google services (and so avoids losing control to one of his business rivals). Android is the dominant software for mobiles in the US, being used by 52.5% of owners according to ComScore, another research company; Apple&apos;s iPhone has 41.4%. That should mean that using Amazon&apos;s phone isn&apos;t a dramatic departure in the user experience for many.Late to the mobile gameYet Bezos&apos;s hand has almost been forced,suggestsJan Dawson of Utah-based Jackdaw Research, as the era of &quot;e-commerce&quot; on desktop computers gives way to &quot;m-commerce&quot;, where people buy via their smartphones and tablets. People in the US and UK already spend more time on their mobiles than PCs; this move recognises that.&quot;Imagine what’s possible when Amazon controls the whole smartphone experience: a dedicated app on the homescreen (perhaps even triggered by a hardware button) which launches an app for quickly adding things to your Amazon wish list or cart, via barcode or image capture and OCR,&quot; suggest Dawson. &quot;The friction involved in translating a real-world discovery of an appealing product into an Amazon purchase would be greatly reduced.&quot;Yet given how early Bezos saw the potential of online commerce, the puzzle is why he has taken so long to exploit m-commerce. He may have decided that the investment wouldn&apos;t pay off until smartphones were commonplace - unlike the bet he took in setting up Amazon.According to eMarketer, a research company, the logic is simple. In the US, retail sales via smartphones will rise 25.4% to $18.49bn this year, representing 32% of all mobile retail sales (which include tablets). In the UK, smartphone retail sales will reach £4.65bn this year - approximately one-third of overall mobile retail sales.A smartphone also offers the chance to serve mobile advertising - where eMarketer says Amazon has just 0.3% of the $33bn global mobile advertising market.So Bezos has his work cut out. Launching a phone is easy. Making it a success is not - as Facebook and HTC learnt with their HTC First phone, released in April 2013 on AT&amp;T andunceremoniously dumped a month later. Amazon is a big noise on the desktop. It still has everything to prove in mobile.•Amazon boasts about app stats ahead of smartphone launch
10.37amBSTThat&apos;s it for the liveblog, thanks for reading. For more information on the biggest Facebook outage in four years, read our article:Facebook unavailable during longest outage in four years10.18amBST“Earlier this morning, we experienced an issue that prevented people from posting to Facebook for a brief period of time. We resolved the issue quickly, and we are now back to 100%. We&apos;re sorry for any inconvenience this may have caused,” said a Facebook spokesperson in a statement sent to the Guardian.The social network failed to explain what the issue was that caused the outage, but it is likely to have been something major to affect sites and apps globally. Facebook has servers dotted around the world to serve users in different countries and providing redundancy. A small, single server outage is unlikely to have caused the major issues seen today.10.11amBSTThe last major outage to hit Facebook occurred in 2010 when the site was unreachable for 2.5 hours, the worst for four years.The 2010 failure was due to a server error that caused Facebook&apos;s automated systems to corrupt services and cause more damage than it could fix,according to the social network.Facebook explains that its automated systems normally detect and fix errors that could lead to outages, but an intentional change in some crucial files was erroneously detected as invalid by the automated systems.The problem was exasperated by users, who in visiting the site and getting error messages caused the servers to create more logged errors overloading the site&apos;s system.9.55amBSTDid global productivity spike in the 20 minutes Facebook was down?Now if we could just get Twitter to crash as well, global productivity would really pick up.#FacebookDown&mdash; Paul Gallen (@PaulGallenFacts)June 19, 2014Seemingly Twitter would need to go offline too.9.54amBSTThe outage was long enough that brands started to capitalise on it, poking fun at the social network.Looks like#Facebookis having a BREAK right now. Have a BREAK, too! :)#facebookdownpic.twitter.com/rBhH4CMqKS&mdash; Nestle KitKat PH (@kitkat_ph)June 19, 2014#FacebookDown! maybe...it&#39;s time to go outside? :O Pic credit:http://t.co/QMttZIw9Q9pic.twitter.com/DIBwWTxOLo&mdash; DiGi (@DiGi_Telco)June 19, 20149.51amBSTAs people decamped from Facebook there was an immediate surge in Twitter traffic to the Guardian, as users flocked to other means to complain about Facebook and continue sharing and talking about stories.A large spike in Twitter referral traffic followed the Facebook outage. The graphs show a similar level of traffic, although the Y-axis are not identical.9.43amBSTFacebook&apos;s outage hit more than just the social network as users sharing stories on the site are one of the main drivers of website views across the internet.As an example, the Guardian&apos;s traffic dipped as Facebook referral dramatically dropped as the site went down across the globe.Facebook referral to the Guardian fell off a cliff.9.32amBSTFacebook is back up for some, as the service resumes and the social network rolls back into life. After around 20 minutes offline, its longest service disruption in living memory.Updatedat 9.34am BST9.31amBSTPeople have even taken to Google+ to complain about the outage.&quot;Facebook is down, I must be the only one which means this makes me less, not more productive. Ugh goddamnit facebook﻿,&quot; saidMathew Hanley.9.18amBSTSome are taking to Twitter in panic, or at least mocked panic.FACEBOOK IS DOWN! FACEBOOK IS DOWN! FACEBOOK IS DOWN! *runs around like headless chicken*&mdash; Anuya J (@boozeandshooze)June 19, 2014R.I.P Facebook&mdash; Endigo Skyborn (@EndigoOverworld)June 19, 2014Others are more amused than shocked.Zuck: What is Yo?&#10;FB employee: It’s like Poke, but…actually it’s Poke.&#10;Zuck: I give up. Shut the whole thing down.pic.twitter.com/JEsIF8sywA&mdash; Ben Thompson (@monkbent)June 19, 2014BREAKING: Facebook down, announces &#39;surrender&#39;&mdash; Professional Heckler (@HecklerForever)June 19, 2014First reaction when I get the &quot;Facebook Error&quot; message...pic.twitter.com/KCQolEkNUs&mdash; Mr. SGAG (@SGAG_SG)June 19, 2014&quot;Where were you in the Great Facebook Crash of 2014, dad?&quot;&#10;&#10;&quot;On Twitter son, but I Instagramed about it&quot;&mdash; Simon Thomsen (@SimonThomsen)June 19, 2014Facebook is down in UK - Paxman will be distraught but at least his Twitter is working&mdash; Rory Cellan-Jones (@ruskin147)June 19, 2014Updatedat 9.22am BST9.18amBSTThis is the first time Facebook has suffered a widespread outage which has lasted for more than a few minutes.Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook founder and chief executive was famously quoted as saying that the social network would never go down, it would never crash.9.15amBSTFacebook has suffered a major outage that has hit both its website and smartphone and tablet apps across the globe.The outage prevents users accessing the social network leading many to decamp to other services like Google+ and Twitter.
Facebook was unavailable worldwide for more than 30 minutes on Thursday morning, the longest outage on the site for four years.Both the website and the company&apos;s smartphone and tablet apps were affected, as users decamped to other social networks to complain about the failure.The site collapsed at 8:53am BST, showing visitors the following error message: &quot;Sorry, something went wrong. We&apos;re working on getting this fixed as soon as we can.&quot; It stayed unavailable until 9:24am BST, when the site and apps began working as normal.“Earlier this morning, we experienced an issue that prevented people from posting to Facebook for a brief period of time. We resolved the issue quickly, and we are now back to 100%. We&apos;re sorry for any inconvenience this may have caused,” Facebook said in a statement. It is not known what caused the outage.Publishers saw referral traffic from Facebook fall off a cliff as the outage hit. The collapse is clearly visible in the Guardian&apos;s traffic from Facebook, for example:Facebook referrals to the Guardian.But users didn&apos;t simply close their browsers and get off their computers. Instead, analytics indicate they turned to other social networks, and trawled for information on what had happened to Facebook. Again, that exodus is clearly visible in the Guardian&apos;s referrals. This chart shows traffic from Twitter over the same period, although the scales are not the same:Twitter referral traffic following Facebook's outage. Photograph: The GuardianApparently,some users even went to Google+.The last time the site was down for any length of time was in 2010,when an error in error checking software brought down the main database for two and a half hours. At the time, it was the worst outage for more than four years. That problem was caused by &quot;an unfortunate handling of an error condition,&quot; Facebook explained in a blogpost. &quot;An automated system for verifying configuration values ended up causing much more damage than it fixed.&quot;The outage was long enough for brands to attempt &quot;rapid response&quot; publicity stunts. Nestlé forced out a joke about KitKats and breaks:Looks like#Facebookis having a BREAK right now. Have a BREAK, too! :)#facebookdownpic.twitter.com/rBhH4CMqKS&mdash; Nestle KitKat PH (@kitkat_ph)June 19, 2014While Malaysian telco Digi posted a cat meme:#FacebookDown! maybe...it&#39;s time to go outside? :O Pic credit:http://t.co/QMttZIw9Q9pic.twitter.com/DIBwWTxOLo&mdash; DiGi (@DiGi_Telco)June 19, 2014•Facebook tries to save users from themselves, by tightening privacy settings for new accounts
Nintendo was exploring virtual reality (VR) gaming long before the Oculus Rift was a glint in its creator’s eye – let alone a hole in Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg’s wallet.Nintendo’sVirtual Boyconsole, released in 1995, was an infamous flop. That may explain why its creative guru Shigeru Miyamoto is wary of leaping onto the VR bandwagon in 2014.“As game designers, we at Nintendo are interested in VR technology and what it can do, but at the same time what we’re trying to do with Wii U is to create games for everyone in the living room,”Miyamoto told Timethis week.“We want the Wii U to be a game system that brings video gamers into the living room… It’s intended to be fun not only for the person who’s playing, but also for the people who are watching.”In the view of Miyamoto – and by extension Nintendo – VR gaming headsets aren’t the best technology to achieve that aim:“When you think about what virtual reality is, which is one person putting on some goggles and playing by themselves kind of over in a corner, or maybe they go into a separate room and they spend all their time alone playing in that virtual reality, that’s in direct contrast with what it is we’re trying to achieve with Wii U. And so I have a little bit of uneasiness with whether or not that’s the best way for people to play.”It’s a philosophical difference rather than a commercial argument, then – although Miyamoto’s views leave the way open for Nintendo to continue experimenting with the technology in private, if it so desires.Facebook has talked about Oculus in a very different way, in terms of its social nature. When his companyagreed to pay $2bn for the startupin March,Zuckerberg suggestedthat as VR goes beyond gaming, it will be an inherently social experience:“Imagine enjoying a court side seat at a game, studying in a classroom of students and teachers all over the world or consulting with a doctor face-to-face – just by putting on goggles in your home.This is really a new communication platform. By feeling truly present, you can share unbounded spaces and experiences with the people in your life. Imagine sharing not just moments with your friends online, but entire experiences and adventures.”While Zuckerberg sees stronger social ties coming from non-gaming uses of VR, Miyamoto clearly remains unsold on the merits of multiplayer gaming with technologies like Oculus Rift.•Oculus Rift – 10 reasons why all eyes are back on virtual reality
"You're going to love this," saysLucy Monkman, as she taps her tablet and the opening glissando of the Chemical Brothers' Galvanize roars for the seventh time. This is the "control" song that Lucy – or Monki, as she is professionally known – has chosen as the benchmark against which to measure each of the seven entrants.With more and more music being ferried around in phones and tablets, it has become obvious how inadequate these devices still are when it comes to playing that music out loud. Portable speakers are therefore an increasingly attractive auxiliary gadget: prices and sizes have been shrinking as connectivity and battery life improves. But how do you choose the right one, or is one speaker much like another?"I think even people who know nothing about sound quality would really notice a difference between the quality of these," says Monki. At 22, she is one of the youngest DJs ever to have her own show on Radio&nbsp;1, and she's been behind the decks in worldwide superclubs since her late teens. "When you DJ in a club, your ears just adapt, and you can tell if the highs are too high or there's not enough low-end. Me and my friends can talk about sound equipment for days on end. It's really boring for everyone else!"So what would she look for? "With older music, it's less likely to matter if something's a bit unclear, but modern production is a lot cleaner, especially dance music. Everything's pitch-perfect, everything's quantised, so What you need is balance between low, high and midrange at different volumes. If you turn it all the way up, there still shouldn't be too much of one thing and too little of another."Taking an interest in sound quality seems to be a professional necessity, even with little speakers like these. "There are listeners out there who know loads about the technical side, even people listening on a car stereo. Some producers will make a track on big Genelecs, but once it's mixed they'll listen to it on a laptop, to make sure it all still comes through. If you can make a tune sound good on one of these, you're probably doing something right."JAWBONE MINI JAMBOXeustore.jawbone.com, 255g, £149.95"It's relatively quiet but one of the clearest here, well-balanced and it's easily the best for portability. It's so small, about the size and shape of an old NES controller. Linking two of them together is a cool idea as well, to make a mini soundsystem, as it were. Maybe that's why they don't make them too loud, so you end up buying two! It feels really sturdy, the design is appealing. I'm not surprised it's popular."VerdictPrice for sound quality is really great. It's not loud, though.VOOMBOX OUTDOORdivoom.com, 699g, £64.99"It's really, really loud, and the clarity is really good, but it has no lower end. I'm torn: if it had a bit more bass I'd think this is a really good speaker. Perhaps they took the bass out so that they could get the volume really high without it sounding muddy – you need it loud if it's designed to be used outdoors. It's heavy too, which you'd expect from a rugged speaker. I can imagine it in a skatepark; when you're being active you won't be paying much attention to the levels. In fact, for an outdoors person, it's sort of perfect – it's loud and it doesn't distort – but I'd be disappointed to own a speaker that had no bass."VerdictI can totally see it working for the outdoors type. Really bloody loud.HARMAN KARDON ESQUIREharmankardon.co.uk, 1.01kg, £169.99"It's called the Esquire and it does look like it should have a moustache. It struggles a bit at higher volume with Galvanize, but with a less heavy song it sounds really good, so maybe it's designed for listening to more gentle music. I doubt the Chemical Brothers imagined their music being played through a leather, brandy-drinker's speaker. Overall though, I feel like you're paying for the design."VerdictGood sound quality, but less good at high volume. Quite expensive.BOSE SOUNDLINK IIIbose.co.uk1.37kg, £259.95"There's a little bit of white noise at the high volume, but not so much, and even though it's not super-loud it fills the room a lot better than most of the others. I think it's a really good speaker but I wouldn't call it portable. I mean, it's technically portable, you could fit it in your hand luggage, but it's not one for the beach, and you might not want to pay that much for a portable speaker anyway. The quality's great."VerdictI like it very much, but if you want portable I doubt you'd go for it.JABRA SOLEMATEjabra.co.uk610g, £79.99"When it came on, I could already hear white noise, which is not good, but the main problem is there's too much low-end. Speakers that are directed more towards younger kids are often more bass-driven, but it's super unnecessary. For some reason people often think that if there's more bass, the track's always going to sound better. I had friends when I was about 17 who had massive subs in their cars, but no eight-by-nines in the sides, so it was just "Brrrr". There's too much bass, it drowns out the rest of the song. Also it's not as loud as I expected, you couldn't have a party with it, and I don't really like the shoe idea."VerdictA lads-on-tour speaker, but not loud enough.NIXON BLASTERnixon.com, 525g, £130"This is loud and colourful, like their headphones, but it starts to get muffled when the volume goes up. When people make a speaker as loud as this I often think 'what's the point though, if it sounds awful?' If you're just taking this on holiday, for your hotel room, it's fine. It's very light, and I thought that might be a good thing at first, but even at lower volumes the clarity of the output isn't great. I think I've heard enough from this one."VerdictEasily portable, but best if you're not too arsed about sound quality.DENON ENVAYAdenon.co.uk, 1.28kg, £169"This has really good low-end, and it's not muffled. I think it's decent, but for me it's not very aesthetically pleasing. It looks like a bug's eye. I think they could have made it look nicer, because if you don't have a clue, and you're looking through a catalogue, you're either going to go for the brand you know or the one that looks good. It's the ugliest and one of the heaviest, but it's also one of the best-sounding."VerdictGood for bass, ugly.
It's Thursday, and if you're in central London today, come toRadius Festival! We have 20 great indie games showing today, and it's free to attend. You're supposed to reserve a ticket in advance, but if you tell them you're a Guardian Gamesblog reader they'll let you in if there's space.It's open til 5.30pm, and then we have any evening live-stream show (which you do need a ticket for, but that gets your four free games and a beverage!).We're open on Friday and Saturday too!COME TO RADIUS FESTIVAL.
