A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team'Towerfall,' OUYA's most popular game, only sold 7,000 copies &gt;&gt; EngadgetIf you're looking for a metric for the OUYA's (lack of) success, then the developer behind one of the platform's best selling games can help you out. Towerfall creator Matt Thorson has revealed that despite being the number-one title on the Android platform, the game has sold a measly 7,000 copies.Firefox and Flux: a new, beautiful browser is coming &gt;&gt; DO NOT LICKThis new Firefox, Firefox 29, was borne out of a series of incredible, detail-obsessed designers and engineers understanding that taking products from good to great requires more than a series of incremental improvements.Good can be achieved through incrementalism. Great requires, at times, overhaul.Firefox 29 contains extensive improvements that were planned back when Alex Faaborg, Madhava Enros, and myself were the only designers at Mozilla. Back then, Firefox was beginning to buckle under the weight of its inconsistent code and interface.It's common enough for large codebases maintained across years to develop inconsistencies. But, Firefox's nature as an open-source community project contributed to idiosyncratic user experiences. Menus and dialogs used different tenses and tones. Add-ons behaved unpredictably. Customisation was handled differently throughout the browser. Over the past few years, we've been working to improve many instances of inconsistent behaviour, such as replacing modal dialogs for tab-modal ones, standardising notifications, and using a uniform tone-of-voice.Making improvements here and there is often what user experience designers at an organisation are expected to do: fix what's broken, slightly improve what isn't, and generally don't get in the way of engineering effort.  But, this method can only make an existing product slightly better, and the gaps it causes reveal themselves in time.A sinking ship can't be patched endlessly when it needs a new hull. This is when user experience design is most effective: when it envisions the system as a whole. When it steps away from the trees and sees the forest holistically.Firefox needed a new hull, and the bulk of that hull is arriving on Tuesday.It's spade sellers who REALLY make a killing in a gold rush: It's OVER for graphics card mining &gt;&gt; The RegisterAt the time of writing, Litecoin were trading at $9.85 each but more typically people mining Litecoin exchange them for Bitcoins and arbitrage the difference in the relative growth in complexity of Litecoin and Bitcoin. The arms race from the introduction of Litecoin hardware will soon make graphics card mining uneconomic.We've seen exactly the same path taken by Bitcoin, which went from processor mining, to graphics card GPU mining to custom ASICs, and we are now seeing a battle between the manufacturers of Bitcoin ASICs.Litecoin appears to be taking the same route. People who had been using the GPUs on graphics cards switched to Litecoin when the Bitcoin difficulty made the approach uneconomical. There are other alternative currencies which might have some mileage for graphics cards, but this really does feel like the end of the road for the approach.Good opportunity to pick up a powerful graphics card on eBay, though.The 10-slide company pitch deck &gt;&gt; Thinking About ThinkingLarry Cheng:I thought I'd provide a general framework for a succinct 10-slide pitch deck that should be more than sufficient for an introductory investor meeting.  Keep in mind that given Volition is a technology growth equity investor, this is more geared towards companies with some revenue and customers rather than a pure start-up.  But, I do think there are principles that are portable across different stages.Would also work just for introducing a new product inside a company."Android Silver" may be Google's attempt to finally provide a premium Android sale and support experience &gt;&gt; Android PoliceFrom earlier this month:Android Silver appears to be an attempt to unify the sale and support experience of specially-selected Android devices - devices Google will pick at its sole discretion. To qualify for Android Silver status, a handset must "run the latest version of Android with no or very limited customizations," (emphasis ours) and only 5 such handsets will be selected by Google for Silver status at any given time. These devices will not be sold by Google, however - at least not exclusively - this campaign is aimed squarely at carriers.Carrier stores will have an Android Silver display, showcasing the Android Silver devices available on their network. Google will be entirely in charge of how this experience is crafted, and carrier store staff must be trained and certified to sell Android Silver devices. Carriers will be required to stock a certain number of Android Silver devices and accessories.Now confirmed by The Information. The Nexus brand will vanish. Good scoop by Android Police.Study: Samsung's apps are ubiquitous but unloved &gt;&gt; WSJ Digits blogThe Strategy Analytics study tracked more than 250 US users of the Galaxy S3 and S4 and their use of apps last month. On average, users spent just seven minutes during the month on an array of Samsung apps — including ChatON, voice-activated search app S Voice and app store Samsung Hub. By contrast, they spent an average of 149 minutes on just three apps by software partner Google — its app store Play Store, video-watching site YouTube and its flagship search engine."The battleground is shifting towards capturing on-device usage market share," says Bonny Joy, who chairs the AppOptix unit of Strategy Analytics that headed the study. He added that while Samsung devices are "packed with an army of apps," users were generally ignoring the company's pre-bundled software offerings. That makes it more difficult for Samsung to assemble the kind of ecosystem of software and services that analysts say keeps Apple's users loyal.A spokesman for Samsung wouldn't disclose how many subscribers ChatON has or how many messages are sent each day on the service.What Heartbleed can teach the OSS community about marketing &gt;&gt; Kalzumeus SoftwarePatrick Mackenzie:Remember CVE-2013-0156?  Man, those were dark days, right?Of course you don't remember CVE-2013-0156.The security community refers to vulnerabilities by numbers, not names.  This does have some advantages, like precision and the ability to Google them and get meaningful results all of the time, but it makes it very difficult for actual humans to communicate about the issues.CVE-2013-0156 was the Rails YAML deserialization vulnerability.  "Oh!  I remember that one!", said the technologists in the room.  Your bosses don't.  Your bosses / stakeholders / customers / family / etc also cannot immediately understand, on hearing the words "Rails YAML deserialization vulnerability", thatlarge portions of the Internet nearly died in fire.Perhaps future CVEs should use the naming system GCHQ has, of smooshing two random words together for new projects: "Heard about Binary Giraffe?" would be a lot more memorable than "heard about the Rail YAML deserialization vuln?"Samsung Galaxy S5 review: dazed and confused &gt;&gt; WIREDMat Honan reviews the Samsung Galaxy S5:A button prominently suggested that I "Download All." So I did. An error message popped up, informing me "This application will not work on your device(8002)" What is an 8002? How do I use an 8002? Why won't the thing you told me to download work?I hit the OK button. The message appeared again. I hit OK again. I moved on.Even basic things didn't fail to frustrate. When I set up the phone, I entered my Google account information. Later, I hit the email button above the home row, hoping to read my Gmail. Instead, I was prompted to set up my email account, which I had already done. I declined, and went to the Gmail app instead.There are those who will say you just have to get used to Samsung's UI. But that's wrong. A good UI is something you take to naturally. Instead, Samsung has fallen into a common design trap: thinking that because it can do stuff, it should. This phone is designed by hubris.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Wednesday.
Dick Costolo has a problem. When the markets close on Tuesday, the Twitter boss will update investors for just the second time about the social-media company’s financial fortunes. Last time, they didn’t like what they heard.The eight-year-old company is almost ubiquitous in medialand. TV shows, celebrities and news organisations can’t get enough of it. But the public has not shown as much enthusiasm.Last quarter, its first as a public company, Twitter added just 9 million new monthly active users worldwide, to reach a total of 241 million. Despite the company more than doubling its revenues, to $242.7m, investors took the low user growth as a sign that Twitter’s appeal was fading. Itsshares have sunk30% since.As if tensions weren’t high enough over the weekend, NBC Universal’s head of research, Alan Wurtzel, handed Twitter another problem.Alongside Facebook – its far, far larger rival – Twitter has been pushing itself as a vital part of a new, social TV experience. Costolo has called Twitter the “social soundtrack” of TV, imagining a future where tweeting and watching will be a mainstream activity that benefits media companies by driving traffic to them. It’s all part of a push to capture part of the $236bn global TV advertising budget.But “it just isn’t true”, Wurtzel told theFinancial Times. “I am saying the emperor wears no clothes. It is what it is. These are the numbers.”Wurtzel said NBC had expected social media to have a major impact on viewership for the Sochi Olympic games. However, during the 18 days of coverage, just 19% of viewers posted about the Games on social media. For all the media’s focus on Twitter, a show’s ratings are still more likely to drive activity on social media rather than vice versa, Wurtzel said.Twitter is now a fifth the size of Facebook and not much larger than Instagram, the photo-sharing site Facebook bought for $1bn in 2012, which is still rapidly growing. Instagram now has 200 million monthly active users. WhatsApp, the social-messaging service Facebook bought for $19bn in February, has 500 million monthly active users.Nor are Twitter’s users very engaged. More than half its monthly active users never send a single tweet. Forrester analyst Nate Elliott recently studied how often people like, share, and comment on the social posts of 50 leading brands and found that on average, brands&apos; Instagram posts generated 58 times more engagement per follower than their Facebook posts, and 120 times more than their Twitter posts.Elliott said Twitter was working hard to court users, brands and small businesses, “but if they can’t get more people to join and get those people engaged, that won’t matter”.He pointed to weibo, Chinese micro-blogging sites that started as Twitter knockoffs but now offer a host of other services including games and fully fledged profiles to draw in new users.“Twitter needs to do the same,” he said. “Eight years ago it launched as a site offering 140-character messages and eight years later there is still not a lot else you can do there.”Brian Wieser, senior research analyst at Pivotal Research Group, said Twitter was in for a “pretty severe shellacking” if it once again disappointed on growth. But he argued that investors may be looking at Twitter in the wrong way.“It’s a niche medium,” he said. “There’s nothing wrong with that. You don’t have to be for everyone.“The problem is that far too many people have presumed that the service is going to have a far broader reach. I think that has, in part, been fuelled by the enthusiasm of management.”But tech investors are not keen on niche. Growth is more highly valued than revenues. Even if it wanted to, Twitter would have a hard time convincing Wall Street that a small, influential niche was more valuable than a fast growing mass market messaging service.Twitter has been making moves to broaden its appeal and seems to be shrugging off arguments that it is a “niche” product. Ali Rowghani, the company&apos;s chief operating officer, is leading a revamp that so far has seen tweets redesigned to feature photos and videos more prominently and users’ home pages morph to resemble something closer to Facebook.It is probably too early for such moves to show in this quarter’s results. But when Twitter reports again in three months&apos; time, growth had better have picked up. That or Twitter will have to change its message, and Wall Street’s expectations.
Nokia&apos;s former chief executive has denied being planted in the firm by Microsoft before its acquisition of the company.Stephen Elop, who previously headed Microsoft’s business division, became Nokia’s chief executive in 2010 and wasthe first non-Finnish chiefin the company’s 149-year history.Elop faced significantcriticism for his handling of Nokia, including that he was a “Trojan horse” placed at the helm in charge of Nokia to bring it into a purchasable position for Microsoft. Elop fervently denies this.&quot;As for the Trojan horse thing, I have only ever worked on behalf of and for the benefit of Nokia shareholders while at Nokia,” said Elop in aquestion and answer session on Nokia’s conversations blog.&quot;Additionally, all fundamental business and strategy decisions were made with the support and approval of the Nokia board of directors, of which I was a member.&quot;Nokia’s annual revenue, profits and share price fell dramatically during Elop’s tenure, and he was instrumental in the company’s decision to ditch its long-held Symbian software for Microsoft’s Windows Phone.Elop was then the driving force behind negotiations to sell Nokia’s struggling mobile phone business to Microsoft, which resulted in his move to be head of Microsoft’s new Devices unit that includes the acquired Nokia business renamed Microsoft Mobile Oy.Analysts viewed Elop’s role in the sale of Nokia’s phone business to Microsoft as a good thing for Nokia shareholders. Yet in light of the struggles of HP and BlackBerry to find value in their handset businesses, shareholders reportedly described Elop’s handling of Nokia asa “triple-A-flop”(in Finnish)that put Nokia on the “road to ruin” and led to the “funeral of Nokia phones”.&apos;Connect the next billion people to Microsoft&apos;s services&apos;During the Q&amp;A Elop also hinted that Microsoft would keep Nokia’s X Android smartphone initiative alive, which uses the open-source version of Android but with Microsoft applications and services instead of Google’s.“Microsoft acquired the mobile phones business, inclusive of Nokia X, to help connect the next billion people to Microsoft&apos;s services,” Elop said in response to a question about the future of the Nokia X. “Nokia X uses the MSFT cloud, not Google&apos;s. This is a great opportunity to connect new customers to Skype, Outlook.com and Onedrive for the first time. We&apos;ve already seen tens of thousands of new subscribers on MSFT services.”The Nokia X’s long-term future is still in doubt, however, with Microsoft looking to produce cheaper, lower-entry Windows Phones to attract a new market of first-time smartphone buyers, which it now has the capability to do itself.&quot;Our intent is for the Microsoft Devices Group to &apos;make the market&apos; so that others can participate, so we will be doing things to facilitate other OEMs as much as possible,” said Elop.• Nokia admits mistake overStephen Elop&apos;s €18.8m payoffon Microsoft sale
The private emails and personal information of web users can be handed over to US law enforcement – even if that data is stored on servers outside the US, according to a New York court ruling.Privacy campaigners have warned that the decision, which would affect users of US internet services, shows &quot;stark contempt&quot; for European citizens and is in direct conflict with EU rules on data protection.In a detailed ruling on Friday, US MagistrateJudge James Francissaid that US companies, including Microsoft and Google, must turn over private information when served with a valid search warrant from US law enforcement agencies.&quot;Even when applied to information that is stored in servers abroad, an SCA warrant does not violate the presumption against extraterritorial application of American law,&quot; he concluded.Microsoft had sought to challenge a government search warrant which demanded one user&apos;s information from a server in Dublin as well as servers in the US, arguing that Ireland is beyond the borders of US law, but Francis rejected Microsoft’s motion.&apos;Undermining customers confidence in US business&apos;“Forcing US companies to turn over data that is held overseas makes citizens in the UK vulnerable to any requests if they use US services,” Jim Killock, executive director of Open Rights Group, told the Guardian.“Given what we know about the extent of access to personal data from theSnowden revelations, this can only undermine customers&apos; confidence in US businesses even further. What we already know about surveillance now seems to be true for ordinary policing.”David Howard, Microsoft’s corporate vice president and deputy general counsel, explainedin a blog postthat the company was seeking to formally challenge the search warrant.“The US government doesn’t have the power to search a home in another country, nor should it have the power to search the content of email stored overseas,” he wrote.&quot;The US has entered into many bilateral agreements establishing specific procedures for obtaining evidence in another country. We think the same rules should apply in the online world, but the government disagrees.&quot;Francis ruled that the search warrant issued on electronic communications is not a conventional warrant, giving it power beyond that of a standard US warrant.&quot;It is executed like a subpoena in that it is served on the ISP in possession of the information and does not involve government agents entering the premises of the ISP to search its servers and seize the email account in question,&quot; his ruling explained, adding that territorial restrictions might impede law enforcements.&quot;Starkly contemptuous&quot; of legal treaties“This judgment increases the apprehension EU citizens will feel that their data is not protected under US law,” said Caspar Bowden, an independent privacy researcher who pre-emptedPrismin a report to the EU parliament in Oct 2012.“It is starkly contemptuous of theMutual Legal Assistance treatiesbetween countries, giving a licence to ignore assurances of due process made to foreign countries, merely because a [treaty] might be onerous or time-consuming or rejected on grounds foreseen and agreed with that foreign country, such as political offences (or criminalised copyright).“If the US Cloud industry was worried before about lack of confidence of foreign customers, this judgment just upped the ante very considerably (subject of course to any appeals),” Bowden warned.Microsoft will continue to appealMicrosoft will continue its appeals process, taking the case to a higher court and attempting to combat some of the “jurisdictional challenges” brought about by the internet and the sluggish speed with which the law is updated.“This is the first step toward getting this issue in front of courts that have the authority to correct the government’s longstanding views on the application of search warrants to content stored digitally outside the United States,” said Howard.•Microsoft announces privacy changes in the wake of search of blogger&apos;s email
Google Indiahas marked the 95th birthday of tabla legend Ustad Alla Rakha with a doodle dedicated to him.The non-animated doodle shows a smiling Alla Rakha with his eyes closed playing the tabla, which replaces the two &apos;o&apos;s of Google.Born in Jammu on 29 April 1919, Alla Rakha left home at 15 to pursue his dreams and travelled to Lahore to receive training from Ustad Kadir Baksh, head of the Punjabgharana(tradition). Later, Kadir Baksh formally adopted him and designated him as the next head of thegharana.Alla Rakha worked at All India Radio in Delhi and then Bombay in the 1940s. He also composed music for a few Hindi films.Alla Rakha playing with his son Zakir Hussain in the 80s, courtesy ofYouTube.His partnership withRavi Shankarbegan in the early 1950s and their names became synonymous with Indian music in the west, bothperforming at Woodstock in 1969.Alla Rakha was also featured in Shankar Family &amp; Friends, one of the first releases on George Harrison&apos;s Dark Horse label in 1974, which showcased Indian musicians alongside western artists including Billy Preston and Klaus Voormann.Alla Rakha died on 3 February 2000, following a heart attack and after learning of his daughter Razia&apos;s death the previous day. His sons Zakir Hussain, Fazal Qureshi and Taufiq Qureshi are also well-known musicians.
The final design of the Dogecoin-sponsored Nascar racecar has been revealed. $55,000 was raised on the Dogecoin and Nascar subforums of Reddit to sponsor the car, which will be driven by the up-and-coming driver Josh Wise. Photograph: PPR88/TwitterMore than 65m Dogecoins were donated in the crowdfunding effort. The car is now known as the #98 Moonrocket, and will make its debut on 4 May in the Aarons 499 Sprint Series Cup Race. Photograph: PPR88/TwitterThe design of the uniform Wise and his teammates will wear hasn't been finished yet, but this is one possibility, with the iconic shiba inu front and back. Photograph: RedditReaction on Reddit has been strongly in favour of the car's final design. "I love the rear end, because that means anyone who's behind Josh will be forced to look at the shibe," says RedditorDatawych. "So distraction, much psychological, very tactics," agreesbrimu. Photograph: PPR88/TwitterThe car will even appear in the videogame Nascar 14, as part of an uploading pack of downloadable content. Photograph: Deep SilverJosh Wise, pictured, has been racing since he was 8 years old, and drove in his first Nascar race in 2007. His best finish has been 33rd. Photograph: Flickr/chayes_2014, CC-BY-SA
It's Tuesday.
It’s the distant future and mankind is doomed. Again. For many years we enjoyed a Golden Age of galactic expansion, propelled by the arrival of a mystical alien power known as the Traveller. It brought advanced knowledge and amazing powers, but a dark force has tracked our god-like extraterrestrial friend through the cosmos. When its shadowy nemesis finally arrives, the Traveller apparently sacrifices itself to save humanity. Now, warring alien races have overcome man’s colonies and are raiding Earth. Only one city remains safe – the final bastion of human existence. The guardians of that last refuge must strike back.Mankind’s destiny relies on them.First whispered about three years ago and now surely one of the most keenly anticipated games of the decade, Destiny is big news. Huge news. It is a perfect storm of technological ambition, hype and fan expectation, arriving at a time in which everyone is grasping for the future of games. Years ago, Bungie brought immense stylistic verve and beautifully wrought mechanics to the shooter genre with its Halo series. It changed things. Now, backed by Activision’s huge investment, it is promising to go further.Sure, the background narrative is achingly familiar. The futuristic apocalypse is a sci-fi staple, explored in countless games from Halo itself to Gears of War, Mass Effect and Resistance: Fall of Man – but it’s the scope of this project that has dazzled. &quot;We like to tell big stories and we want people to put the Destiny universe on the same shelf they put Lord of the Rings, Harry Potter or Star Wars,” said Bungie COO Pete Parsonslast August. And now, at last, we’re able to pick some substance from the seductive, skilfully orchestrated hyperbole.Performing in the space operaSitting down to play the game at Bungie’s cavernous studio in Bellevue, Washington, there’s really one thing on everyone’s minds – what actually is Destiny? It’s a question the studio has purposefully danced around for several months and one that journalists have so far struggled to answer via the fractured glimpses of the game shown at E3 and Gamescom. In many ways, Wikipedia’s tongue-in-cheek description of the project as a “massively multiplayer online action role-playing first-person shooter” is accurate – although in reality the emphasis is very much on the action part – hence the developer’s own preference for the term, “shared-world shooter”.Maybe it’s easiest to think of Destiny as Halo writ large. It is Halo enhanced with the looting and character upgrade mechanics of the Borderlands series then placed into an organic online environment where MMO elements are seamlessly injected.But whatever, we’re here to play. Bungie has invited writers from most of the major gaming sites; these people have been covering Destiny for a year, surviving on scraps of information and the memory of that impressive E3 gameplay demo. We’ve been given a presentation, we sat through it patiently, but now it’s hands-on time.The section we’re seeing is a Strike mission named The Devils’ Lair, set in the toxic wastelands of Old Russia. Strikes are essentially self-contained, 30-minute shoot-em-up quests for three players – all culminating in gigantic boss battles. You can either form a fire team with friends or the game will match you with two strangers – you can&apos;t just leap in alone. The aim in this one is to fight through the ruins of an abandoned Cosmodrome, obliterating the armed forces of two alien factions – the Hive and the Fallen – until you reach Sepiks Ten, a soul-sucking overlord whose destruction will bring about the collapse of the alien stronghold. Oh and victory will also get you lots and lots of rare loot.For Halo fans, perhaps, the scenery will be somewhat familiar – a jumble of futuristic industrial buildings set amid stark craggy terrain. But here, in our PS4 demo, everything is rendered in exquisite detail with real-time sunlight pouring in over the undulating mountains, reflecting over grasslands that sway in the breeze. And then, out of the distance rush the intricately detailed hordes, like lushly painted Games Worshop figures. It is fighting time.A sample of the weapon effects in Destiny – some of the more exotic examples do serious damageThe start point is “Rocket Yard”, a techno burial ground littered with the rusting innards of old spacecraft, which provide handy cover points for the opening exchanges. From here, players move through a gutted refinery complex where snaking metallic corridors open up into overgrown courtyards hosting intense choke-point skirmishes.It feels like a super slick co-op shooter, which is what it is. “Outside of all our talk about innovation and character progression, at its core Destiny is an action game,” says community manager, David &quot;Deej&quot; Dague. “It’s that heart-pounding experience that our fans have come to expect from Bungie.” Players swoop across the landscape calling out enemy positions, picking off distant targets with sniper rifles, hitting the left and right channels, flanking the floundering hordes. The controls are so familiar, you drop right in. Aim and fire on the left and right triggers, grenade on the left bumper button, melee attack on the right, plus there’s a slide move accessed by sprinting and hitting crouch. This is fun, we’re all thinking, this is… a lot like… Halo.Depth in spaceAt the core of the experience, though, are the player characters – or more precisely, the extensive customisation system that awaits them. There are three ‘races’ to choose from, all identical in gameplay terms, but all with slightly different story roles, according to Dague. “The selection of the player race is an emotional decision that adds context to the story arc,” he says. “Each Guardian will be equally deadly - whether they’re a human survivor from Earth, an other-worldly Awoken of mysterious origins, or an EXO war machine that has been built to protect humanity.”In terms of character classes, there are currently three options: the meaty titans, the more-tactical hunters and the warlocks, effectively a futuristic take on fantasy RPG magic users. What differentiates the classes are their unique Focus abilities, the skills imbued upon them via the mystical presence of the Traveller. To make things a little more complex, there are two selectable Force specifications for each class, both based around a single special power – these charge up during a mission and can then unleashed by hitting R1 and L1 together.For the titans, there&apos;s the Fist of Havoc, a massively powerful melee attack that sends nearby enemies flying; or you can go for the Void option, which creates a protective bubble shield for any member of the fire team to hide out in. Then hunters get the ridiculously accurate and deadly Golden Gun, which fires three powerful, thermally charged shots from a hand-canon (&quot;It&apos;s like, I need to makethatthing dead right now,&quot; explains investment lead designer Tyson Green); or you can opt for the Arc Blade, which lets you pinball between enemies, electrocuting each one on your way. Warlocks, meanwhile, produce the Nova Bomb, an area-of-effect mega-blast that scatters groups of aliens like bowling pins; or there&apos;s Radiance, a sort of buff power that enhances the stats of the entire fire team for a limited period.Players also start with a handful of other abilities for each class, most of them augmenting the special attacks or key weapons. “If you look at each Force specification, you&apos;ll see there are a lot of abilities that synergise with the special powers,” says Green, who looks over the game’s progression systems. “There are things that make you take less damage in melee range, things that make your sprint better, things that make your melee attacks feed into your grenades and your grenades feed into your supers. It would be fair to say that the superpowers define each spec - but the abilities themselves are more of a holistic thing.”Back in the game, and we&apos;re legging it across the scarred Soviet landscape, blasting swarms of alien beasts. Lower ranking enemies like the Fallen Dregs or Shanks are pretty dumb, either spawning in waves and running at you, or patrolling in the open waiting to be picked off. Moving up through the ranks you get to the Vandals with their cloaking devices and stealth tactics; the chunky, well-armed Fallen Captains protected behind personal force fields; the wizards who levitate above the surface firing energy balls. The combination of enemy types in each wave is different every time you start a mission. “You never quite know what it’s going to play like,” says multiplayer lead designer Lars Bakken. “Because of the way our AIs work and behaves, the way they play off each other, each time you play is a unique experience.”The sort of giant, heavily armoured mega-beat you're likely to encounter in one of the games seamless public areas.As if to illustrate this, we suddenly and seamlessly run into a public area. In these spaces, the game opens out and draws in different groups of players to work together, match-making for experience and ability. The task is usually to beat a mini-boss, who would be too strong for a single fire team. Ours is a giant bipedal predator, shooting out energy blasts that deplete health in seconds. Our goal is to stop him reaching a checkpoint on the landscape, but he&apos;s too fast and deadly and we lose him. No loot for us. Once the game goes online, you&apos;ll be able to hang out in these public areas indefinitely, waiting for the next boss to spawn.But we trek on. Each class has a different jump ability to add some verticality – all accessed by hitting the “X” button. Hunters have a double jump, Titans get a jet-pack while warlocks have a glide move, which Bakken describes as, “a more parabolic jet pack”. All of these can be upgraded to add more manoeuvrability and height. The melee options are all different too, with titans getting a running shoulder charge, hunters a throwing knife and warlocks a siphon which drains energy. It&apos;s fun to experiment with these, even though this is all super familiar from years of FPS experience.But not everything fits into the Halo muscle memory.As they rank up, players unlock new skills and better weapons, equipping the stuff they like the best as they go – a bit like a standard RPG skill tree. So can you just hot-swap constantly between different force paths and skills? &quot;A lot of your choices are free swaps - you can experiment and try different things,&quot; says Green. &quot;But there comes a point where you can say, &apos;okay, I&apos;m really happy with these decisions so I&apos;m going to lock them in&apos; – and that gives you benefits: your stats may increase, you may become more powerful or level up a lot faster, or you can reconfigure in a different way.&quot;We&apos;re trying to strike a balance between having no commitments and locking in people in a way that makes them not want to play anymore. With the Focus, for example, you&apos;ll see there are a lot of choices and you can switch those around and find something else that you may like more. You may be in a PvsP match and see a warlock using a different grenade than you and pairing that with a different passive ability, perhaps applying damage-over-time effects or health regeneration, and you may say, &apos;that looks really great I want to try that&apos;.&quot;But eventually you have the option of locking it in, so you get more stats and that benefits your character in a global sense. That was important to us, because we look at the way you customise your abilities as being a way for you to differentiate and distinguish yourself from other players. If everyone can just flip their abilities freely, everyone&apos;s kind of the same – so when you come up with a clever way of playing your character better, everybody is just a couple of minutes away from duplicated your successes. That&apos;s not as interesting as being able to say, &apos;no, this is me, this is my character and I&apos;m clever and I get to benefit from that&apos;&quot;.Director&apos;s cutAnd it’s not just the character progression system that borrows from RPG convention – the fundaments of the genre are there in structure of the game, too. Destiny will offer players a range of missions, raids and campaign quests, all accessible via a vast galactic map interface known as The Director. On it are displayed all the currently available planets and locations as well as the missions accessible on each, and as players complete more tasks, the universe slowly opens up, offering fresh worlds and challenges.It’s a bit like the interactive maps in the latest Need For Speed titles or of Los Santos in GTA Online, but on a grander scale – and Bungie is developing a smartphone/tablet app that will reproduce your Director interface as a standalone service allowing players to research new quests as well as set-up co-operative missions with friends. As for locations, well, we know that Mars is explorable in the game, as are other planets in the solar system. Bungie is remaining quiet about what lies beyond.At the centre of the map is Earth, or more specifically, The Tower, a base area that acts as a social hub for the game, where players can meet up and show off their customised avatars. “This is where every good adventure in Destiny begins,” says Dague. “It’s a great place to come back to once you’ve score some loot to upgrade your guardian. You can also browse a public marketplace of merchants who’ll get you new armour and weapons. Or you can just enjoy the beautiful view.”In our demo, we&apos;ve reached a locked security door. A nearby terminal needs to be hacked to gain access. To do this, players hit the touch pad on the PS4 controller to call up their Ghost, an AI entity (voiced by Game of Thrones star Peter Dinklage) that advises on missions, provides visual waypoints and is also handy on a security terminal. While that&apos;s going on, we get a Horde Mode sequence where waves of various aliens pour into the enclosure. It&apos;s basically a mass bar brawl.Usefully, downed enemy soldiers drop ammo. Better yet, when you kill anything with your special weapon it floods the area with orbs, a social currency that can be picked up by your team mates and used to quickly charge their own specials. This way you can work together to chain special attacks into devastating co-op onslaughts.Giant spiders from MarsThis is particularly handy later, when we encounter the mid-level boss, a giant spider-like vehicle known as a Fallen Walker. Similar to the heavily armoured arachnid seen in the E3 demo, it takes multiple hits to bring down, and coordinating fire from the three team members is crucial. Fallen comrades can be revived, so as long as someone is alive the fight continues. If you all die, you&apos;re sent back to a check point to regroup.Throughout each area there are randomly placed treasure chests stuffed with loot, either cash in the form of Glimmers which can be used to buy items and upgrades, or natural resources known as Engrams. These need to be taken to be taken back to The Tower where you can pay a shady character named the Cryptarch to convert them into useable goodies. We&apos;re very much in World of Warcraft territory here, and it&apos;ll be interesting to see just how many crafting and customisation options there are available.Importantly, the contents of each chest is stored locally for each player so you don’t get one smart alec monopolising all the treats. And not all loot can be used immediately. Often you’ll pick up stuff you can’t use until you rank up – a little teaser that Bungie hopes will ensure players keep coming back. Also, it&apos;s possible for you to roll three active characters, one of each class, so you may well find a nice little warlock item when you&apos;re playing as a titan – and that&apos;s fine, it isn&apos;t wasted.&quot;There&apos;s a vault where you can trade items between your characters,&quot; says Green. &quot;So you can say, &apos;great, when I roll a warlock I&apos;m absolutely going to use this&apos; and into the vault it goes. Weapons are all available to all classes, but, say, a warlock helmet is class-specific so you pick it up and put it in the vault. We have people in the studio who would play as two characters, get items for their other character and use that to get ahead of other people in a PvP competition.&quot;Approaching the end-of-level boss on the Devils' Lair strike mission and things begin to look rather dark...We&apos;re into the final section of the mission now. As we move closer to the final boss, the environment changes; the industrial innards of the abandoned cosmodrome have been claimed by the Fallen who clearly see this boss being, Sepiks Ten, as a sort of God.There is a red hue to everything, and in the corners of the rooms, there are skulls mounted on spears. As we move in, we switch between weapons, trying to work out what will be most effective. But effective against what?Endless armouryThere is a vast array of weapons split into three categories – primary, special and heavy. All can be upgraded as you go along, and as you level up, more models become available. Most riff on familiar staples, so in the Primary class you have single-shot scout rifles, pulse rifles that fire in three-round bursts and auto rifles that fire continuously. Specials tend to be sniper rifles and shotguns, while the Heavy weapons are machine guns and rocket launchers.All gear is tiered in the game: basic items only offer minor upgrade potential while later items provide ever greater complexity, with a wide range of upgrade nodes – and the more you use a specific weapon, the more possibilities you unlock. Certain weapons are infused with different energies - thermal damage, arc damage, and void damage – so if you have the right weapon you can, say, drain an enemy item or shield sooner.Bungie has taken in a range of influences from medieval warfare and heraldry to retro sci-fi and hasn’t held back on wacky ideas. As you progress, you get access to Primary oddities like the Suros Regime auto rifle with its exotic art deco styling, or the Monte Carlo assault rifle with a built in sword. In the specials category, there are weird shotguns that deal out explosive fire damage and fusion rifles that can be charged up to release a multi-shot blast at groups of enemies. Fans of ridiculous fire power, however, are likely to favour Heavy category super stars like the Gjallarhorn rocket launcher shown at the E3 demo last year and the monstrous belt-fed machine gun simply named, Super Good Advice.Alongside weapons, there are five types of armour: head, arms, legs, chest and class, the latter simply customising the look of your avatar, adding a cool cape perhaps or some other decorative flourish. Once again, every piece can be upgraded and customised to make it more effective. Furthermore, all armour items have a range of stats that reveal their secondary qualities: some pieces will increase the precision damage or your weapons, while others improve your movement speed or allow primary abilities to recharge faster. “Stats represent the different levels of quality of gear, pertaining to how rare they are,” adds Green. “The green items are pretty common early on, but later you start finding blues and the gold-coloured exotics. There are more stats available on higher level items.”End of timeFinally, we reach the boss lair, situated amid the vast ruins of the space ship construction area. Sepix is a vast floating orb who appears to be feeding off the health of his minions, and the lack of a health bar suggests our weapons are doing little damage. We clearly need something more powerful. But this is the end of the demo; Bakken powers off with an apologetic shrug. &quot;Do you want to play again?&quot; he asks. And I do. I play the same Strike mission three more times, I play as all the classes, and it retains that familiar mix of tactics, surprise and adrenaline. It is Halo and something else, something bigger.Beyond strikes, we also find out about Patrol missions, which are effectively open-ended exploration opportunities. Players touch down in a specific area, then get to simply hunt the landscape for treasure and easter eggs, or take on mini-tasks for the various factions that exist within the guardian city. At E3, Bungie is likely to tell us about Raids, which are specific quests for groups of fire teams. The studio will also reveal much more about the competitive multiplayer (or PvP) areas. &quot;What we can share right now is that &apos;PvP&apos; will be completely separate from the activities that send Guardians into the wild to do battle against the hostile invaders who have occupied our Golden Age cavitation,&quot; says Deej. &quot;On Story missions, Strikes, or Patrols, all Guardians will be united as a force for good. To satisfy the competitive spirit, there will be a chance for them to enter an arena-style activity that lets them spar against one another for honour and bragging rights...&quot;On that subject, Destiny players will, of course, get access to Bungie.net, the studio&apos;s community website. Here, they&apos;ll be able to browse mission stats, discover new quests and compare stats with friends to see who is performing best.The social intent of the game cannot be overstated. Indeed, levelling up each character to max takes only a few hours – Bungie doesn&apos;t want you to start the game then realise you have weeks of grind to put in before you can play against friends on a higher level. &quot;You level cap quickly, but once you&apos;re there the game is more about equipping the gear that lets you go deeper into the game,&quot; says Green. &quot;There are more strikes, there are raids, there are higher levels of PvP if you equip better weapons and armour.&quot;Equipping better abilities in Focus is a longer-tail process that takes some time. I think the game actually develops very naturally towards the level cap: players earn experience as they complete activities and kill things, and once they reach the point at which that stops, they&apos;ve already moved on to the gear collection game, which is about doing activities and looking at what&apos;s available to them in the tower. It&apos;s similar to Diablo in that its about moving on to horizontal growth – trying new abilities, new builds, new weapons.&quot;Fate not sealedDestiny is still in flux. The names of missions, weapons and stats are still being changed, the ideas keep coming in. This is a ten-year project remember – after the first title, there will doubtless be add-on contents, and then subsequent titles; all must work within the infrasturcture developed here.For now, this is a richly conceived and well-executed sci-fi shooter – as you would expect from Bungie – and it promises more. We didn&apos;t get long enough to tap into those intricate skill trees and gear upgrades; we didn&apos;t get time to really differentiate between the play styles of the three classes. But we had a heck of a lot of fun not finding out.If there&apos;s a disappointment at this stage, it&apos;s that the concept of &quot;mythic science fiction&quot; does not appear as radical as it could be. The interplay of magic and technology works smoothly because, basically, sorcery is often just an incendiary weapon that does expansive damage – sort of a supernatural airstrike. This may prove a teeny bit disappointing for those hoping to see more contrast between the tech- and fantasy-based characters. Admittedly, though, we’ve only seen a fraction of the available attacks and perhaps there are some truly bizarre and grotesque magical powers to come.And anyway, we have played it at last. We know how it works – and it works rather beautifully. Next we&apos;ll maybe find out more about the campaign missions, the multiplayer arenas, or other secrets clearly being kept back for E3 and Gamescom. Yes, Bungie is still being very careful with information, even now. Because of course, it is all about the reveal in the modern industry, the journey of discovery. There is a whole solar system out there, and we have barely made it beyond Earth&apos;s jealous orbit.• Destiny is due out on PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One on 9 September. Keith Stuart attended a press trip to Bungie with other members of the European press. Accommodation and travel expenses were met by Activision.• Titanfall v Destiny – how this war will change shooters for ever• Destiny preview: Bungie says Halo, goodbye with their new blockbuster
Take an airborne robot minion and a hi-tech camera and what do you have? A "dronie": a new form of self-shot aerial mini-video for online exhibitionists looking to create more drama than the average selfie can supply.The term was coined by Alexandra Dao while commenting on a video created by internet entrepreneur Amit Gupta. The clip, which went viral, showed Gupta and companions on top of Bernal Heights Hill in San Francisco before a camera pulled back for a breathtaking zoom-out.Videos on YouTube, plus a dedicated"dronies" channel on Vimeo, show the diversity of the shots. As well as giving a sense of breathtaking weightlessness the videos can contain an eerie sense of foreboding (such as Taylor Scott Mason'scliff-side dronie, complete with dissonant soundtrack), or give you sensory stomach flips (such as the one from Social Print Studio, which splices in imagery from GoogleEarth).The alchemy behind the perfect dronie seems to hinge upon the "big reveal". A wind-free, wide-open space is vital: the top of Hampstead Heath is better than your bathroom. More prosaically, to create a dronie you need more than just a smartphone and the ability to do duckface. Happily, acquiring a drone is easier than you think: they can be purchased online (bothTescoandSelfridgessell them) for between £55 and £500. It's recommended that you try to get one with a built-in camera; otherwise you'll also need something called a "Gimbal", which holds your iPhone in place when it's whizzing about.Thus equipped, you'll need to master a few signature moves.In a piece for the New York Times, Gupta suggests two things: practising "in figure-eights" to get a sense of how to control your drone, and having the drone circle you while the camera stays focused on you and your fellow subjects. Easy, when you know how.
Google is getting closer to its dream of developing a marketable driverless car. The search company said on Monday it had improved the software in its eye-catching project, to take greater account of city driving.Google’s robot cars have now driven 700,000 miles around Mountain View in California, where the tech company is headquartered.The company announced that its latest software includes:• More comprehensive and detailed maps to include curbs and different types of traffic signals.• Improvements in detecting objects around the vehicle – classifying pedestrians and cyclists separately from moving vehicles because they follow different rules of the road.• The ability to “read” signs as they appear and not just in specific locations – for example, a stop sign unfolding from the side of a school bus.• Modelling likely situations – Google has developed software that measure the probability of what is likely to happen in thousands of everyday driving situations.In ablogpost, the company said:As it turns out, what looks chaotic and random on a city street to the human eye is actually fairly predictable to a computer. As we’ve encountered thousands of different situations, we’ve built software models of what to expect, from the likely (a car stopping at a red light) to the unlikely (blowing through it). We still have lots of problems to solve, including teaching the car to drive more streets in Mountain View [Google’s home town] before we tackle another town, but thousands of situations on city streets that would have stumped us two years ago can now be navigated autonomously.Google has equipped about two dozen Lexus RX450H SUVs with its prototype technology, which include sensors that create 3D maps of the cars&apos; surroundings in real time.The cars are tested with a driver in the driver&apos;s seat, ready to take control if anything goes wrong, and a Google engineer in the passenger seat.
The lawyer for Barrett Brown, the activist-journalist in jail in Texas on charges related to his involvement with computer hackers, has called for an overhaul in the way technology cases are handled by the criminal justice system to counteract potential abuses and excessive prosecutorial aggression on the part of the US government.In his first substantive comments since a gagging order on Brown and his legal teamwas lifted last week, Ahmed Ghappour told the Guardian that in his opinion, the US government had tried to &quot;kill a fly with a sledgehammer”. He accused prosecutors of imposing overly broad charges that had put unnecessary strain on the system, had profound personal implications for Brown who has been in custody for more than 500 days, and sent a chill across public debate.“There needs to be discussion about how we avoid this kind of prosecutorial overreach in future. Prosecutors need to be more cautious in how they deal with complex cases like these to make sure the charges better reflect the conduct described, otherwise the effect is chilling to free speech,” Ghappour said.He added: “The government’s original allegations did not fit the evidence, or the conduct, character or reputation of Barrett Brown.”Last month the US government dropped 11 of the 17 countsit had brought against Brown, who faces three separate indictments. The dismissed allegations all related to a breach of the website of the private intelligence firm Stratfor that was carried out in 2011 by the hacking collective Anonymous.The main instigator of the hack, Jeremy Hammond,was sentenced to 10 yearsin prison last November.Brown was charged, most notoriously, with transferring stolen property, because he had posted a hyperlink on his own personal chat room, Project PM, to a website containing the hacked Stratfor material. Technology commentators warned that such a prosecution posed a threat to free speech on the internet because it raised a barrier to linking across sites on which so much of the culture of the web is based.A day after Ghappour and the defence team filed a motion to dismiss those charges, the prosecution rolled over without explanation and dropped them.“The government had no choice to drop the charges because they contained errors that were so wide of the mark they could not be put right by re-indicting him,” Ghappour said.In a documentreleased after the gagging order was lifted, the precise nature of Brown’s involvement with Anonymous over the Stratfor hack has been revealed. Paradoxically, far from attempting to commit fraud or to profit personally from the computer breach, Brown offered to contact the CEO of Stratfor to ask him whether the company wanted any redactions to be made in the hacked material before it was posted.The document, which signed by both Brown and US attorney Sarah Saldana as a truthful account of events, quotes from internet chats between the journalist and the Anonymous hacker who carried out the Stratfor breach, named only as “O”. Brown writes to the hacker: “It occurred to me that it might be a good idea to tell Stratfor that you guys will consider making any reasonable redactions to emails that might endanger, say, activists living under dictatorships with whom they might have spoken… If they fail to cooperate, it will be on them if any claims are made about this yield endangering anyone”.Ghappour told the Guardian that he found it ironic that the government had accused Brown of something so vastly different from what he actually did. “The government charged Brown with criminally transferring credit card information, when in fact what he did was to offer to redact sensitive material.”The lawyer, a former computer engineer with considerable experience in super-computers, and who now teaches at the University of Texas law school, said hacking cases and other prosecutions involving new technology were so complex that grand juries and attorneys alike were often bamboozled by the evidence. “That makes the potential for abuse by the government much greater, so safeguards have to be better established.”Brown will appear on court on Tuesdayto plead guilty to all the remaining charges against him. The charges include: acting as an accessory after the fact to the Stratfor hack, threatening an FBI agent in a YouTube video, and interfering with a law enforcement officer serving a warrant on him.The charges carry a maximum punishment of more than eight years, but Brown’s legal team will argue that the sentences should run concurrently and that given the insubstantial damage caused by the YouTube video, he should be released on time served. “Barrett expresses deep regret for what he did in making the threat, which he did impulsively at a time when he felt cornered and was unable to make rational decisions,” Ghappour said.
A Silicon Valley chief executivewho pleaded guilty to two misdemeanour charges of domestic violence, with a further 45 felony charges dismissed by the court, has been fired by his board.Gurbaksh Chahal was the head of RadiumOne, an online advertising network reportedly on course to raise $100m in an upcoming IPO, when he was charged with a series of counts of domestic violence.The charges stem from a half-hour of security camera footage that,according to the criminal charges released, shows Chahal hitting, kicking, and attempting to suffocate his then girlfriend. The video was thrown out of court under the fourth amendment, with Chahal&apos;s lawyers successfully arguing that it was illegally seized by police.Aftera post on Gawker&apos;s Valleywag blogbrought Chahal&apos;s charges and guilty plea to wider attention, many began to call for RadiumOne to do something about its CEO.Publishing firm Conde Nast, which had been reported as a partner of the company, distanced itself from RadiumOne and Chahal,telling AdAge that it&quot;is not and has never been an investor in or partner of RadiumOne.&quot; It added that Conde&apos;s British subsidiary had a vendor relationship with the firm, but that it was &quot;reviewing its association&quot;.On Sunday,Chahal attempted to quell the flames with a blogpost in which he laid out his side of the story. Headlined &quot;Can you handle the truth?&quot;, the post denies accusations that he hit his then-girlfriend 117 times, and that he injured her or caused her trauma. But Chahal said little about the wider charges, other than adding that &quot;I lost my temper. I understand, accept full responsibility and sincerely apologise from the bottom of my heart for that…&quot;I was charged with 45 felony counts of domestic violence. All of those charges were dropped, and ultimately the case settled when the DA’s office recognised they had no case and offered me a misdemeanour plea. I accepted that plea, because after a lot of soul searching I believed I was acting in the best interest of my company, my employees, my customers, my family, my friends and my investors.&quot;But at the same time, the RadiumOne board was deciding to take action. On Monday morning,Chahal confirmed that a special meeting had been called, where &quot;they asked for my resignation as chairman and CEO, when I declined to do, they fired me…&quot;Is this what real entrepreneurism is about? Is this what venture capitalism is about? Not to forget, in my last startup I made these same individuals over 800% on their investment? Whatever happened to real ethics? What happened to integrity? Whatever happened supporting your CEO during the tough times knowing the truth?&quot;For some, Chahal&apos;s actions, and subsequent dismissal, raise uncomfortable questions about the technology sector. Newsweek&apos;s Rusty Foster says that &quot;technology is an industry infested with entitled men who are allowed to say and do anything they please without any consequences.&quot;•Why aren&apos;t there more women in technology? Here are a few clues
Director Federico Fellini described the studios as 'my ideal world, the cosmic space before the big bang'. Photograph: GoogleGoogle's latest doodle marks the 77th anniversary of the establishment of Rome's Cinecittà studios, the 40-hectare (100-acre) facility created by Benito Mussolini, and which became a home from home for Hollywood stars in the 1950s and 60s.The dictator himself inaugurated the studios on 21 April 1937 in a sprawling complex a few kilometres from the historic centre of Rome under the slogan "Il cinema è l'arma più forte" ("Cinema is the most powerful weapon").The studios were hit during the bombing of Rome in the second world war, and afterwards saw service for a number of years as a displaced persons' camp both for Italians and citizens of other countries.However, they were used for film making once again and in the 1950s, Cinecittà was the filming location for several large American film productions such as Ben-Hur, and then became the studio most closely associated with Federico Fellini.The Italian director described the studios as "my ideal world, the cosmic space before the big bang". Troubles once again returned though and Cinecittà was privatized by the Italian government after a period in the 1980s when it came close to bankruptcy.A fire erupted in part of the studios in 2007, destroying sets used in a television series about ancient Rome, produced by HBO and the BBC.
Cinema audiences are subjected to a mind-boggling fusion of the human consciousness with computing power in Johnny Depp blockbuster Transcendence, but the sinister-seeming world of artificial intelligence is entering the mainstream with Silicon Valley upstarts Google and Facebook.The film, released last weekend,has been savaged by criticsagainst the backdrop of a futuristic arms race in the real world. Google and Facebook have joined Amazon in buying up drone firms to beam internet connections from space, investing in robotics, machine learning and virtual reality technology. But the realm of artificial intelligence could contain the greatest prize, achieving a union of man and machine that is often referred to as "the singularity" – a phrase first used by the American futurologist Ray Kurzweil. The accepted wisdom is that such a leap, if it can happen, is at least 30 years away.Experts now argue that the moment is closer than you think and Kurzweil is one of the figures accelerating our encounter with the future, as Google's director of engineering."The amount of money that Google and other commercial companies will pour into robotics and artificial intelligence could at last take it truly into the commercial world where we actually do have smart robots roaming our streets," says Noel Sharkey, professor of artificial intelligence and robotics at the University of Sheffield.Turning the classic industrial investment model on its head, consumer technology groups are using their cash mountains to superfund areas of research that were until now the preserve of governments, defence companies and academics. Over the past year, Google has bought seven robotics companies, including Boston Dynamics, whose previous work building humanoid machines was largely paid for by the US military. It has bought firms that specialise in natural language processing, gesture recognition, and more recently in machine learning, highlighted by the acquisition of British startup Deepmind – bought in January for $400m (£238m)."Silicon Valley's involvement is creating right now an enormous acceleration," says Per Roman, a founding partner at technology investment bank GPBullhound. "It is turning into a real talent magnet. It is often small teams that come up with breakthrough inventions and you are much more willing to take the risk if there is a chance you could get bought rather than ending up in a dark room in some military agency."And it is not just AI that is persuading Google to open its chequebook. Like Facebook, it is also investing in beaming the internet from the sky. Google has acquired drone maker Titan Aerospace, whileFacebook now owns Somerset based Ascenta. Facebook has also splashed out $2bn onOculus, a maker of virtual reality headsets. Amazon, meanwhile,has held up the prospect that one day its goods could be delivered by air to our doorstepbefore we have even realised we need to order them.Last year's $3.2bn purchase of Nest, a designer of internet connected smoke alarms and thermostats, suggest Google's ambitions are domestic. "It looks to me like they want to take the internet out of the desktop and put it into our everyday lives," says Sharkey. "Their acquisition of Nest was very telling. Add to that robotics and AI companies and you have the internet walking around in the world alongside us."For those struggling to understand why Google or Amazon should want to invest in self driving cars, internet drones and robotics, the answer is data. Masses of it. The parking meter in your street, the collar on your cat, the thermostat in your home will emit signals that can be picked up from anywhere, and Google will be listening.If Silicon Valley's best minds succeed, their software will not only be listening, it will be understanding and anticipating. When it comes to mundane chores such as stocking the fridge or ordering birthday presents, software will be doing our thinking for us.DeepMind's technology draws on a user's browsing behaviour, gathering information on their interests and questions, to recognise patterns, learn about human behaviour and make recommendations. According to co-founder Mustafa Suleyman, this could be used to suggest purchases, such as books or films."All these concepts that people have been talking about for 20 years are happening at large scale now," says technology investor Dharmash Mistry, founder of data driven cosmetics business Blow."When you use Google search you have to work out what you are looking for and the words to use to find it. That will move to the search engine having data on you to give you customised searches. A lot of healthcare is dealing with an ailment once you have it. This new model is about getting you to prevent these issues before they happen. After the glass of wine and meal, your smartphone will book you into the gym."For some scientists, such as wearable computing pioneer Thad Starner, who is a key engineering figure behind Google Glass, man and machine are already merging. "I would argue that we're currently living the singularity," he said in a recent interview. "Where the tool stops and the mind begins will start becoming blurry."
Security experts have urged Windows XP users to change browsers owing to a serious bug in Microsoft’s Internet Explorer that could threaten over half of all internet users.The vulnerability is actively being exploited by hackers, Microsoft has warned, and every active version of Internet Explorer is at risk, including IE 6 to IE 11, Windows XP and Windows RT. The bug could allow hackers to gain access to and hijack a Windows computer, including personal data.Microsoft warned that it was “aware of limited, targeted attacks” currently under way using the security hole in Internet Explorer, which is used by over 55% of internet users globally, according to the latest data fromresearch firm Netmarketshare.“This issue allows remote code execution if users visit a malicious website with an affected browser. This would typically occur by an attacker convincing someone to click a link in an email or instant message,” Dustin Childs, a group manager of Microsoft’s Trustworthy Computing department, explainedin a blog post.&apos;Appropriate action to protect our customers&apos;Microsoft issuedsecurity adviceover the weekend, saying it was investigating the flaw and will take “appropriate action to protect our customers”, including patching the security hole, originallyfound by security company FireEye.The flaw affects users of Internet Explorer on multiple Windows software versions, including Windows Vista, 7 and the latest Windows 8. But the biggest threat is posed to the 13-year-old Windows XP, which Microsoft recentlywithdrew supportfor and is still used on an estimated 430m computers globally.It is unknown whether Microsoft will backtrack on its support withdrawal to fix the security hole in Internet Explorer on Windows XP.Don’t panic“Windows XP users shouldn’t panic, but should certainly be aware of the risk and if at all possible switch to an alternative browser,” Rik Ferguson, vice president of security research at Trend Micro, told the Guardian. “If you aren&apos;t going to be switching your operating system any time soon, it would be a good idea to make a permanent switch to another browser. That would make the web-facing portion of your browsing activities one that will be actively updated.”Warnings over an “XPocalypse”, where a flood of security holes were expected once Microsoft’s security support of Windows XP stopped on 8 April, seem to have been overblown but the risk of using a system that is not updated is still real.“The fact that we’re seeing a vulnerability that affects Windows XP this soon after support has ended indicates that we’re going to see a trickle of security flaws instead, but a strong trickle at that. Criminals and nation states may well have a stock pile of these bugs but they are very unlikely to unleash them in one go,” Ferguson said.Take complete controlMicrosoft’s security note explained that hackers looking to take advantage of the bug to take complete control of a user’s computer via Internet Explorer would require users to view a “specially crafted website”.Microsoft advised users to be careful about clicking on suspicious links that could take them to the hacker’s site when browsing, emailing or chatting via instant messenger. The company also explained a series of work arounds that could help protect users, which include installing a Microsoft tool kit that enhances the security of Internet Explorer.“We encourage customers to follow the suggested mitigations outlined in the security advisory while an update is finalised,” a Microsoft spokesperson told the Guardian.•UK government pays £5.5m to Microsoft to extend support for Windows XP, including security patches•Which computer should I buy to replace a Windows XP PC?•Can I upgrade my old Pentium 4 PCs to a new Windows?
The tweets started coming in on Saturday morning. Larry Hryb, Microsoft&apos;s Xbox spokesman in the US, sent out a simple message to his 675,000 followers: &quot;We found &apos;em!&quot;.Then the photos quickly followed (because the internet is always hungry for photographic proof); old video game boxes, withered and torn, depicting the familiar image of ET and Elliot looking out at the distant horizon.And suddenly, it was all true. In 1983, the video game company Atari really did send truck-loads of unsold video games into the New Mexico desert to be buried in a landfill site. A piece of gaming mythology hadbecome an instance of archeological fact. And of course, there was a film crew there, organising the whole thing for a documentary to be shown exclusively on Xbox. Because this is how the industry works now – literally excavating the past for saleable content.Why the mythology?Why is this important – or at least interesting? The thing is, the proof of Atari&apos;s desperate action has been there all along. The New York Timesran a story on the disposal of unsold ET game cartridgesin 1983 which gives the location of the landfill, Alamogordo, New Mexico, and the number of trucks involved: 14. &quot;Atari lost $310.5m in the second quarter,&quot; the story concludes drily. &quot;Largely because of a sharp drop in video game sales.&quot;So why the mythology? Partly, it&apos;s about how early video-game history was not particularly well recorded and how the internet arose to turn rumour into fact – and vice versa. In 1983, not many gamers around the world had access to the New York Times, and for many years, stories about the ET game – a very poor movie adaptation rushed on to the shelves in December 1982 to cash in on the huge success of Steven Spielberg&apos;s hit movie – circulated as speculation.No one outside of games really cared about a few thousand copies of an awful game; video games were still kids&apos; stuff back then, and the gaming press was in its infancy, much more concerned with the latest titles than the medium&apos;s nascent history. The arrival of the world wide web allowed intrigue and speculation to go wild, but the facts were still not widely available; and into this space a mythology grew.&apos;Not knowing something makes it a myth&apos;&quot;&apos;Urban legend&apos; is now anything you didn&apos;t already read on the internet,&quot; said game designer, author and academic Ian Bogostto Ars Technica at the weekend. &quot;This isn’t just a games thing. Anything one hasn’t personally read online or can find in a Top 20 Google results becomes obscured to the point of legend… People seem to think not knowing something makes it a myth… because they only heard about it as presented as legend, rather than in historical context.&quot;And ET isn&apos;t just any cartridge. It is based on a wonderful movie that will be dearly rememebered by many veteran gamers – there is a real nostalgic power there. Plus, the failure of ET has come become a symbol for the collapse of Atari, the defining video game company that in effect invented the industry in the early 70s, then flooded the market with so many mediocre titles it almost destroyed it again. The ET landfill site is, then, symbolic, the battered cartridges a representation of sacrifice.Or perhaps these cartridges are abiding symbols of gigantic hubris. &quot;It’s as much about the shattered dreams of a company like Atari,&quot; said Jonathan Chinn of Lightbox Entertainment, the production company making the excavation documentary,at the SXSW festival this year. &quot;To all intents and purposes, [Atari] should really be Apple today… the notion that a company like that failed, I think, is worth exploring.”Open contributions:Which video games deserve to be buried?Really, though, this is about the human need to create mythologies around our lives and interests. Every nation, every artform, every pursuit is rich in folklore – somehow we need to feel the weight of eternity in everything we do. The video game industry has only been around since the early 70s – that&apos;s the equivalent of progressing from the earliest written languages to the Kindle in 40 years. There shouldn&apos;t be any uncertainty at all, this is an era of mass information – so gamers have inserted their own culture of doubt. Even now, there are people on the gaming forum NeoGafwho insist this whole thing is fake. Mankind cannot bear too much reality – especially when conspiracy is much more fun.Digging up legendsDrill down to the facts, and they are not as compelling. ET didn&apos;t destroy Atari; it certainly helped, but then, so did other poor conversions such as the 2600 version of Pac-Man, and the surfeit of awful third-party titles. Then there was the failure of the Atari 5200 console and the irresistible rise of Nintendo. And ET certainly wasn&apos;t the worst game of all time, either – it wasn&apos;t even the worst game on the Atari 2600.But people don&apos;t take film crews into the New Mexico desert with Microsoft spokespeople in tow to dig up facts; they go to dig up legends, and that is exactly what they have. From those battered boxes, some of them still shrinkwrapped, the documentary makers have produced a genuine physical spectacle for the digital age. All that matters are those photos, the workmen holding the cartridges aloft like relics, triumphing over the past for an audience of idle internet surfers, searching for authenticity among the buzzfeeds and promoted tweets.The video game industry is in its infancy, but just like the birth of the movie industry, it has had to cope with marginalisation and condescension. Nobody thought it was worth preserving this history. Now we have video game exhibitions in Moma and the Barbican, and genuine attempts to catalogue and save old games and game formats at academic institutions around the world.Nobody outside of gaming cared about games for 30 years; now a bunch of cartridges clawed from a dusty grave in the New Mexico desert garners worldwide attention. Nostalgia gives meaning to everything in the end.• The six best retro consoles for modern gamers• The 30 greatest video games that time forgot
They found it. It&apos;s pretty unusual to have an archaeological dig for something from mere decades ago, but some of the rumoured-to-be thousands of unsold copies of “ET The Extraterrestrial” on the Atarihave been found buried in New Mexico.A production company working on a documentary film of the company have found hundreds of copies from the legendary cache, of a game thought of by some as one of the worst ever made.Job lots of the gamehave already been &apos;for sale&apos; on ebay. A seller&apos;s note warns they &quot;may contain sand.&quot;Was the game truly awful? One of our commenters certainly thinks so:tigerm08 March 2014 3:07amThis game was terrible. I think it retailed at about $50 at the time but within months it was discounted several times and I fell in to the trap of buying at $10.I was later surprised that the development of this game was five weeks, it played like it took five minutes.A quick glance at the game walkthrough provides further evidence. You do get the excitement of walking around a series of largely useless rooms. The game also contained unpredictable traps that were almost impossible to escape.Movie tie-ins, in particular, have a particularly poor history, with hastily-cobbled together cash-ins being a particular bane of the industry.If it were up to you, what video games would you prefer to have seen buried in the New Mexico desert?Share your suggestions in the comments thread, and we&apos;ll post a selection above the line.To get us started, here are a couple of suggestions from Twitter:@guardiantechSuperman 64&mdash; Nathan Reid (@nathanreid)April 28, 2014@guardiantechTHQ&#39;s Truth or Lies on Wii. Even at £1 the shops can&#39;t get shot of it. See also: pre-owned copies of old FIFA games.&mdash; Games Asylum (@gamesasylum)April 28, 2014And here are some suggestions from Guardian commenters:CeefaxTheCat28 April 2014 12:04pmCopies of Superman on the N64 should be sealed in concrete and dropped into the sea.Chris Swan28 April 2014 12:17pmShadow of the Beast on the Amiga. Even with the &quot;10 pints please&quot; cheat I still couldn't complete it. I'm sure there was a glitch in it that meant it was impossible to complete.The Pink Floyd-esqe music on the death screen still haunts me.benjohn28 April 2014 2:12pm&quot;Dragon's Lair&quot; for the Spectrum.Each scene was a crap and horribly animated mini game that took a few minutes to load. If you weren't instantly killed, and actually survived, your reward was the wait while the next mini game loaded.A mate of mine spent almost all his birthday money on that because it looked so cool in the arcade. Luckily the tape for some of the mini games, was corrupted, so he had a good reason to take it back.snatchcandy28 April 2014 1:39pmAt some stage in the mid-90's Virgin published a 'Viz' video game.It combined the joystick waggling 'gameplay' ofDaley Thompson's Decathalonwith gruesomely grim graphics, without including even a soupcon of the famous humour that has kept Viz magazine alive to this day.There is no word to describe how bad this game was. (Even in the Profanisaurus.)TheRelegator28 April 2014 12:19pmI'd happily put the later Destroy All Humans games in there. Crypto can keep ET company.
If Silverstone is the natural home of British motor-racing, with its old RAF turf, long-back straights and stiff upper curves, then Southam, Warwickshire is the home of British video-game racing. Founded in 1986 by the Darling brothers (a surname filled with English whimsy), Codemasters is one of the oldest surviving British video-game studios.Based in a now vastly extended farmhouse, the company&apos;s racing game heritage is storied. Over the years, &quot;Codies&quot; (as the studio is known to its generations of fans) has recreated the overcast jostling of touring car racing with the Toca Race Driver series and the mud-slinging thrill of rallying with Colin McRae Rally. Nowadays, the studio tinkers with annual updates to the official Formula 1 series of video games.Grid, meanwhile, is its Bafta-winning multidisciplinary series. Featuring a slew of cars that rev in the accents of their home countries (the Texan roar of the Camaro SS, the Japanese shriek of the Mazda RX-7, the Germanic bark of the BMW M3 Coupe E92) it&apos;s packaged in a way that is characteristically English. “The motorsport and car production heritage in the UK is immense,” says James Nicholls, chief game designer on Grid Autosport, the latest entry to the series due for release this summer. “The guys that build the gearboxes for Indy Cars are based in the UK. Most of the support network for F1 is located in the Thames valley. Our team is embedded in that world. Everyone on the team is passionate about racing: it feeds into our work at every level.”The game features 100 routes across 22 global locations. Here, a packed roster of cars winds through the streets of San Francisco.Grid Autosport has been in development for just one year, an unusually brief gestation period for any modern racing game. Its announcement has also come curiously late in the day in an industry notorious for protracted marketing campaigns that sometimes commence years before a game’s final release.“We’ve had to keep quiet about the game because we’ve been negotiating the vehicle license,” says Nicholls. Unlike some other motorsport games, Grid Autosport’s cars can be dented, smashed and upturned during the push and shove of a race. Some car manufacturers are nervous about people taking screenshots of their mangled vehicles, fearful perhaps that such imagery could seed the idea in consumers that their products are unsafe. “That’s partly why we’re so late with the announcement,” says Nicholls, “But there’s also the fact that we wanted to show the game rather than a trailer or footage. There’s a very different message if you can come out of the gate showing people the game itself and people can verify the quality.”The game has benefitted from the engine on which the previous title, Grid 2, was built – although the team has managed to add an additional four vehicles to each race. It’s no mean feat, according to Nicholls, for a game that will appear on Xbox 360 and PS3 and not the newer, more powerful Sony and Microsoft machines. “We changed the handling model and started again but fundamentally we had the engine and team ready to go,” he says of the technology. “It’s come together quickly because it’s the kind of game that we are world-renowned for making. The team instinctively knows how to make this kind of racing game. We immediately had a raft of suggestions in-house on how to improve the handling and the AI.”Fun not simNicholls describes Grid Autosport as an &quot;authentic racing game&quot;, where its big-hitting overseas rivals (in particular the American-made Forza Motorsport and the Japanese-made Gran Turismo) apply the word &quot;simulation&quot;. “I would describe what we do as making a video game, not a sim,” says Nicholls with a wry smile. “We want to approximate what it’s like to be a racing driver, so the whole game is centered that experience. It’s not just about having a shiny car that sits on a track, looks lovely and offers real world handling. To me, it’s borderline whether that kind of thing is even really a game or not…”Grid certainly feels more like the arcade racers of yesteryear – even across the five racing styles which skit between touring cars, open-wheel and street racers. The game prioritises a sense of speed and excitement while navigating its lingering corners as oppose to the straight-laced simulation approach of its rivals. For Nicholls, the distinction between the two approaches is the result of “hundreds” of small differences.“One of the key things is that on a flat TV screen with a controller you don’t have the G-forces and situational awareness that a diver experiences,&quot; he says. &quot;Then there’s the feel of the car. Not the simulated values, but the conveyance through a pad of what it feels like, the character of the cars and so on.” To help with approximating the feel of the cars, Codemasters has worked closely with Autosport magazine, whose writers offered consultancy on car feel. “Finally, it’s the AI,” says Nicholls. “The cars are the weapon and the track is the arena in which people fight against each other.”The racing takes in endurance, drift and single-seater categories, and to make the most of it all the PC version supports 4K visuals at 60fps.As the game nears completion Nicholls and his colleagues are already looking to the future of video game racers, particularly with the advent of VR headsets in the form of the Facebook-owned Oculus Rift and Sony’s Project Morpheus. This technology, which fools the human brain into believing a person is present in a simulated world, seems particularly suited to racing games, where the player sits in a fixed position (no need to solve the issue of how to simulate walking when, in actual fact, the user is splayed out on the sofa). But Nicholls is already aware of numerous challenges.“With virtual reality driving games the challenge is rendering the speed at which you move through the environment on the headset,” he says. “Also, in a car crash my head won’t naturally lurch forward like it does on the screen so there’s an additional challenge of how to convey that without making the player feel sick. In Grid Autosport we pull the camera back slightly as you accelerate. This is a technique used in lots of racing games that doesn’t necessarily translate well to VR. It makes people feel sick.”Nevertheless, Nicholls is hopeful that solutions will present themselves. “We are certainly doing experiments in-house,” he says. “But we’ll do it when it’s right to do it; we won’t charge in just to be first.” Indeed, Grid Autosport is likely to be the final racing game for the outgoing generation of video-game consoles. In British tradition, rather than engaging in the unseemly scramble to be first, Codemasters is hoping to have saved the best till last.• Grid Autosport is due out on 24 June in the USA and 27 June in Europe on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360• Forza 5 review• Gran Turismo 6 review
Anonymous social network Secret is to launch in the UK, Ireland, Australia and New Zealand, capitalising on both its US success - and the seemingly endless capacity of people to broadcast their personal information.Secret allows users to share short text and image posts with their wider social network, but without revealing who wrote each update. It works by scanning users&apos; address books, and showing their updates to a subset of their friends, and friends of friends.In practice, users of the iPhone and Android app see a stream of updates ranging from heartfelt confessions to snarky gossip.&quot;We launched in the US three months ago, on January 30, and we&apos;ve been testing the waters, making sure that Secret is nice and polished,&quot; Secret co-founder, Chrys Bader-Wechseler, told the Guardian. &quot;We decided that the next logical step was to open the doors to the UK, and we&apos;re doing that on Monday.&quot;Bader-Wechseler and his co-founder David Byttow met at Google where they both worked on the team for Google+. Byttow left the firm first, and Bader-Wechseler stuck around for another year before, he says &quot;I couldn&apos;t take it anymore&quot;.The pair reconnected, and started working on a messaging app that grew out of an anonymous feedback tool Byttow had developed - ironically named &quot;whisperly&quot;, very similar to Secret&apos;s biggest competitor, Whisper. &quot;We started designing it, and built an iPhone app for this one-on-one messaging project. People enjoyed it, but didn&apos;t really engage with it.&quot;Once we made it a broadcast app, rather than just messaging, made it a stream, and made it so that you could connect with all your contacts, it took off.&quot;But the app isn&apos;t just for anonymously commenting on friends&apos; romantic misadventures or questionable sartorial decisions.Secret won&apos;t disclose user numbers, but thanks to its early-adopter audience increasingly using it as a venue to leak secrets about their companies, it&apos;s already become a mainstay of the tech press.News that Vic Gundotra, the former head of Google+, was interviewing for other jobs, broke on Secret three daysbefore his resignation was confirmed. And earlier in April, Nike wasforced to denyrumoursoriginating on Secretthat the &quot;douchebag execs&quot; were about to fire the team that developed its Fuelband fitness tracker.As well as whistleblowing on failures, the app has also allowed the publication of stories which may otherwise have been buried.New York Magazine published an interviewwith a woman whose company had been purchased by Google, which proceeded to hire her four male employees but let her go. Sheshared her story on Secret, where reporter Kevin Roose asked her to give him a call.Bader-Wechseler thinks the whistle-blowing aspect of Secret doesn&apos;t necessarily conflict with its more gossipy end. &quot;It&apos;s an entirely new layer of communication,&quot; he argues. &quot;Until Secret existed there was no way to share what was on your mind without your friends judging it. It&apos;s like how people type out status updates on Facebook and then delete them.&quot;&quot;I&apos;m proud of shared secrets like the Nike and Google+ stories, but the ones that have been really impressive for me personally have been those from people struggling with panic, anxiety or depression. The support in the comments is brilliant, and it&apos;s not just emotional… there&apos;s been a lot of different types of information exchanged, with people sharing information of good doctors in their area.&quot;The company has faced its fair share of criticism, however. Influential venture capitalist Marc Andreessendescribed apps like Secretas systems &quot;designed to encourage negative behavior, tearing people down, making fellow souls sad,&quot; andquestioned whether it was ethicalto invest in them. Others haveaccused the app of enabling bullying, while doing little to protect the victims.Bader-Wechseler counters that the firm actually does more than competitors. &quot;We draw a really hard line when it comes to bullying. When a piece of content is flagged, it&apos;s reviewed, and if it appears to be bullying, we&apos;ll take it down.&quot;Another thing that&apos;s important to note is that all these other platforms you have infinite lives, but with Secret you have only one. If we have to ban you, we ban you on the phone number. If that happens, you&apos;re banned for ever. You get one chance, and if you mess it up, you&apos;re done.&quot;•Would you really trust a &apos;secret&apos; app to protect your secrecy?
The Federal Communications Commission, America&apos;s telcoms regulator, has formulated a plan to allow internet service providers (ISPs) to charge companies for the right to &quot;premium&quot; access to its customers. This is the worst internet policy news imaginable. It should strike terror into the heart of anyone who cares about fairness, politics, the widening gap between the rich and the poor, fair trade, entrepreneurship, or innovation. The FCC now stands as the world&apos;s foremost symbol for &quot;regulatory capture,&quot; and its chairman – a former cable executive lobbyist – is the poster child for an unhealthy relationship between industry and its regulators.What&apos;s at stake is &quot;network neutrality,&quot; which is the simple principle that your ISP should give you the bits you ask for, as quickly as it can, and not deliberately slow down the data you&apos;re looking for.(There are valid arguments to be made about network management techniques that try to slow down some customers&apos; connections in order to ensure that other customers get their fair share of the internet, but anyone who brings up those arguments in this context is just trying to sow confusion by changing the subject. Whatever network management is, it&apos;s not an ISP discriminatorily slowing down Netflix streams and delivering its own, competing streams with less jitter and delay because Netflix hasn&apos;t paid protection money this month.)The ISPs say they only want to get paid for the use of their service, but the problem is, they&apos;re already getting paid. You pay your internet bill every month. Netflix, Google, Yahoo, the Guardian and Boing Boing all pay their internet bills every month. The ISPs aren&apos;t seeking to get paid, they&apos;re seeking to get paid twice: once by you, and a second time because you are now their hostage and the companies you want to do business with have to get through them to get to you.There&apos;s a useful analogy to the phone company that I&apos;ve written about here before: you pay for your phone service every month. The pizza place on the corner also pays for its phone service every month. When you want to order a pizza from Joe&apos;s Corner Pizzeria, you call their number. If their phone isn&apos;t engaged, it rings and you get to place your order. If they get more orders than they can handle on one line, they buy a second line, a third, even 10 lines to take their orders. Provided one of those lines is free, your call goes through to someone when you ring.But what if your phone company decided that the way to bring in higher profits was to go around to all the pizza places and shake them down for &quot;premium&quot; access to &quot;their&quot; customers? If Joe&apos;s Corner Pizzeria turned them down, your call to Joe&apos;s might get a busy signal, even if there were plenty of free lines at Joe&apos;s place. Meanwhile, an order to the monied, tasteless sultan of global cardboard pizza-ite, that is, the company who has plenty of money for &quot;premium&quot; access – is easy to reach, because your phone company has promised them that every call will be put through.The thing is, Joe&apos;s is paying for its lines. You&apos;re paying for your line. The phone company exists solely to connect people to the numbers they dial. But because there are &quot;natural monopolies&quot; in phone service (because there are only so many mobile frequencies and underground cable space), they can abuse their position to extort additional payments from the services you want to talk to. And the more popular a service is, the better it is, the more the ISP stands to profit from this racket.Historically, the FCC has stopped just short of comprehensively prohibiting this practice, which would have involved classing ISPs with the more strictly regulated telecoms businesses. Instead, the FCC tried to keep telcoms lobbyists happy by classing ISPs with less-regulated businesses, but insisting that the FCC could still order net neutrality rules. By January 2014, this pretense collapsed when a DC circuit court ruled that the FCC couldn&apos;t enforce net neutrality on ISPs while keeping them in the less-regulated category.The FCC promised a fix, and here it is: FCC chairman Tom Wheeler, an Obama appointee and former cable lobbyist, has drawn up rules to allow ISPs to decide which communications you can see in a timely, best-effort fashion and which services will be also-ran laggards. In so doing, Chairman Wheeler sets the stage for a further magnification of the distorting influence of money and incumbency on our wider society. Political candidates whose message is popular, but who lack the budget to bribe every ISP to deliver it in a timely fashion, will be less equipped to reach voters than their better-financed rivals. Arecent studylooked at 20 years&apos; worth of US policy outcomes and found that they exclusively responded to the needs of the richest 10% of Americans. Now the FCC is proposing to cook the process further, so that the ability of the ignored 90% to talk to one another, network and organise and support organisations that support their interests will be contingent on their ability to out-compete the already advantaged elite interests in the race to bribe carriers for &quot;premium&quot; coverage.If you think of a business idea that&apos;s better than any that have come before – if you&apos;re ready to do to Google what Google did to Altavista; if you&apos;re ready to do to the iPod what the iPod did to the Walkman; if you&apos;re ready to do to Netflix what Netflix did to cable TV – you have to start out with a bribery warchest that beats out the firms that clawed their way to the top back when there was a fairer playing-field.The FCC and its apologists will shrug and say that the ISPs are businesses and they own their lines and can do what they want with them. They&apos;ll say that we can&apos;t expect the carriers to invest in next-generation networks if they can&apos;t maximise their profits from them.But this is nonsense. The big US carriers are already deriving bumper profits from their ISP business, while their shareholder disclosures show that they&apos;re making only the most cursory investment in new network infrastructure (Americans have been waiting for fast &quot;fiber-to-the-kerb&quot; connectivity for decades, mostly what they&apos;re getting is &quot;fiber-to-the-press-release&quot; puff pieces from ISPs who gull uncritical reporters into repeating their empty promises of fast networks, just around the corner).And the networks are not the carriers&apos; alone. The carriers may pay to dig the trenches and drop the conduit and copper, but they run their wires through our dirt. If carriers had to negotiate for every linear metre of roadway, pavement, and car-park in order to run their wires, the legal bills alone would bankrupt them, to say nothing of the actual fees land owners and cities would be able extract from them. We&apos;re talking trillions, here. The only viable way to build a telcoms network infrastructure is by securing a priceless public subsidy in the form of free access to rights-of-way.The ISPs want to have it both ways. They want to shower themselves with trillions in public largesse, but treat the profits from that largesse as entirely their own business. They want to get public benefits, but they draw the line at benefiting the public in return.Wheeler could say to the ISPs: &quot;If you want to run your networks as private enterprises, then you can build them privately. You&apos;ve got 60 days to get your copper out of our dirt, or we&apos;ll pay you scrappage rates and turn it over to a company that will give people the bits they want, not the bits that pay you the most.&quot;Instead, he stands ready to oversee the merger of Comcast and Time-Warner, ensuring that there is virtually no competition in the telcoms sector, while simultaneously handing these massive businesses a blank cheque in the form of permission to extract ransom from everyone you want to talk to on the internet.
Happy Monday!
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHow to make Pirate Bay users pay for content &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakPirate Bay users are generally not known to pay cash for the content they grab from the site. However, a recent promo for a bundle of Indie sci-fi games, books and videos raked in more than $5,000. So what's needed to make these people pay for content?As Upworthy would say, you won't believe the answer. (Then again, the statistics are pretty demoralising: 375 customers from over 100,000 visitors. So an average of 5c per visitor; just over $13 per paying customer. Remind us again about how torrent users spend more than "average" consumers.) But the conclusion of "how to make people pay" really is surprising.OTA testing: MIMO standards, costs and the 'death grip' &gt;&gt; Mobile and Wireless News USKelly Hill:The wireless industry currently has no standard for LTE MIMO testing, due to disagreements among which of four possible approaches should be adopted – or whether multiple testing methods will be standardized.The panel members agreed that the amount of time that has to be dedicated to OTA testing is the biggest challenge due to time-to-market pressures.OTA testing budgets, according to Pat Connor, director of Qualcommn's antenna lab, "[require] more planning now. We need to look further in advance to really make our budget for the upcoming year. The complexity has really increased."The discussion also grappled with the "death grip" issue, or how to test in order to anticipate issues for users who grip their phones too tightly. That kind of grip can cause dropped calls and lead to certain phones being returned in high numbers.However, certification testing doesn't account for the death grip, which is difficult to standardize for the phantom hands used in testing, because the grip would vary by handset.Google+ won (or why Google never needed a social network) &gt;&gt; John Battelle's Search BlogThink about your relationship to Google five years ago – you most likely weren't "logged in," unless you were using a silo'd service like mail. Now think about it today – you most likely are. We have Google+ to thank for that. It's done its job, and it'll keep doing it, whether or not you ever use its social bells and whistles as a primary social network.Google still has a lot of work to do on identity – anyone who has more than one login can attest to that. But Google+ has won – it's forced the majority of Google users onto a single, signed in state across devices and applications. That protects and extends Google's core advertising business, and opens up the ability to ladder new services – like Nest – into Google's platform.A personal reflection on Google+ &gt;&gt; TechCrunchDanny Crichton offers a thoughtful look back on how G+ evolved, having been there when it got started:I had just gotten my Google-issued laptop, so I opened up my web browser, and navigated to the internal version of the product, and …. stared. Just stared. It's hard to exactly describe the state of the product at that point, but it was reminiscent of Facebook, albeit with a cleaner profile page and more whitespace.After about 10 minutes of using it, I got distracted and left to find some food. I never reopened the product that day, an ominous sign in retrospect.How businesses will save the stumbling tablet market &gt;&gt; CITEWorldMatt Rossoff:I think the PC refresh cycle is relevant in the consumer market, because I think that the main avenue for growth there is consumers replacing worn-out old PCs.Early adopters bought tablets in addition to their PCs, and found an "in between" use for them. But that first wave of adoption is over now. For most people, their last PC is good enough. As those PCs wear out, they'll replace them -- and I still maintain that most of those replacements will be tablets, not new PCs with keyboards. But the consumer PC refresh cycle is five to seven years. Not two to three years. In other words, the consumer tablet market is saturated -- with PCs.The enterprise tablet market is actually where things get much more interesting.HTC design chief Croyle said to depart smartphone maker &gt;&gt; BloombergTim Culpan:HTC's design chief will depart the Taiwanese smartphone maker, the most senior executive to leave since its public relations chief resigned in October, according to two people familiar with the move.Scott Croyle, who holds the titles senior vice president and head of design, submitted his resignation earlier this year and agreed to stay at the company until after the release of its HTC One M8 smartphone last month, the people said, requesting not to be identified because the matter isn't public…HTC has lost at least six senior executives in the past three years, including Lorain Wong who quit as head of public relations in October after four months at the company.Foxconn sells communications technology patents to Google &gt;&gt; WSJ.comFoxconn, which assembles gadgets for companies such as Apple said it has sold a number of its communications technology patents to Google for an undisclosed sum.Taiwan-based Foxconn, officially known as Hon Hai Precision Industry, made a name for itself in contract manufacturing by making Apple's iPhones and Sony's PlayStation game consoles. But few know the electronics manufacturer has been developing new technologies and has a sizable patent portfolio. In a statement, the company said it has applied for 128,400 patents and has been granted more than 64,300 patents worldwide.Odd move: Google still has the Motorola patents, and it's unclear what Foxconn has developed in communications.Lab tested: the Mac Pro daisy chain challenge &gt;&gt; MacworldA Thunderbolt daisy chain can support six connected peripherals per port. And the Mac Pro has six Thundebolt ports, four more than any other Mac. The Mac Pro also has four USB 3.0 ports, one HDMI port, and two gigabit ethernet ports, so you can connect a lot of devices to one Mac Pro.Neat experiment.Covert Bitcoin miner found stashed in malicious Google Play apps &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaDan Goodin:The malware, dubbed "BadLepricon" by its creators, was stowed away inside six separate wallpaper apps that had from 100 to 500 downloads each, according to ablog post published Thursdayby researchers from Lookout, an anti-malware provider for smartphones. Google employees promptly removed the offending apps once Lookout reported them. It's at least the second time in a month that third-party researchers have discovered cryptocurrency-mining apps available for download on Google servers. Four weeks ago, researchers from Trend Micro reported they found two apps downloaded from one million to five million times that mined the Litecoin and Dogecoin cryptocurrencies without explicitly informing end users.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Price £48,830MPG up to 47.9Top speed 155mphMaserati. Mazzzeraaaattti. Let's say it again… Mazzzeraaaattti. Yeah! The brand is so synonymous with smouldering Italian sexuality, with unhinged speed, with head-swivelling performance and with being a bit, er, suspect that it is impossible to even say the word without a frisson of expectation running through you. When it comes to passion, Lotharios always have a streak of unreliability running through them. And over the decades, Maserati has certainly had that.The iconic brand celebrates its centenary this year and has launched bold plans for world domination. Two signings have been added to its team sheet: this Ghibli and next year the Levante, a luxury SUV. These are the cars which the Italians hope the Chinese and the Americans will be queuing up to buy. Maserati plans to sell 50,000 cars by 2015, which sounds unlikely when you consider last year's global sales of just 6,200.TheGhibliis a four-door, five-seat sports car which Maserati hopes will barge aside top-end Audis, BMWs, Jags and Mercs. History and myth-making are so much a part of Maserati's appeal that it's worth noting this is the third Ghibli – there was a stunning two-door coupé in the 60s and a pig-ugly saloon in the 90s. (TheGhibliitself is a hot, dry wind in north Africa.) This third Ghibli boasts Maserati's first ever diesel engine. That tells you something: after 100 years, it has finally decided to offer a powerplant that doesn't drink like George Best on a bender. Join the party, guys! Rather incredibly for such a large and heavy car, the 3-litre turbocharged V6 will do 47.9 mpg and puts up a decent fight against emissions with just 158g of CO2per km – not so much hot dry air as its namesake. For diehards there is also a twin-turbocharged 3-litre V6 petrol that is faster and more powerful but not as clean living – just 27.2 mpg.Lovely Ghibli: the luxurious interior.Few cars make an entrance like a&nbsp;Maserati does. It almost comes with a&nbsp;dress code – in this case acid-washed designer jeans and a&nbsp;reptile-skin Cavalli wasitcoat. A&nbsp;Towietan and nails to match would be in order, too, to accessorise the blood-red leather interior. The car exudes presence, its gaping grill is ready to suck air in like a sprinter, the triple vents on each flank harking back toits Fangio daysand racing pedigree. Passers-by gawp, other road users let you sweep ahead of them – this must be what Sophia Loren felt like as she marched across thronged piazzas. Some motorists weren't on message and saluted me with their middle finger. What did I care? I was a Maserati man for the week.So: great looks, a lavish cabin and a fearsome engine roar. But there were a few things I wasn't prepared for. First, the price. It isn't crazy; it's less than 50 grand. Second, the drive. It isn't great. The automatic box – a&nbsp;much-praised eight-speed – was lumpy and unpredictable. I found it hard to engage drive and reverse. And the engine, though it responds to a heavy foot and makes mincemeat of the oppo if you drive as if you are fleeing the law, was worryingly shuddery at low speeds. The handling I found wearying if I did anything other than drive in a straight line.A shame, really, as it's a great-looking car, though the allure of saying "I drive a Maserati" might fade faster than you think.Fancy go-karting?In the hot seat: a teenage Michael Schumacher finds his kart a little uncomfortable (circa 1986). Photograph: SuttonTeamSport, Europe's biggest and most successful indoor go-kart operator has revamped a state-of-the-art track for London. The circuit, formerly known as the Raceway Docklands, now offers the finest indoor racing facilities for adrenaline junkies of all ages. This spectacular venue, only one tube stop from Canary Wharf, is set to follow in the footsteps of other TeamSport circuits which regularly attract celebrities such as One Direction, Simon Cowell, Ellie Goulding, Jamie Cullum, Liam Gallagher and diver Tom Daley. The track is 800m long, with exhilarating straights, plus challenging hairpin bends and banked turns. A brand new fleet of high-spec 270cc LPG karts can reach speeds of up to 40 miles per hour, but at just two inches off the floor can feel like twice that! Every lap is recorded to an accuracy of 1/1000th of a second, with large screens and print-outs allowing drivers to compare their results against rivals – and check out technique.  Smart new racing suits and helmets are also part of the deal.  Friends, family and colleagues can take in the action from the bar or restaurant as they overlook the track. TeamSport is not just for fearless grown-ups. Little Lewis Hamiltons can also show off their racing skills in specially designed top-of-the-range 'cadet' karts. TeamSport now has 12 tracks across the UK and is set to double in size in the next three years. To book and for more information, call 0844 998 0844 or visitteam-sport.co.uk/london-docklands.Gear up for a wheelie great free family festivalOn the beach: head for Bournemouth for sun, sand and high revs in May.2014 sees Bournemouth welcome the inaugural Wheels Festival to town from Saturday 24 May to Monday 26 May. Billed as the UK's biggest free family Wheels themed festival, it's set to combine motion, power and elegance into three days of high-energy action across Britain's premier seaside town and seafront. From beautiful historic classic cars and world-class BMX stunts to Monster Truck shows and supercars, there will be something for everyone with a full programme of family fun. The packed line-up so far is planned to include show-stopping arenas on the beach, a cliff-top demonstration course featuring racing cars and bikes, pier jumps, displays, live entertainment, fireworks and much more. Plus, there will be two parades each day as well as sideshows, trade stalls and places to eat. It'll be an unmissable family event – and all for free! For more information, go tobournemouthwheels.co.uk.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
How much are you paying for your latest phone? Whatever it is, your next one probably won't cost as much. Experts say smartphones in Britain are set to get cheaper, as saturation in the market fuels competition between operators.Industry data seen by theObserversuggests that last December, typically the best month of the year, handset sales to contract and pay-as-you-go (PAYG) customers were down 10% on the same month a year earlier. The slump is understood to have continued into January, with double-digit falls year-on-year for both categories.In each of the years from 2010 to 2012, about 9 million people acquired their first smartphone, but last year there were only 4.8 million first-time buyers, according to data from Kantar Worldpanel ComTech. And while there are now more smartphone owners, they will need more persuading to buy a replacement phone.Apple has clearly recognised the need to boost sales: last month it introduced a budget version of its plastic iPhone 5C, with only 8GB of memory, half the previous minimum, in the UK, France, Germany, Australia and China. Those are countries where price sensitivity is growing as the market hits saturation or, in the case of China, competition is especially fierce.With at least 90% of contract customers using smartphones, the UK is already close to saturation point: the remaining 10% will upgrade only slowly, if at all. Fewer PAYG customers have them, but they tend to replace their phones less regularly anyway."Cost is now a fairly small barrier to adoption for the remaining 14m or so feature [relatively basic] phone owners in Britain," said Dominic Sunnebo of Kantar. "The barrier to this group is mindset – they don't think they'll make use of the advanced features, or think they'll find it too complicated."But Hugh Davies, a spokesman for the UK's smallest network, 3, 97% of whose 6 million customers have smartphones, says the pervasiveness of the internet means even these people are bound to switch in the end. "My sister recently got her first smartphone," he said. "She has friends all over the world, but realised that when she was working or travelling she wasn't able to keep in touch as well as they could."But rather than buying a Samsung or Apple handset – as roughly two-thirds of people in the UK do – she bought a Motorola, costing just £115."We're probably at peak Apple and peak Samsung," said Neil Mawston of research company Strategy Analytics. "Once you get past 50% penetration, you move from rapid growth to maturity, and inevitable slowdown."Figures from Apple seem to confirm that: the average worldwide price of an iPhone fell from $636 in the Christmas quarter to $596 in January-March as people opted for the older 4S or cheaper 5C models. Research firm eMarketer predicts that Apple will increase its share in the UK market – but only by a tick, from 29% in 2013, to 30.5% by the end of this year.Phones using Google's Android system, with a wider range of prices, will account for 53% of UK smartphone users this year, eMarketer estimates, compared with 49.6% last year.Mawston said countries such as Japan, where 97% of mobile subscribers had smartphones, were seeing the effects of saturation already: "Sales go up and down based on hot handsets," he said. "They get aggressive on pricing, and then when the excitement fades, they move on to the next hit."For mobile operators, new top-line phones that launch from both Samsung and HTC this month should mean a welcome boost to sales, but price competition is eroding their advantages. This will increase as Chinese handset vendors such as Huawei, ZTE andLenovo – which is buying Motorola from Google– start competing on price, according to Francisco Jeronimo of researcher IDC. "Prices are going down very quickly," he said. "The Chinese are coming in with no brand recognition, but a strong price proposition."Mawston predicts a brutal struggle as handset companies attempt to differentiate themselves from each other.  "Apple is a very strong brand, but even they aren't immune. It's going to be more about marketing and promotion." Samsung, too, will "have to run faster to stand still," he says.For carriers, the competition will be about services – their price, speed, quality and amount. What nobody is quite sure of is which will matter most. "Can I say all?" suggests Richard Reeves, director of business strategy at EE, the UK's largest mobile network, formed from the merger of Orange and T-Mobile. EE said about 90% of its contract users (who make up 60% of its 26&nbsp;million customers) had smartphones compared with 30-40% of PAYG users.Reeves thinks 4G mobile internet will encourage PAYG users to upgrade: "And devices coming from the far east are driving the cost of smartphones down and down." But once people have smartphones, the networks will have to fight on quality of service, he says.The carriers have seen saturation before – in the 1990s, when mobile phone ownership went from being rare to commonplace – but smartphones are different, Reeves says. "As people get bigger screens, they want to watch HD video. And customer service is harder now that people have a minicomputer in their pocket. The network tests are more complex too – typically, our engineers have to carry out 14,000 tests to check compliance with the network, compared with the 2,000 that a feature phone needed."While Apple and Samsung have both introduced fingerprint recognition on their top-end phones, Jeronimo reckons that the simpler offering of faster 4G connectivity will be a strong incentive to upgrade. Smartphones sold in the UK before autumn 2012 can't connect to 4G services because they lack the correct radio chips."It's about faster networks, faster devices and a better user experience," he says. "For instance, why do I have to pick up my phone to wake it up? Why can't I just operate it hands-free with my voice? If I'm to part with £500, I need more than just a better camera."Even so, there may be one seam of potential buyers yet to be mined. "Is a BlackBerry a smartphone?" asks one industry observer. "You can argue it either way. I meet business customers grumpily trying to do work on them."Older BlackBerry models can't get 4G, and their browsing and app capabilities pale against other devices. With the UK still one of BlackBerry's strongest markets – it has millions of users here – the struggling Canadian company could find itself shut out as the technology it helped pioneer becomes pervasive.
The second release in a good week for anime fans,Short Peaceis a fascinating curio – it features a four-part animated short film anthology from some of the greatest directors in Japan, accompanied by a thematically linked game.The first segment, Shuhei Morita'sPossessions, was deservingly nominated for an Oscar for best animated short film, and the whole project was overseen byAkira's Katsuhiro Otomo. It's a beautiful exhibition of animation as an art form.The game,Ranko Tsukigime's Longest Day, shouldn't be evaluated on its own. It's short but deliberately so – 40 minutes, complementing the chapters of the fillm. Playing as Ranko, a schoolgirl assassin, the 10 brief levels offer a blitz of colour and frenzied ideas. Outrunning hordes of demons leads to shooting down dragons and unmasking luchadores – brilliantly madcap stuff from the creators ofTokyo JungleandNo More Heroes. Thankfully, there's replay value, unlocking items or simply targeting a speedrun playthrough. As a whole package,Short Peaceis fantastic, but may fall flat for anyone without interest in the greater anime parts.
As the media available on which to play expand – Amazon and Tesco are the latest to add their names to forthcoming hardware with Fire TV and Hudl 2 – the ordinary web browser still holds its own as one of the most accessible ways to play the widest variety of games.A true highlight of recent releases isStanley Parable LD Remix, a playful spin on a cult indie game reimagined as a text&nbsp;adventure. The originalStanley Parablewas a witty pastiche of game design; its remake applies a similar parody to text-only games and makes for a playful spoof of the source material.Also inspired by a high-profile game isAssasseed's Crin. "Demaking" the famedAssassin's Creedseries, the unofficial browser homage presents a 2D stealth game clearly influenced by retro classics. While the controls are a little cumbersome for its frantic pace, it has surprising depth.If parodies are not your thing, puzzle-platformerRed Warrioris well worth investigating. Introducing a level-flipping mirror mechanic to the traditional platformer template, the task is to save imprisoned friends, but it really serves as a swift, slick distraction, perfect for playing when a quick fix is required.
Not often do you hear aNewsnightpresenter using an arcane mathematical term, but last week was an exception. The culprit was David Grossman,who made an excellent filmforNewsnightabout the threat to employment from advanced robotics. In the course of this, he made the standard pilgrimage to MIT to interview Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee, who have made much of the running in this area with a number of books, of which the most recent isThe Second Machine Age. Their argument, said Grossman, was that our society has reached an "inflection point", a concept beloved of those who studied differential calculus in their youth, but probably unfamiliar to the average viewer.Still, that's what Wikipedia is for.A point of inflection, it explains, is a point on a curve at which the curvature or concavity changes sign from plus to minus (or vice versa). Since this sounds like a smaller deal than the wholesale upheaval prophesied by Brynjolfsson and McAfee, Grossman might have got more mileage out of "tipping point", which, though different to inflection, seems to me to get closer to the nub of the question.In their book, Brynjolfsson and McAfee maintain that the combination of massive computing power, comprehensive networking, machine learning, digital mapping and the"internet of things" are bringing about a full-blown industrial revolution on the same scale as the transformations brought about by steam power and electricity. But whereas those earlier revolutions supplanted human (and horse) muscle, the new one will supplant much human cognition, in that work that involved employing people to do information-processing tasks will ultimately be done by computers. The implication is that even those in many white-collar occupations may find themselves unemployable.At this point, many readers will yawn knowingly. We have, after all, heard this kind of heady talk before – in the 1960s, for example, when robots arrived on automobile assembly lines and there were dire predictions about mass unemployment caused by these new machines. It didn't happen, or at any rate it didn't happen as advertised. Many assembly-line jobs did disappear, but new kinds of enterprise appeared, and displaced workers found new employment and the prosperity machine rolled on. So are Grossman and his MIT interlocutors just winding us up?Not so, they insist. The problem, they say, is that most people have no idea of the abilities of these new technologies. They point to the Google self-driving car as an example of a capability that – until recently – most people thought would be the exclusive preserve of human beings for a long time to come. Yet the cars now exist and are safer than human-controlled vehicles. And if computers can safely drive cars in crowded urban environments, they can certainly do a lot of the tasks currently performed by office workers. This time, in other words, is different. We really are standing on the brink of an inflection point.There is a whiff of technological determinism to all this (although Brynjolfsson and McAfee vigorously deny the charge). It suggests that technology is the main – if not the only – force that drives history. In a variation on the "guns don't kill people – people do" argument, critics point out that the social context in which technologies come into being, not technology itself, is the thing that determines change.And that's true. But, paradoxically, this time it may provide an argument that supports the determinist thrust of the Brynjolfsson/McAfee case. Because these new technologies have arrived at a time when the social context – neoliberal capitalism – seems purpose-built for furthering the extreme rationalisation of work that the new technologies enable. Do we seriously believe that an economic system that supports the massive outsourcing of jobs to low-wage countries would not jump at the opportunity of replacing expensive white-collar employees with robots that cost about $4 an hour to run, never answer back, don't have unions and are never sick or depressed?Then there is one other thing that Brynjolfsson and McAfee don't really discuss, namely the four intrinsic properties of computing and networking technologies. They are: near-zero marginal costs (which confer massive advantages on early movers and investors); network effects (which lead to winner-takes-all outcomes, as has happened with search and social networking); the way in which online phenomena follow power law statistical distributions that apply when a few players capture the overwhelming bulk of the action, leaving everyone else scrabbling around in a "long tail"; and technical lock-in (of the kind that has enabled Amazon to exert an iron grip on cloud computing).Put these together and you have technologies that have an in-built tendency towards monopolistic power. They are shaping the world into which we are heading. The inflection point of which David Grossman spoke might actually be the edge of a precipice.
JoJo's Bizarre Adventurewill come as a somewhat alien property to most; even among anime and manga fans, Hirohiko Araki's long-running series following generations of martial artists with special powers is largely overlooked. A shame, since this impressive 3D beat 'em up adaptation deserves attention. Using a brand-new game engine,JoJo'sbeautifully recreates fighters from each period of the original material. Although such fidelity will be lost on many, the resulting roster is appreciably varied, each boasting diverse skills to master. It's also a rare brawler where the solo mode is worthwhile, with objectives to complete in each story stage allowing you to unlock bountiful gallery material and bonus characters.The biggest frustration here is a tricky block move, leaving characters all too often vulnerable to attacks. But the controls overall may actually prove too forgiving for hardcore fighter fans, with special moves easily bashed out, though that early simplicity does develop to provide greater depth with practice. A solid versus mode and online play round out an excellent title.
My editor has a&nbsp;little&nbsp;chat with me about the cars we&nbsp;are featuring on this page. It&nbsp;comes after a&nbsp;cluster of rather grand ones: a&nbsp;Range Rover,a Bentley, a (farty, farty)Maserati. Not every Guardian reader has 100 grand or more to spend on a car, she says, and maybe we should be reviewing a few more average-family ones.What?! That's so, like, old Guardian – read by muesli-eating, sandal-wearing, 2CV drivers. Today's Guardian reader is just as likely to be a global entrepreneur or dotcom billionaire. Plus, we should be motivational, inspirational, aspirational, all the -ationals, give the reader a goal, something to strive towards…Yeah, OK, so she might have a point. But the posh cars are more amusing – not just to drive around and have parked outside the house,&nbsp;but also to write about. The&nbsp;very un-posh ones are, too – Dacias and Slovenian mopeds. Extremes. It's the ones in the middle that are difficult.The Mitsubishi ASX is very much in the middle (feel free to turn to the crossword at this stage), the middle of the SUV segment and the middle of the price range. It is driven by Malcolm in the Middle (of the road?), to Middlesbrough, listening to middle of the road rock… If he can figure out the stereo, which this famous motoring journalist found confusing and fiddly (but then, to be fair, he finds more and more of life becoming confusing and fiddly as his own goes on).The infotainment system is one of the few things I could find wrong with the ASX. And you want that music because it is a little bit noisy on the road – that's the other thing I&nbsp;found fault with. Otherwise, it's all fine. The 2.2-litre 147bhp turbo diesel combines ably with the six-speed automatic transmission. It is easy to drive, if not thrilling. This one changes to four-wheel drive (from front-wheel) at the press of a&nbsp;button; you wouldn't want to take on a ploughed field, but it would be reassuring in winter.Whether you got one of these would depend on how it measures up against its compact crossover SUV rivals: Nissan Qashqais, Škoda Yetis, Ford Kugas, Kia Sportages, and so on. Which in some important ways – price, fuel economy – it does very well. But in&nbsp;other ways – design, interior, character – it does less well. A Yeti and a Sportage are more interesting, likable cars (the Yeti's name certainly helps).Even with its privacy glass (for any celebrity passengers you might have?) and panoramic roof, the ASX is visually forgettable. Inside, it is on the bland side, too. All in all, a bit ASX-ual, you might say.Right, now send me a Lamborghini. Or a Segway.Mitsubishi ASX4 2.2 diesel 4WD autoPrice£23,899Top speed118mphAcceleration0-62 in 10.8 secondsCombined fuel consumption48.7mpgCO2emissions153g/kmEco rating5/10Cool rating5/10
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewThe story of Princess Aurora's death and reincarnation in a strange land is told through watercolour visuals and poetry. She can fly, so exploring the 2D world of Lemuria takes you effortlessly from the depths of wells and subterranean caves to the very tops of trees. Sadly its semi-real time combat lacks the complexity to make it interesting and its poetry (which extends to dialogue, plot exposition and Aurora's asides) is so unutterably terrible that as soon as a subtitle appears you'll be bracing yourself for more jarring, punishment-grade doggerel.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewThe Hitman series has spawned video games, a film and two novels, so shaven-headed, barcode-tattooed assassin Agent 47 turning up in this digital board game is only the latest in a procession of spin-offs. Hitman Go has you moving your Agent 47 counter around an immaculately drawn board, either avoiding or knocking off anyone who gets in your way, in search of a marked target. Each level is a perfectly engineered little conundrum to be teased apart at your leisure.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewThe first NES Remix was a set of tiny, seconds-long sections of early-to-mid 80s 8-bit games, some much-loved old classics (and some just old) where your objectives had strict time limits but often little to do with the games themselves. Collect coins, jump on enemies, avoid deep pits: all skills for life. If it suffered from a problem, it was that it wasn't all that compelling, a mixture of slightly offbeat games and tasks that got extremely fiddly. NES Remix 2 includes minuscule slices of Zelda II: The Adventure Of Link, Metroid, Super Mario Bros 2 and 3 as well as also-rans including Kirby's Adventure and Wario's Woods, but isn't much more inspiring than its predecessor.
Games out this week includeJojo's Bizarre Adventure: All Star Battle(PS3), a second-rate fighting game based on the long-running manga series;Daylight(PS4, PC) is a scary-looking first-person survival horror game (set in a disused hospital) that ironically takes place almost entirely in darkness; rigidly old-school dungeon-exploring RPG,Demon Gaze(Vita) has been out for a while in Japan and has just received its English translation; andOctodad: Dadliest Catch(PS4, PC) arrives on PS4 this week, letting console gamers experience what life might be like as a cephalopod disguised as a suburban father of two. The answer is, extremely wobbly and with a tendency for knocking everything over. Octodad's insane multi-legged clumsiness is pretty funny until levels begin to demand split-second timing and dexterity, at which point the joke wears a bit thin.
Christopher North is one of the most powerful figures in British retail, but for a period he was better known as a brand of shower gel marketed under the tagline of "rich, thick and full of it".When the brand was trademarked by the angry cosmetics firm Lush, North, the UK boss of Amazon, was said to be "hopping mad". On Friday, however, the New Yorker who has run Amazon's British operations since 2011, laughed off the stunt: "My wife said to me, if they're planning to sell beauty products, they probably shouldn't put your picture on the package," he said.In February Lush hadcheekily trademarked the name "Christopher North"in a spat over Amazon's use of the word "lush" to sell its own lookalike toiletries. Now he finds himself back on more familiar territory for any Amazon executive: defending the company's controversial tax arrangements.North, who oversaw £4.3bn of sales to UK shoppers in 2013 but whose unit paid only £3.15m in UK tax the year before, says it would be impossible to dismantle the online retailer's tax arrangements without withdrawing millions of products from its British website. The arrangements have been criticised by publishers, high street retailers, and politicians of all colours, as well as tax justice campaigners, because they allow Amazon to channel almost all of its European sales, and resulting profits, through Luxembourg."I would defy anybody to find a way to have 120m products available to UK customers if they only did that from a single UK team, sourcing products from the UK, with only warehouses in the UK. We just couldn't do that. And a single European business is going to need a single European headquarters."He says having a single business, based in low-tax Luxembourg, taking €13.6bn (£11.2bn) sales from European customers – mainly in Germany and the UK – is "the right structure for the business".Asked about accusations from rival retailers that he is operating on an unfair playing field because lower tax payments allow Amazon to charge lower prices, North said: "I don't particularly meet with other UK retailers. I mean, we have some UK retailers – I've named two already [House of Fraser and Debenhams] – who sell on Amazon."We pay all of the taxes we're required to pay in every jurisdiction around the world, including the UK … I don't think following the law gives the company an unfair advantage." For tax purposes, North and his 7,000 Amazon colleagues in the UK – in warehouses, software design, procurement, accounting, human resources, and other functions – do not work for the same company that transacts with UK customers. Instead they just provide "services" to the Luxembourg company. In doing so, latest accounts show they generated sales of just £320m, paying only £3.15m in tax.Last summer, G20 leaders put their weight behind a programme of tax reform targeted at multinationals, such as Amazon, who are seen as avoiding huge sums through cross-border corporate structures that had not been possible before the arrival of the digital economy. In its annual report, published earlier this month, parent group Amazon Inc noted these moves, warning investors: "Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by … fundamental changes to the tax laws applicable to multinationals. The US, many countries in the EU and other[s] are actively considering changes in this regard."According to North, however, Amazon "simply couldn't" provide its current offer if it were required to account for itself country by country. "Imagine you come to amazon.co.uk and you purchase a pair of shoes from a fashion store. That pair of shoes might have been sourced from a vendor based in Italy, by a vendor management team based in Luxembourg, and those products may be stored in a warehouse in Germany."The picture is further complicated by the growing army of small traders who can sell direct to Amazon customers anywhere in Europe via the website. For every traditional retailer feeling their livelihood under threat from Amazon, there is another embryonic enterprise born on the mighty online platform, many of them flourishing. There are now thousands of professional traders who turned over sales of more than £250,000 on Amazon.co.uk, and the figure grew by 32% last year."Commissions from these sellers helped Amazon to increase UK sales by almost 13% last year – enough to be the envy of the UK retail industry, but, incredibly, still well behind the pace of growth in Germany and the US where sales were up about 20%."Making country-by-country comparisons is difficult," an Amazon spokesman said. "We're very pleased with our continued growth in the UK and worldwide, and know that it will only come if we continue to find ways to delight customers."Amazon continues to invest heavily in the UK, rapidly adding distribution depots to complement its eight vast warehouses, in order to meet their next-day delivery promise to customers subscribing to Amazon Prime services. A ninth warehouse is also planned in Ashford, Kent – though not without opposition.The GMB has seized upon the expansion as an opportunity to highlight what it argues is Amazon's poor employment record, suggesting that between 75% and 80% of warehouse staff work on a casual basis, many employed on minimum wages by outside recruitment agencies. Amazon has different figures. It says the only one in five of its staff working in the UK, including agency staff, are employed on a temporary basis."Amazon deliberately sets up in rundown areas. These are jobs of last resort, and they effectively come with huge state subsidies. Meanwhile, Amazon don't have the decency to pay what they should in tax," said GMB national organiser Martin Smith.North paints a different picture, insisting Amazon pays a competitive wage "to attract the best and brightest we can". He says Amazon also takes responsibility for the employment terms of agency staff in its warehouses. "We think morally its is our responsibility to ensure they are safe and are properly compensated."North is watching with interest Amazon's experimental offer called "Pay to Quit" recently made available to US staff. In theory the scheme is designed to weed out disgruntled staff. "If somebody would rather have $2,000 than continue working at Amazon, then we don't want them to stay," explains North. "It's probably better for them, and for us, if they go somewhere else."He suggests, if successful in the US, the offer may be extended to staff in Germany, where there was a warehouse strike last week, and to the UK were the GMB and other unions are focusing recruiting efforts.• This article was amended on 26 April 2014, we initially identified GMB national organiser Martin Smith as Martin Short.
Amazon may share its name with mythology's greatest female warriors, but the world's largest online retailer employs just 18 women among its 120 most senior managers, and none of them report directly to the boss.Amazon's founder, chief executive and chairman, Jeff Bezos, runs the company through a select all-male group of 12, known internally as the S Team (Senior Team), who have a direct line to him. And the S Team themselves seem reluctant to employ women, according to a leak from an internal directory.Including those who report directly to the S Team, there are 132 staff in total in the top two tiers at Amazon. But 13 of these are "executive assistants" and all are women. Out of the 119 senior managers, just 18 are female – 15% of the total – according to information compiled by an Amazon employee in Europe. There are two women on the Amazon board, both non-executive directors."At Amazon there is a strong feeling that there is a glass ceiling for women who want to progress above senior manager or director level," said the source, who asked not to be named."These statistics show that despite surviving as a company by constantly adapting and innovating, Amazon fails to address its burgeoning issue of workplace inequality. Of Jeff Bezos' 12 direct reports, none are female."Amazon has a problem with women, and it needs to change."When Bezos, who is married to the author MacKenzie Bezos, was looking for a wife, "The number-one criterion was that I wanted a woman who could get me out of a third-world prison," hetold Wiredmagazine in 1999, saying that his favoured quality was resourcefulness.But his views on suitable marriage candidates are at odds with the company's approach to women as employees.The most senior woman in Amazon is Shelley Reynolds, who acts as controller and principal accounting officer, and is named as a member of the 10-strong team of company officers in the annual report. But the internal directory lists her as reporting directly to the chief financial officer, Tom Szkutak, not to Bezos. The information on Amazon's top team comes from Phone Tool, a directory with a page for each member of staff, giving their name, job title and direct reports.In the UK, managing director Christopher North is listed as having five direct reports, of whom two are women. One is his assistant, and the other, director of media Rakhi Parekh, is due to leave Amazon in the coming weeks. The only other woman in the top management team for the UK is human resources director Laurie Arnold, but she is not listed as reporting directly to North.The senior vice-president of business development, Jeff Blackburn, has 10 managers reporting directly to him but none of those listed are women. The same appears to be true for Amazon web services senior vice-president, Andrew Jassy, who is listed as employing nine managers, all male.The head of human resources, Tony Galbato, appears to be the most female-friendly S Team member, with seven women managers among his 13 direct reports, many of them working in recruitment.Daisy Sands, head of policy at the Fawcett Society, which campaigns for equality, said: "Across the UK today, only 35% of senior managers are women. Amazon makes even this paltry record look glowing. Excluding women from these influential roles means missing out on the substantial benefits that their greater involvement would bring."Evidence shows that more women in senior management leads to better corporate performance, a boost to the bottom line, and allows businesses to tap into new insights about their customers. Amazon must take firm action to ensure that it enables women to flourish at all levels of the company."Gender balance is an issue across the technology sector, despite Yahoo boss Marissa Mayer and Facebook's chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg's arrival in Silicon Valley's upper echelons.Google has no women among its executive officers and one among the seven-strong second tier senior leadership team. Apple has an all-male team reporting to its chief executive, Tim Cook, although that will change next week with the arrival of Burberry boss Angela Ahrendts to head its retail operations. Microsoft scores higher – of 12 executives who report to Satya Nadella, two are women.Amazon said: "We have many women in leadership roles across our global organisation, including two members of our board, and have recently been recognised by 2020 Women on Boards and ranked the number three employer by Woman Engineer Magazine."
At one time, a company called Quad advertised itself as &quot;The closest approach to the original sound&quot;. With the topic of analogue FM radio turn-off in the news again, I would be very grateful if you could clarify the options, given the Quad aspiration. I have a rather fine, if old, hi-fi system into which any radio signal can be delivered.Where should I go if they actually have the temerity to close FM? Finance is a major consideration.Where I live, the web is not an option, but it may be for others.MikeI don&apos;t think you need to worry too much about FM radio being turned-off. It may never happen, unless the transmitters become unmaintainable. DAB (Digital Audio Broadcasting) is roughly as old as the web, and the BBC started broadcasting in 1995 – before MP3s and iPods, never mind smartphones and tablets – and it still hasn&apos;t taken off.In theory, the British government will announce a date for a &quot;digital switchover&quot; when digital listening – ie not just DAB – reaches 50%. It&apos;s about 36% now. However, in December, the Department for Culture, Media and Sportput off making a decisionabout making an announcement, because the targets for listening, content, coverage, and in-car DAB had not been met. Even if they were, MPs know it would be mad to sanction a switchover.Remember the protests againstturning off Radio Four Long Waveand theclosure of the BBC&apos;s 6 Musicon DAB? Both led to rapid climbdowns, and at the time, the 8-year-old 6 Music had only 700,000 listeners. (The problem was that it was costing the BBC about £10 per listener.) The prospect of turning off a system with, perhaps, 25 million listeners – including many mobile phone users and the vast majority of car drivers – doesn&apos;t bear thinking about.Worse, the &quot;digital switchover&quot; is all pain with very little gain. The government can&apos;t make a profit by flogging off the old radio spectrum, and the current plan is to keep using FM for local radio broadcasting, including community and hospital stations that can&apos;t fit on DAB. People are not crying out for more radio stations: they don&apos;t listen to most of the ones they already have. And whereas digital TV brought things like HD TV and 3D, DAB doesn&apos;t even get you HD radio. The sound quality of the UK&apos;s current DAB, with its low bit-rates and obsolete MP2 codec, is worse than FM.Sadly, the UK broadcast radio industry more or less has abandoned the idea of high-fidelity sound, which the BBC did so much to foster. Even your old hi-fi may be too good for stations targeted at small kitchen radios that are either mono or offer very little in the way of stereo separation.What to do?Prediction is difficult, but it&apos;s clear that radio is now and will remain a multi-platform medium. I think FM, DAB, DVB-T (Freeview), Freesat/Sky, cable and internet radio will all be around for the foreseeable future. You can probably add DAB+ to that, because more advanced countries have adopted it and even the BBC is testing it. You may also see DRM/DRM+ (Digital Radio Mondiale), since this is developing rapidly and can make good use of old LW/AM/FM spectrum. Basically, DRM brings the digital advantages of DAB plus FM-like sound quality to long-range (ie short wave and medium wave) broadcasting, thoughinterference can be a problem. The BBC World Service has been participating in the development of DRM.The more radio platforms you can use, the greater the range and variety of stations you can receive. This includes &quot;radio like&quot; online stations such as Pandora, Spotify and Last.fm.If you are planning to buy a new radio, you can still buy one that only supports FM or AM/FM. However, it&apos;s probably a bit late to buy an FM-only hi-fi tuner like theQuad Elite, in spite of the attractively low price -- only £599.95. (Quad is now owned by a Chinese company, and the Elite looks just like my old Quad 77 system.) If buying either a tuner or a standalone radio, I&apos;d suggest one that supports FM, DAB and DAB+, and preferably internet radio as well. At the moment, there&apos;s no reason to look for DRM, though Amazon.co.uk offers aMorphy Richards AM/FM/DAB/DRM radio.DAB and FreeviewAll DAB radios seem to support FM, and a large proportion support DAB+. Indeed, the UK government&apos;s guidance,Minimum specifications for DAB and DAB+ personal and domestic digital radio receivers, published in February 2013, says: &quot;Receivers shall be capable of receiving DAB and DAB+ Digital Radio broadcasts in the frequency range 174 to 240MHz&quot;. It&apos;s worth having because the BBC can&apos;t switch to DAB+ if most of us own radios that don&apos;t support it. Whether your radio will last long enough to receive DAB+ is another matter.If you can buy a tuner or FM/DAB/DAB+ radio with RCA-out sockets, that would be even better. RCA/phono plugs make much more reliable connections than audio-jacks. For people who have decent DAB reception, something like aRevo Mondo DAB tuneris a relatively cheap (£69.95) way of adding FM/DAB/DAB+ to an old hi-fi.If you live in an area with good Freeview reception, then you can feed an audio signal to your hi-fi, preferably using 2 x RCA/phono sockets. People with newer hi-fis may be able to use aTOSlinkcable instead. Freeview provides more than 30 radio stations so you will probably find some new ones. It helps if the Freeview tuner has a channel read-out on the front, so you can select radio stations without having the TV switched on. If you can&apos;t get Freeview then a Freesat set-top box -- plus satellite dish -- is an alternative.Freeview and Freesat generally provide radio with higher bit-rates -- typically 192kbps vs 128kbps or less -- and therefore tend to sound better than DAB. However, bit-rates vary, and there is no guarantee that they will stay the same. The trend in both audio and video broadcasting is to keep reducing the quality of existing channels to add more rubbish that hardly anyone wants.Internet radioInternet radio offers by far the widest choice -- tens of thousands of stations -- and the most variable sound quality. But it can offer better sound quality, for two reasons. First, the bandwidth is not limited by broadcast requirements, and the BBC is streaming Radio 3 at 320kbps. Second, even if internet stations have the same bit-rate, they use much more efficient codecs. The 320kbps Radio 3 stream is encoded using AAC (Advanced Audio Coding) rather than MP2. Technically, it’s better than FM.Of course, this assumes that the audio stream has not gone through earlier stages at lower quality. For example, if you convert a 64kbps mono MP2 signal into 128kbps AAC, it&apos;s not going to sound better. Also, the playback system has to be capable of exploiting the difference. You may not hear the difference between MP2 and AAC on a cheap kitchen radio, but you should hear it on good quality headphones.Internet bandwidth is growing rapidly, and Ofcom says that the average UK broadband speed grew from 3.6Mbps in November 2008 to 17.8Mbps in November 2013. The average &quot;urban broadband&quot; speed is already 31.9Mbps. Advances are driven by online TV and movie services, and radio&apos;s need for bandwidth is relatively trivial. Internet radio stations can now stream studio-quality recordings, if they want.The drawback with internet radio is that it doesn&apos;t really meet the need for mobile or in-car listening. The latter accounts for about a fifth of UK radio listening. You can use a 3G phone in urban areas, but the signal is not completely reliable, and this consumes expensive mobile bandwidth that is in short supply. (The UK has not adopted the long-rangeWiMaxversion of Wi-Fi that solves this problem.) Unless systems like Apple&apos;s CarPlay replace radio, we&apos;ll still need good old-fashioned broadcasting.Aerials matterIf, as you say, &quot;finance is a major consideration&quot;, then don&apos;t do anything until you&apos;re forced to. DAB/DAB+ radios are unlikely to get more expensive, and you may get better 4G/5G/DMBoptions later. I also expect to see better streaming devices than the Roku 3, Amazon Fire TV and Google Chromecast.Probably the best thing you can do at the moment is improve the quality of your aerial, and this is even more important in rural areas. The main drawback with FM radio -- and the one that DAB digital radio solves -- is the background hiss that you get if the signal isn&apos;t strong enough. A good roof-top aerial will also improve Freeview and DAB reception, and there are plenty of professional installers who will do the job for a reasonable fee.
ET is one of the most successful movies of all time, but the Atari video game it inspired proved one of the biggest flops in history and ended, legend has it, with the mass burial of millions of unsold games and the near-collapse of the gaming company.On Saturday, a team of contractors, guided by archaeologists and watched by a Hollywood film crew, will start a dig in a New Mexico landfill to try to unearth the truth about one of the biggest mysteries in gaming history.In the early 1980s, Atari accounted for 80% of the video games market, with gamers eagerly snapping up its console versions of arcade classics including Asteroids and Space Invaders. In 1982, it released ET: the Extra Terrestrial, for the Atari 2600 console, after buying the rights from director Steven Spielberg and Universal for $22m.It was a bold move into a new type of gaming, one based on a movie, not an arcade hit. But the game itself was panned. Players were supposed to find parts of an interplanetary telephone that would allow ET to phone home. Instead, they spent much of their time falling into badly-designed holes. Sales were a disaster, and contributed to Atari’s spectacular collapse. By 1984 Atari was defunct, the biggest victim of what became known as the North American video games crash.As Atari was approaching game over, the New York Times and othersreported the company had dumped“14 truckloads of discarded game cartridges and other computer equipment at the city landfill in Alamogordo, New Mexico.” Guards reportedly kept reporters and spectators away from the area as workers poured concrete over the dumped merchandise.Not everyone agrees that this was truly ET’s fate. Howard Scott Warshaw, the game’s designer, believes the landfill story isan urban legend.Whatever the truth, the story is now the subject of two films. Saturday’s dig is being coordinated by Fuel Entertainment and Xbox Entertainment Studios for a documentary directed by Zak Penn, writer of The Avengers and X-Men 2. It will air as one of a series of documentaries and other original programmes being developed for Microsoft’s Xbox games console users. The ET burial will also be the centerpiece of an independent comedy, Angry Video Game Nerd: The Movie, now in production.And so it begins...pic.twitter.com/YTSKx71G7r&mdash; Zak Penn (@zakpenn)April 24, 2014Penn, his crew, and University of North Dakota archaeologist Bill Caraher are expected to break ground on Saturday. Caraher’s specialty is fifth-to-10th-century Christian architecture in the Mediterranean region, but he’s also a former Atari 2600 owner. Hetold local newspapersthat he hopes he may also unearth an early, and apparently awful, version of Pac-Man in the landfill.“Other than garbage and the truth, I have no idea what we’ll find. I think that’s what’s exciting, we won’t know exactly what’s down there until they start digging. Alamogordo, 26 April, be there to find out the truth,” Penn told ABC News.
Sometimes I wonder, was I ever really Gordon Freeman? I have spent many hours of my life playing Half Life, Valve&apos;s brilliant sci-fi shooter series in which this bespectacled physicist is the silent and enigmatic lead character. That is many hours trapped in his body, seeing the techno-distopias of Black Mesa and City 17 through &quot;his&quot; eyes. Except, they weren&apos;t really his eyes, they were mine, and the things I did were my actions. At least that&apos;s how they felt.But if I wasn&apos;t Gordon, well, did I care about him? Did I relate to him?If I wasn&apos;t Gordon, who was I?Every fictional character exists in a contested zone between author intention and audience interpretation; but in games, the position is much closer to the latter party. Interactivity gives us ownership over the experience in a way that reading words on a page or watching a movie does not. In novels and in film, we have a little wriggle room in terms of how we perceive what is going on, and what we think it means; but in games, perception and meaning are subordinate to the act of taking the controller and actually doing. The gamer&apos;s sense of self over-powers and often eradicates the fictional character.Who is the first-person?This is especially true in first-person games, which in identification terms, are much closer to the rarer second-person narratives in fiction (see every &quot;choose your own adventure&quot; novel). In books, when we see the &quot;I&quot;, we understand that it belongs to the voice on the page – the narrator – and not to us. But the &quot;I&quot; in the game is definitely us, because the first-person camera is designed to simulate our viewpoint.Portal (by Valve again) plays marvelous tricks with this concept. Our view of the science lab in which the game takes place is first-person, so it feels as though we&apos;re there, but if you set the portals up in the right way, you can catch the &quot;real&quot; lead character, Chell, running through. This game, so clever in its take on space and spatial understanding, also provides us with these strange moments of existential unease. Who are we controlling - ourselves or Chell? And when we can&apos;t see her one screen, are we still her?There has been plenty of research into this question. Freud, of course, argued that the process of forming a personality begins through the identification with others – that we learn who we are by role-playing as those near to us. Later researchers, like Jonathan Cohen, have studied how television and movie characters have been adopted into this process of formative self-identification.&quot;Cohen’s work looks at viewer identification with media characters suggesting that character identification involves an &apos;increasing loss of self-awareness and its temporary replacement with heightened emotional and cognitive connections to the character&apos;,&quot; says cyberpsychologist, Berni Good. &quot;If we relate this to gaming it would suggest that we do put ourselves in the role of the character, suspending our sense of self in these virtual worlds.&quot;Elsewhere, there is thenarrative collective-assimilation hypothesis, which suggests we align ourselves with fictional groups that we feel affinity with – like the elves in a fantasy game. Gradually, we identify as elves or vampires or space marines, we subsume them and their struggle. There is plenty of sense in that, especially if you start to think about how we begin to form very intense personal relationships in clans and guilds.The uncanny valley of assimilationBut I&apos;m still not sure. I&apos;m not sure because of the typically gigantic chasm between a game&apos;s narrative intention, its interactive systems and my own actions. Far Cry 3, for example, is one of the greatest mainstream action adventure games ever made in terms of its beautifully modelled sandbox environment and interlocking AI systems. But the plot is riddled with disturbing colonialist subtexts and the lead character is a horrendous dude-bro. I don&apos;t want to identify with that shithead. The term ludonarrative dissonance is widely mocked within the industry, but it is a depressingly common phenomenon – and when players see no link between the narrative sequences and their own in-game reality, questions of identification and association become more problematic.In third-person games, the relationship between player and character is even more complex. We&apos;re not the avatar because they are clearly visible on the screen, and we often see and hear them in cinematic sections. But if we are not Nathan Drake or Lara Croft, what are we to them? A friend? A carer? And yet, we&apos;re controlling them, so how can that be?Well OK, perhaps we should be honest with ourselves here. In lots of ways – some pernicious, some compassionate – we do manipulate our friends, or at least we seek to. Every relationship you have ever had has been about control to some degree. So maybe all third-person games are allegories on friendship.Last year, I met the game designer and author Jesse Schell who has a theory that the relationship between player and character in third-person games will gradually evolve from one of semi-representation to one of co-operation. In short, you won&apos;t &apos;be&apos; Lara Croft, you&apos;ll be her companion; her adviser. &quot;I think what&apos;s going to happen more and more is that you&apos;re going to talk to your avatar, which seems a little weird as we think of our avatar as someone who never talks,&quot; he says. &quot;But it&apos;s not true, right? Because your avatar talks in cut scenes - and then he&apos;s done talking and then you&apos;re playing him. But it&apos;s like, well, why is that okay? In Mass Effect 3 the Kinect voice control is kind of interesting because you have these onscreen choices and you say the line, but Shepard doesn&apos;t repeat it - he just follows up on what you just said. It&apos;s like you and Shepard are kind of a team - you say your thing, then he follows up on it. I think we&apos;re going to see more relationships like that - where you&apos;ll be chatting with your avatar, and then you&apos;re controlling him and giving him orders…&quot;Mirrored on the screenBut then, what really worries me about games, beyond the psychological ambiguity of controlling a virtual human being, is that there are so few characters I identify with, that speak to me in any meaningful way. Music, literature and cinema have all done that. As a teenager hopelessly in love with the wrong girl, I could relate to David Gedge of the Wedding Present singing, &quot;there&apos;s a thousand things I wish I&apos;d said or done… but the moment&apos;s gone&quot;. As a pretentious twenty-something I could relate to the struggling, strung out writer in Jay McInerney&apos;s novel Bright Lights, Big City. I&apos;m not sure I&apos;ve ever had that experience with a game character.How many people have? This week I did a test on Twitter. On Tuesday, I tweeted the question, &quot;Which game character would you most like to have dinner with&quot;. I had dozens of responses and most of them were serious – people wrote about how great it would be to sit in a bar with Solid Snake or Nathan Drake and listen to their stories, how cool to be seen with Nico Collard from the Broken Sword series. On Wednesday, however, I tweeted another question: &quot;with which video game character do you most closely identify?&quot; This time, a majority of the responses were comedic – Pac-Man came up a lot (munching pills, listening to repetitive music), Pyramid Head from Silent Hill 2, Mario, Cool Spot... True, some gamershaddiscovered characters that they could relate to - the brilliant games writer Jenn Frank mentioned Laura Bow from Roberta Williams&apos; series of graphic adventures (&quot;she&apos;s a wannabe-journalist with a knack for solving mysteries and a nose for news, but she also got mugged an hour ago&quot;). But for most, the question was light-hearted. Because, you know, how can you relate to MasterChief?Partly, of course, this is down to the kinetic focus of the medium. Most narrative games are about action, they are concerned with events rather than people - and so their heroes are often little more than archetypes put in place to facilitate the machinery of conflict. Even the most emotionally resonant video games usually operate at the extremes of experience, amid war, apocalypse, or fantastical adventure. It is difficult to truly inhabit, say, Joel from The Last of Us because his reality is beyond anything we can imagine – he is an agent of chaos and horror and everything he says and does exists within the parameters of armageddon. The moments of humanity that Ellie injects into the narrative – mostly through her questions about life before the contagion – add depth to her, but they don&apos;t necessarily make her more relatable (although Laura Hudson at Wired has written beautifully onhow the DLC story, Left Behind, made her feel represented in a gamefor the first time).The evidence for identificationAnd yet, there are clearly examples of empathetic video game characters. Gone Home, with its guarded tale of teen sexuality and emotional conflict, spoke to many gamers about the process of coming out to their families – although its interesting that the story is told through the eyes of an observer. Could Gone Home have been delivered through Samantha&apos;s experience? Could we have been her?There is a lot of evidence to suggest we could. &quot;Last year, a team of researchers from Singapore looked at original components of Cohen&apos;s work and applied it to video games,&quot; says Good. &quot;They particularly looked at sharing the feelings of the characters – for example, feeling sad if things don&apos;t go well for the character, and suggesting an emotional connection in that the player would ’know’ exactly what the character was going through.&quot;There is research to suggest a merging of self and the character too, so this is another phenomenon that&apos;s happening. Psychologists have uncovered that we suspend our sense of self in virtual worlds and coupling that with the disinhibition effect – the idea that are inhibitions are lowered in virtual environments – it&apos;s completely plausible that people will actually feel as if they are the character they are playing. In this sense the player could see characters as identifiably human beings that they want to aspire to be or to know.&quot;Research by Schoenau-Fog suggests that that when it comes to people wanting to keep playing a game, experiencing the character ranks higher than destruction or killing enemies in game play, and this research suggests that we want to develop and evolve with the character, experience what happens to the character and if there is not enough of this activity players may not want to continue playing. This suggests the more we can relate to the character the more we want to play a game.&quot;Being v escapingAt the same time, however, there is the argument about escapism – that games aren&apos;t about identification, that they are about the obliteration of the self into an immersive fantasy. Well, that&apos;s fine, but is that really what they&apos;re doing? In the movie Total Recall (loosely based on the Philip K Dick story, We Can Remember It For You Wholesale) a tech company offers customers a break from the one thing that defines every holiday they&apos;ve ever been on: themselves. In Katherine Bigelow&apos;s hugely underrated movie Strange Days, a virtual realty technology allows users to fully experience the memories and sensations of another. It is incredibly erotic and interesting. Games should be doing that, right?We are all stuck, to some extent, in the bodies we have, in the people we are. Some of us challenge that, of course; some see a vast and terrifying schism between their sense of self and the body that stands before them in the mirror – and they change it. Other people are not that brave, but wish they were. The thing is, any one who is capable of compassion, imagination or identification, wonders what it is to be someone else – to be better looking, uglier, or of a different race or age or gender or species. How can you not wonder about that? And why haven&apos;t games helped us to think about it in a more intimate way?Why don&apos;t games turn us into other people?Because they don&apos;t. Seriously. All they ever provide is a digital masquerade, a ghoulish, semitransparent halloween costume – there is little sense of physicality, of immersion, of ownership over a body. Is that asking too much from the medium, or from the technology of the medium? Is the 2D screen too alienating - the compassionate distance too long for us to transmit ourselves into? I&apos;m not really sure that&apos;s it. I&apos;m not sure technology ever lets artists off the hook that easily. But perhaps, when virtual reality really takes off, when we can look down and see our digital body in 3D space, when the focus of game design switches from attention to the idea of &quot;presence&quot;, maybe then games will explore physicality and identity in more depth.The ghost in the machineBeyond all that, there are so many questions to be asked about whether game characters actually are characters or whether they are merely representatives or ambassadors – ciphers of our intentions. Davey Wreden&apos;s The Stanley Parable is a brilliant, often mind-bending inquiry into the immersive conventions of video game design, but I think more games should turn that inquiring camera on to the player, or they should seek to really place us in the world, in the body.Is it possible to identify with a video game character? Is it possible to explore what it means to be someone else, or even to see ourselves through the eyes of another? I spend a lot of my time thinking about who I am and what the hell I&apos;m doing. I worry about the way I&apos;ve treated others, I worry about the things I&apos;ve done and the things I&apos;m going to do. Can games ever help us explore that? Or will they only ever confirm what Joseph Conrad told us in Heart of Darkness – that we live as we dream… alone.• Will we ever have love affairs with video game characters?• Video games need more women – and asking for that won&apos;t end the world• Bulletstorm, remorse and the meaning of shooting games
Name:Hand-me-ups.Age:Well past it.Appearance:Clapped-out antique.Like a rusting Morris Minor?No, like an iPhone 4S.But that's the sort of phone I have.You surprise me, old man.What's wrong with it? It does everything I need it to do, and more. Why, it's like a watch and a walkie talkie in one!How many pixels does the camera have?There's a camera in it?Has it got fast wireless? 64-bit architecture? Fingerprint recognition?I don't really know that much about it, to be honest. One of my kids gave it to me when he got an upgrade.That's why it's called a hand-me-up, granddad.Sorry, what's that?According to a new study from an online retailer, old technology – including phones, tablets, TVs – are increasingly being "handed up" to parents by their children. Apparently one in three UK mums isnow using a phone handed up by another family member.Sounds very sensible.The older generation – that's you – isn't really concerned with having the most up-to-date stuff, whereas people under 25 tend to think a smartphone needs replacing after 11 months.That's ridiculous – just because the screen is a bit scratched and it sometimes plays loud music in your pocket for no reason. It's still perfectly serviceable.It's all yours, mate.You young people wouldn't know you were born if you didn't have an app to remind you it was your birthday. Such mindless consumption.Actually, hand-me-ups are a pretty efficient form of recycling: new technology enters the household through the family member most concerned with novelty, and ends up with the person who cares least, extending the lifespan of the product.Do you know that if my children ring me, their names and faces actually appear on the screen?It was nice talking to you. You take care now.Before you go, could you just show me how to get Radio 4 on it?I'm late as it is. Bye.Do say:"Like me, this old phone may be cracked and obsolete, but there's plenty of life left in both of us."Don't say:"When I was your age we had to crush our own candy, with a mallet."
And so the football season is gearing up for another dramatic conclusion, the Premiership moving into its final three matches, the title still up for grabs and relegation places grimly beckoning. No one can possibly know what will happen next.Or can they?With its complex tactical engine, based closely on real-life data, Football Manager claims to be the most authentic sports management simulation ever devised. Wannabe-Mourinhos spend more time playing it on the PC gaming platform Steam than any other title on the service, and the accuracy and depth of its 300,000-strong player database is such that it&apos;s rumoured to be used by professional scouts seeking out the next big superstars. In 2008, Everton even signed a deal to get unrivaled access to the game&apos;s statistics.But how accurate is the game as a gauge of the real sport? To find out, the Guardian asked the series&apos; developerSports Interactiveto run the end-of-season fixtures for England&apos;s four main leagues, plus the FA Cup and Champions League, through their engine. The team coded in all the correct fixtures, the likely squad selections and the prefered tactics of every side, and then let it run.Here&apos;s what football&apos;s biggest computer brain came up with.The Barclays PremiershipThe Premier leagueNo surprises here, perhaps. According to Football Manager, Liverpool will be crowned champions for the first time in 24 years.“In the crunch top-two clash against Chelsea, Suarez gives Liverpool an early lead before a Salah equaliser midway through the second half,&quot; says Sports Interactive&apos;s football analyst, Tom Davidson, about the crucial forthcoming fixture. &quot;With the game seemingly heading towards a draw, Chelsea fail to react to a Liverpool counter-attack and Coutinho coolly slots the ball past Schwarzer with eleven minutes left on the clock. The Reds then go on to draw 1-1 against Palace to all but secure the title.”Perhaps the best part of Football Manager 2014, however, is how surprisingly accurate it can be about the personality of players and managers. “The in-game Mourinho’s reaction to the Liverpool victory was less than complimentary; he criticised Liverpool’s physicality on the pitch before refusing to answer any questions about his own players.” Wow, it really is accurate.According to our simulation, Liverpool will end 2014 unbeaten, wrapping up their season with a 2-0 win against Newcastle. Luis Suarez will take his goal tally for the season to 33 and Brendan Rodgers is named Manager of the Year.As for the rest? Mourinho&apos;s focus on the Champion&apos;s League, as well as injuries to Cech and Terry, see Chelsea pipped to second position by a rejuvenated Manchester City. “City themselves should have finished with a better points total,” note the Sports Interactive wizards, “but a misjudged backpass from Demichelis against Aston Villa allowed Agbonlahor to steal all three points.”Everton falter at the last, drawing at Southampton and then beaten by Manchester City – which allows Arsenal to secure Champions League football yet again. The most priceless nugget in our simulated match? “Ashley Young was brought on as a sub against Southampton,&quot; says Davidson. &quot;He was booked for diving.&quot;Joining the Toffees in the Europa League are Tottenham, who pip Manchester United to 6th place. Despite Giggsy in the dugout, the Red Devils end a disappointing campaign with defeats to Hull and Southampton.So that&apos;s the big boys. At the other end of the table, Sunderland stage a comeback for the ages by securing four points from their final four games and surviving on goal difference. “Adam Johnson’s brace in a 2-1 victory over West Brom proves to be the deciding factor in the relegation battle,&quot; says Davidson.A final-day loss for the Black Cats against Swansea isn&apos;t quite enough for Norwich who, despite drawing 1-1 with Chelsea, take a 3-0 pounding from Arsenal. Meanwhile Cardiff and Fulham can&apos;t get out of the drawing habit, and both have a winless final three games and finish rooted to the bottom of the table.Champions:LiverpoolRelegated:Norwich, Cardiff, FulhamThe Sky Bet ChampionshipThe ChampionshipWith Leicester City and Burnley already promoted, the interest in the Championship&apos;s final games is on the playoff and relegation positions. Over to Davidson in the Sports Interactive studio: “Nottingham Forest claim the final playoff spot with back-to-back victories over Bournemouth and Brighton while Reading go in the opposite direction with successive defeats to Doncaster and Burnley.”The playoffs themselves thus throw up an East Midlands clash between Derby and Forest, with QPR and Wigan contesting the other berth. With the spirit of Brian Clough no doubt yelling them on, Nottingham Forest continue their remarkable end-of-season form with a 4-2 aggregate victory. “Andy Reid scores twice over the two legs, with Jamie Paterson scoring the final goal of the tie in 2-1 win at the City Ground.”The other semi is tighter, but Wigan scrape through with a 3-2 aggregate victory thanks to Marc-Antoine Fortune&apos;s winning goal in the second leg. Over to Sports Interactive for the final: “Wigan dominate possession but are frustrated by a string of good saves from Karl Darlow in the Forest goal. Wigan continue to pile men forward but are caught out by a quick counter-attack which leads to a Jamie Paterson header finding the top corner of the net – and Forest hold out to claim promotion.”Good to see them back in the big-time. The relegation battle, sadly, is much less exciting, as the current bottom three of Blackpool, Yeovil and Barnsley all fail to pick up a win in their final two games – and head down to Sky Bet League 1.Champions:Leicester CityPromoted:Burnley, Nottingham ForestRelegated:Blackpool, Yeovil, BarnsleySky Bet League 1League oneWith Wolves and Brentford already promoted, again our attention&apos;s on the playoffs. It is a time for heroes like the Posh – and we ain&apos;t talking Beckham. Peterborough secure their place with a pair of 1-1 draws against Shrewsbury and Port Vale, before hammering Preston in the first playoff semi-final 4-1 on aggregate. In the other semi Leyton Orient beat Rotherham 2-1 on aggregate, thanks to goals from David Mooney and Kevin Lisbie.Over to Sports Interactive: “The final is played at a high tempo and Peterborough take an early lead through Brit Assombalonga, but Lisbie scores Orient’s equaliser on the stroke of half-time. Peterborough dominate the second-half but can’t find a way through until a deflected Jack Payne shot finds its way into the back of the net after 88 minutes.”Bosh – the Posh are back in the Championship. At the other end of the table Notts County complete their Houdini act by escaping from the drop zone with a thrilling 2-1 win on the final day against Oldham, with Callum McGregor nabbing the winner in the 87th minute.Sadly this result condemns Colchester United, who lose away to Walsall, to Sky Bet League 2. Shrewsbury put up more of a fight but a final day win over Gillingham isn&apos;t enough, and Carlisle&apos;s 3-1 defeat to the rampant Wolves confirms their relegation. Stevenage were already down, but go into the future on a positive note by beating the champagne-heavy Brentford 1-0.Champions:Wolverhampton WanderersPromoted:Brentford, PeterboroughRelegated:Colchester United, Shrewsbury, Carlisle, StevenageSky Bet League 2League TwoScunthorpe, Chesterfield and Rochdale are promoted to League 1 after all three teams go unbeaten in the final two games – and Scunthorpe’s win and a draw extends their long unbeaten run to the end of the season.Sadly for Oxford United, their defeat to Northampton on the final day costs them 7th place and so the playoff places remain unchanged. Fleetwood face York in the first semi-final, and the Cod Army ease to a 3-1 aggregate win to book their ticket to Wembley. In the other semi-final things are even more one-sided as Burton overcome Southend 3-0.The final gets off to a stunning start with a 20-yard Jon Parkin goal giving Fleetwood the lead within the first minute. They soon double their lead before half-time with an Antoni Sarcevic goal, but an Adam McGurk goal immediately after half-time gives Burton hope. It&apos;s not to be, however, and Fleetwood cose out the match to secure promotion to League 1.Torquay and Wycombe Wanderers share a tragedy: their 1-1 draw on the last day of the season, coupled with results going against them, confirms both of their fates. Both exit the Football League.Champions:ScunthorpePromoted:Chesterfield, Rochdale, FleetwoodRelegated:Torquay, Wycombe WanderersBonus! The FA Cup and Champion&apos;s League finalFA CupIt&apos;s been too long since we&apos;ve seen Arsene smile, and Arsenal claim their first piece of silverware since 2005 with a 2-0 win over Hull in the FA Cup final – goals from Aaron Ramsey and Santi Cazorla ending nine years of hurt. “Hull will be happy with their performance, testing Szczesny on several occasions,&quot; says Davidson drily.Champions LeaguePoor Jose – Chelsea don&apos;t even make the final. It ends up in a Madrid derby that sees Real come out on top thanks to a vintage Cristiano Ronaldo performance. “The Portuguese winger emphasises his position as the world’s best player with a brace in a 3-1 win,&quot; says Davidson. &quot;Atletico struggled to cope with Real’s attacking intent with Ronaldo, Isco and Bale linking up with ease – and Real finally win the decima that they’ve been wanting for so long.”So there we have it. Plenty of drama, heartache and euphoria, with the odd surprise thrown in. Classic end-of-season stuff. And according to our simulation, every current manager in the English game will end the season with their job intact – which is perhaps the biggest shock of them all.
The head of the Google+, the search company&apos;s social network, has announced his resignation from the company after eight years.Vic Gundotra was the driving force behind the service Google designed to compete with Facebook, and has extensively integrated the service across search, Gmail, YouTube and chat.“Today I&apos;m announcing my departure from Google after almost 8 years,” said Gundotra, perhaps inevitably in a Google+ post published on Thursday. “I have been incredibly fortunate to work with the amazing people of Google. I don&apos;t believe there is a more talented and passionate collection of people anywhere else.”&apos;We pour our heart and soul into our work&apos;“I&apos;m also forever in debt to the Google+ team. This is a group of people who built social at Google against the skepticism of so many. The growth of active users is staggering, and speaks to the work of this team,” Gundotra said.Gundotra suggested that a death in the family had contributed to his decision to leave his high-profile role, describing how it made him reflect on how “we pour our heart and soul into our work”.Gundotra&apos;s sister-in-law said she and her father would talk every day on the phone, always starting the conversation with: &quot;And then?&quot;&quot;Her father viewed each conversation as a continuation of the last, and what pained her the most was that there were to be no more &apos;and thens&apos;. I cried.&quot;&quot;Since then I&apos;ve thought a lot about how similar this is to our life&apos;s endeavors. We pour our heart and soul into our work and it becomes something we love and cherish. But even the challenges we work on today will one day become &apos;and thens&apos; as we move on to the next.&quot;Google’s chief executive, Larry Page, confirmed Gundotra’s departure, thanking him for his eight years at the company, again on the Google+ social network.“You cut your teeth on our mobile apps and developer relations, turning our disparate efforts into something great,” said Page. “Then you built Google+ from nothing. There are few people with the courage and ability to start something like that and I am very grateful for all your hard work and passion.”Still investing in Google+Page confirmed that the company would continue investing in Google+ despite an admission from its executive chairman Eric Schmidt that Google was late to introduce a social networking tool. Despite building 300 million monthly active users by October 2013, Google+ is still dwarfed by Facebook&apos;s userbase of 1.28 billion monthly active users.“We’ll continue working hard to build great new experiences for the ever increasing number of Google+ fans,” said Page.A Google spokesperson would not comment ona reportthat Google is shifting resources away from Google+ to other areas of Google’s development teams, including its Android mobile software teams.From India via MicrosoftGundotra was a high-profile Google engineer, who moved from India to join Microsoft in the US in 1991, rising to take charge of Microsoft’s online Windows Live services, including its instant messaging and email products.Gundotra then joined Google in 2007 as vice president of social and was instrumental in the development of Google+ as it was integrated with other Google services.Gundotra&apos;s comments on the impact of family events combined with the commitment of a high intensity job reflects a bigger challenge for those in the technology industry. Like many, Gundotra chose to work notoriously long hours.Despite famously generous staff perks and benefits at Google, including on-site medical teams, gyms, and new-parent bonuses, a long-hours culture is notorious among Silicon Valley firms, despite attempts to encourage greater productivity.“We’re constantly searching for unique ways to improve the health and happiness of our Googlers,” explains a Google site describing company benefits.• Thetechnology industry is driven by Indian talent, including Google&apos;s Vic Gundotra and the father of the USB Ajay Bhatt
British technology firm Hive is tackling what it believes is a national distrust of smart-home technologies, focusing on simplifying ways of adding control to its computerised thermostats product now used in 75,000 UK homes.Challenging the &quot;wild claims&quot; of financial benefits made by some rivals in the smart-home space, Hive&apos;s director, Kassir Hussain, said the firm wanted to do away with gimmickry, and pointed out that most savings come from scheduling heating properly.&quot;The first thing that consumers can do to save money is set the right schedule, and the second is to remind them when to turn the heating on and off. That is where all of the benefits and savings come from,&quot; he told the Guardian.&apos;Wild claims&apos;&quot;There are a lot of very wild claims about the benefits of certain technology, all sorts of fantastical claims about savings, which are unsubstantiated.&quot;Hussain said the average customer would save about £150 a year with Hive, covering the cost of the unit in 15 months.Many of Hive&apos;s insights into consumer behaviour come from the experience of its parent company British Gas.Its most recent update to its Active Heating product this week added geolocation, which means users can receive notifications if the heating is left on when they leave, or can switch on the heating through the Hive smartphone app when they are on the way home. Hive has begun work on the follow-up product, which applies the same concept to monitor and diagnose issues with boilers.Although it operates at arm&apos;s length from British Gas, having access to the mothership&apos;s resources can pay off. For example, British Gas&apos; 12,000 engineers make 50,000 visits a day, and any one of them has the expertise to install Hive Active Heating. The flip side is that the company is currently focusing exclusively on conventional gas boilers, present in the majority of British homes.&apos;Nerdy, and ready for Skynet&apos;The more mundane challenges of current heating systems and conservative attitudes of customers rather tempers the ambitions of the Hive team, which Hive&apos;s product manager, Tim Johns, describes as &quot;nerdy, and ready for Skynet&quot;.&quot;Very early on, we found out about attitudes to automation,&quot; said Johns. &quot;Do we think that in 2020 everything&apos;s going to be like the Jetsons? Possibly. But at the moment, what the British market wants is this extra level of control. They need their trust to be won.&quot;Despite its advantage in the British market, Hive faces stiff competition from American firms. Rival Nest was recently bought by Google, which is promoting the product with a text advert on its heavily trafficked homepage.Nest&apos;s learning thermostat launched in the UK in early April at £249 including installation, though it was forced to discontinue the separate £100 Protect smoke alarm after concerns that it could be accidentally silenced and prevented from reporting a fire.•The internet of things is embedding itself into everyday items
We are very sorry for the continued delays to the Chatterbox blog post; this is due to a vehicle hitting the content management system, leading to slower data traffic. Your continued use of this conversation area is important to us so by way of recompense please accept this new screenshot from forthcoming fantasy sports simulation Blood Bowl 2.
A quick burst of 6 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFCC attempts to clarify new net neutrality plan but fails | The VergeThe big question is what the FCC considers to be reasonable. Right now, the commission doesn&apos;t have a final answer. &quot;We don&apos;t know,&quot; a spokesperson said today. &quot;We want to have a broad public debate. We want to know how people are affected in their daily life. We want to know how businesses are being affected. We want to know if innovation is being affected.&quot;Outside the US, the bigger question is how their precedent will affect the rest of the world. Net neutrality has never been as big an issue in the UK as it is in the US, but the Comcast/Netflix deal sets a precedent which British ISPs may be eyeing hungrily.UNESCO Sees Mobile&apos;s Potential to Boost Global Literacy | Digital Book WorldNot only is the spread of mobile devices around the world creating new access to content and boosting literacy, according to a new UNESCO report, it&apos;s being done largely without the latest in digital reading technology.With very little fanfare, the dominant mode of expression in much of the western world has switch from speech to text; as that switch moves to developing countries, it can only be a good thing for literacy.Square to Open East Coast Headquarters in New YorkSquare, the company enabling sellers to start, run, and grow their business, announced today that it will open a permanent office in New York, New York, growing the company one mile from Wall Street in the financial capital of the world. The office will be located at 375 W Broadway in the SoHo neighborhood of New York. Square expects to move into its new location in Summer 2014.With Twitter founder Jack Dorsey at the helm, Square has the geek cred, and its expansion to the US east coast is just the latest step in its dizzying rise. But financial services are an area where paying the bills is rather more important than the rest of the tech sector, and murmurs in the Valley are that the company doesn&apos;t quite justify its valuation.BBC News - Zynga in widening loss as founder Mark Pincus leavesTroubled online game-maker Zynga reported a first-quarter loss of $61m (£36m).That compares to a $25m loss just a quarter earlier and a profit of $4m during the same period last year.Where Zynga goes, will King.com follow?OnePlus One equals &apos;killer&apos; new mobe running CyanogenMod o The RegisterAfter months of teasing, Chinese smartphone startup OnePlus has formally launched the OnePlus One, a budget Android handset with specs so enticing that some industry watchers had suspected it of being vaporware.CyanogenMod began life as a custom version of Android, but the OnePlus One - as well as having a terrible name - is the first handset built specifically for it. Starting at £229, it&apos;s a price that will be hard to beat for anyone in the same ballpark, specs-wise.Understanding Why Tim Cook Says iPad Sales Weren&apos;t as Bad as It Seems | Re/codePurchases of iPads by customers, he said, were actually 1.3 million more than Apple&apos;s reported sales figure during the quarter. Taking that into account, sales to consumers were off only about three percent from a year ago.Tim Cook is too adept at logistics for his own good.You can followGuardian Technology&apos;s linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Amazon, whose shares have dropped sharply in the past three months, announced rapidly growing earnings on Thursday amid a flurry of new initiatives.The company said that its revenue rocketed 23% to $19.74bn in the first three months of this year, compared with $16.07bn at the same time a year ago, above analysts&apos; expectations.Amazon said that its net income was $108m, compared with $82m a year ago, but its operating income, a better measure of profitability, fell 19% to $146m from $181m at the same time last year.The results are a much-needed positive sign for the company. Amazon&apos;s stock peaked at $408 in January, and has dropped 20% since then. While analysts such as Deutsche Bank&apos;s Ross Sandler rate the stock a &quot;buy&quot; on the assumption it will rise again, the drop already indicates that investors have temporarily lost some faith in the tech-and-retail company&apos;s future.Amazon is in a rare position among tech giants. While Apple and Microsoft have been forced to justify where their future growth plans, Amazon has almost too many pots on the boil.The company does not release sales figures for the Kindle – likely its most successful initiative. It recently launched Kindle Fire TV, a set-top box for TV viewing of content from streaming providers Netflix and HBO Go. Amazon also launched Amazon Pantry for non-bulk items andis also testing same-day delivery, according to the Wall Street Journal. An Amazon phone is said to be in the works.But despite the speed of Amazon&apos;s new product launches, their likely success is not guaranteed. For the Fire TV, for instance, Amazon has included features such as a voice-operated remote control, a gaming system that requires a separate $39.99 controller, and integration with movie-information site IMDb. Nomura analysts were skeptical that the company would see much benefit in the end, considering how many competitors it has from services like Chromecast or Roku. &quot;While the device itself adds few revolutionary features, we believe that at $99/unit, it is unlikely to be purchased by consumers who already own a streaming media device,&quot; they wrote.Scrutiny is increasing around the company&apos;s strategy and its treatment of workers. The Huffington Post highlighted that some Amazon drivers are paid as little as $1.50 a package andhave to pay for their own cars and gas. Earlier this year, Salon.compublished a takedowncomparing Amazon&apos;s worker policies to the much-maligned ones at Walmart.One of the odder rumors generated by Amazon&apos;s investors includes the suggestion that the tech giant should buy beleaguered retailer Sears, which owns Kmart. The bizarre idea has beenchampioned by analyst Robin Lewis.The speculation around Sears, which has been picked up in the mainstream media, hinges on the theory that Amazon, which has spent around $20bn building distribution centers, will eventually want physical stores – of which Sears and Kmart have about 2,500. What the marriage push leaves out, however, is that Sears is struggling mightily, running at a loss of $1.4bn and dropping $14bn in combined profits since 2007, when it combined with Kmart. Its stock price has tanked to around $30, down from $192 a share seven years ago.
Technology companies including Apple and Google on Thursday agreed to settle an embarrassing antitrust lawsuit that exposed the dark side of Silicon Valley’s hiring practices and alleged some of its biggest names colluded in order to avoid poaching each other&apos;s talent.Apple, Adobe, Google and Intel had been scheduled to go to trial at the end of May, with lawyers for roughly 64,000 workers alleging that bosses including Google’s Sergey Brin and Eric Schmidt and Apple&apos;s Steve Jobs orchestrated an elaborate scheme to prevent poaching and drive down wages.The companies had acknowledged that they agreed not to hire each other&apos;s staff in some cases, but disputed the allegation that they conspired to drive down wages.In 2010, a Justice Department investigation concluded that several companies shared confidential salary information to prevent bidding wars and promised not to call each other&apos;s staff. After the companies settled the federal antitrust complaint, the four tech giants became the target of a civil lawsuit.Lawyers had been seeking $3bn in damages. Under antitrust rules, that could have been tripled to $9bn had the companies lost. The terms of the settlement will be presented by 27 May to US district judge Lucy Koh.The settlement was confirmed by Kelly Dermody, a lawyer for the plaintiffs at Lieff Cabraser Heimann &amp; Bernstein.&quot;This is an excellent resolution of the case that will benefit class members,&quot; she said in a statement.Emails from Jobs and Schmidt emerged in pre-trial hearings. In one example, Schmidt told Jobs that a Google recruiter would be fired after approaching an Apple employee. Jobs forwarded Schmidt&apos;s note to a top Apple human resources executive, with a smiley face.In another 2005 email exchange, Jobs reportedly told Google co-founder Brin: &quot;If you hire a single one of these people, that means war.&quot;Lawyers for the companies accused the plaintiffs of “free-floating character assassination” and asked that the emails be barred from entry at the trial.Walt Disney&apos;s Lucasfilm and Pixar – previously headed by Jobs – and the software company Intuit agreed to a settlement over the same hiring practice allegations last July, with Disney paying about $9m and Intuit $11m.
The US communications regulator insisted on Thursday that allowing tech companies to pay for a &quot;fast lane&quot; to consumers&apos; homes would not threaten the openness of the internet.The federal communications commission said that it proposed to allow services that take up a large amount of bandwith to pay for preferential treatment. The regulator said that its proposal would include safeguards to protect consumers and to prevent the limiting of competition and free speech.FCC chairman Tom Wheeler insisted ina blog post on Thursdaythat the new rules will further the principles of an “open internet.” He wrote: “To be very direct, the proposal would establish that behavior harmful to consumers or competition by limiting the openness of the internet will not be permitted,”Consumer advocates say the proposed system would inevitably allow rich internet giants such as Netflix, Google and Facebook to maintain their edge over startups because they can pay to ensure faster connections and clearer, uninterrupted video.It could result in higher prices for consumers who pay for Netflix and similar online services, as the cost of speedier treatment could be passed on. It also could create a new revenue stream for internet service providers (ISPs) like Comcast or Verizon.Wheeler said three proposals would ensure that consumers were protected:• All ISPs must transparently disclose to their subscribers and users all relevant information as to the policies that govern their network;• No legal content may be blocked;• ISPs may not act in a commercially unreasonable manner to harm the Internet, including favoring the traffic from an affiliated entity.Critics are especially concerned with the “commercially unreasonable” proviso, which some believe could be widely interpreted to benefit ISPs who want to charge services more to give consumers improved access to their content.Network providers including Verizon and Time Warner have made voluntary pledges to not restrict access to online content, but some feel without a formal rule the companies are not obliged to follow through with the commitment.The proposals are being floated to a small commission on Thursday, before being opened to the agency for a vote to formally propose the rules on 15 May The five-member regulatory commission reviewing the proposal may make changes before the May vote. If the agency makes the rules into a formal proposal, the plan will be open to public comment.The Washington DC circuit court of appeals rejected the FCC’s Open Internet Order in January because it said the agency imposed the rules under the incorrect regulatory framework because it treated ISPs like other telecommunication services, even though they are technically classified as information service providers. The court instructed the FCC to rewrite the rules and it obliged.
