Technology giant Apple unveiled new cut-price models in its hugely successful iPod digital music player series today.The second generation iPod mini has a new 4GB model priced at £139, reduced from £179, and an all-new 6GB model priced at £169. Both models feature increased battery life of up to 18 hours, Apple said.Meanwhile, it has introduced a new iPod Photo 30GB model, holding a maximum of around 7,500 songs, retailing for £249. The biggest memory iPod Photo, at 60GB with a maximum of around 15,000 songs, is selling for £309, reduced from £399.Apple have scored a massive hit with the iPod which allows music enthusiasts to route music from hundreds of CDs into a pocket-sized device. Steve Jobs, Apple CEO said: "The new slim 30GB iPod photo lets music lovers enjoy their iPod in full colour, including album artwork along with their personal photo library."And now you can import photos from your digital camera directly into iPod photo with the optional iPod Camera Connector."
International saucy cheese-on-bread peddler Pizza Hut has made a deal with Sony's EverQuest II. According tovarioussourcesonline, if you feel the hunger pangs coming on whilst in the midst of an epic battle, type/pizzainto the browser and order your Stuffed Crust Extra Large Hawaiian in the window that pops up.Betcha those folks who enjoy this feature one too many times won't be eligible forthiscompetition...
Netimperative has announced its nominees for the inaugralImperative awards... and guess what?Not only has your favourite technology weblog - that'sus, by the way - been shortlisted in the "best digital media weblog" category, (vote for us here) but Online has a few other mentions.First up is a nomination forlifetime achievementfor the inimitable Jack Schofield - who I'm sure you all know - and has been doing his computer-related thing at the Guardian for quite some time. NI points out he's a "long-standing journalist for the Online section of the Guardian, the only remaining national newspaper supplement dedicated to the digital world".I'm sure that's likely to generate some debate... what do you reckon, Jack?Online also has its fingers firmly in the "Wildcard" category's pie. Victor Keegan, the editor of Online (and occasionalOnlineblog contributor), has merited attention for his weblog dedicated to campaigning against agricultural subsidies,KickAAS, which Netimperative says is "quite possibly the first time the new medium of weblogs has been used for such an ambitious (non party) political end."And up against him is erstwhile Online contributor and gadget fiend Ashley Norris, whoseShiny Mediahas garnered for championing nanopublishing, as what NI says is "perhaps the first proper UK blog publisher".So, go vote. Oh, and there are some other categories too -
Got a press release this morning for the latestAmerica's Armygame, subtitled Rise of a Soldier. Now I enjoyedFull Spectrum Warriorbut isn't this military glorification going a bit far? Do we really want the, "the most true-to-life Army experience"? Shouldn't we be concerned that, "Ubisoft and the U.S. Army are working together to develop a new and unique experience for console gamers"? The previous American Army games were PC only, but the new game is the first to appear on the consoles, opening it up to a much wider audience. Boys love guns, but this convergence betweenreal war and videogameis politicised and cynical at the very least. Now where did I put myfreedom fries?
Somewhere, if only in the depths of your pockets, you have to find a crumb of sympathy for Paris Hilton. This week, the hotel heiress and reality TV star has, not for the first time in her life, found herself publicly laid bare across the internet. Last time, it was a home sex video dubbed One Night in Paris, recorded for posterity with her former nocturnal companion Rick Solomons, which was stolen and sold on for $4.6m. This time, it is the details of her mobile phone address book, including the numbers and email addresses of some 500 of her closest acquaintances - Christina Aguilera, Pamela Anderson and the intriguingly named Boy Wonder among them.Hilton's T-Mobile Sidekick device was seemingly hacked in to at the weekend and its contents spreadeagled across the world wide web, along with a message from the hackers: "I'm Sorry Bitch :) GG FGT SLT BTCH! HACKED BY THE NIGGAS AT DFNCTSC". Naturally, the Secret Service has been in hot pursuit, shutting down offending websites wherever possible, though one fears that this is a task akin to keeping moles off one's garden lawn: they keep popping up again. The celebrity world has been in mild chaos ever since.One imagines Hilton is bereft without her mobile. Indeed, in the seminal One Night in Paris, she was famously shown answering her phone in flagrante. From this we can conclude one of two things: a) that Mr Solomons does not give good conversation; or b) that Paris's mobile is enormously important to her.After a brief but intriguing glimpse into the life of the world's premier party girl, one might well assume the latter. Hilton's life is sprawled across her address book - numbers for her favourite restaurants, airlines, bars, not to mention parents, doctors and celebrity companions. There are photos from her phone's built-in camera showing blurred kisses, diary notes reminding her to book spray tans and private jets to Vegas, take morning-after pills and tell her friends the latest gossip about "Jess trying to bone JT", alongside such enthralling messages as: "Welsome back to gamma? I think gamsy wants a little kiss Its a gamma tradition Gamsy is waiting", and "House house fix it buzz kill", not to mention: "Do you wanna leave soon, ill pretend I have 2 go pee and u wait 3 mins than come by yourself to the back entrance".But after close examination of the contents of Hilton's Sidekick, questions remain. Namely, who is the mysterious Dr Pat? Who are Betty Davis Eyes, Egplant Dike-ass and Conor Fux? Would Christina Aguilera object to being called at nine in the morning? Is that Darius from Pop Idol? And was Eminem bluffing about changing his number? There was only one way to answer these questions, and that was to call everyone in Paris's directory and darned well ask them.Initially, this does not prove very fruitful. I try Paris at home but the telephone rings and rings and rings without answer. It's the same at Victoria Gotti's. Perhaps they are out together, enjoying a latte, a slice of carrot cake and a bit of a chat. I call Paris's mom and her sister, Nicky, but both numbers appear to have been disconnected. It's a similar situation with Eminem, Anna Kournikova, Avril Lavigne, Pharrell, Lil John, Andy Roddick, Mark Philippoussis, Ashlee Simpson and Bijou Phillips.I try Hollywood action hero Vin Diesel. It goes straight to answerphone: "Hey, it's Vin Diesel," growls the message. "I'm a really bad actor. And a total douche-bag. Leave a message." I want to ask Vin what a douche-bag is, but his voicemail is full. As is Limp Bizkit frontman Fred Durst's, but he gives us the option of paging him. I do, but he doesn't call back. Actress Lindsay Lohan has yet to get back to us, but I did enjoy her message: "BURRRRRP I'm a whore... BURRRRRP I'm a whore... Leave your message after the tone."Despite the not unlikely prospect that these messages have been tampered with, I remain fundamentally optimistic about the enterprise. The model Amber Valetta sounds more promising, and may yet return my call. "I'll be out of town til March 3rd," she purrs in her voice message, "so if you'd like to leave a message, please do so. If it's urgent, please say so. Otherwise I'll talk to you when I get back." Valetta laughs coquettishly before adding, "Have the best day." "Hi, Amber," I say, "it's me. I got your number off Paris and thought I'd just call for a chat... about... stuff... you know?"But what do I have to say to supermodels and Hollywood superstars? Sure, it's easy to be dazzled by the famous names, the Pammie Andersons, the Ashlee Simpsons, but I figure we have very little in common, apart from Paris, obviously. We'll always have Paris.So I try a new tack and aim for the slightly less famous. Just what kind of doctor is Dr Randy Harris? Plastic surgeon, gynaecologist, common or garden GP? "Thank you for calling the office of Dr Randy Harris," sing-songs the answerphone. "If this is a life-threatening emergency, please hang up and call 911. If your call is an emergency or if you are a patient in labour, press 2." I really, really want to speak to Dr Randy, but decide that it is not, strictly speaking, an emergency. Instead I call Dr Pat. "Hi, you've reached the office of Dr Pat. The office is now closed." The recording runs through options for emergency calls, how to leave a message, and which button to press for the hotline for production companies with an urgent medical-related query. Only in Hollywood.The anonymous-sounding Rachel, Paige, "Sh" and X have all barred incoming calls, so I try Sonya. After three rings she answers. "Sonya?" I inquire. "HULLO?" she bellows. She is somewhere noisy - pop music is blaring and, perhaps, a hairdryer. "Sonya?" I say again. "HULLO?" "Hi Sonya, it's Laura from London." There is a pause. "Oh, hi!" she says, her voice a delightful blend of puzzlement and enthusiasm. "How are you doing?" I ask. "I'm fine. Errr, what is this regarding?" Well, I'm just calling Paris Hilton's friends to see how how they are today. "Oh well, I'm fine. Good," she says politely, before evidently being struck by the weirdness of my call. "Errr. Thanks. Bye." She hangs up.I am spurred by this success, and dial a number for what Paris has labelled "Customer care". It is the customer support line for T-Mobile. "Stacey speaking, how can I help you today?" a voice says sunnily. I explain my endeavour to Stacey and ask how her day is. "It's going good, thank you." Has she been doing anything of note? "I'm just working, answering phones," she answers brightly, before explaining that she finishes work at 4.30 and will then head home to look after her six-month-old daughter. Has Paris called today, I wonder? "No," she says. "I haven't had any interesting calls today... Anyway," she adds, politely but firmly, "it was nice talking to you." Thank you, Stacey, I say. It was nice talking to you, too. And if you see her, send my regards to Paris.Identity theft: how the hackers got inIt may not help Paris in her current phonebook-less state, but she seems to have fallen victim to the latest trend in hacking; blue-snarfing. In recent months, there has been increasing concern over the phenomenon, which, simply put, means using wireless Bluetooth technology used to connect phones to headsets, laptops and other gadgets to get access to people's private data by the back door."The tools you need run on a standard laptop," explain Adam Laurie, technical director of security firm the Bunker. "There are even tools that can be run on phones. And with a special antenna, the range can be extended to a mile."Snarfers are able to scan for nearby phones and hack into those that are vulnerable. In theory it is difficult to attack specific phones, but by following an individual, they can pinpoint potential victims. "You can do it from a car following the target's car, or from the next room. If you knew they were in a restaurant - say Paris Hilton was in the Ivy - then you could do it to them while standing outside."Once a hacker has exploited cracks in your phone's security, they see every piece of information on your phone, including contacts, text   messages and camera snaps. "Once I have access, I can take full control of your phone," says Laurie. "I can tell it to call me - turning it into the perfect bugging device - or I can even enable it as a tracking device."However, Paris could also have fallen victim to a traditional hacking attempt. Her phone - a T-Mobile Sidekick II model, not available in the UK - housed most of its information on a server elsewhere. Last week 22-year-old Californian Nicholas Jacobsen pleaded guilty to hacking into the T-Mobile network. Jacobsen said he had access to information the telephone records of government agents for more than a year, and now faces up to five years in prison.Such are the growing concerns about security in certain quarters that it's not unkown for people to remove the batteries from their phones during meetings to stop them being listened in on. The advice from the experts is simple: protect your phone with a password or Pin number, be careful when transferring data to your phone, and contact your network for the latest security updates. But the only way to avoid the threat to your privacy is simply not to have one in the first place.
Pace Micro Technology, the largest maker of digital TV boxes in Europe, is considering a move into healthcare to reduce its exposure to the low-margin set-top box market.John Dyson, chief executive of Pace, told the Guardian that Pace would invest money from its research and development budget into healthcare products this year. He stressed that Pace, which counts BSkyB as its largest client, was not planning to leave the set-top box business altogether."If you look at our business we have got some very good growth possibilities &#91;for set-top boxes&#93; but in the long run I would like to try to change the business model to get a better return. Our margins are so small in relation to revenues that we have to do something about it."Pace has explored the possibility of developing security products for homes and businesses but sees more opportunities in home healthcare.Mr Dyson said the company could consider equipment that monitors the heartbeat or insulin levels for people with diabetes and relays the information to local hospitals or GP surgeries."It costs &#163;2,000 per day to have someone in a hospital but if you can get them out of the hospital two days early and do the monitoring from home, it will save resources."Gross profit margins fell from 19.1% in the first half of 2003 to 16.8% in the six months to December 4 last year. The fall was despite a 36% rise in turnover as set-top box shipments more than doubled to 2.1m. The struggle to make a return is most apparent in the Freeview box market, with at least 18 suppliers making decoders for the free digital-TV service and pushing down prices.Pace is also developing boxes that can receive high-definition TV broadcasts - the next big thing in sports TV - and a new generation of personal video recorders.
Scottish chip designer Wolfson Microelectronics is looking to continued strong demand for digital music players and the worldwide launch of Sony's portable PlayStation games console to boost sales this year.Sony launched its PlayStation Portable in Japan before Christmas and demand has been strong. The handheld device is due out in the US in March and Europe at about the same time.Wolfson hopes demand for its chips from Sony and makers of portable devices from MP3 players to 3G phones will help to offset sluggish sales to manufacturers of DVD players.Wolfson was forced to warn on revenues in October sending its shares crashing as DVD manufacturers held off buying new chips while they cleared their inventories.While that situation continues, Wolfson's annual results yesterday showed strong demand from other industries. Apple's iPod, which uses Wolfson chips, and the XM satellite radio player in the US were both big earners for the Edinburgh-based firm. Sales of $119.3m (&#163;62.5m), up from $75.7m in the previous year, were higher than the $115m forecast by analysts.Pre-tax profits of $16.8m were also better than expected and up from $12.5m the previous year. Wolfson's management said it is comfortable with City estimates for revenue growth of about 20% this year.Shares in the company, which floated at 210p a year ago, closed up 4.75p at 165.25p.
We built it - but will they come? Councils in England have, on average, 79% of their services available electronically. The task now is guide citizens away from traditional contact channels - mail and personal visits - and into the cheaper "e-world".Promoting e-government is more complicated than it appears. Unlike private business, public bodies cannot force their customers on to the web by shutting down high-street outlets, or charging extra to use them. Because the government has to deal with all comers, it will have to maintain multiple access channels indefinitely.Most local authorities offer services through two main e-channels: the internet and e-enabled call centres. These run alongside post, face-to-face meetings, traditional phone calls and fax. Some public bodies also offer communication by digital TV, public kiosk and text message.Different audiences prefer to communicate via different channels, and some transactions will involve more than one channel - especially when something goes wrong. Hence the growing importance of "channel management", the art of guiding citizens to the most appropriate (or cheapest) channel for the service they need.One piece of good news is that Britons seem to like the idea of being e-citizens. Few, however, have tried it. The first large-scale research into attitudes to e-government, carried out for the e-Citizen national project, identifies 46% of England's adult population as "ready and waiting to use local authority e-channels".The study, to be published this spring, suggests that councils concentrate first on an untapped market of 17.5 million early adopters. These tend to be men aged under 55 who already shop on the internet. The research, involving 4,100 interviews, identified six "attitudinal clusters", of which two look promising. These are "e-amenable progressives", likely to be male, high-income earners with high access to technology. There are apparently 6 million such people in England. Cluster two is "contenteds", those happy with their council and comfortable with technology. These number 11.5 million in England, the research says.The "e-amenable progressives" and the "contenteds" add up to a market for local authority e-government services. They are people who have access to the technology, the skills to use it and who trust the process. All they need is to be told that it is possible. How many actually take up services "will be determined by the effectiveness of promotional campaigns to make citizens aware of services available via e-channels".Today, however, only 12% of all adults in England say they have contacted a local authority by an e-channel. Of these, 90% say they would be likely to do so again. Email is the favoured e-channel for communication, followed by the council's website. The service most likely to be used on an e-channel is booking a facility, such as a tennis court.The problem with marketing e-channels to sporty, affluent young men is that these are exactly the people least in need of council services. However the e-Citizen research also suggests some opportunities for marketing across the digital divide. People in social groups C2DE have an "encouraging" interest in texting. Meanwhile, although people from black and minority ethnic (BME) backgrounds are less likely to use e-channels today, they are more interested than the white population in using them in future. "The promotion and use of more e-communications, therefore, should be particularly welcome to members of BME communities," the e-Citizen research report says.The findings suggest that no single e-channel will dominate council services. Just over half the population (52%) says it has some form of internet access but only 42% of adults use the internet. People from most minority ethnic groups are more likely than average to have access.Roughly the same proportion, 41%, have digital television, once seen as the key to bridging the   digital divide. However the e-Citizen research finds that many digital television owners are not aware that interactive services are available and that use of these services is very low. "The volume and value of pay transactions via digital television is currently negligible." The feeling in the ODPM is that digital TV will be a niche service for the forseeable future.Kiosks are another inclusive channel, but the e-Citizen research says that trials of these services have concentrated on providing static information rather than two-way transactions. This research seems to confirm the experience of councils that have piloted interactive TV and kiosks.The most universal channel is the telephone: 94% of people living in the UK has access to a landline, and more than 90% of younger people have a mobile telephone. One significant technological advance made since the birth of the e-government programme is with interactive voice response technology, or systems that can recognise spoken instructions. Voice-recognition was piloted last year by the Inland Revenue as a channel for self-assessment tax filing.To help councils and other public bodies decide which channels to develop, the Cabinet Office e-Government unit has prepared a "channel decision framework". It says that organisations planning e-services should start by identifying customers and follow five distinct steps from idea to deployment. At the end of each stage, the process should stop while a decision is taken to go further.Marketing should begin only when the organisation knows who it wants to reach. Today, such efforts are in their infancy, Cabinet Office officials say. The e-Citizen report agrees. "There is an opportunity for English local authorities to do more." Only one-third of authorities promote their website through telephone inquiries, and one in five of those who have marketed their e-services would say that they have carried out any innovative campaigns involving e-channels.One exception is the London borough of Southwark, which spent &#163;24,000 in December on advertising online services. The campaign doubled the number of people using the website.There is an alternative to marketing, and that is compulsion. However, the feeling at the Cabinet Office e-Government unit is that this should be a last resort - even for business.Weblinks:&#183;Service design and delivery guide, Cabinet Office e-Government unit:cabinet-office.gov.uk/egovernment&#183;E-Citizen national project:localegovnp.org.uk
Council IT managers are calling for a "light touch" from Whitehall as the 2005 e-targets approach. They are concerned that the requirement to draw up further "implementing electronic government" (IEG) statements may distract authorities from the task of putting services online.Phil Hope, minister for local e-government, revealed last month that the ODPM expects local authorities to make three further IEG statements over the next year in exchange for a grant of &#163;150,000 in the financial year of 2005/06. Councils have until July 18 to file a mid-year statement, while they will also be expected to make IEG returns in December and April 2006.The fourth set of IEG statements, completed in November, show that councils on average have e-enabled 79% of services. They expect this figure to average 98% by the end of this year.However the ODPM revealed that 59 councils have referred themselves to the Improvement and Development Agency's Strategic Support Unit for extra assistance with e-government.The Society of IT Management (Socitm) said that producing IEG statements "has provided a focus on delivering e-government that has been broadly welcomed". But it warned that requests for further details could be counter-productive. "Socitm hopes that any monitoring arrangements are 'light touch' in order to ensure that they do not distract from delivery."
Councils in England have the chance to become IT entrepreneurs under Whitehall's plans for the future of 22 national e-government projects.Funded with &#163;80m from the ODPM, the projects have seen the development of a range of software programs and processes for developing electronic public services.   These products looked set to become orphans as funding came to an end - until the ODPM this week announced it would offer ownership of the products to councils. It will be up to councils whether they want to share the products with other authorities, or sign deals with commercial firms.The ODPM said the approach was "consistent with the lead taken by local authorities in developing the national projects". Phil Hope, minister for local e-government, said the policy "should secure rollout of these products over the long term, where there is a demonstrable need from local government for them to continue".But independent observers questioned whether local authorities would be able to make a commercial success of the products. Angus Doulton, of EIP, a group of local authorities cooperating on e-services, said councils would find it difficult to run software businesses. "Local authorities are moving into an area where they have no experience and will find it far more difficult than they think."
Shared service delivery, efficiencies, joined-up working and economies of scale - anyone working around local government will be familiar with suggestions this is the way of the future. What is less recognised is that the future arrived some time ago with the formation of e-government partnerships, at sub-regional and regional levels, to grasp the opportunities that come from working together.One such example is the Staffordshire e-government partnership, which has a strong vision for the seamless delivery of public services. To turn the vision into reality, each of the Staffordshire authorities - including eight districts, a county and a unitary - makes an annual contribution towards the cost of a dedicated partnership team that works within a formal structure in which all partners have an equal voice. This was boosted by accessing partnership funding from the ODPM, enabling the partnership to deliver a wide range of projects including:&#183;undertaking a joint survey of Staffordshire residents to understand needs and expectations;&#183;the joint procurement of an e-payments system;&#183;working together to set common security standards;&#183;the development of a product to join up the contact directories for all authorities and Staffordshire police - bringing access to over 10,000 contacts to every desktop at the click of an icon.But the key project has been the procurement of a single Oracle customer relationship   management system that will result in a single database for capturing customer contacts across all the authorities and enable us to deal with service requests for each other.Shared learning, joint work on process re-engineering, reduced procurement and implementation costs are just some benefits that we can evidence with savings already totalling close to &#163;2m.This work is about delivering real changes that our customers will notice. But it doesn't stop at joint e-government projects. Building trust through working together in our e-government partnership is creating new opportunities for collaboration. Lichfield and Staffordshire Moorlands district councils both identified concerns about the ability of their IT services to meet the demands of e-government.They came together to create a contract of sufficient size to procure these services from the private sector, and this has resulted in a partnership with ITnet, which has won awards for its innovative approach including being highly commended in the Socitm/Solace /Intellect awards and winning "best IT outsourcing deal 2004" from the National Outsourcing Association.This is not an isolated example: the county and districts in Staffordshire now have examples of shared services being delivered through one-stop shops. There are plans to share out-of-hours responses, and it is taken for granted that projects will be undertaken by clusters of authorities that are identifying common issues. Opportunities to work with other providers are also being developed from forming links with Citizens' Advice bureaux to thinking through how police, fire, health and the parish councils can be engaged.But working in partnership is not easy - especially if, at times, it means having to compromise to achieve the greater good. But when I joined local government, the suggestion that we could work together with some of our neighbours would have been met with horror. Now not only is it accepted, it is expected.The Staffordshire partnership is not the only shining example of partnership working. Joint programmes and projects are in progress across the country, and the ODPM is currently working on an evaluation of the products and lessons learned from the funding put into partnerships. Shared service delivery, efficiencies, joined working and economies of scale - it's happening now right across the country in a partnership near you. It may be a silent revolution, but that does not make it any less real.&#183;Rita Wilson is corporate director of organisational development at Lichfield district council.
Jason Kottke's giving it all up for blogging.The long time weblogger has left his job and wants his readers to help him out and let him edit his blog full-time. Yes, you heard me right.I'm asking the regular readers of kottke.org (that's you!) to become micropatrons of kottke.org by contributing a moderate sum of money to help enable me to edit/write/design/code the site for one year on a full-time basis. If you find kottke.org valuable in any way, please consider giving whatever you feel is appropriate.This will be a one-time "fund drive" lasting 3 weeks, you may make contributions via PayPal, credit card, or check, there will be some great gifts as an incentive for you to give (more details here), and your contributions will be the primary means of support for the site. And yes, I have absolutely no idea if this will work and I'm completely nervous and exhilarated by the challenges ahead.Is this a case of genuine attempt to do something new - or is it just Jason putting your money where his mouth is?I'm not sure. I admire Jason, who is a great observer of the net, but I do scoff a little at the idea that he's "attempting to revisit the idea of arts patronage in the context of the internet". Some say it's just cyber begging - after all, on the surface does it seem that different fromSaveKarynor the regular fundraising drives byAndrew Sullivanor hosts of camgirl types?Some think so. Over at our sisterNewsblog, Jane Perrone says that "as someone who does get paid for writing and blogging, I have to applaud Kottke's brave move", which is a fair stance.But he's got a lot of friends, and a lot of readers. At the very least it will be interesting to see the outcome: will he be living in the lap of luxury off the contributions of his avid readers, or blogging daily about the hardships of existing in abject - and self-induced - poverty?So fingers crossed for him - he might just make it through...
Gamesindustry.bizhas reported that a second Electronic Arts employee is taking the uber-corporation to court as a result of its unpaid overtime policy. The nascent Quality of Life issue, prevalent in computer games and other entertainment industries globally, has mushroomed in the past few months with a well-read blog post by a disgruntledea_spousesweeping the internet, the publication of theInternational Game Developers Association'sQuality of Life White Paper(a harrowing read), the announcement of thefirst suitagainst EA for alleged workplace infractions and the genesis of the first QoL watchdog organisation for the games industry,GameWatch.org.The second suit may signal a disturbing trend in the games industry, one which a shaky British industry may not be able to handle. As money flows away from UK developer pockets, single companies will surely not be able to handle the financial setbacks resulting from lawsuits put forward by their disgruntled (and extremely hard-working) employees.Update: the IGDA has a page ofresourcesfor those who wish to find out more about the Quality of Life issues surrounding the international computer games industry.
Although I played with the iPod Shuffle quite extensively at January's Mac Expo, I'm currently testing out a 1GB to see what it's like for everyday use.After a few days, I'm happy with it. The more I listen to it, the less the screen means to me. The controls are simple and intuitive (though perhaps they should be less sensitive - I've mistakenly flicked tracks by bumping the pod around in my pocket) although the memory is limited and it's not as easy to organise music as it could be.Strong points must be size and weight (always a negative with most other music players) and the fringe benefit is that it also saves me carrying a thumb drive around.Perhaps more interestingly, my girlfriend, who is quite clear in her aversion to gadgetry ("What are all these silver boxes clogging up the flat?") experienced her first ever pangs of tech-lust when I handed her the tiny little player.That reaction says a lot to me: the market's certainly there. And the price point is low enough (though £50 would be better than £69!) to break Apple into far wider reaches.If this little gizmo can make a fanatic out of someone whose eyes normally glaze over at the thought of gadgets, I wonder how long it will be before Shuffle rules the world?
The week that Hunter S Thompson committed suicide seems like an appropriate (or staggeringly inappropriate – I can't decide which) time to talk about the state of videogame journalism. A couple of weeks ago, Iposteda link to a Maoist game review site and briefly mentioned the rise ofNew Games Journalism, a highly subjective approach to videogame writing in which the player's own experiences within the game environment are brought to the fore. Of course, this style has its roots in thegonzo journalismpractised by Thompson and his contemporaries, which partly explains my timing.The other element is a growing States-side frustration with the quality of videogame writing. A fortnight ago, US blog These Damned Machines Are Killing Me ran anarticleentitled, 'This Is Why Your Game Magazine Sucks', which attacked all the familiar facets of the traditional games publication. Veteran games designer Ron 'Monkey Island' Gilbert picked up on this in his blog, Grumpy Gamer, andaddeda few of his own criticisms and suggestions. The debate has been developing ever since...So can articles like the now legendary'Bow, Nigger'save games journalism, or at least introduce a new era where reflective writing can exist alongside the rigidly structured reviews-based fare we're used to? Should games mags, as Gilbert suggests, snap the ties that bind them to games publishers and start digging for some dirt?Well, there's going to be a hell of a lot of work involved. For a start, most games magazines are intricately structured to guide the reader through to purchasing a game. Almost universally, the layout goes like this: news, previews, preview features, reviews – a linear, clearly signposted pathway to the shop counter. There's not a lot of room here for retrospective or in-depth analysis. In fact, the only point where most magazines look back at previously released games is in the tips section, which hardly offers much scope for interesting journalism.There's a very good reason for this set-up. Most readers seem to see magazines as buying guides and little else. They want to know what they'll be able to buy in the future, and what's worth buying now. This is hardly unique to videogame magazine publishing – movie and music magazines, in fact all publications based around consumer activity, work in very much the same way. Partly, then, the challenge is in persuading readers that a six page retrospective on a game released a year ago isn't just space wasted.Some magazines address this very well. Edge has recently introduced its monthly 'Time Extend' section, which looks back at specific elements of key titles. This accompanies the long-running 'Making of' – another retrospective regular. Elsewhere, GamesTM has its fun and painstakingly authentic 'Retro' section, which obsesses over classic games, game adverts and eighties magazine design. But these publications are targeted at 'hardcore' gamers fascinated by the whole culture and history of the medium. Most people who pick up the latest EA title in Game every month aren't interested in cult arcade machines or obscure Amiga titles – just like a majority of Empire readers aren't reallythatinterested in Truffaut or Fritz Lang. It's little wonder why: when mainstream movie magazines attempt retro-flavoured features, they are usually second-rate slogs through secondary sources (how many 'the seventies were kerrazy' features has Easy Riders, Raging Bulls provided ALL the material for?)What videogame magazines really should be able to do is exploit the conversational buzz that surrounds really good, mass-market videogames for months after release. People are still talking about the likes of San Andreas, Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault and Star Wars Galaxies, and there are many ways that magazines can explore and contribute to this discourse, this sense of gaming as a cultural activity. 'Bow, Nigger' is a brilliant example – this gripping and emotive account of a single encounter in Jedi Knight II brought an older title to life and, heck, may even have spiked sales for a pretty much forgotten product. Nostalgia, if handled correctly, sells.The problem is, this sort of article couldn't fit into the current structure of most videogame magazines. 'Bow, Nigger' is an intimate account of a game that the writer knows well, and around which a community has grown with it's own emergent rules and traditions. It's very difficult (although not impossible) to capture all this in a review. Magazine writers rarely get more than a couple of days with a game – hardly enough time to get past the first few levels let alone truly explore the parameters of the experience on offer. On top of that, reviews are generally written weeks before a game is released so if the title offers a multiplayer mode, the writer will often have very few people to try it out against. Even if there's a beta server in operation, it can take months before a community really develops around a multiplayer game.So we're back to that old problem of making space for retrospective writing, and the fundamental question - do the readers actually want it? Maybe not – not yet anyway. But it's in the magazine's interest to show them what they're missing; it's in the magazine's interest to explore and get involved with gaming communities and to revel in gaming experiences that only become accessible after months of play. After all, there is still so much to say about Manhunt, about Project Zero 2, about Animal Crossing. There's a wealth of material out there. It could just be a lazy list feature (say, 'the best endings in Silent Hill 2 and what they mean'). People love lazy list features. It could be a decent one-on-one interview with a game's creators, or a chat with its biggest fans. The rise of the 'Special Edition' DVD, packed with background extras, shows there is a real interest in, and a market for, behind the scenes detail. Videogames themselves don't provide this sort of thing, so magazines can.There are also practical reasons why running more thoughtful feature content is a good idea. Most videogame magazines publish 13 issues a year, which often leaves less than 20 working days per issue. If everything in the mag is time sensitive this can (and almost always does) give editorial teams a massive headache in the last week and a half of production. Commissioning out a few pieces like 'Bow, Nigger' could certainly relive the pressure and help pace both the production of the magazine and the experience of actually reading it.Many magazines in the past have thrived on building a community feel, and by exploring key games again and again. A great example isAmiga Power, the early nineties Future magazine that far outlived the mass market days of its target machine by being witty, irreverent and passionate about its subject matter and expanding its remit beyond the trudgery of reporting on a dying format. There is a tough balancing act involved though. Many current magazines misinterpret their role in the games community by glorifying their own staff – features in which the writers are photographed getting involved in vaguely game related hi-jinks ('Medal of Honor special: we drive a real tank!', 'Drink driving: we play Gran Turismo after five pints!) were everywhere after the lad mag boom of the mid-nineties, and somehow the legacy of this desperate gonzo-wannabe age is still being felt. Back in the days of Amiga Power, readers reallywereinterested in what the staff got up to, because the games business was more of a fanclub than an industry, and games mag staff were the club presidents. Christ, I remember kids queuing up to meet the writers of Zzap! 64 Magazine during a 1986 computer show. Those days have passed, and embarrassing attempts to turn games writers into gonzo superstars should have passed too.And this is another problem with New Games Journalism – one referenced by Kieron Gillen in his compelling NGJ manifesto. Most videogame magazine staff just don't have the correct experience or training to pull off this kind of writing. There is a thin line between subjective and self-indulgent and it's one that magazines tend to throw themselves straight over. I know from first hand experience. When I was associate editor on DC-UK magazine we decided to run a feature comparing real life bass fishing with the sun-drenched activity featured in Sega Bass Fishing. So we got in a car, drove down to Padstow and hired a fishing boat. We took some great photos, had a laugh, got seasick and filled six pages with our adventures. Self-indulgent? You bet. But then like Amiga Power, DC-UK was an underdog magazine written for a community of hardcore fans. We got caught up in the need to exploit what little game release info we had to craft compelling feature content.Subjective journalism does NOT mean glorifying the writer. Notice how, by the end of 'Bow, Nigger' we know everything about the player's experiences, the thoughts, feelings and theories that emerge during the short light saber battle, but we know nothing about the author him/herself. It's subjective, but it isn't self-publicising. It isn't autobiography. Hunter S Thompson's own best work – in my opinion - was his political journalism in which he made monsters out of Richard Nixon, George McGovern et al, rather than himself. The modern videogame consumer doesn't need gonzo heroes acting like Loaded staffers, it needs compassionate, knowledgeable writers. Neither Empire nor Q feel the need to manufacturer a notability around their writers (apart from the famous freelancers of course) yet both manage to foster a feeling of community and ownership among their readers. I think perhaps only PC Gamer achieves this almost subliminal relationship between magazine and readership. But all games magazines should.As for the sort of investigative journalism Ron Gilbert asks for, I just can't see it working. Videogame magazines have such a close relationship with videogame publishers – both in terms of advertising and editorial content – a Watergate-style demolition just isn't a viable option. This isn't to say that games mags can't explore the hidden process behind creating games – a feature looking into the final days of development on Half-Life 2, or the day-by-day management of World of Warcraft could be compelling and revealing in the right hands. Investigative doesn't have to mean negative. Magazines just have to find the time and space to really get beneath the glistening skin of the industry, to make stars out of the many bizarre and fabulous people that design and develop games. It is possible. There are some fascinating stories out there.News games journalism? At the moment, it's an interesting idea, perpetrated by a handful of talented writers who have enough clout to be given a free(ish) rein in the games press, or enough passion to do it all for free online. But good ideas tend to spread, and it is time we developed a new way to write about games. Reviews can be bloody tedious, previews can be fawning trailers, news can be little more than regurgitated press releases. Twas ever thus, but it needn't always be the case. Analysis, comment, raw subjective experience – this is the stuff that separates magazines from catalogues, and writers from PR hacks. In the week Hunter S Thompson committed suicide, these are good things to remember.UPDATE:I just got an email from Mark Donald, editor of PC Gamer, informing me that his magazine now has a section set aside for the kind of retrospective/subjective writing we've been talking about."In the current issue is Kieron's 10 page odyssey into The Cradle. That's the showpiece level in Thief Deadly Shadows and reckoned by some to be the most psychologically disturbing level ever created for the PC. In the same issue we have a story on Sims 2 coffee machines that force sims to orgasm every time they drink a cuppa - thanks to a computer virus; there's a piece about the Warez community - the hackers secret society that's responsible for cracking the vast majority of the free games/movies/music that the world downloads; Counter-Strike players who use in-game graffiti modes to create realistic decoy players, WoW players celebrating Christmas in game, it goes on and on."Alright, this is one long ad for the current issue, but it's important to look at how NGJ is establishing itself in the printed media. Any other editors want to let us know about your NGJ content?
Google'splanto put some of the world's greatest libraries on the web have sparked fear of further anglophone domination,say reports.Jean-Noel Jeanneney, who heads France's national library and is a noted historian, says Google's choice of works is likely to favour Anglo-Saxon ideas and the English language.He wants the European Union to balance this with its own program and its own internet search engines."It is not a question of despising Anglo-Saxon views ... It is just that in the simple act of making a choice, you impose a certain view of things," Mr Jeanneney said.Of course, there's not a lot wrong with saying "we want our library digitised" (and France is well known for its cultural protectionism) so I think Le Figaro's attempt to turn this into a "war cry" is a bit off the mark.But it does seem to ignore the fact that Google has not said (as far as I'm aware) it is only digitising English-language works - and the slow progress being made by France on the web.
Wired worldNorwich, eBay capital of BritainIt is now well known that selling on eBay, the world's biggest internet trading community, is not just a hobby for many Brits but a full-time job, with reports surfacing almost daily of small, home-based businesses making big business-sized annual turnovers through the site. It is also becoming clear, however, that certain regions are more eBay-friendly than others, recent figures revealing that Norwich is the eBay capital of Britain, with a whopping 44% of the city's population (that's 121,553 people) registered to trade on the site.Three and a half years ago, at almost the exact time I put my first jam-stained Sun Ra album up for auction on eBay, I moved to the outskirts of the (deservedly tagged) "Fine City". Since then, as I have continued to sell my possessions on a weekly basis, the rise of the East Anglian virtual trader has become palpable.One of the first things you learn about the place, right after the local pheasants' terminal lack of road sense, is that every third person is an antique dealer. Back in 2001, however, it sometimes felt as though my wife and I were alone in our awareness of the wheeler-dealing potential of the internet, as we became the scourge of the local post office with our endless Jiffy bags and non-EU customs stickers.What's surprising is perhaps not that the Norwich area has risen to the challenge of eBay, but that it has taken so long to catch on. With a reputation for being taciturn and thrifty, the Norwich resident not only tends to have the time and temperament for online trading (approximately one in four of the city's workforce is employed in financial services), he or she also has Europe's largest six-day open-air market and an abnormally large number of secondhand shops at their disposal (particularly on Magdalen Street, or "Frugal Road" as it's known in my household).Today, those formerly nonplussed post-office cashiers have developed their own special "speed-stick" systems of weighing and pricing packages; recently, one even asked me for advice on a starting bid on a Biba jacket. Obviously, the marketplace is feeling a little crowded, but, as ever in Norfolk, where there's selling, there's buying, and if it means an excitable man from Wroxham is going to pay me over the odds for a scratched Manfred Mann album, I'm not complaining.Tom CoxLit critWhat the president is readingThe books beside the presidential bed always fascinate. Eisenhower liked Zane Grey westerns. Kennedy - sponsor of the Bay of Pigs fiasco - was a proclaimed admirer of James Bond. Bill Clinton (America's first black president, as Toni Morrison hailed him) enthused over the crime fiction of half black, half Jewish, all Liberal Walter Mosley. Reagan was hot for the cold war thrillers of Tom Clancy. President Blair's favourite novel, one gathers, is Scott's romance of medieval knight-errantry, Ivanhoe ("my sword is strong, because my heart is pure").And Bush? How does the joke go? "Breaking news. The president's library has burned down. Both books were destroyed. He's very upset as he hadn't finished colouring one of them in."Unfair, it seems. Reporters accompanying the president on his European jaunt have been informed that he is reading Tom Wolfe's I Am Charlotte Simmons. What, one wonders, does the breeze-block sized novel have that Bush wants? Upper-body exercise? Surely if he is going to drop by the Vatican during his trip, The Da Vinci Code would have been more instructional ("Is it true, your gracefulness, that Jesus had a love child?")?Wolfe's novel opens with a state governor getting a blowjob from a compliant co-ed on the verdant Dupont College sward. Perhaps Bush's advisers want Americans to remember the first black president's shenanigans with Monica before they start making invidious comparisons about international statesmanship.Perhaps George and Laura want parental guidance. Simmons is an "ingenue" from backwoods North Carolina who gets thrown into the Animal House. In the welter of promiscuity, alcohol and gubernatorial fellatio, she loses all respect for American institutions of learning and, inevitably, her virtue. The president has two Charlotte-aged daughters. But, by all accounts, Jenna and Barbara are no ingenues - though doubtless as virtuous as a Republican president's girls should be.Wolfe (himself 50-odd years beyond the freshman phase of life) undertook extensive first-hand research, he boasts, for his campus novel (not, one hopes, on the sward). Maybe the president is looking for confirmation that, with all those tenured radicals, the American college system has gone to hell. He believes in hell.Chances are, though, it's all White House spin. The president is being repackaged as secular, sophisticated,    and a man of the literary world for the godless Europeans. What does he have by his bed in Air Force One? I'd guess the Bible and a colouring book.John SutherlandTricks of the tradeDiplomacy by the bottleAre you going to a government reception tonight? You are? Splendid! Do you like wine? Here's a way to judge how valuable the government thinks you are. Look at the label on the bottle they're pouring from. If it says Chteau Petrus 1970, congratulations! You're a very important person. In fact, are you by any chance the head of a large, energy-rich nation whom Tony Blair is trying to suck up to? Are you Vladimir Putin? I thought so. That wine is worth &#163;1,100 a bottle. It has a stately, Gothic, cobwebby body, with undertones of truffles, loam, and subtle grace notes of snob and toad.If, on the other hand, it says Domaine Planterieu, I'm sorry. You're virtually nobody. You haven't got squillions of cubic metres of natural gas, and you haven't got tens of thousands of civilian deaths we need to ostentatiously forgive you for. You're one vote in a cheap suit. Cheers!The Foreign Office is batting away accusations that it has been buying up thousand-pound bottles of elite wine for the prime minister's personal use. It is helped by the fact that the accusation isn't true: the FO does indeed preside over a magnificent cellar of vintage wines, in a vault under Lancaster House in London, but they're for government receptions and royal banquets, and they didn't cost that much when they were bought.Although the man who runs the cellar, a civil servant by the name of Robert Alexander, is altogether too splendid a person to deign to address a journalist, his wine advisers - a group that meets in Lancaster House several times a year to swill and spit - boast of the money they have saved the taxpayer by buying the best wines early. "I think the '70 Petrus has been quoted," said Sebastian Payne of the Wine Society. "I remember it cost &#163;6 a bottle when it was bought - one of the government's better investments."Indeed, by defending the government against accusations of extravagance, the FO has moved in the other direction. Putin gets the Petrus: those in the cheap seats get the - well, no need to linger over the bouquet. In the course of several hundred government receptions a year, at a cost pushing &#163;100,000, the state hands out free booze to tens of thousands of guests. "The average price of a bottle    of wine at a government reception is &#163;3.50 a bottle," said a Foreign Office spokesman.James MeekCourt circularWindsor on the WindsorsWhat with reporting restrictions here and roped-off rooms there, all too much of the royal family has been off limits to the nation's taxpayers. Yet, according to mischievous briefings from historian Dr Stephen Cretney, this is set to change with Charles and Camilla's impending nuptials. Deliciously, under rules governing civil marriage, the happy couple will have no choice but to allow members of the public to attend the ceremony in Windsor's Guildhall.So it comes as something of a surprise that the hilly streets of Windsor are not abuzz with talk of hats and confetti. Cafe worker Jo Thoday thinks she knows why: everyone has been rostered to work on April 8 to cope with the hordes of royal watchers expected to descend on the town. "I'm dreading it," she groans.Dal Singh, a 22-year-old salesman, is a little more engaged in the impending nuptials, although he initially feigns nonchalance. "I guess I'd go, but I wouldn't queue for more than an hour to get in," he offers coolly. But this facade is kidding no one - he lets slip that he and his colleagues at the phone shop have had a whip-round for a wedding present.Just when it seems that nobody in this town will admit to being mad for the marriage, up bound two teenagers wearing top hats adorned with union flags. Young royalists, here early for the wedding? "What wedding?" ask New Yorkers Bret Fox and Abby Wise, who are paying homage to the sitcom Friends rather than the heir to our throne. "Joey got &#91;a hat like this&#93; in the episode where they go to London," says says 16-year-old Bret excitedly. "We've been searching all over."In the face of such disinterest, there's nothing for it but to head to Alexon, a ladies' dress shop boasting a window display composed entirely of pastel linen. Even better, it is but a stone's throw from the Guildhall itself. Result! It's as if sales assistant Marianne Spong has been waiting for this moment all of her 66 years. "My husband and I could go along?" she near-shrieks upon hearing the happy news. "April 8 is my birthday, so I was planning on taking the day off and watching the wedding anyway, but imagine being able to actually attend!" Thanks to the apathy of her fellow townsfolk, she might just bag a whole pew.Helen Pidd
The European commission will launch a formal inquiry next week into German public television and radio's use of licence fee money to fund internet and other services, the Guardian has learned.The investigation could have serious consequences for other publicly funded broadcasters such as the BBC and comes after complaints from private channels two years ago that their state-owned rivals, ARD and ZDF, used illegal subsidies.Last week senior officials from four German states - Bavaria, the Rhineland-Palati nate, North Rhine-Westphalia and Saxony-Anhalt - sought to avert the investigation in talks with Neelie Kroes, the competition commissioner.It is understood that Ms Kroes conceded that the licence fee itself was not an illegal subsidy under EU rules - partly because that is a matter for national authorities alone. The Dutch Liberal and her advisers believe, however, that using public money to fund internet-based services and win a slice of the growing market appears to be unlawful. ARD.de and ZDF.de, which offer sports and financial news as well as advice, are expanding.The four German states have shown Ms Kroes the financial details of ARD and ZDF, which are undisclosed even in Germany, but she, according to Der Spiegel magazine, wants more transparency over funding subsidiaries, including internet services.Carl Eberle, ZDF's lawyer, said the commission's view that broadcasting based on licence fees limits competition "undermines the principles on which Germany's broadcasting system is based".The two channels, set up after the second world war, are in effect under party political control. The system was set up to ensure pluralism after the Nazi dictatorship, but the channels are now moving into sponsorship. Some politicians believe they should be pared back to their core broadcasting role. The BBC has won Brussels' backing for its expansion into digital radio and television.
Apple co-founderSteve Wozniakis the latest to speak out against the company's lawsuits against users, saysDrunkenBlog.Referring to a separate set of lawsuits to the ThinkSecret, Woz had the following to say:"I was shocked reading the interview. Everything fits into place that this is an unintentional oversight and the interviewed student appears to be one of the most honest people on this planet. I have to question who is most right in this case.I wish that Apple could find some way to drop the matter. In my opinion, more than appropriate punishment has already been dealt out. In this age of professional spammers and telemarketers making fortunes, we're misusing our energies to pursue these types of small time wrongdoers. I will personally donate $1,000 to the Canadian student's defense."Now, this case isn't about thealleged breaking of non-disclosure agreementsin the same way as the publication of leaks, like the others. It's about the filesharing of a pre-release version of the Mac OS X Tiger operating system which was in beta but released (under NDA) to some Macintosh fans by the developers (read more inthis interview).DrunkenBlog also takes the temperature of other Macintosh developers over this particular issue and they seem relatively evenly split between "I agree with what Apple's doing", "I agree in principle, but they're doing it wrong" and "Give these kids a break!".What's interesting, though, is that several of them mention lines like this: "These actions remind us all that Apple is more than just Steve Jobs and his team of insanely talented engineers. They have their share of corporate goons like any other big company".The suggestion is that Jobs cannot possibly believe that this legal action is the right thing to do, and that lawyers and suits have hijacked the decision making.I wonder what's really going on inside the Cupertino offices...
One of the dotcom era's great survivors re-emerged yesterday with plans for a new investment vehicle designed to seek out the next big thing in the technology, internet or mobile phone industries.John Swingewood, former head of internet operations at BT and then BSkyB, is returning to the market as chairman of Pannal, which plans to list on Aim today. The shell company has already raised &#163;1.5m through a placing of shares with investors and plans to seek out investments in the technology arena."We feel there's growing sentiment towards internet companies that have survived the turbulent times and we feel there are some real opportunities out there for us," Mr Swingewood said.His last investment vehicle, Peerless Technology, which floated on AIM in 2001, ended up buying a pharmaceuticals business two years later. Mr Swingewood remains a shareholder in that company. But he said yesterday that he believes "the time is right" to invest in technology again.He has carved out something of a niche for himself in the technology sector. His most recent business, Digital Interactive Television Group (DITG), was bought by Yoomedia in November last year for just over &#163;14m.Mr Swingewood formed DITG along with Peter Wilkinson, the former boss of Sports Internet Group and one of the creators of internet service provider Freeserve, now Wanadoo.Mr Swingewood helped make Mr Wilkinson a multi-millionaire when he bought Sports Internet Group for more than &#163;300m in April 2000 during his tenure as head of BSkyB's new media content and technologies division.Mr Swingewood had joined the satellite broadcaster from BT the previous October. His defection from BT was seen as a coup but as the dotcom boom turned to bust he left BSkyB in early 2001. In May that year he joined InTechnology, run by Mr Wilkinson, as chief technology officer.In his new venture, Pannal, Mr Swingewood is joined by a former colleague from those heady dotcom days, Jeremy Fenn - who was chief executive of Sports Internet Group when Mr Wilkinson was its deputy chairman.
The entire contents of Paris Hilton's mobile phone memory have appeared on the internet, angering her showbusiness friends, who are being deluged with calls.Hackers posted a copy of the hotel heiress's address book on a website, listing the numbers and email addresses of some 500 acquaintances including Eminem and Christina Aguilera.It is not known how the information was obtained, but Hilton's was reportedly one of many celebrity phones compromised in an attack on T-Mobile's network that accessed numbers from 400 customers.Last week Nicholas Jacobsen, 22, a California-based hacker, pleaded guilty to one charge of accessing a protected computer and causing reckless damage. He is due to be sentenced in May and faces up to five years in prison.The Hilton phonebook was posted on the illmob.org website on Sunday but is no longer accessible. It was in the public domain long enough to cause significant frustration for many of her associates.Eminem's phone number has reportedly since been changed. The voice mailbox of Fred Durst, front man of Limp Bizkit, was full and tennis star Anna Kournikova's number was said to be constantly engaged.
Britain's biggest bookmaker, Ladbrokes, has been barred from offering internet betting services to punters in the Netherlands by the Dutch supreme court.The ruling follows a lawsuit from the Dutch Lotto after Ladbrokes placed adverts in several Dutch newspapers during the World Cup three years ago. Ladbrokes does not hold a permit to offer bets in the Netherlands and has no shops in the country.Last night a Ladbrokes spokesman said the ruling was entirely expected in the context of Dutch law. However, he said recent rulings from the European court of justice (ECJ) could force member states to open up their controls on betting.Ladbrokes and rivals are pursuing parallel cases in the Netherlands and elsewhere in Europe, looking for the issue to be referred to the ECJ.In 2003 the ECJ ruled that an agent acting for Stanley Leisure was within his rights to take bets in Italy. UK operators hope this ruling will force continental markets to open up.
"More than a decade before there were personal computers, Douglas Engelbart showed the world the future. On Dec. 9, 1968, when a computer was the size of a room, Engelbart and his team of researchers unveiled personal computing workstations that could talk to each other. Users from anywhere in the world could access and work on the same document," reports theMercury News."On that day, Engelbart officially gave birth to the mouse, e-mail, video conferencing and even hyperlinks (the links used to navigate the World Wide Web). He holds more than 25 patents. For his pioneering vision, Engelbart, 80, is being inducted into the Silicon Valley Engineers Hall of Fame Wednesday."The bulk of the article is a Q&amp;A....
"Like so many other 20-somethings hoping to mine the Internet gold rush of the late 1990s, Mena Trott was thrown for a humbling loop by the dot-com bust, yet still craved stardom. Her unassuming husband, Ben, just wanted another computer programming gig in Silicon Valley's depressed job market. The couple's odd chemistry cooked up Six Apart Ltd, a startup that has helped popularize the "blogging" craze, with millions of people worldwide maintaining online personal journals that dissect everything from politics to poultry."APtells the story....
Online travel firm Lastminute.com today asked the Financial Services Authority (FSA) to investigate an anonymous fax that raised questions about its financial health.Shares in Lastminute fell 7% in the middle of last week after the fax, headlined Running on Empty, claimed the company could need a big fundraising boost to overcome falling margins and cash reserves.Brent Hoberman, the company's co-founder and chief executive, said the rumours in the fax were untrue and that Lastminute had a responsibility to its shareholders to report any activity that could create a false market in its shares.The company thought short sellers - investors who sell shares in a firm in the hope of buying them back later at a lower price - had targeted the company after quarterly results beat market expectations.The culprits were likely to be "people who took a strong short position before our results and were disappointed that we came in ahead of expectations", Mr Hoberman said.Earlier this month, Lastminute reported strong growth in bookings during the final three months of 2004, but also revealed that losses had widened to £1.8m from £1.1m a year ago.Lastminute said the FSA was being asked to investigate the fax because it created a false market in its shares, which have since stabilised. Heavier losses in its most recent quarter were not unexpected as the company made five acquisitions in 2004 and now generated more of its profits at other times of the year, the company said.Businesses purchased include the lastminute.de group of companies in Germany and the Online Travel Corporation, which was bought in March. The company added that it was comfortable with its cash reserves of £30m, while there was also a £20m overdraft to be used if needed.Lastminute sells travel and leisure products directly in 13 European countries and also has two international joint ventures. It currently employs around 2,400 people.The FSA would not discuss any specific investigation, but said that rumours circulated by fax would be considered in terms of market abuse. The FSA said rumours, whether circulated verbally, by fax or by email, would be treated in the same way."The question is, what is the intent behind the dissemination of information?" the FSA said.
"Treat digital evidence with care", says Neil Barrett in this week'sIT Week, arguing that we must take greater care to preserve evidence in digital crimes.Most computer evidence is spoiled within the first few minutes of discovery by careless or well-meaning first responders who don't know much about IT security but who insist on 'simply checking a few details' before the potential crime is passed for investigation.As a result, timestamps are changed, log files altered, temporary files produced. In short, various changes are made by those who do not understand the scope or extent of those changes. It is like the first person at a murder scene picking up the bloodstained knife and cleaning it to see how sharp it is.No one would do that, so let's also try to prevent interference with computer evidence.It might seem harsh, but such blunders are so often the case with computers; indeed, with any incredibly complex technology that is handed over to users with next to no knowledge of them at all.
Tipping Pointauthor Malcolm Gladwell will belive online at Guardian Unlimitedtomorrow at 2.30pm GMT.Gladwell- a former Washington Post science writer and New Yorker staffer - has written a new book, Blink, which investigates why some people's gut instincts are better than others'... and why snap judgments can actually be more effective than deliberate decisions. For example, he says it is possible to tell within 15 minutes whether a couple will still be together in 15 years.Log on nowto leave your questions - and drop back tomorrow to see him talking live online.
World of Warcraftcontinues to enthral. I had a lengthy session over the weekend, with some seriously impressive moments. One of these involved riding a large bat betweentwo cities, which was utterly wonderful and nearly bought a tear to my eye (although that could have been due to WOW induced sleep deprivation). Other stand outs include stumbling across an enemy gnome - yes, any doubts that you weren't a geek will be expunged by this game - and instead of fighting or fleeing, we just stared at each other. He then clobbered me. Also spent a lot of time picking herbs, riding the zeppelin and generally sightseeing. It was justgreat fun. In fact if it hadn't been for Rhianna nabbing the review, I wouldn't have had to logout for a few hours to playMario Power Tennis, which I am doing for Thursday. I've played a couple of other massively multiplayer online role playing games - no, I don't get paid by the word - before, but none have got close to the polish, ease and sense of place of WOW. If you've ever wanted to explore a new world then I'd highly recommend this.
It's been announced that APB, the forthcoming Massively Multiplayer Online Game from David Jones - not theMonkeeor theBowiebut the creator of theGrand Theft Autoseries (not the directorialdebutofRon Howard) and the most-addictiveLemmings- has been signed by mega Korean MMOG publisherWebzen. I mean mega - one of their online games has 56 million people signed up. The company is keen to stretch their digital tendrils into the Western markets, and Jones is their man in charge.APB, or All Points Bulletin, could break the genre into the consciousness of PlayStation generation. Stepping away from the traditional orcs and goblins obsession which keeps the audience niche, the game is set within contemporary cities, recreated in the virtual domain, pitting the factions that want to uphold the law against the rabble who prefers to break it. Real stuff. What dreams are made of. With a potential bounty of new converts to the scene, this title could redefine gaming as we know it.APB should be on our shelves in 2007. More information when it debuts at theElectronic Entertainment Expo(E3) in May.
According to Thursday'sNew York Times, and a similar story onWired.com(if you don't want to subscribe to the NYT website), toy makers are having to create ever more advanced electronic playthings to draw children away from videogames, iPods and mobile phones. The Wired piece claims that 75% of toys debuting at this year's American International Toyfair will contain some form of microchip. Among the offerings will be dolls that repsond to their 'mother's' voice and a new generation of Furby that can engage in simple conversations with a child.It's interesting as this comes at a time when the videogame industry is desperately trying to transmute into the consumer electronics industry (the PSP isclearlynot going to be marketed as a games machine, rather a multimedia lifestyle gadget), and the telecoms industry is trying to turn into the entertainment industry (phones that download video and music, and/or receive digital television were hot at3GSMthis year). Meanwhile, the entertainment industry, forced into a corner by the file-sharing revolution, is transmogrifying into a technology industry by offering downloadable content.What the hell is going on?Clearly, the traditional dividers between different entertainment and communications markets are crumbling. No one is happy in their separate sectors anymore, technology seeps from one platform to the next. Convergence is God.These are confusing days for manufacturers and content providers everywhere. You could feel the panic around 3GSM, the massive mobile phone show held in Cannes last week. Dozens of companies offering streaming video solutions, music download systems, TV streaming technologies... the infrastructure for delivering the next generation of mobile enertainment is in complete dissarray. No one knows which standards are going to emerge as winners - will people be downloading Windows Media files, or MP3s? Will MPEG4 be the video format of choice? Will people stream TV via 3G connection, or will they buy phones that pick up terrestrial digital signals directly?Meanwhile, in the videogame industry, we have DS vs PSP - a games toy vs a sophisticated multimedia player. What do the kids want? What will Xbox 2 and PS3 have to deliver to meet out demand for converged entertainment experiences? And, actually, come to think of it,isthere a demand? Surely, we just want good games, right? The technology that delivers them is secondary, isn't it?Has entertainment ever been so complicated? Has the industry ever demanded so much from the consumer? What is the mass market supposed to make of phones that download games and video and music, and swap files via bluetooth, and connect to the Internet? What are most people going to do when different brands of TVs and PCs and games consoles merge into competing entertainment servers?As for electronic interactive toys... what is that all about? Do you want your child's imagination to be defined by Hasbro or any other megacorp for that matter? I can't remember what I talked about with my seventies Action Man, but he had an evil look in his eye and a big scar and a machine gun - I can't imagine that our discussions would have been endorsed or encouraged by the American toy industry.I'm not sure anyone knows what we want anymore - they just want a piece of the action. Whatever it is. Whatever it means.
Dagnabbit, did it again. Here's the roundup from last week's gamesblog. It was a a good 'un!MondayFutureMario loveIt's a crimeTuesdaySims Online heading for the virtual trash can?Wow!WednesdayIGE Prez gets grilledPunishedThursdayPowered downHeard any good gaming jokes lately?FridayGame over?3GSM show report: part one3GSM show report: part two
Like the cavalry appearing on the brow of the hill, broadband's saviour is expected to arrive in 2005. Just like the internet and digital TV before it, broadband has signed up all the early adopters and is now scanning the horizon for the "killer application" that will bring in the masses.And again, like its predecessors, the saving grace will not have much to do with technological breakthroughs such as connection speed. That was phase one, but phase two will be about content that is fun to use, that holds the attention of consumers and creates a whole new experience beyond bragging about bandwidth and speed.Already take-up figures are rising more quickly, with more than a third of the 16 million UK internet users surfing on broadband, always-on connections by the end of last year, according to Ofcom. Much of this is due to falling broadband prices, with monthly subscriptions now below the benchmark &#163;20."Broadband is growing a lot faster than normal dial-up internet access," says Andreas Gutjahr, marketing manager at Nielsen//NetRatings. "Prices are coming down, so broadband internet is becoming part of everyday life. Music downloading is hot and VoIP &#91;voice over internet protocol, or internet telephony&#93; is very hot. The next big thing is more people spending more time online."So the stage is set for the next big push, say industry executives. The number of broadband users is growing, which means that the new delivery platform is all the more interesting for content owners. The next 12 months will be the key, says Andrew Burke, CEO of BT Entertainment, a new broadband education and entertainment division formed last year to develop, license and deliver content such as on-demand music, gaming, TV and movies."Broadband is getting bigger and bigger for us. As bandwidth increases, it becomes much more video-ready as a medium," says Burke. "The ability to deliver niche content to particular communities is becoming a reality."BT is already testing a higher compression rate for broadband, called MPEG4, so it can deliver more content of higher quality. And as part of its new entertainment push, the president of Universal Studios Networks UK, Dan Marks, joined BT this month to guide its video-on-demand over broadband strategy.Early broadband adopters wanted fast, always-on connections, but recent broadband subscribers want something more as well. "This year is about taking community, communications and entertainment and putting them together," says Burke.A prime example of Burke's broadband vision is a new site launched by the Philharmonia orchestra. For its 60th anniversary in January, the orchestra relaunched its own website and unveiled the Sound Exchange, a companion site with a revolutionary view on new ways of interacting with audiences.Five years in development and part-paid for by BT, the Sound Exchange (www.philharmonia.co.uk/thesoundexchange) offers musical education in chatrooms and question-and-answer sessions with the musicians, plus video demonstrations by the orchestra. Users can submit their own compositions and choose from thousands of free music downloads. The site will also host live, interactive concert webcasts; the first has been scheduled for April 23."This is exciting because we are offering a rich media experience inside a webcast, which is something that artists like Robbie Williams have done, but hasn't ever been done for classical music," says Alice Walton, the Philharmonia's media and marketing director.Helping to create such innovative sites works for BT on a number of levels: BT's broadband technology unit, BT Rich Media, acts as the tech nical platform while all broadband providers, including BT, hope that this kind of innovative, community-focused content will increase their subscriptions. Even though the Sound Exchange is available on the internet and is free to any user, many broadband experts see this site as a huge step forward for a technology that already boasts nearly 22% penetration in UK households."The audience is getting much more spread across all ages and demographics" says Burke. "It used to be young, internet guys on their PCs, but it isn't now."Music has driven the internet in the past and is now doing the same for broadband. iTunes and Napster have contributed to broadband's popularity, because the high-speed connections make download speeds around 10 times faster than dial-up. In December, online single downloads in the UK exceeded physical sales in stores for the first time.But downloading tracks and sites like the Sound Exchange are not enough to take broadband to the next level. The ISPs are waiting for better content, while the content-makers are biding their time while subscriber numbers improve. Neither side seems to want to take too much of a risk before the other has reached the promised land. However, earlier this month, AOL Broadband started selling its services in 1,100 high street stores owned by the Dixons Group. Meanwhile, its own in-house content library - including films and cartoons from Warner Bros - is predicted to be available on AOL Broadband later this year."It's a vision thing," says Burke. "There is so much going on in the content area not just by us but by everyone, which is why by the end of this year we will be worrying not about bandwidth but about content propositions."But all this pushing of broadband is not just about content, it's about communication. Revenues from landline telephone calls are falling sharply, eroded by mobile calling, price competition and new technologies such as internet calling using VoIP. Telecom research group IDC said this month that European landline revenues will decline by $13bn over the next five years. So for BT and other telecommunications companies with a big investment in landline systems, embracing the broadband revolution is not an option - it's a necessary part of their future.
"Thanks to a generous grant from the Lounsbery Foundation, we can cover our budget without raising substantially more funds than in the last quarter. In all, we will need $75,000 in donations to reach our goals this quarter. You helped us raise over $50,000 in our last fund drive. Every little bit helps -- most donations we receive are the equivalent of $20 or less," saysWikipedia.
"If you want to spread bad news about Napster Inc., just tell Steve Jobs. The Apple Computer Inc. chief executive sent an e-mail Tuesday morning to top record industry executives, alerting them to a security gap in Napster's music service -- a rival to Apple's iTunes online store," reports theLA Times."Napster CEO Chris Gorog sent the labels a retort Tuesday afternoon, arguing that such copying programs were neither new nor a problem only for Napster."By contrast, he said, it is 'trivial' to download a free program that circumvents Apple's anti-piracy software and unlocks 'a large collection of iTunes music in seconds.' He provided the Web address of a site that supplied such a program."Comment:Pretty funny for Stevie boy to complain about Napster considering Apple released a program that stripped out its own FairPlay DRM --iMovie-- and when everyone knows you can remove it by burning to a CD and re-ripping it. Jobs must be more worried about Napster than we thought....
"Archos has released an industry-first, a 100GB portable video player and recorder - the AV4100. The AV4100 delivers advanced multimedia features including recording and scheduling capabilities, full audio recording and playback, photo viewing, and data storage in a large-capacity, handheld device," reportsMedia Center PC World."The AV4100 allows you to record television shows and movies directly from a TV, VCR, cable set-top box or satellite receiver with a convenient TV Cradle. Consumers can watch videos and view photos on a large color LCD screen, listen to and record music, and transfer photos from a digital camera and data files from a PC or Macintosh."Comment:Gigabytes (GB) is meant rather than gigabits (Gb).
Like private schools  which (for reasons  lost in the mists of  starched collars,  ink wells and latenight  visits to  matron) start with the third form,  so BMW's model range also begins  with its 3-series. However, the  German giant has now decided to  give completists a break by offering  them the chance to 'collect the set'  by introducing a 1-series. It's like  Star Wars - a prequel to the main  attraction. To find out why they  didn't start with 1 in the first place,  I gave my journalistic training a  thorough work-out - and rang the  press office. It seems BMW actually  started with the 5, back in 1972.  'A mid-size number, for a mid-size  car' was how they put it.As befitting its number, the 1 is  the baby of the Beemers. And, by  a mere £305, it is also the cheapest.  However, the price quickly rises to  £20,800 for the precocious 120d.  The small car's big claim to fame  is that it is the only rear-wheel drive  car in its class (back to school  again). This means that it becomes  what's known in car mags as a  'driver's car' - better handling,  better control, more fun. The  alternatives - ie all the other cars in  the 'family hatch' category - are  front-wheel drive, which apparently  makes them less fun to drive.  Can't say you'd notice, really,  although the one huge advantage  of rear-wheel drive is that it gives  you a massively improved turning  circle - which probably is useful  outside the school gates.Strangely, for me, BMW has  chosen to advertise its 'rear-wheel  drive for outstanding performance,  handling', etc, with pictures of  tortoises and tricycles. Neither  of which are renowned for  performance or handling. Maybe  I'm being too literal. Anyway, to the  car... From the outside it is a truly  beautiful vehicle. It's been inspired  by the marque's cultish z4. It has  sculptural curves where others have  hospital corners and undulating  panels where others have flat sides.  With its walrus-moustache valance,  it's an eye catcher, no question - in  silver it looks like a part of Bilbao's  Guggenheim has been broken  off and taken for a drive. Another  neat external innovation is that the  door handles are individually lit by  fibre optics, making the car look  even more like a Frank Gehry  building in the dark.That's all from the outside,  though. On the inside, it scores  slightly less well. It's cramped, even  for a small car, the boot is pinched  and leg-room seems to have been  designed for people without thighs.  There's a few odd design blips, too:  brown plastic is never flattering,  and there's little in the way of  useful storage compartments.The 2-litre engine brightens  things up considerably, giving 0-60  in 7.9 seconds and an amazing  49.6 miles per gallon. It growls  reassuringly. However, I found  the steering a little heavy, reverse  impossible to find and rearvisibility  almost non-existent.  Never look back, as they say.As today's school system is based  almost entirely on marks, it seems  only right to give the 1-series a  grade. I note that Top Gear awarded  it 12 out of 20, which I think is a bit  harsh. Let's go for a B.martin.love@observer.co.uk
There was a time when listening to music on the move meant two words: Sony Walkman. Twenty years later the Walkman has joined Betamax and brick-sized mobile phones on the consumer scrapheap. More surprisingly, Sony itself is increasingly seen as a sleeping giant which has fallen behind its rivals.Now the Japanese corporation is set to announce the UK launch date of what it has billed as the 'Walkman for the 21st century'. The PlayStation Portable, or PSP, combines games, music and video and is regarded by critics as the 'make or break' product for the ailing empire.Sony's bleak fortunes were underlined when its operating profits in consumer electronics fell 23 percent in the last quarter after an 83 per cent plunge in the previous three months. Ken Kutaragi, the president of Sony Computer Entertainment, took the extraordinary step of admitting the company had blundered by failing to embrace the digital music revolution because of fears its own music business could suffer piracy. 'Even three years ago, because we had music, Sony was reluctant about introducing an iPod-type of new product,' he said. 'The situation is a bit frustrating for everyone.'Executives in Tokyo will have been alarmed by a withering critique in the influential US magazine  Fortune , which analyses 'just how far Sony has fallen'. The article noted: 'Sony has faced one humiliation after another, from its failure to anticipate the demand for the technology that goes into flat-screen televisions to its flat-footed response to the rapid commoditisation of conventional TVs and DVD players. Yet it's in digital music that it has suffered its greatest embarrassment. When it came to navigating the digital future, Sony should have been the leader, not a bumbling follower.'Fortune describes how the corporation went down a series of cul-de-sacs, such as the Network Walkman and Sony Connect, as meanwhile the smaller Apple invaded its traditional territory with the iPod. If the empire is to strike back, the PSP is 'emerging as its most potent weapon'.Weighing 270g, the shiny black PSP is 170mm long and 74mm wide, a hand-held version of Sony's PlayStation   and PlayStation 2. It also has the ability to play music and videos, which can be stored on 'memory sticks'.Adam Vaughan, managing editor of  Stuff , the gadgets magazine, said: 'Sony came late to the game - it was like a supertanker taking a very long time to turn around. They are now trying to steal back the whole culture that has grown up around the iPod. They are Sony and they're huge, whereas Apple are not that big, so they'll be going crazy to get it back. They want the PSP to become an icon that everyone is talking about and lusting after and imitating. If it flops it will be a big hole in their strategy for the next few years.'The PSP was launched in Japan in mid-December with a half-a-million units which sold out within hours. It is due out in America next month and expected to reach Britain in late April or early May.technology@observer.co.uk
The traditional video/DVD rental shop on the high street could be facing extinction. Attracted by cheaper prices and a lack of late return fines, film buffs are switching to internet-based rental companies that will send you an evening's viewing in the post.On the face of it, most people who rent at least two DVDs a month will be better signing up for one of the growing number of rental services. Last December, Amazon launched a service that undercut the rest of the market, and Tesco responded by cutting its prices. Soon   ITV will also enter the market.To sign up you need access to the internet, be over 18, and have a credit or debit card. Already, the firms claim, one rental DVD is mailed out every second in the UK.Each of the sites works in a similar way - you open an account and select a list of the films you would like to watch. The company sends the film to you first class and you return it in the pre-paid envelope. Once the company receives back the first film, it sends out the next.If you are happy to have just one film at a time you will pay &#163;8-&#163;10 a month for the service - serious film   fans have the option to pay more to receive a greater number of movies at any one time. If the film at the top of the list is unavailable, the firm will send out the next.You get to keep it as long as you want. The fee is debited to your card each month, and the consumer can cancel the service at any time.One of the great advantages is that consumers have a huge choice of films to choose from. The two market leaders, Video Island and Lovefilm, both offer a staggering choice of 29,000 titles - including films, TV programmes, music titles, and a host of other stuff such as sport. Even the smaller services offer 20,000.Amazon which refuses to disclose its total number preferring to say it is in "the tens of thousands".The downside is that the service is only as good as the postal service. If the DVD gets   lost in the post you are not liable for its replacement, but another is not sent out until you have reported it lost. The whole process could take at least a week. However, the system does allow those who watch their film that night, and return it the next day the chance to see up to 10 films a month for their &#163;8.So which is best? Going on pure price Amazon and Tesco are the cheapest. Given that Amazon refuses to reveal its   total number of films it's probably safe to presume it has fewer than the others, and its renters can only take four or six rentals a month, depending upon the package. Tesco's service is actually provided by the same company (Video Island) that offers Screen Select's popular service.For some reason Screen Select's basic package is &#163;2 a month more than Tesco's. Blockbuster's service works out the most expensive, except for those who want to take five films at a time.Most of the companies offer free trials lasting between two and four weeks - if you are prepared to keep chopping and changing you can probably get a few months of free films.&#183;What's been your experience, good or bad, with online DVD rentals? Let us know at:your.shout@guardian.co.uk
Britain has become the world leader in TV piracy as thousands of viewers download illegal versions of 24, The Simpsons and the The OC over the internet.About a fifth of all illegally copied programmes are distributed in the UK, with an estimated 80,000 Britons downloading high quality copies of their favourite series   free of charge before watching them without any interruption by advertisements.Helped by the spread of broadband, TV piracy has increased by 150% in the last year, according to Envisional, an internet monitoring company. It estimates 95,000 copies of the latest episode of 24, the most popular pirated show, have been illegally distributed over the internet, compared with 35,000 made   of the previous series a year ago."It is as simple, if not more simple, as programming your VCR," said David Price of Envisional. "You just go to a file-sharing website and click on a link."TV piracy is more prevalent in Britain than the US because many popular American shows are not aired in Europe until months after their first showing."Americans are watching them on TV when they should but there is a time lag before you get these shows in the UK," Mr Price said. "People are such big fans of programmes like 24 they want them now rather than waiting two or three months."Television programmes can be watched through a computer with a TV tuner card, available at any computer store. Organised groups of   "cappers" in the US record shows when they are first broadcast and place high-quality files on the internet.The files are subsequently copied and shared across the web using BitTorrent software, which accounts for a third of all data carried on the net. Some 70% to 80% of illegally downloaded TV shows are obtained through BitTorrent websites.While music downloads are   usually from a single source, BitTorrent breaks up the files and shares the data across many computers. The more popular a file is, the quicker the process gets.Most people perceive TV programmes as legitimate material for copying even though it flouts copyright laws, according to Mr Price."People are of the mindset that TV is much more disposable. They think they already   have some form of television subscription, whether it is the TV licence or Sky, so why can't they just download it?"Broadcasters and television production companies are about to begin prosecuting the "cappers", and are expected to take steps to protect their programmes from piracy by offering the latest episodes of shows for download around the world for a small fee as soon as they are broadcast.Top pirated shows1242Stargate Atlantis3The Simpsons4Enterprise5Stargate SG-16The OC7Smallville8Desperate Housewives9Battlestar Galactica10Lost
Console warsIn the battle for who controls the space under your TV, PlayStation 2's unassailable lead still leaves Xbox and GameCube trailing some distance behind. But PS2 launched in Japan in March 2000, shortly before Microsoft and Nintendo got their consoles to market, and as seasoned watchers of the games industry will know, games consoles are put out to pasture at the age of five, when indescribably shiny new ones get wheeled in to replace them. In that spirit, this May's Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) sees the debut of Sony's PlayStation 3, Microsoft's Xbox 2 and Nintendo's Revolution. Needless to say, baseless internet speculation is rife with legions of the uninformed swearing it out as to whose tales of thought-controlled games and feel-o-vision lack the most credibility.
Dead Or Alive UltimateXBoxEven though Tekken and Virtua Fighter have always been the poster-boys for 3D fighting games, the Dead Or Alive series is just as mechanically proficient and graphically may even have a slight edge. Ignore the notoriously ludicrous wobbly breast animations on the female fighters and bask in the long, subtle battles using contrasting fighting styles and splendidly rendered    multi-level fighting arenas from which you can cheerfully toss opponents. Coming with the original game and a remix of Dead Or Alive 2, this two-disc special also lets you play both games online, complete with a Worldwide Ranking Chart to see whether your bravado is misplaced or merely an accurate reflection of your heroic skills.&#183;Microsoft, £40Star Wars: Knights Of The Old Republic IIPC, XBoxIt's not easy being a Jedi. Having a range of powers that lets you control people's minds or slice them into a fine carpaccio makes it a constant effort not be tempted by the beckoning dark side. Not that it's a problem: should you decide to follow the path of corruption, you can, dragging your band of comrades along with you. Taking place in the Star Wars universe years after its predecessor, the likable light side/dark side conversations make a return, as does the straightforward turn-based combat. In fact this is very much more of the same - good news given the unfalteringly high standards of this emerging Star Wars role-playing series.&#183;Activision, £40
Fancy joining in with some never-ending collaborative projects?leaveyourmessagehere.comlets you type a random note, but the best bit is reading other people's. Same goes forflickr.com, where you can browse through thousands of photos or add your own.You can throw your wild ideas for a better world into the ring athalfbakery.comor your slightly more sensible ones toshouldexist.org. Or you could contribute to the brilliant online encyclopediawikipedia.org, while adding to the Hitchhiker's Guide (bbc.co.uk/h2g2/guide) will help newcomers to planet Earth master everything from the Hangar Lane gyratory system to the offside rule.Finally,if you want to test the theory that only six people separate you from a complete stranger go tosmallworld.columbia.edu- to make friends with them all join online communityorkut.com.
More from the show they're already calling, 'The last 3GSM to appear in Cannes before moving to Barcelona in 2006'!Living MobileThe German publisher, hidden away within the depths of the Nokia partners stand (or it may have been the Microsoft partners stand. I keep getting the two mixed up since theiralliance), didn't have anything new to show me, apart from promising screens of Bomberman Kart Special, a conversion of the PS2 title apparently featuring most of the power-ups of the original. They're also preparing Bomberman 3D, which looks a lot like the 3D version of Bomberman released on the N64 a few years back. That one's due for a Spring release on Series 60 and 3G handsets.Kuju WirelessHere, I got to play an almost finished version of Cannon Fodder, a conversion of the Amiga classic created by Tower Studios (headed up by Sensible Software founder, Jon Hare). It's looking very nice indeed with 25 missions, many of which come intact from the original. The point and click interface has been tuned for mobile handsets: now you use left and right to circle the cursor around your soldier thereby selecting the direction he runs and shoots in. The aim of the game is the same as ever – guide your small squad through dense jungle foliage taking out enemies and occasionally hopping in vehicles.An early demo of FIM Motocross World Championship revealed a nicely designed isometric racer, which looks a little like a motorbike version of Super Sprint. The tracks are based on maps of the real FIM locations and you'll choose from up to 20 riders (depending on handset), each with different handling.The chaps also told me a little about their mobile game conversion of the crazedCannonball 8000driving event. The project hasn't really started yet, but they're looking to capture the whole community feel of the annual cross county romp, perhaps with a GTA-style story mode. Vague, but interesting.Finally, there will also be a special 3G version of Sensible Soccer, complete with improved animation as well as in-game sound effects and crowd noises.MformaThe big news was the publisher's ongoing licensing deal with Marvel, which will see many of the comic book giant's biggest characters getting their own mobile games. The first three – Blade Trinity, Elektra and Fantastic Four are movie tie-ins, but then I believe we'll see Ultimate Spider-Man. The deal should result in a continuous stream of titles – indeed both Mforma and Marvel envisage a kind of Marvel channel where mobile users will be able to download games, screen logos, ring tones, etc. Yes, yes, yes, but what about a Silver Surfer title?SumeaThe Finnish company is now part of Trip Hawkins' burgeoning Digital Chocolate empire, along with another studio in San Mateo. The two developers are working on a pretty diverse range of games and apps, including Atkins To Go, which allows you to monitor your carbs intake throughout the day; Mini Golf Castles, a sequel to the newly released crazy golf sim, Mini Beach Golf; Johnny Crash 2, another sequel, this time of the fun human cannonball stunt title; and Pitfall Caves, the last in a trilogy of platform adventures based around the old Atari VCS brand.Digital Chocolate is also launching its own global and local gaming leagues, allowing players to post their best scores online, thereby earning Chocolate Chips (geddit?), giving them access to prize tournaments.SuperscapeThe 3D gaming specialist showed me its mobile conversion of the decent Disney RPG Kingdom Hearts. The company is also working on a Tron title and had its full product range on show including Fight Club, Evil Knievel: Evel-ution, Harlem Globetrotters and Independence Day, all of which come in both 3D and scaled down 2D Java flavours and are in various states of development/release.NamcoUnfortunately they swore me to secrecy about most of their forthcoming projects and now I can't remember what I'm allowed to say and what I'm not. That's what happens when you make inadequate notes during a meeting.THQ WirelessAt my final meeting of the show, THQ Wireless told me about Moto GP 3, the latest Java conversion of the superbike sim. This will feature 16 racing events, including special 'extreme' modes over dirt tacks and urban locations. Destory All Humans is coming across from PS2 and Xbox. It's a darkly humorous shooter with you playing an alien race attempting to take over the earth. On the subject of console conversions, we'll also see a Java take on Full Spectrum Warrior in the summer.I also saw screens of the forthcoming Club Management, a sort of nightclub version of the Tycoon games where you build up your business from a dodgy little nite spot to a glamorous super club by hiring sexy staff and star DJs.There were some big movie and TV tie-ins too. As part of a recent licensing deal, there will be five South Park games out over the next year, including South Park Sports Day (with events such as fart hurdling, starring Terrence and Philip) and Mecha Fighter, which I think is a take on the brilliant Barbara Streisand episode. Oh and THQ has got the rights to a film series called Star Wars and has various games and multimedia goodies planned for this, but I'm not allowed to say anything til March.The end.
Got back from theworld's premier mobile phone eventin Cannes yesterday afternoon, exhausted after three days of wandering around the SIX exhibition halls, as well as the many hotel suites and private apartments hired out by companies unwilling to sully themselves amid the hoi polloi of the official exhibition. Saw some great mobile games out there. I also saw many thousands of men in sober grey suits talking about carrier-grade infrastructure services and advanced DRM solutions for W-CDMA networks.Hopefully, it's the games you're more interested in, so here's a round-up of what the key publishers and developers had on offer.Distinctive DevelopmentsThe Sheffield-based developer was being enormously secretive due to a range of licensing deals that haven't quite been signed off just yet. However, MD Nigel Little did mention a new version of Michael Vaughan Cricket that will be out in time for the Ashes, and Freddy Flintoff cricket, a more arcade-style cricket title for later in the year. April will see the release of a Grand National tie-in, where you compete in the famed race, managing the horse's speed, stamina and jump timing.IfoneI had my first go on the company's Java translation of Lemmings, which is looking very, very impressive. Due out on March 24 it contains 28 levels, and plays almost identically to the original, via a well-implemented point and click interface. Apparently, the company is looking at following up the release with a conversion of Lemmings Tribes or Lemmings 3D.According to marketing manager Enda Carey, they're also looking into releasing multiplayer versions of turn-based titles such as Battleships, Monopoly and Cluedo but have to find a billing model that suits the player and the publisher. Earlier this year in the States, they trialled a two-player version of Battleships over a GPRS connection, but the engineers worked out that a complete game would cost each participant $15 dollars. No one's going to do that unless it's Nudey Abi Titmuss Battleships. So iFone is working with various tech partners to develop a subscription model that will give players unlimited access to a game for a fixed monthly fee.For now though, iFone has Cluedo SFX, a Java version of the updated Cluedo boardgame, and – on a similar theme - Game of Life is out later this year. There's also another Monopoly tie-in to celebrate the game's 70th anniversary, and a couple of Atari bundles, bringing games like Missile Command, Breakout and Lunar Lander together into one Java download.Finally, the company has secured some crazy licenses, including Lassie, Roger Ramjet and Rocky &amp; Bullwinkle. The plan is to release sounds, logos and streaming video clips of each property as well as games. Roger Ramjet theme ring-tone anyone?In-FusioThe French publisher was mainly showing off its new EGE games platform – a series of enhancements that can be embedded into the latest handsets to improve 3D graphics and multiplayer capabilities. It's far too complicated to go into here, but I'll blog about it later.The company also announced four new titles: Age of Empires II, Rambo (a scrolling shoot 'em up), Football Fans (a new footie sim) and Tomb Raider (an Ex-En-enhanced collection of the three Lara Croft Java titles developed by Iomo last year). I also had a quick play of GBA conversion It's Mr Pants, which looks like fun.GameloftOn the stand were Splinter Cell Chaos Theory looking just as polished as the previous titles in the series, and a surprisingly smart 3D version of Ghost Recon: Jungle Storm sadly only available on BREW handsets in the US at present. Indeed, Gameloft is going big on 3D this year now that higher end handsets can throw around enough polys to make it worthwhile - the 3D version of Asphalt Urban GT, for example, is really detailed and still maintains a workable framerate. Us Brits should see the first Gameloft 3D titles by the end of the year.Also, hiding elsewhere on the stand was Sexy Poker, the company's strip poker title. They were telling me the best parts of developing this title were the long meetings in which they decidedexactlywhat they could and could not show in different versions of the title produced for different regions. Obviously, this varies a lot from, say, Germany (anything goes) to Saudi Arabia.KaolinkThis is a French studio that's spent the last few years developing titles for other publishers – including Crash Twinsanity for Wonderphone, Tony Hawk's Underground for Jamdat and Sabre Wulf for In-Fusio. Now they're attempting to move out of the shadows with a new range of self-published titles. Among them are the visually impressive platformer Ancestral Bird, where your character morphs from a walking egg to a 'magnificent winged creature' as the game goes along. Due out on Java handsets in March it has lovely organic environments and some decent level design. The team was also showing a more conventional scrolling shooter, Biocide, with a survival horror storyline involving aliens invading a secret island army base.
Meant to blog about this yesterday. Dealing a big blow to the little guy, retailer Game have won ownership of the domain game.co.uk. The domain had previously been in private ownership since 1995 and had been used as a games retail site. However Game complained to Nominet, who agreed that the domain caused confusion for Game customers. The decision has now gone toappealwith the outcome expected shortly. Check out thefull storyand let me know what side you're on. Me? I'd say that the owner of the domain deserves some cash for his opportunism. Game's PR team are likely to be busy over the next few weeks...
jwz explains why there isn't any usable open sourcegroupware, and why it's a bad idea in any case:With a groupware product, nobody would ever work on it unless they were getting paid to, because it's just fundamentally not interesting to individuals.So I said, narrow the focus. Your "use case" should be, there's a 22 year old college student living in the dorms. How will this software get him laid?That got me a look like I had just sprouted a third head, but bear with me, because I think that it's not only crude but insightful. "How will this software get my users laid" should be on the minds of anyone writing social software (and these days, almost all software is social software).
It's nearly 50 years since Robbie the Robot proved the star of the show in B-movie classicForbidden Planet, but we are only just getting to the point where robots can genuinely walk like human being (asthe Guardianand other newspapers are reporting). Sometimes innovation takes a lifetime.Elsewhere, Red Herring has been running its100 most innovative companies- "companies that will shape the next year in technology" - and it's got a few interesting constituents.Voice over Internet, nanotechnology, geolocation, mobile technology, wireless technology and audio books all feature, as well as big hitters like Google, HP, IBM and Sun.It got me thinking to all those technological promises we've been made by the likes of Tomorrow's World. So what's the biggest innovation you want to see? What was promised that never came true? In 10 years, what would be the one little thing that would make your life better?
"While it's important to respect your children's privacy, understanding what your teenager's online slang means and how to decipher it is important as you help guide their online experience," explains Microsoft inA parent's primer to computer slang.The page explains how leet works and lists some common terms. Note:Leet words possibly indicating illegal activity:• "warez" or "w4r3z": Illegally copied software available for download.• "h4x": Read as "hacks," or what a computer hacker does.• "sploitz" (short for exploits): Vulnerabilities in computer software used by hackers.• "pwn": A typo-deliberate version of own, a slang term that means to dominate. This could also be spelled "0\/\/n3d" or "pwn3d," among other variations. Online video game bullies or "griefers" often use this term.Kewl!
"The Association for Computing Machinery plans to announce Wednesday that Vinton G. Cerf and Robert E. Kahn will receive the 2004 A. M. Turing Award, widely considered to be the computing field's equivalent of the Nobel Prize," reports Katie Hafner inThe New York Times.The Association "was careful to word the award citation so that it was clear that Dr. Cerf, now senior vice president of technology strategy at MCI, and Dr. Kahn, chief executive of the Corporation for National Research Initiatives, a nonprofit research and development organization in Reston, Va., were being honored for their work on the Internet protocol, not the Internet as a whole, so as not to rile other claimants to the Internet's creation. Still, this is the first time in the 39-year history of the award that it has been conferred for work in computer networking - the key to enabling global data communications."Comment:Hafner is co-author of an excellent book about the origins of the Internet:Where Wizards Stay Up Late.
[Off topic] Not much work gets done on a Friday afternoon, in some places, but if you have an urgent deadline,Name voyageris a great displacement activity, and fun for all the family.The site'sblogis also well worth a look.
