Wireless technologies, such as WiMax, UWB (ultra-wide band), Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, 3G and ZigBee, are the new frontier for networking. They carry more data, further, faster, and with lower power than we ever thought possible. But before tomorrow's transmission systems - or "radio" systems as they are known - can open up unlimited bandwidth, we need to change today's regulations, which were designed for yesterday's networks - and are supported by the vested interests of mobile phone companies, broadcasters and the military."New radio technology like ultra-wide band could create &pound;10bn benefit for the UK economy," says David Cleevely, director of the Communications Research Network (formerly the Communications Innovations Institute) at Cambridge University. "If it causes a few million pounds of damage to mobile operators, should that prevent it happening?"The CRN hosted a conference last month on how to get new radio technologies into use. The trouble with radio is no one owns the air. Once signals leave the wire, they can be picked up by anyone in range. They can also interfere with and obscure each other, so agreements are needed to ensure they are used fairly. This is looked after by Ofcom in the UK, the Federal Communications Commission in the US, and similar bodies around the world, who issue licences that give companies the right to use particular parts of the spectrum.Spectrum appears to be scarce, something that motivated the mobile network operators to pay about &pound;22bn for the right to run 3G phone services in the UK. But some argue that scarcity is an illusion. "It looks like about half the spectrum is unoccupied," says William Webb, head of research and development at Ofcom, whose monitoring stations in central London and Heathrow showed large swaths are owned (and rarely used) by the Ministry of Defence, while others carry analogue radio and TV that could be sent more efficiently as digital signals.But regulations get in the way of reorganising the spectrum. Ofcom's licences specify the operator and the technology: an operator cannot hand over a band of spectrum, or use it for something different, without involving Ofcom. "It's a command and control regime," says Webb.In its spectrum framework review, Ofcom proposed that the vast majority of the UK's spectrum (71%) should be available for trading and "liberalised", so that a given band could be used for a different technology without reference to Ofcom."Some people say liberalisation will lead to fragmentation of the spectrum, but I have the opposite view," says Graham Louth, Ofcom's director of spectrum trading. "Liberalisation gets rid of the regulatory barriers to harmonisation."Some spectrum is already freely available. You don't need a licence for your Bluetooth headset or Wi-Fi laptop because they use the "licence exempt" 2.4GHz band. Anyone can use this, or the 5.8GHz band, almost anywhere in the world, as long as they stay below a power threshold that minimises the risk of interference. Some see these "spectrum commons" as a way to remove the brakes from technologies, and Ofcom wants to increase licence-exempt bands from 4.3% to nearly 7% of the spectrum.But that's not enough for the huge amount of data we want to send, and regulators can't create a giant worldwide unlicensed band because of all the existing licences in different countries. Making a broad piece of spectrum available would be like knocking down buildings to create Central Park in the middle of an already populated New York, says William Lehr, a telecoms consultant at MIT. "Everyone understands the value of Central Park, but if it did not exist, you could not create it," he says.There are other ways for technologies to co-exist. UWB can send huge amounts of data, using tiny signals across a wide spectrum without disturbing other users. As reported here before (http://masl.to/?L30F21C0B), UWB could replace, among other things, the USB cables on PCs.In the US, the FCC legalised UWB by keeping it "below the noise floor". Such systems must emit less power than the low level of radio noise that is allowed to leak out of electronic devices such as TVs and CD players. Even with this constraint, UWB manages 500Mbps, providing a massive technology boost that Cleevely and his colleagues want for Britain."UWB has been under development in this town for 15 years, but it can't be sold here," says Professor Andy Hopper, head of the Cambridge Computer Laboratory. He is cross that Ofcom can't allow UWB straight away. "They are not being very helpful," he says.But Ofcom has a duty to deal with objections, and the mobile operators are spoiling for a fight. Even if it is restricted to a power level that would cause then no harm, they still want UWB kept out of "their" spectrum. "Andy &#91;Hopper&#93; should take the issue up with the 3G operators," says Webb."There are few rights in our 3G licence to compensate us for the &pound;4bn we paid for it," says Mike Short, vice president of O2.Vodafone's Simon Pike says: "The presence of UWB may prevent the licensed user from improving the spectrum efficiency in future." It is a dog-in-the-manger attitude that won few friends at the conference.Some advocates of a spectrum commons advocate dropping the whole idea of licensing. "Under article 10 of the European convention on human rights, licensing is only permitted when it is needed to avoid interference," says Robert Horwitz of Open Spectrum International. "Otherwise, licensing is a violation of human rights."But Webb dismisses this: "I can't imagine any device that has absolutely no impact on any other device and still does something useful."Maybe the big spectrum commons is possible after all. Smarter, software-defined radios will be able to change their technology and their frequency at will, switching from Bluetooth to Wi-Fi to UWB as required. Cognitive radios go a step further, responding to what is going on. They listen to which spectrum is occupied, and use whatever is free.With this sort of intelligence, radio devices could negotiate their own communications. It could even create a distributed version of the spectrum commons."The only reason you can't build Central Park now is that it has to be all together in one block," says Will Stewart, chairman of silicon research company Innos. With cognitive radios, we could have the equivalent of a massive open spectrum, made up of a constantly changing aggregate of tiny chunks of spectrum. Therefore, "there is plenty of spectrum for all purposes," Stewart says.With 2GHz of spectrum, and a data rate of 6bps per Hz, Stewart says each person could have a constant 1Mbps using radios 1km apart.There are parallels between smart radios and the internet. "A framework analogous to TCP/IP might be developed for radio, which would enable individual radios to obtain short-term access to spectrum resources," he says.But how do you license a device that can communicate on any frequency, or on several at the same time? Stewart suggests buying and re-selling short-term units, not of frequency, but capacity. "A capel, or capacity element, would allow temporary use of otherwise unused capacity," he says.If this ushers in an age of spectral plenty, mobile operators will be very angry: free bandwidth could make their 3G licences worthless.LinksClearing the airCommunications Research Networkwww.thecii.orgOfcom's Spectrum Framework Reviewhttp://masl.to/?H2CE16C0B
Lastminute.com, one of the British survivors from the internet boom, today agreed to be bought by Sabre Holdings, the US owner of its rival Travelocity, for £577m.The deal was announced a day after lastminute shares soared 48% in the wake of its confirmation that it had received a takeover approach.Lastminute floated on the London stock exchange during the dotcom boom in March 2000. The proposed deal will enable its founders, Martha Lane Fox, who left in 2003, and Brent Hoberman, to pick up multimillion pound windfalls, although the company never made a true profit.Mr Hoberman, who is still chief executive, stands to receive just over £26m for his 15.8m shares, while Ms Lane Fox's stake of 8.2m shares is worth around £13.5m. However, the pair's stakes are still worth far less than the levels seen in 2000, after a slump in the company's share price.Sabre said it was paying 165p a share in cash for the dotcom pioneer, some 57% above lastminute's closing price on Tuesday, the day before the British firm said it had received a bid approach.The price is well off the 560p a share lastminute reached during the tech boom and the 313.75p achieved in 2003.      "We expect this combination would provide us with greater opportunity to profit from the fast-growing European online segment," Sam Gilliland, the Sabre chairman, said in a statement on Thursday."Together we would have strong positions in the UK, France, Germany, Italy, Scandinavia and Spain," Michelle Peluso, the president and chief executive officer of Travelocity added.Lastminute suffered badly after the bursting of the technology bubble and the ensuing economic downturn, as customers cut back on travel. It had long been tipped as a takeover target, as the survivors of the dotcom crash looked to build global brands.The US group Cendant Corporation agreed to buy lastminute's British rival ebookers last year.About 140,000 private investors still hold shares in lastminute, although most have just 35 shares each, as the level of demand at the time of the flotation in 2000 led to restrictions on the stock available.Mr Hoberman will remain in charge of the combined lastminute and Travelocity Europe business, which Sabre said would feature lastminute as its "lead brand" in the UK and Europe.He founded the business with Ms Lane Fox in 1998, before floating the company in one of the highest-profile flotations of the dotcom boom. Mr Hoberman said he viewed today's deal as part of the development of the business.He added: "My role will be to build out the vision I set out on a piece of paper seven years ago. It was a partnership then, and it's a partnership now but with different people. This is not about the amount I own, but the ability to execute on the vision and this will give us even greater resources."Sabre said the addition of lastminute would enable it to expand its range of offerings beyond just basic air travel. As well as flights and holidays, lastminute sells entertainment tickets and restaurant bookings.
I left the comfort of seaside Brighton yesterday for the quaint country charms of Cambridge to speak at the University's Computer Centre about the state of women in games. Joining me on a panel were local business veteransDavid BrabenandMartin Hollis, andAlice Taylor, direct from BBC (her coverage ishere). It was a great event (thanks Jez!), which pulled out many of the traditional arguments and discussion points about women in games (and also a few shortcomings of my own research into the area - thanks very much for the feedback), and was a great parallel to many of the discussions held on this topic in wider areas of Computer Science. Where are all the women? For a deeper analysis of this topic, check out the paper fromSIGIS. It's a superb pan-European examination of strategies for inclusion across all areas of Information and Communication Technologies.While everyone admitted that it's a good idea to have as diverse a workplace as possible, which means attracting as many women to the areas as possible (a topic hot at the minute due to the Education Guardian's arguably misleadingheadlineof a few days ago), the solution to the problem was less obvious. One suggestion put forward by Braben particular to the games industry and semi-related to computer science was to redefine people's notion of what they're using. He proposed to eradicate the word "game" from what is traditionally interactive entertainment in favour of, well, something else. Others have said it before (Sony's Ray McGuire for one) andsomehave tried, but have they been successful?There are a couple of reasons to take this radical action. First and foremost, many of the commercial interactives women engage in most regularly - the Massively Multiplayer Online Games (MMOGs), the business and management sims - are arguably not "games" in the traditional sense because they don't have a linear storyline (or one that needs to be strictly adhered to) or a conclusive ending.Secondly, the word "game" is associated with the perception of "gamer": a pasty teenage boy with few to no social skills. I can tell you, that's not anywhere close to an a ideal possible self for many of my gender. It's not much of one for most of the male population either, and that's why the hardcore gamers are all, well, pasty teenage boys with few to no social skills (&gt;ducks&lt;).Finally, and perhaps most lateral, "games" are moving beyond the historical conception of what a game is (see first point) and are expanding into something that pushes the boundaries of interaction, entertainment, community development, self-reflection and critical thinking. But how does that translate into a pithy, one-to-two word, marketing-friendly description which breaks down demographic barriers?That's the $64,000 question.So this is a call for suggestions, a challenge to come up with a better word for what we play thangame. "Interactive Entertainment" is not an option, nor is "Community-based solution simulation". Thinking caps at the ready! Perhaps if we come up with something more concrete and we pass it on to the powers that be eventually it'll be adopted and more people will get interested in getting involved, resulting in more diverse and exciting products. We can all dream...
John Hutton MP received an interesting present on Friday, his 50th birthday. He was appointed chancellor of the duchy of Lancaster in Tony Blair's new cabinet. As minister for the Cabinet Office, Hutton is now answerable to parliament for every problem hitting a government IT project.The portfolio is likely to keep him busy. The Cabinet Office e-government unit, under chief information officer Ian Watmore, is keeping tabs on around 20 "mission critical" projects, ranging from computerising the NHS to council tax revaluation to the 2012 Olympic bid.Next week's Queen's speech is likely to add the identity card to a long list of key government innovations depending on technology.Hutton is no stranger to large, controversial IT programmes. In his previous job at the Department of Health, he was minister directly responsible for the NHS national programme for IT.That programme is entering its most difficult phase, requiring hospitals and GP surgeries around England to divert cash and staff to installing new systems and uploading patients' data on to them. Meanwhile, doctors' professional organisations need to be reassured that new systems will be secure. This issue is likely to come to a head at a meeting with the British Medical Association on May 24.The new health secretary, Patricia Hewitt, hinted in her first public statement that she would continue to drive the aggressive IT programme: "I am determined to drive forward our plans to create a patient-led NHS in the direction set by the prime minis&shy;ter, while keeping up the pace of change set by my predecessors." As a former e-minister at the Department of Trade and Industry, Hewitt will be aware of some issues facing the &pound;6bn programme. However, she is expected to pass responsibility for IT down to its traditional place, the portfolio of the most junior health minister.Other IT-related problems in the new government's in-tray include:&#183;Identity cards. The Queen's speech is expected to announce measures that will launch a multibillion-pound procurement of the national identity register, together with structures for issuing cards.&#183;Criminal justice IT. A more immediate problem facing the Home Secretary is how to get police forces and other arms of the criminal justice system to share information. A review of the Police IT Organisation, the body supposed to coordinate police IT, is due to report shortly.&#183;Local e-government. Local councils, which bear the brunt of the national effort to put public services online, are waiting for decisions on several key questions of IT infrastructure. One is the future of the local government information house, a company set up by local authorities to run central land and property databases. David Miliband, the new minister of communities and local government, will also want to ensure that councils achieve efficiency savings from the &pound;625m of Whitehall money invested in local e-government.&#183;Homeland security. A procurement of the new "e-borders" system to monitor international comings and goings is expected to be launched later this summer.&#183;Lorry road-user charging. An electronic system to create a fairer tax regime for road hauliers will have a high political profile.Hutton's Cabinet Office position also makes him responsible for the e-Government Unit's responsibilities for driving the whole efficiency agenda. This includes persuading government agencies to share "back office" systems such as human resources and payroll. They will also be expected to achieve big savings by procuring supplies and services electronically, which will itself involve creating new e-systems.Finally, Hutton will be answerable for the success or failure of the six-year programme to make all public services available online by the end of this year, and to ensure that reasonable numbers of people use them.The government is already coming under pressure to adopt more ambitious e-government targets. Earlier this month, the former chairman of the Inland Revenue, Sir Nicholas Montagu, proposed an initiative called MyGov, a sort of one-stop citizens account with government. He invited the audience at a conference organised by the Society of IT Management to imagine a bank that said it could handle all your business, but required customers to use offices scattered across the country for current accounts, savings and mortgages. "You'd laugh in their face," he said. "So why do people put up with it from government?"Montagu said that savings from a single customer account would dwarf those of other efficiency measures being contemplated by government.Whether Hutton and his colleagues are ready for such a challenge remains to be seen. It seems more likely that the existing "mission critical" projects will give them enough to go on with.&#183;Additional reporting by SA Mathieson
Family can be embarrassing. In the analogue age, at least, we could be creative in claiming descent from aristocrats or sheep-stealers. The digital world lays all our secrets bare. We know we are all descended from a single woman who lived 150,000 years ago in Africa. The question that intrigues us is, what happened in between?In search of an answer, I spent part of an afternoon scraping the inside of my cheek and packing the result in a Jiffy bag pre-addressed to the US. It is my contribution to a five-year global experiment which, apart from its scientific aim, could reveal much about attitudes to genetic databases.The Genographic Project aims to discover the migratory history of the human species. It is being car&shy;ried out by the US National Geographic Society and IBM, with funds from a private family foundation.The project combines the two great turn-of-the-century technological revolutions, the cracking of the human genome and the world wide web. Researchers at 10 labs around the world will collect at least 100,000 DNA samples from "indigenous populations". By analysing variations in two lines of genetic code, the scientists will trace each population's genetic river out of Eden, to borrow Richard Dawkins' phrase. The hope is to discover the routes our ancestors took to get where we are today, and to uncover relationships between different populations and races.The results will be published online in what National Geographic calls a "virtual museum of human history".Individuals are invited to contribute their DNA by buying a $99.95 (&pound;53) sampling kit. The anonymous, numbered samples will be analysed to create a personal migratory history we will be able to look up on the web so long as we have kept the sample number. The organisers stress that no personal information is collected, and the kit expressly says: "Do not tell us anything about your health."Fortunately, perhaps, genetic population research tends to come out on the side of the angels. We are all migrants. Humans of different races and traditions turn out to be closely related; uncomfortably closely for some. In Japan, for example, research suggesting that the imperial family may be of Korean origin does not go down well.The Genographic Project can expect flak elsewhere. One contro&shy;versy concerns the uses to which genetic information about indigenous populations might be put. More relevant to Britons, there will be suggestions that the project is part of a softening-up campaign for a national DNA database. If thousands of people are happy to trust a foreign corporation with their samples, what could we possibly fear from the state?Such conspiracy theories will infuriate the world-class scientists taking part in the Genographic Project, but they should be debated. In the past, this column has ranked privacy fairly low in the league table of human rights. But a line has to be drawn somewhere, and a national database of DNA samples may be that point.Links:www.nationalgeographic.com/genographic
Gaming consolesThe second degreeThe second-generation Xbox video games console, Xbox 360, will be unveiled to the public in a live broadcast on MTV tonight. Breaking with the tradition of launching products at next week's E3 show in Los Angeles, Microsoft is taking to the airwaves to launch the much-anticipated console and get one up on its rival, Sony. The show - which will be hosted by Lord of the Rings star and "Xbox fanatic" Elijah Wood, with music from The Killers - is likely to feature a host of celebrities and stars waxing lyrical about the new console, which is said to include "TiVo-like" capabilities and increased online support. The event is to be broadcast on American MTV tonight and will be shown in the UK at 8pm tomorrow. Our Gamesblog will be following the launch closely, and we'll bring you complete coverage from E3 in next week's edition of Online.www.xbox.comblogs.guardian.co.uk/gamesHardwareSit tightSaying a film or game had you on the edge of your seat has always been a bit of a limp cliche, but now it could mean a whole lot more. The newly imported i-chair, pictured below, is a seating experience that promises to help you get closer to the action on screen. The system apparently uses "tactile sound technology" to send vibrations through the frame of the chair, allowing you to hear and feel whatever is happening on your television, whether it's the FA Cup final or the latest blast-'em-up video game. Unfortunately it retails for &pound;599, which could be costly if you just want to invite a few friends around to have a blast at Halo 2.www.boysstuff.co.ukHelp at handCQtek has unveiled a top-of-the-range connected PDA that runs using the Microsoft Pocket PC, Smartphone Edition operating system. The 2020i features an Intel Bulverde 520MHz processor, 64/128MB of Rom and 128MB of SD Ram. It is compatible with GSM/GPRS connections and can be used in Wi-Fi hot spots via its integrated wireless local area network facility. It sports a 3.5in transflective LCD monitor with a resolution of 240 x 320 pixels and 64K colours and comes with standard Microsoft Windows applications. It is available now, Sim-free, for &pound;433.58.www.smartdevicesdirect.comSoftwareLooking downGoogle is to offer a version of its Search Appliance system, which is used by large corporates, to small- and medium-sized UK businesses. The software and hardware package, the Google Mini, enables companies to develop search engines with advanced facilities for their own websites and intranets. Once the hardware is integrated into a network, users can, for example, create searches on their website so that key words bring up specific pages. When used on intranets, the Google Mini system will search more than 200 file formats. It goes on sale today for &pound;2,000.www.google.co.ukOn the airLooking for BlackBerry-like synchronisation but without paying through the nose? Then take a look at Tabella Express, a smart new service launched by UK-based DAT Group last week. For &pound;19.99 a year, the service synchronises with your phone over the air, no matter what network, allowing you to store and update your contacts and calendar online, and receive email on your phone (although not yet "push" email). While other similar synchronisation services rely on you sticking with one network, Tabella is network agnostic, so switching provider does not mean you lose your contacts. The over-the-air set-up works seamlessly with nine Nokia and Sony Ericsson phones, and further handsets will be added soon. But unsupported phones with data capability, such as the T610, can be made compatible through Tabella's easy-to-follow, manual set-up process.www.tabella.comAudio playersA head startJVC is taking its first stab at the digital audio personal market with the XA-A50, a digital music player integrated into a set of headphones. The model features 128MB of storage - enough, says JVC, for 30 MP3 files or 60 WMA files. It includes a voice guidance feature and is compatible with copyright-protected WMAs downloaded from sites such as Napster. It also features a USB 1.1 connector, various sound mode options and up to 20 hours of playback from one AAA alkaline battery. It will retail for about &pound;100.www.jvc.co.uk
Digital dilemmaI have settled on an Apple iPod as best suiting my needs. The problem is that a sizeable chunk of my music collection, about 20GB, is ripped in Microsoft's proprietary music format, WMA, which the iPod does not support. Do I give up on the iPod, or is there a WMA-to-MP3 conversion utility out there?Jonny MilliganJack Schofield replies:Loads of Windows programs can "transcode" unprotected WMA files to MP3 and other formats. Both dBpowerAMP Music Converter (www.dbpoweramp.com/dmc.htm) and Cheetah Audio Converter (www.cheetahburner.com) are good freeware examples, and I think the Windows version of iTunes will do it, too. But it is always a bad idea to convert from one "lossy" format to another, because of the loss of quality, and it would be a huge job to convert 20GB of music. You're better off with an iRiver, Rio or similar digital music player: almost all of them support WMA and MP3, and many support open file formats such as Ogg Vorbis and FLAC (Free Lossless Audio Codec), which are preferable to WMA. Or you could wait until Apple gives customers the choice many want and adds WMA support, which won't be difficult: Apple buys in much of the technology for the iPod, and it uses Portal Player chips that support WMA as standard.In the long runI have been told that broadband would be inappropriate for me as my computer is about 15 metres away from my telephone point.M BarkerJS:The best solution would be to have a telephone socket closer to the PC. (You can still have an extension where the socket is now.) However, you could also put a router by the phone socket and connect it to your PC via a long piece of good quality Cat 5e Ethernet cable, or put a wireless router next to the phone socket and install a Wi-Fi expansion card in your PC. Cat 5e cable should be good for up to 100 metres, but keep it as short as possible. If it doesn't work at 15 metres, then it is most likely to be bad cable: there's a lot of it about.Close callMy mother's laptop has two USB ports, one of which was used for a mouse and the other for a printer. A broadband upgrade meant one of the USB ports had to be dedicated to the new external modem. I bought a 1-into-2 USB adaptor for the mouse and printer, but this means the computer can't close down any more.Tony DavisJS replies:There are several trouble-shooters for Windows shut-down problems:http://tinyurl.com/2nta2andhttp://tinyurl.com/4k66. The simplest solution would be to change the USB adaptor to a powered USB hub - if it works. A much better, but more expensive, solution is to bin the USB modem and buy a cheap router to connect to the laptop's RJ-45 Ethernet network port. The router will work better whether or not you plug in one or four PCs, and it will free the USB ports for the mouse and printer.Old enoughI have bought a 28MB USB 2.0 Flash memory drive but am having difficulty loading it from my PC running Windows 98.L TaylorJS:When your hardware and software were created, USB 2 hadn't been invented, and many firms selling USB gadgets say they don't support Windows 98. Still, if the hardware is OK, your thumb drive should work if you upgrade to Win&shy;dows 98SE, Me or, preferably, Windows 2000, and you can probably get a cheap secondhand copy. You may also need to add some secondhand memory to maintain performance, and if you plan to keep your PC much longer, you should install as much as it can handle. (Buying new upgrades will almost certainly cost more than the PC is worth.) However, all DOS-based versions of Windows (3/95/98/ Me) are obsolete and fundamentally insecure, so try to move to an NT-based version (eg 2000/XP).Mac attackI have just purchased an iMac G5. Is it still advisable to have virus protection, and if so, is there any free, reliable software I can download?Ebrahim HajatJS:I don't know of any live Mac OS X viruses at the moment, so it's not a major concern, but there's no harm in individuals running the freeware checker, ClamXav (www.clamxav.com). Companies will normally run a commercial program such as a Mac version of Sophos or Norton, or McAfee's Virex, because Mac users will still get PC viruses in their email and could pass them on to colleagues. Many Mac users also run Windows in a "virtual PC" emulator, and a Mac-based checker provides an extra defence.Backchat&#183;In January, I suggested Phil MacMullen try Carry-A-Tune Technologies' Singing Coach and Singing Coach Unlimited, but these were only on sale in the US. Now Interactive Ideas Ltd has signed a European distribution agreement. It says the programs will be available in stores throughout the UK and Ireland, and will be on sale at Amazon.co.uk from May 27. The suggested retail price for Singing Coach is &pound;39.99, while Singing Coach Unlimited's suggested price is &pound;59.99.
Too little, too soonStronghold 2PC, &pound;34.99Firefly/Take 2, ***The original Stronghold became something of a cult favourite and eschewed the epic pretensions of other real-time strategies to concentrate on two things only: siege warfare and castle management. To compensate, Firefly added sneering B-movie villains to taunt your feeble castle-building skills - a nice touch in a beautifully balanced game.Two years later, the sequel looks a lot better but leaves the basic formula untouched. Once again, there are two gameplay modes, focusing on management or combat, and a few multiplayer modes. Building castles with interdependent supply chains remains your mission, with the slightest wrong turn leading to your virtual Camelot burning to the ground. Add the marauding bandits, stray wolves, an unpredictable peasant workforce and the return of those Disney-esque villains, and this promises to be another hugely absorbing game.Promises? Well, yes - Stronghold 2 is just about playable, but has been rushed to retail. Any game that needs a major patch on the day of its release (and another keenly awaited) has obviously been released too early, and the list of minor bugs and niggles on the forums stretches to three pages.It takes up to two minutes to load and occasionally grinds powerful systems to a standstill. Luckily, the developer has a good reputation for fixing bugs, albeit belatedly, and as soon as the game is fully patched you could add another star to the rating. However, using buyers as unwitting beta testers is a strategy that has backfired on some potentially great games - this could be another one.Mike AnderieszIt's no HaloPariahXbox, PC, &pound;39.99Digital Extremes/Hip Games, ***The shadow of Halo looms large over this first-person shoot-'em-up, especially in the initial stages. It looks and feels suspiciously similar to Bungie's ground-breaking effort, although it lacks Halo's polish.Set on an Earth of the future, which has become a prison planet, you play Dr Jack Mason, transporting a woman called Karina who has been infected with a virus. Dr Mason has been shot down, and must get both to safety. Thankfully, this wafer-thin plot isn't allowed to intrude significantly on the gameplay.Pariah has lots of ideas: by collecting weapon cores, for example, you can apply three levels of upgrade to your weapons. There is also a Healing Tool, which must be used intelligently (although it is cumbersome if you are under fire). Like Halo, there are vehicle-based sections, and Pariah sports the most usable grenade launcher yet found in a game.But it has a glaring fault: the Xbox version has occasional frame-rate glitches, which cause annoying visual juddering.It should prove popular on Xbox Live, thanks to lots of multiplayer modes and a map editor, and the inevitable cooperative play mode also appeals. First-person shoot-'em-up addicts should be able to forgive Pariah's shortcomings. But most of the time, it merely serves to illustrate how well made Halo and Halo 2 are.Steve BoxerFar from funSpy vs SpyXbox, PlayStation2, &pound;29.99Take 2 Interactive, **From comic book origins in Mad magazine to Commodore 64 glory in the mid-80s, Spy vs Spy has a decent heritage. The original games were innovative for their time: 2D split-screen multiplayer affairs, where players had to set traps and hamper their opponent's attempts to find the necessary items - often leading to fun slapstick moments. These traps, such as buckets of acid placed on doors, return in this 21st century remake.Unfortunately, the rest of the game doesn't stand up. The main action for single players is the story mode, which involves a generic 3D platform romp, with only the sharp-nosed Spies offering any sense of character. The controls are unresponsive and the gameplay derivative, but the graphics and sound are solid, with the levels being at least distinctive.An inventive choice of weaponry, however, cannot make up for generic action and unhelpful in-game objectives. Multiplayer mode is a little better. Standard deathmatch modes are supplemented by Get Mad, where you attempt to hold on to an item while fending off opponents. But it is the classic mode that almost saves the day. Not many games survive the transition from 2D to 3D, and this is no different. It is a bland, uninspiring remake.Greg HowsonTop 5 gamesAll formats1.Star Wars III: Revenge of the Sith2.Lego Star Wars3.Fifa Street4.Midnight Club 3: Dub Edition5.World Snooker Championship 2005Leisure software charts compiled by Chart Track, (c)2005 Elspa (UK) Ltd
Although hardly a surprise to gaming industry insiders, the news of the divorce between Valve, the developer of bestselling game Half Life, and Vivendi, the games publisher, could have a seismic impact on games and gamers. Big developers have walked out on big publishers before, but this is different. Valve isn't about to rush into the sweaty embrace of another publisher - this time it may well stay single. The question is, how long will it be before every other major developer tries to do the same?In the beginning, there were only developers - bedroom coding factories such as Codemasters, where the teenage Darling brothers couldn't churn out their ZX Spectrum hits fast enough. To help with the marketing, duplication and distribution, they roped in their dad, who, being all grown up, decided he could offer the same service to other developers.Thus, a handful of pioneers evolved into publishers and as games grew more expensive to produce, investing in new ones became a science rather than an impulse. Today, if you're not in bed with a good publisher, the chances of getting your title in the shops or on the bigger websites are virtually zero. It is about power; publishers have it, developers want it and consumers are caught in the crossfire.At least, that was the case until November, when a stranger called Steam came into town. Steam, Valve's system for delivering games and updates to consumers over the web, enjoyed a mixed reception among fans but as a device for locking in gamers, its success is undeniable. You want to play Half Life 2? Well, sign up, sucker, because this is the only way you're getting it. Unlike most games, with Steam you also get the software and other freebies thrown in. It is the same model Sky used in the late 80s: tempt them in, sign them up, and think of long-term profit.As broadband uptake grows and website security improves, the days of boxed software are coming to an end. This leaves other developers envying Valve's great escape. Who will be next? Sports Interactive (Football Manager), Maxis (The Sims), or Rockstar (Grand Theft Auto)? The main obstacle is money: games still cost millions to make, so only those with a guaranteed hit franchise will be able to go it alone. They will also need their own Steam-like platform to deliver the software.But one by one, developers will take back their best ideas and gamers will be in charge again. If we play this right, we could be the winners: deciding on the games we really want to see and investing in the developers we trust to produce them. Of course, publishers weren't all bad - they did oversee and finance almost every great game we ever played. And we can't pretend the developers who make it alone will be any less mercenary or short-sighted when confronted with the realities of keeping shareholders and bankers happy.There is, however, a certain justice in paying money directly to those who worked to entertain us. Now that Steam has made it possible, let's see what developers such as Valve can do with their freedom.
On Tuesday, Microsoft unveiled a new version of its mobile phone operating system, code-named Magneto, and showed off a sexy Samsung i300 phone with a scroll wheel, Windows Media Player 10, and a hard drive loaded with a thousand songs.New versions of what is, at bottom, Windows CE, Microsoft's embedded device software, rarely attract much attention. In this case, however, analysts have been pondering its possible impact on Research In Motion's increasingly popular BlackBerry.First impressions suggest it doesn't have much to worry about. Windows Mobile 2005 continues the theme of incremental improvement, and the new features include the aforementioned WMP10 and hard drive support, USB 2.0 support, the long-awaited ability to link mug shots to contact details, and the even more belated arrival of Pocket PowerPoint.All of these are worthwhile additions, as are the improvements Gates claimed in quality and reliability. But these are only the raw materials: it's up to the Samsungs of this world to translate CE 5.0's features into desirable devices.If there's one claim currently worth making about Windows Mobile, it is that 40 different device manufacturers are now using it in products that are being shipped through 68 mobile network operators in 48 countries. This suggests Microsoft is finally having some success with its strategy of building a viable ecosystem around its platform.It's a different approach. Microsoft, like IBM, looks at the development of a platform over five or 10 years, and hopes it will spawn a few hits. Big, rich companies can afford to do this. Small ones try to produce a hit and then, if they are smart, hope to convert it into a platform. Palm and RIM are examples. Sometimes it works, but sometimes your hit turns out to have fewer legs than a Cabbage Patch doll.RIM's BlackBerry is on a roll. It has certainly been more successful than most people expected, especially when you consider that it started out with an unpopular "push" technology running over an old fashioned paging network.Today's BlackBerry is, of course, a more powerful and more versatile device that runs over standard mobile networks, it is growing rapidly in popularity, and now has 3m users. In fact, according to Gartner research, the BlackBerry has just taken over the top spot in the data-centric PDA market, ousting the once-dominant Palm.In the first quarter of 2005, says Gartner, PalmOne's shipments fell by 26.3% to 614,750 units, compared with 834,591 units a year ago. RIM's shipments, by contrast, grew by 75.6% from 405,000 units to 711,000 units.However, in terms of operating systems used, Microsoft was the market leader with a 46% share, with shipments increasing by 43% in the first quarter to 1.6m devices - mainly iPaqs and Dell Axims.Microsoft looks unlikely to repeat that success in the voice-centric part of the market, because of Nokia's market power and the quality of the Symbian operating system. But come back in another decade and see if things still look the same.
No other choiceMay I suggest to Matt Baxter (Feedback, May 5) that what is immoral is the first-past-the-post system. In 60 years of voting, I, like millions of others in "safe seats" belonging to parties who have ideas with which they strongly disagree, have never had an effect on the result of an election.I have always lived in Tory constituencies, and have never had the chance to elect an MP belonging to any other party. No wonder many of us, not only the young, have little faith in this country as a democracy. Until we have some system of proportional representation, tactical voting is the only option - and that only works in marginals.Michael PilkingtonOld CoulsdonPart of the processThere is another perspective on using high technology to support tactical voting. Tactical voting is only seen as attractive, and can only work, because our voting system devalues one person's vote compared with another's. This makes young people (and others) disenchanted with our electoral process, which is clung to by a conspiracy of the parties that have held power through most of the past century.Jack WaltersChandlers FordDon't blame votersIn reply to Matt Baxter, tactical voting is an obvious riposte to the unfair voting system in the UK (but not Northern Ireland), and swapping is an inevitable, if unpleasant, extension. My opinion has always been "stifled" by virtue of having forever lived in safe Labour seats. You should complain about the system, not the voters!Alan MarsonBirminghamIn reflectionThe truth is - and I am sure this has never occurred to those who share Mr Baxter's views - that there has never been a UK government that actually reflected the votes that party received.Ian ParkinTewkesburyTiger troublesIn a fit of enthusiasm, I upgraded my iBook to Apple's Mac OS X Tiger without checking if my DSL modem (Hermstedt WebShuttle) would work with it. It doesn't, and I have heard through the grapevine that a number of other early adopters with different modems are in the same boat. No doubt the companies will develop new drivers, but some people will be without internet access for some time as a result. Rolling back to an earlier OS is not simple either.Henry PhillipsRichmondTime is moneyAre you aware that all the music download sites in the UK served by OD2 have a statement buried in the small print that says "Please note that credits expire one year from the date they were purchased". This means that if you don't spend your money, they get to keep it. What is this all about?Martin BurstynDouble troubleI bought two Epson printers and had good use from them until they both suddenly stopped working, with identical error messages saying the printer had reached the end of its serviceable life and needed to be seen by an Epson dealer. After contacting the Epson helpline, I was directed to a company 10 miles away that updated the software in the printer and got it working again for &pound;15. There is an in-built obscolescence in these machines. This may be good for printer manufacturers but is bad news for the consumer. Apparently it isn't just Epson who does this.S HaywardBreaston, DerbyshireBlogBack: what our readers sayRegarding Sony's competition to find a lookalike of Everquest II's heroine Antonia Bayle (Gamesblog, May 4), honestly, I wonder whether guys are flattered or insulted by such marketing tactics. Sure it's great to look at pretty women, but when companies appear to market their goods in this fashon all the time, it makes you wonder whether they actually respect the player's intelligence.acidforblood.blogspot.comAdam Curry has just announced he will be doing his podcast show on the Sirius satellite radio network (Onlineblog, May 4). Could this be a big move for podcasting? It has proven itself online, and now it could become an everyday thing on local radio stations.www.flamintiki.comSo not only is Microsoft using Apple Mac G5s as development tools, but it has also used the look of the machines for the Xbox 360 (Gamesblog, May 9). Soon enough, Microsoft is going to be more Apple than Apple ...
Last year, Samsung announced that it planned to dominate the personal audio player market by 2007, and with the &pound;169 YH-820 it looks like it means it. A rival to the iPod mini, the 820 has a similar-sized hard disk - 5GB - and is slightly smaller. Its 1.5in 65k colour screen scores a hit, though. It isn't high definition, but makes using the player easier and enables users to see JPeg files.Porting image and audio files to the player requires dedicated Samsung software, which looks intimidating but is fairly easy to operate. The device is also easy to negotiate, thanks to a basic four-way rocker switch and dedicated play, pause, track backward/forward buttons.Other features include playback of MP3 and WMA files (including ones downloaded from sites such as Napster), direct MP3 encoding and various sound tweaking options. The only serious quibbles are a battery life of 8.5 hours (well below the iPod's 18) and the fact that the player can't be charged directly from a USB port.www.samsung.co.uk
Vote winnersMost e-government sites seem to be meeting their targets when it comes to publishing election results but sadly lacking in making information available before the voting starts. SocITM, the professional association for public sector IT managers, monitored responses and found that all but one of the 34 county councils had posted results by Saturday morning, with two-thirds reporting results as they came in. An earlier survey posed 10 questions about the structure and content of the websites. Only four counties were better than satisfactory, scoring more than five points, with Cumbria and Wiltshire coming out best with eight out of 10.http://tinyurl.com/drg97Wireless stationsTravellers at all major train stations controlled by First Great Western will soon have wireless internet access. After the successful introduction of Wi-Fi hotspots at 10 stations, including Reading, Swindon and Bristol Temple Meads, the company is now equipping another 85. The contract will be fulfilled by the Cloud, a company already working with security specialist Qinetiq to provide Wi-Fi on trains.http://tinyurl.com/bd8btDirector actionMicrosoft hopes to enliven the debate about intellectual property (IP) theft by offering a prize - &pound;2,000 worth of vouchers for film-making equipment. Its Thought Thieves competition challenges would-be movie makers to produce a short film on the subject of IP theft and its consequences. Entrants must be over 14, and the closing date is July 1. Eight runners-up will get a trip to London to see their films screened. Microsoft admits IP issues can seem legalistic and grey, but hopes the competition will add some colour.www.msn.co.uk/thoughtthievesHigh standardsIT managers are risking their companies' futures by non-compliance with standards and legal requirements, says the National Computing Centre in its latest publication, The Benchmark of IT Strategy 2005. Of 300 IT decision-makers interviewed, 44% admit to not being fully aware of the requirements, and half of those are not aware of the impact these regulations will have on IT. The survey says this could be cata&shy;strophic for companies that want to do business with the public sector, and for larger companies, where compliance to governance is becoming mandatory for business partners. In trying to comply with directives such as the e- Government Interoperability Framework (e-Gif), Sarbanes-Oxley and Basle II, organisations will demand proof of compliance from partners and suppliers.www.ncc.co.ukMore in storeHewlett-Packard is regrouping and updating many of its storage products. The product line has been overshadowed by EMC, Network Appliance and other competitors. The new products will be the centrepiece for its StorageWorks conference in Las Vegas next week. Improved Network Attached Storage (NAS) arrays will be shown alongside an archiving-to-disk product to fill the near-line gap between disk storage and tape.http://tinyurl.com/bqxkfWi-Fi to goAruba Networks has launched what it claims is the first personal wireless access point designed for corporate users. People can now safely take their mobile corporate voice and data networks wherever they go by simply plugging their Aruba's Personal AP into any broadband internet connection, says the company. With Voice over Internet Protocol, staff on the road can still be reached at their office phone numbers. The Personal AP software costs $250 and runs on all Aruba access points.www.arubanetworks.comSignal snifferMany users might find Kensington's Wi-Fi Finder Plus more useful - especially if they are less fussy about the security of their wireless connections, or have simpler needs. This &pound;19.99 key-ring accessory will sniff out the strongest signal in a hotspot, saving users the bother of opening a notebook PC to look for a usable connection.www.kensingtoneurope.comErase thisThe UK government has certified Expert Eraser software from Ibas, and will now be able to use it to erase confidential and top secret information. Expert Eraser is a DOS application that can be used to overwrite data held on hard drives before PCs are disposed of, which should prevent sensitive data from being recovered by outsiders. Operating system delete commands usually remove only the index to the data on a hard drive, which means the information can be retrieved by reconstructing the index.www.ibasuk.com
It has been a busy few weeks for PDA and smartphone specialist PalmOne. The company, which did more than any other to popularise the PDA in the early 90s, has unveiled its latest Treo 650 smartphone, and is due to take the wraps off a new class of device called the Mobile Manager.The first model in this series, the Life Drive, is to be unveiled in the UK next week. However, images and details of the device are on many gadget websites after a listing was accidentally posted on Amazon. Although the specifications are not officially confirmed, it appears the model will feature a four gigabyte hard disk, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and high-end colour screen.PalmOne's marketing manager for northern Europe, Colin Holloway, says the Mobile Manager products are "not really laptop replacements but more laptop companions. We see a market for people who want to leave their laptops behind on, say, a business trip - so the Mobile Manager products will enable them to carry all their files, access them on the move and then port them to another PC where they are going."Holloway says the beauty of the device lies in the way it synchronises with home PCs.There is a perception in the UK that the PDA market is waning, thanks to the growth of smartphones. But the latest figures from analysts Gartner show that there was 25% global growth last year. And while PalmOne lost market share, it still held on to a credible 18% of the market (see Stat of the week, below).In Europe, things are tougher because of the popularity of Windows devices such as the MDA/XDA and Nokia smartphones. Even Holloway acknowledges that "apart from key niches, like the bottom end of the market where we have the Zire, the PDA is in decline".PalmOne's major push in Europe will be through its smartphone and Treo brand. While the Treo was the best-selling phone in the US last year, however, European consumers are less keen on them. PalmOne has plans to rectify this: Holloway says a lot of new staff have been added to the European wing of the company, and it is developing Treos specifically for the European market.The PalmOne software, particularly the personal information management system, is very elegant - but creating devices that capture the imagination of Europeans while highlighting the operating system's excellent features will be a challenge.http://euro.palmone.com/ukStat of the week - PDA explosionThe number of PDA-like devices sold around the world has risen by 25% in the past year. Big increases have come from BlackBerry and Nokia, but PalmOne has seen its share slide from more than 30% this time last year.
'Liberte, Egalite, Fraternite," says the engraving above the entrance to the Senate building in Paris. It could have been formulated for Les Blogs &amp; Social Software, the conference that recently attracted 300 bloggers, social software gurus and the curious to the first European event of its kind.Loic Le Meur, vice president of blogging specialists Six Apart, had floated the idea of a conference only six weeks earlier. He posted a provisional programme on the web, and mentioned it to a few bloggers. Word spread, and the conference pretty much organised itself, thanks to some Wiki-based collaboration software from Socialtext Inc.The number of participants was limited by the capacity of the Senate's second chamber and an overflow room with projection facilities. But for most of those who attended, the engagement started well before the event.People signed up for the conference by hitting the edit button and adding their details to Le Meur's Socialtext Wiki pages. They paid by clicking a link to the payment page. They entered their personal details, and added notes such as "Anyone need a lift from Amsterdam?" or "Anyone fancy dinner on 24th?" to the Travel/what to do page.Pages materialised according to need, and adding and editing information was straightforward. Best of all, everything was always up to date.The only upset came when someone tried to insert a block reservation for 50 people into the middle of the list. These were quickly removed to avoid a riot. All Wiki edits were saved to provide a permanent record of changes, so they could easily be reversed.As a result, the conference came into being very quickly, with no formal advertising and a high degree of goodwill and involvement by the participants. The organisers still had work to do, of course, but it did show that collaborative social software could be used for practical ends.Of course, Socialtext Workspace, the underpinning software, is capable of more than creating collaborative documents. It can also incorporate weblogs and email, and the enterprise version can accommodate instant messaging. Wiki pages and weblogs can be updated remotely by email, and users are notified of changes through email or RSS (Really Simple Syndication) feeds.The end result is a collaborative workspace that, according to Socialtext's chief executive Ross Mayfield, can accelerate projects by 25% while eliminating "occupational spam". This is the 30% of emails that are basically backside-covering cc and bcc copies. In fact, one slogan for Socialtext is that it "gets everybody on the same page", and this almost eliminates the need for email within project teams.Although Workspace is used in about 20 of the Fortune 500 list of America's largest corporations, Mayfield advises all organisations to start small and get comfortable with collaborating in this way, so they understand the potential.Socialtext is available in three versions, which more or less equate to the size of an organisation. Socialtext Enterprise runs either in-house or as a hosted service, and is tightly integrated to existing software, information and procedures. Socialtext.net runs as a hosted service for small to medium-sized businesses. Socialtext.org is for non-profit organisations, academic institutions and internet communities. Prices for commercial clients start at about $10 (&pound;5) per user per month.Users have been distracted for years by communications that either interrupt their normal workflow, or force them to visit websites - for example, just in case something on the website has changed. RSS is a "tip off" mechanism that lets you know whenever something changes on a Wiki page or blog that interests you. You don't need to go and check, and you only look at the RSS feeds when it suits you, so you are not interrupted. However, Socialtext has added instant messaging links, because sometimes you do need to be alerted to new information.Mayfield says: "Workspace is aimed at groups who have mutual trust." These workgroups - in engineering, customer service or on a help desk - often get the software on a trial basis.According to Mayfield, this kind of group often finds itself "dealing with a high volume of exceptions to routine", which tends to make them enthusiastic adopters of knowledge-sharing software.From this base, use can be expanded into other areas and, depending on the nature and scale of the company, may eventually involve the IT department.Mayfield has a dim view of corporate intranets and, for that matter, extranets (which usually extend to suppliers and/or large customers). "Thousands of users are frustrated by 30-day lead times on publishing new information," he says, whereas Socialtext and other Wikis let them publish it immediately.While this is true, it is often also a symptom of many companies' urge to control the channels of communica&shy;tion. The new social way of working with blogs, Wikis and other social software is often regarded as a threat. But can organisations afford to ignore software that improves the effectiveness of their teams and creates permanent repositories of their collective wisdom?
How did Wonkette start?Wonkette is a project of the Gawker media empire (www.gawker.com), a family of blogs. The publisher, Nick Denton, wanted a blog about politics as part of his stable. He approached me after reading my blog The Antic Muse (www.theanticmuse.com), which dealt with life in Washington and discussed music, TV and politics.How did it feel to win the award?It was nice but I didn't realise the ceremony (http://2005.bloggies.com) was happening so I didn't get to accept it.Do you agree with Dan Gillmor's idea of blogging usurping traditional journalism?I don't know if that's strictly true as there is always going to be a McDonald's, no matter how much people like to cook for themselves. Blogging is a great supplement to a balanced diet. You need your nutrient-filled news that comes with hard sourcing and from the mainstream media that have the resources.Blogs provide great filters and can be good fact checkers but are not necessarily a good source of news on their own. They're a good source of raw data: people were blogging about the tsunami and there are bloggers in Iraq and Iran that are worth reading, but again that's different from "news".How will blogging evolve?Attention will be taken off calling it "blogging". It is not a helpful descriptive term. People blog about knitting, pet iguanas or the military, so to say you're a "blogger" doesn't help identify what you're writing about. If anything, all it says is "I write on the web and post several times a day". People will have to identify themselves in more discrete terms. Instead of saying "I'm a blogger" people might say "I'm a citizen journalist" or "I'm a diarist". The terms all exist, it is just we're used to applying them to people who write for more major organisations.Are phishers and spammers destroying the net?I don't think so. I almost feel the web is like Borges idea of a life-size map of the world (http://tinyurl.com/92zvk). There's lots of good and bad stuff and you can't take in the whole thing as you only see what's in front of you. As far as scammers go, the only amusing thing that's happened to Wonkette is that someone sent out a party invitation as though I was going to throw a party. So it was an invite to a party I wasn't throwing for a book I hadn't written. That's as close to malicious as it has got, although I didn't even get invited!Any thought on Apple's legal action against bloggers?We should extend the protection afforded traditional journalists to bloggers. We have a long history in the US of "uncredentialled journalists" - anyone who calls him/herself a journalist can be one. It would be contrary to our national heritage if we started drawing lines around who is a journalist and who isn't.What software do you use?Movable Type (www.sixapart.com/movabletype) and a nifty program called Ecto (http://ecto.kung-foo.tv), which allows you to create your blog on your desktop, then push it up on to the web.Visit:www.wonkette.comAna Marie Cox's bookmarkswww.defamer.comwww.referencetone.comhttp://mediabistro.com/fishbowlnywww.popfactor.com/tmftmlwww.43folders.comhttp://maudnewton.com/blog
You may not have noticed, but the open source community had one of its inner-circle virtual punch-ups recently. What is interesting about the spat - aside from the sight of Linus Torvalds and other top hackers swapping e-insults - is that its resolution helps to explain why Linux is so good, and why it will get even better.Open source is often viewed as a kind of emergent process, whereby thousands of small, altruistic acts of software creation around the world magically coalesce into more than the sum of the parts. In reality, most large-scale projects have a well-defined structure for managing program development, similar to that used by commercial software development teams. In Linux, for example, bug fixes and new code are dealt with first by "lieutenants" - programmers with an interest and expertise in a particular field. They then send their selections to Torvalds, the ultimate arbiter of what gets used.As Linux grew in size and complexity, and more people started contributing code, however, it became harder for Torvalds to manage the "patches" - suggested lines of code - that were piling up in his inbox. This culminated in what became known as the "Linus does not scale" incident in 1998, when additions recommended by senior coders were repeatedly ignored by Torvalds.Some of his lieutenants warned Torvalds that if the problem of "dropped" patches was not resolved, they might be forced to "fork" Linux - create their own version, incorporating the changes they thought were important. Code forking has always been regarded as one of the greatest threats to any free software project, since it leads to several, possibly incompatible, versions and a consequent splintering of programmer resources and the user base.Larry McVoy, an early champion of Linux, arranged a meeting at his house in the San Francisco Bay area. Over dinner, Torvalds and some of the top Linux coders discussed the problem, and then listened to McVoy's proposed solution: a new program called BitKeeper, which was specifically designed to help manage complex software projects.There was just one problem. Although McVoy would make it freely available to the Linux team, BitKeeper would not be open source, since he was aiming to sell licences to software houses. Torvalds was pragmatic, and agreed that if BitKeeper was the best solution to his problem, then he would use it.By 2002, Torvalds made BitKeeper an integral part of how he managed Linux development, with great success. The free software purists who align themselves with the uncompromising Richard Stallman, however, put ethics before efficiency and were unhappy with this turn of events. But with Torvalds' insistence, there was nothing they could do about it.A trivial incident this year finally brought matters to a head. Since the 1990s, Andrew Tridgell has led the development of Samba, a key open source project that allows computers running GNU/Linux to communicate with Windows machines, using Microsoft's networking standards. He achieved this by looking at the messages sent across the network by Windows machines, and then writing code that could respond appropriately. In the spirit of intellectual curiosity, he did the same with the BitKeeper system.This proved too much for McVoy, who saw it as undermining his commercial product. He withdrew the free licence he had offered for BitKeeper, and the recriminations began. Torvalds was in a quandary: he could hardly ask every Linux developer to pay for BitKeeper, but he had also grown to appreciate the virtues of a powerful tool to manage software development.So he did the only thing a red-blooded hacker could do: he sat down and wrote his own. Torvalds' "Git" - which, he says, is named after himself, like Linux - was initially nothing more than a rough fill-in for BitKeeper. But something amazing happened: the other kernel hackers immediately started sending in patches to improve Git - just as they had with the fledgling Linux nearly 15 years ago - and in less than a month, Git was close to matching the core capabilities of BitKeeper that Torvalds needed.Some have seized on the BitKeeper episode as a sign that Torvalds has lost his touch, and that Linux is in trouble. The rise of Git suggests the opposite. Not that Torvalds is some kind of programmer god, capable of writing perfect code at the drop of a hat, but that he is something much rarer - a true software architect, who is able to spot the deeper issues, formulate a framework for addressing them, and knock up a rough solution that others can perfect.It is this that has helped to make Linux so successful against all the odds, and it is this that is likely to propel it to even greater heights in the coming years.
Technology hit the headlines for the wrong reasons again last week, as a gang of British software pirates who characterised themselves as latter-day Robin Hoods found themselves in jail. The convictions underlined the perception that cybercrime is on the up, a feeling exacerbated by a recent attempted &pound;220m hacking raid on the Sumitomo Mitsui bank in London, which garnered Mission Impossible headlines. But despite the Hollywood-style imagery generated by such crimes, and the fact that these offences are on the increase, not all of it is as hi-tech as it might appear.When four of the pirates from the international group known as DrinkorDie were jailed for a total of seven-and-a-half years, many focused on the man who got the toughest sentence - a "City banker". In fact, 29-year-old Alex Bell worked in the IT department of Morgan Stanley when he was arrested, but it added a touch of glamour to what was essentially a straightforward story of fraud.DrinkorDie had been breaking software security and circulating illegally copied programmes and games - so-called "warez" - since the late 1990s. They did not profit directly from their crimes, but were driven by the thrill of piracy and anti-corporate beliefs - leading to inevitable claims that some of the members saw themselves as technological Robin Hoods.It took a five-year global investigation to bring the Britons to justice and after a five-month trial, they received the toughest sentences dished out as a result of Operation Blossom.The National High Tech Crime Unit, Britain's cybercrime task force, hailed the judgment as a landmark. "Internet piracy is a growing prob&shy;lem, with organised crime moving into this space and defrauding the individual, business and governments of millions of pounds," said detective superintendent Mick Deats, deputy head of the unit.Although DrinkorDie was one of the biggest piracy cases the country has seen, the story was little different from the teenage hackers and bedroom crackers of yesteryear. They claimed their motivation was the thrill of cracking software.Another recent case that attracted headlines was similarly straightforward. Two months ago, news broke of a hack that had attempted to relieve the computer systems of the Sumitomo Mitsui Bank of &pound;220m.According to rumours inside the computer industry, it sounded like something from a Hollywood movie: remote hackers had slipped through the Sumitomo's hi-tech defences, placed key logging software on the bank's workstations and tried to suck the cash away to bank accounts all over the world.The truth, according to reliable sources, was more simple: someone had simply plugged hardware devices into the back of the PCs used by Sumitomo's staff.The devices, known as hardware keyloggers, cost about &pound;20 and can be bought from spy shops. They were connected to the USB ports used to connect the computer keyboards to the PC, and this let the gang pick up the all-important passwords and other information they needed.The hardware keyloggers did not try to send out any data, which could have been detected, but were taken away to be downloaded instead.It is a far cry from the hi-tech Ocean's Eleven heists that come to most people's minds, and is even some distance from the puritanical outlaw cracking of DrinkorDie. But what happened at Sumitomo - and some details are still unclear - is almost a blueprint for all computer crime: go for the weakest link, keep it simple and exploit people."From what we see when we investigate computer crime incidents, around 85% involve an internal lapse of security," says Simon Janes, international operations manager for computer forensics at Ibas, a Norwegian company that specialises in data recovery.Most cybercrime is along the lines of the Sumitomo case, rather than DrinkorDie's hi-tech codebreaking. "In most cases, there is no super clever hacker. The bread and butter computer crime always involves the human factor," says Janes, a former sergeant from the computer crime unit of the Metropolitan Police.He is backed up by Richard Hollis, managing director of Orthus, a company that specialises in protecting City firms. "It's the thing my clients bitch about all the time - we spend all this time and money protecting systems from outside attack ... and then some guy walks off with valu&shy;able information on a memory stick."It's not rocket science. If you want something that is locked up, then you have to find some way of getting access and that is normally through someone who has the key," said Hollis. That analogy is now prevalent through all computer crime.In the past five years, criminals have woken up to the value of technology and actively target computer systems. In the past two months, there have been a wave of attacks against databases in the US that has concentrated on stealing account information on millions of individuals, with Lexis-Nexis and the Bank of America just two of a growing list of high-profile victims.But according to Bill Hillard, head of the intelligence division of the US computer security organisation CyberTrust, the common perception that these databases were cracked with technology is way off the mark."The weak link is always behind the keyboard. In the case of Lexis-Nexis, the criminals rang up the helpdesk and got information on how they did their job and who they were. Then they rang people in the organisation and pretended to be from the help desk and told them there was a problem with their accounts and asked them for their passwords and user information."The criminals have also realised they might have to use other more compelling methods. According to the NHTCU, some people have even been threatened with violence. Or they are snared in City bars, with criminals employing spotters to identify lonely people and talk to them to find out what they do.In one case, criminals targeted a group of City secretaries and seduced them. Pillow talk revealed they all used passwords based on favourite tipples. Buying a round of drinks gave the gang access to the computers of a number of City companies.You can almost imagine the glee with which the treacherous lover said: "And what are you having to drink?", and then noted gin and tonic down next to the girl's name and the organisation she worked for. It led the police to name the gang Whisky Soda.For all those chuckling about such naivety, these are also the tactics aimed at home users of computers, the other weak links behind the keyboards. The technique used to obtain password and user information from the staff at Lexis-Nexis was simply a variation on phishing emails that claim to be from your bank and account for one in every 250 emails. The latest internet scourge - downloading spy programs known as Trojans on to computers of home users and small businesses - only happens because of poorly maintained computers and a lack of anti-virus software and anti-spyware programs.If pirates such as DrinkorDie are likened to digital highwaymen, then criminals attacking the human weakness of systems are more akin to street muggers. Yet we still fail to treat them with suspicion. "I could ask someone in the street to give me their bank account details and they would refuse," says Hillard. "Yet a lot of people at home have online access to their bank accounts but take little action to protect the information that gives them access to those accounts."The cybercriminals behind these social engineering deceptions might have more illicit methods and shadowy motives than their pirate counterparts, but experts are quick to point out that stealing is stealing."Organised criminals thought they could get around the law," says one investigator for the Business Software Alliance, who wishes to remain anonymous. "They've never really had a deterrent but now, hopefully, they'll start to think. But there need to be more resources"Indeed, while the DrinkorDie prosecutions have been a qualified success for Britain's hi-tech police, bringing the Sumitomo hackers to justice has been less successful.The cybercriminal fraternity, oper&shy;ating over the internet and across borders, often relies on the lack of international relations and weak extradition treaties to protect high-level operatives. The increasing interest in technological fraud from organised crime - with its tried and tested experience of evading the ever-shortening arm of the law - has allowed many to get off the hook."There is massive cooperation," says Felicity Bull of the NHTCU. "We work all the time with law enforcement colleagues - practically every day. Over time more countries have developed hi-tech crime units, and have started coming to us for advice."But bringing criminals to justice can be tough - especially in areas of the world where cybercrime is low on the list of priorities. "We work very hard," says Bull. "But ultimately the problem is that internet crime is perceived as low risk and high reward."Perhaps that is all the glamour the criminals need.
In LA Weekly,Nikki Finkeputs the boot into theHuffington Postblog, stabs it in the chest, hits it over the head with a kitchen sink, then tramples it underfoot with her hobnail boots."This website venture is the sort of failure that is simply unsurvivable. Her blog is such a bomb that it's the movie equivalent of Gigli, Ishtar and Heaven's Gate rolled into one," she says.Comment:It would still be interesting to see what happens to the hits over the next month....
"US researchers have devised a simple robot that can make copies of itself from spare parts," reportsBBC News.So far the robots, if they can be called that, consist of just three or four mobile cubes.Each unit comes with a small computer code carrying a blueprint for the layout of the robot, electrical contacts to let it communicate with its neighbours, and magnets to let them stick together.By turning and moving, the cubes can pick up new units, decide where they belong, and stack them alongside each other to make new devices.In a little more than a minute, a simple three-cube robot can make a copy of itself.That offspring version can then make further copies.
Now, I'm not a developer. I'm not a programmer. I'm a mere mortal. But even I can see the great possibilities thatBBC Backstagepresents.Love or loathe the Beeb - and there are plenty from both camps - the fact is that if we already own the corporation by paying our licence fees, we should be able to treat all its information as open source.Sometimes I've wondered whether they'd realise how much they needed to adapt themselves to prove they weren't just content musclemen. They've promised to make that shift for a while... and now they're delivering.I wanted to know they get it.And lo, they made it true.
When Microsoftspent a fortuneon developer Rare the one game that I wanted to see on the Xbox was a sequel toPerfect Dark. The game - a first-person shooter made by some of the team behind the seminal Goldeneye - appeared at the tail-end of the N64's reign. While it didn't quite match up to Bond's brilliance, the innovative weaponry and multiplayer options made for a memorable shooter. It also had a great launch party, with attendees "kidnapped" and bundled into trucks by "terrorists". Yes, this was pre 9/11. So the release of an Xbox 360 sequel is good news.The game is certain to be unveiled next week, with the above image of heroine Joanna Dark appearing on Microsoft'steaser site. Rumours about the game have been leaking for a while, but the most tantalising teaser details the ability to scan yourself into the action via the Xbox 360's camera.The original game had planned to let players scan their faces into the game using the rudimentary Game Boy camera. This wasdroppeddue to concerns over violence, although it ignored the fact that the facial graphics were so basic that it would have been hard to tell who you were "shooting" anyway. Now, of course, graphics have vastly improved, and it will be interesting to see how MS deal with this issue if the feature is included in the game.
Fantastically bizarre story in today'sEvening Standardheadlined 'Ipods can make you deaf':A health alert over the dangers to your hearing from portable music players is issued today.Experts say the huge popularity of iPods and other players could leave a generation of music fans with serious problems.London commuters face the greatest risk as they play the machines at potentially damaging volume levels because of the background noise on Tubes and trains.The story says experts reckon the problem has reached critical levels "due to the popularity of the iPod" and then underestimates their popularity by saying that Apple has sold "5.6 million worldwide since it was introduced" (it's actually sold more than 10 million).Admittedly, we should all turn the volume down, but surely they're talking out of their backsides in order to sex up a story. After all, listening to music through headphones is hardly a new phenomenon - and Sony sold more than 200m Walkman products around the world (that doesn't include non-Sony personal stereos).Perspective, please.
Further tothis morning's poston how Google Accelerator might let people circumvent Chinese internet restrictions, there's more detail on Google's plan to open Chinese offices inthis storyfrom MediaGuardian.co.uk (registration only).Google is expected to open an office in Shanghai by the end of this year to target businesses from within the country for the first time.The company has begun hiring an advertising sales team to target corporate customers and has also acquired a China-specific web address, according to a report on Reuters.Although it has no physical presence in China, Google already accounts for around 20% of all online searches in the country, where 94 million people have access to the internet. That figure is expected to grow to 134 million by the end of this year.
Some of Britain's leading medical research funders have banded together to finance the country's most comprehensive online repository of medical knowledge.The multimillion-pound UK PubMed Central project is a big boost to proponents of open access to scientific research. It will enable academic researchers to post papers published either online or in subscription-based scientific journals, on a single searchable database which anybody can access free.The project is being bankrolled by a group of medical funders including the Wellcome Trust, the British Heart Foundation and the Arthritis Research Campaign with the support of the Joint Information Systems Committee, an expert advisory body indirectly funded by government.The group yesterday called for organisations interested in running the database to submit tenders for the project by June 10. They plan to create a permanent, freely accessible digital archive of peer-reviewed papers as a result of research they have funded.The archive will be similar to PubMed Central, the US-based open access repository, which launched in 2000 and is run by the national center for biotechnology information, a division of the national library of medicine at the US national institutes of health, one of the largest backers of medical research in the world.UK PubMed Central will use the same software as its US counterpart and include a fully searchable archive of articles from both sites. It will also provide links to other online resources, such as gene databases, which will allow academics and physicians to read recent research papers and view the data on which they are based."We are committed to achieving the maximum impact from the research we fund, making the findings accessible to those who most want to see them," said Dr Mark Walport, director of the Wellcome Trust.Professor Jeremy Pearson, associate medical director at the British Heart Foundation, added: "The BHF supports the principle of free public access to the published research it has funded."
Peripherals manufacturerGamesterhas announced that it will be showing off a Plug and Play version of Sensible Soccer at E3. The faithful reproduction of the Megadrive version comes on a joypad that you plug straight into your TV - it also features two other classic titles: Cannon Fodder and Mega-Lo-Mania. Of course, youcouldjust head over to Ebay and bid on a real Mega Drive and copies of the original games, but leaving these lying around will make your lounge look like a school boy's bedroom circa 1990. And hardly anyone wants that.
Last week we ran a long feature aboutmobile TVand how networks like O2 would try to convince us to watch telly on our phones.Well, today they made an announcement that there has been a deal with cable provider NTL and a number of other broadcasters over what channels would be available on O2's initial trial service in Oxford.O2 and NTL Broadcast today revealed the first batch of channels to be part of their line-up for the forthcoming Oxford mobile TV trial... which marks a UK first - begins performance testing in July prior to roll out to 350 O2 customers early in September 2005.Designed to test and showcase the televisual capabilities of the next generation of mobile phones, the trial will look at how people choose to catch up on their favourite TV shows, watch the latest music videos and keep up to date with the news and sport when on the move.The six-month trial will use the DVB-H broadcast transmission standard, specially designed for handheld reception.The channels so far include Sky News, Sky Sports News, Sky Travel and Chart Show TV, Discovery Channel and Shorts TV, CNN and the Cartoon Network.I tried a similar network on a recent visit to Helsinki and I have to say the quality was pretty good. But at the same time I just can't see the need to watch TV on the move.
Teenagers with cancer can access advice and support on dealing with their illness from a new website launched today.The site,Teen info on cancer, set up by the charity CancerBacup, addresses misconceptions about cancer and provides advice on coping with the side effects of treatment, such as hair loss.It is the first website for teenagers with all types of cancer and is also intended to help the friends and family of cancer patients understand what they are going through. Visitors to the site can set up their own web page to share their experience of cancer and its treatment.A survey by CancerBacup, published today, found that many young people remain ill-informed about cancer - even though 70% said they knew someone who has or had the disease.More than a third (37%) of the 500 12 to 19-year-olds questioned thought that cancer could be caused by knocks and bumps, while more than one in 10 (12%) thought the disease was contagious.Almost three-quarters (74%) said they would not know what to say to a friend with cancer, and half (50%) said they would avoid talking to them about it.Interviews with 46 teenagers with cancer found 63% felt isolated and alone, 80% worried about their relationships with their friends and 85% said that there was no support or advice to help their friends understand how they feel.The CancerBacup chief executive, Joanne Rule, said: "Our survey shows that cancer is a big issue for teenagers. Most have experience of it among their family and friends, but most also have problems understanding it and knowing how to talk about it. At the same time, teens with cancer feel isolated and alone - a cry for help we can't ignore."We have to improve understanding of cancer amongst teens generally and help them understand what those with the disease are going through."Actor and singer Delta Goodrem, who was diagnosed with Hodgkins lymphoma in 2003, said the website would help to combat the fear and isolation many young cancer sufferers experience.Launching the website, the former Neighbours actor said: "I was 18 when I was diagnosed with cancer. My family, friends and fans were a fantastic support, but it was still a confusing, frightening period of my life and there were times when I felt very alone."I want teenagers who are going through the same illness to know that there is help out there on the website. It's full of brilliant information and advice and teenagers can share their experiences online. I know it would have helped me to know how other people my own age were coping."
Mobile phone users are to get access to television channels including Sky News, CNN, Cartoon Network and Discovery as part of a trial of new handsets fitted with digital TV receivers.Television mast operator NTL Broadcast has teamed up with O2 to launch the trial, offering 16 TV channels to mobile users in Oxford.Mobile phone users taking part in the trial will be given the new Nokia 7710 handset, allowing them to receive 16 TV channels, including Sky News, Sky Sports News, Sky Travel, Discovery, CNN, Chart Show TV, Cartoon Network and a short film service, Shorts TV.Mike Short, the vice president of research and development at O2, said it was talking to other content providers, including terrestrial broadcasters, about filling the remaining eight channel slots available for the Oxford trial."We have been guided &#91;in the choice of channels for the trial&#93; by extensive research we did by last year about what people wanted to watch on mobile phones. They said they particularly wanted content of short duration, between 10 and 20 minutes, which lends itself to news, sport and cartoons," he said."With the Oxford trial, we don't think people are going to want to watch two-hour feature films &#91;on their mobile&#93;. But we think they will watch for anywhere between 10 and 45 minutes," he said.Customers taking part in the trial will also have access to other mobile services, including telephony and internet access, offering email and gaming.The two companies are looking for 350 O2 customers aged between 18 and 45 who live, work or study within the Oxford ring road for the six-month trial, which will begin in September.NTL Broadcast  is adapting eight transmitters in the  area to create a 120sq km zone in which TV signals can be received on the new Nokia handsets.The trial will provide the two companies with feedback about what the participants are watching on their mobiles, for how long, and where."This trial will give a useful insight into how the new technology performs, and we intend to use that information to inform the broadcasters, mobile operators and Ofcom about the consumer appeal of the service," said Terry Howard, the head of media business development at NTL Broadcast."What we don't want to do is find that the UK becomes the Cinderella of Europe &#91;in terms of mobile TV&#93;. We don't want to get left behind. But ultimately it's in the hands of the regulator."NTL Broadcast, formerly cable firm NTL's broadcast transmission business, was sold off to an Australian-led consortium in a £1.3bn in December.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
It's beenquite a whilesince I've written about Google's relationship with the restrictive and internet-oppressive Chinese authorities, but it seems that their newGoogle Acceleratorproduct - which Jackmentionedat the weekend - may have a hidden benefit.According toPoynter Online, it might circumvent the restrictions on which websites can be visited. WroteChina Herald's Fons Tuinstra:But a reader of my weblog suggested that in combination with IE, Google's new tool would beat the Internet censor here in China. Well, that was enough encouragement for me to give it a try.Indeed, the Google Web Accelerator helps to beat our Internet nanny; at least, I got to the BBC news services easily. I do not think that Google wanted to bring down the Chinese firewall (as far as it still is in place with so many proxies around), but they effectively did.I can't imagine that this was an intended consequence of the software... so is this a case of "Don't Be Evil... By Accident"?
You wait days for a compelling reason to put in that PSP pre-order and then three come along at once. First EA announces Burnout Legends, then Sports Interactive says it's making a PSP version of Football Manager 2006, and now Sega smears generous portions of delicious sugary icing all over the cake by revealing Virtua Tennis World Tour for Sony's handheld wonder. The game will be developed by UK-based studio SUMO Digital, previously responsible for the criminally overlooked Outrun 2 on Xbox (if you have an Xboxanda pulse I suggest you buy it immediately) and will be launched in the autumn...Of courseit will feature real-life international players,of courseit will feature a Wi-Fi four-player mode,of coursethere will be a new version of the famed Virtua Tennis World Tour mode where you travel around the globe competing in glamorous tournaments and trying your hand at crazy training mini-games (my personal favourite - smacking the enormous tennis balls off the court!). Ah it brings back memories... the year 2000, a stuffy office, a copy of Virtua Tennis, a Dreamcast magazine fighting the fading of the light, all of us gathered round the TV in our shorts attempting back-hand cross court volleys. "Erm, it's deadline week," shouts the production editor, "Yes, yes, just another set," I pant. "You said that three days ago," comes the stern reply. Those were the days my friends.
Camera specialist Jessops yesterday outlined the extent of the "unprecedented decline" in sales which forced the newly listed company into a profit warning six weeks ago.The 276-strong high street chain, which came to the stock market six months ago, said February sales growth had ground to a halt in "the toughest trading conditions ... at least since digital cameras were launched on to the market in the mid 1990s".It pointed to data from independent market research group Gfk Marketing services which showed annual sales growth in the digital camera market running at 36%, 32% and 20% in November, December and January.In February that growth ground to a halt. Sales during that month were up only 0.1% on the previous year. Analysts estimate that Jessops like-for-like sales that month were down by about 9%.The chain yesterday revealed the impact of that "extremely difficult" period with half year profits down from &#163;7m to &#163;5.7m.It is facing tough price competition, especially at the "point and click" lower end of the market, from retailers such as Argos and Tesco and also from rising sales of 3G mobile phones, which come with high resolution cameras.It also blamed the downturn in consumer confidence, the bad February weather and the lack of new camera launches in the early part of this year for the downturn.Details of the Jessops profits decline came a day after camera manufacturer Olympus announced it was cutting one in three jobs - a total of some 4,000 - from its loss-making camera division. The world's fourth biggest camera-maker said it would make an operating loss of 13bn yen for the half year to September, its first loss since it began reporting consolidated results in 1978. Most of the job losses will be at factories in China.Yesterday Jessops shares, which came to the market at 155p, lost 3.75p to close at 85p.
A Swedish teenager is being questioned over a daring internet attack that penetrated thousands of computer systems in the US, including military and Nasa websites, the FBI said yesterday.A search is also under way in Britain and elsewhere in Europe for possible accomplices, a bureau spokesman said yesterday, but gave no further details."We've been working on this very closely with our international partners in Sweden, Britain, and others, and the criminal activity has stopped," the spokesman said.According to the New York Times, the attack was launched from the University of Uppsala. A 16-year-old from Uppsala was charged in March with breaking into the university computers.The investigation began a year ago when the intruder, codenamed Stakkato, breached security at Cisco Systems, a producer of computer networking equipment, and stole programming instructions for many of the routers and switches that serve as conduits for the internet.The hacker, or group of hackers, also broke into several US supercomputer laboratories connected through a high-speed network called the TeraGrid, and used stolen passwords to infiltrate websites of military bases and Nasa.A missile base at White Sands in New Mexico acknowledged its computer system had been compromised, but claimed that only weather forecast information had been taken.Nasa's jet propulsion laboratory in Pasadena, California, was also targeted.Alan Paller, the director of research at the SANS Institute, a cyber security training organisation, said the internet attacks demonstrated the continuing vulnerability of seemingly closely guarded websites."The dirty little secret of security is that even in organisations that have high security, operational problems cause those organisations not to patch," Mr Paller said.Investigators believe Stakkato wanted to brag about the stolen passwords in chatrooms. But other hackers may have more dangerous motives."If you find a kid who has done this, there will be people with economic and military motives who have done it and are not bragging," he said.
I was on holiday last week so I spent some time yesterday playing the Star Wars Episode 3 game that had come in. Oh dear. I wasn't expecting Ico with Wookies, or Jedi Zelda, but what a duff game this is. The tediously repetitive hack n' slash is only partially redeemed by some decent presentation. TheGuardian reviewlast week was positive, but in my view this is a stinker and not a patch onLego Star Wars. Let's hope the film is better.
Following the retraction of stories by freelance technology reporter Michelle Delio fromMIT Technology Review OnlineandInfoWorld, Wired News conducted an investigation into the stories she'd written.Andthe results are in:Wired News has published more than 700 news stories written by Delio since 2000. In April, we assigned journalism professor and Wired News columnist Adam Penenberg to review recent articles written by Delio for Wired News.Penenberg provided Wired News with a list of 24 stories that contained sources he could not confirm. Delio... stands by her reporting and the existence and accuracy of her sources. Most of Delio's sources were in fact located and confirmed by Penenberg.They seem careful not to sound too aggressive about the results - "unconfirmed sources" - but Wired News says the only real material change will be that it "will now require freelance reporters to submit contact information for all named sources" and that "anonymous sources will be used only with appropriate justification."It hardly seems to be on the scale ofJayson Blair, but it will be interesting to see when Delio's byline appears again.
BrowsingSlashdot, I came across an Extremetech article entitledThe Horror Of British Telecom.It's one American's struggle to get a broadband line set up in London."Have you had broadband before, sir?" Absolutely, I replied. I loved it, and reeled off a nice little anecdote about MLB.com, and how I liked being able to watch games over the Internet, or highlights, or iquest."No, sir. What I mean is, do you currently have broadband?" No, I replied."Well, sir, what we see here is that you currently do have broadband, and we can't sell you our service until you free the line."But I just moved in, I said. I barely had a telephone line, let alone broadband. My landlord had broadband, but he moved."Well, what you need to do is contact your ISP—"I don't have an ISP, I said."Then you need to have your landlord contact his ISP and have him free the line."And how long does that take? "Up to two weeks."Notquitemy experience, but not too far away from it either. It's not something I'm looking forward to sorting out when I move house next month.Despite the fact that the availability of broadband is being trumpeted from the hilltops, everybody seems to have a horror story.
There's something more than a little ironic to hear Hilary Rosen - former boss of the RIAA -complainingthat about the incompatibility between her iPod and non-Apple download sites.The new iPod my girlfriend gave me is a trap. Yeah, it is great looking and I really love the baby blue leather case but when, oh when, will Steve Jobs let me buy music from somewhere other than the Apple iTunes store and put it on my iPod?I'm no fan of Apple's lock-in method, even if I can see why they're doing it. But it's not about why Apple's machines doesn't like other DRM: it's about DRM as a whole.Why not just give us plain old vanilla MP3 and be done with it? Because Rosen, and the RIAA, didn't want that to happen. This is what happens when you get everyone fighting to produce the strongest version of a format. Perhaps Rosen shouldn't be surprised at the results.
Mozilla's open source web browser Firefox has got a pair of serious vulnerabilities, it has emerged. This fromInformation Week:"A pair of unpatched vulnerabilities in Mozilla's Firefox Web browser - rated as 'extremely critical' by one security firm - could allow an attacker to take control of a PC simply by getting a user to visit a malicious Web site, Mozilla said Sunday.Because proof-of-concept code has been leaked - as were the vulnerabilities - before a patch was ready, Mozilla recommended that Firefox users either disable JavaScript or lock down the browser so it doesn't install additional software, such as extensions" or themes, from Web sites.Mozilla'ssecurity centersays that "there are currently no known active exploits of these vulnerabilities" but that the foundation is "aggressively working to provide a more comprehensive solution to these potential vulnerabilities". There's a further security advisoryhere.Of course, this kind of vulnerability shouldn't really come as a surprise. All browsers have problems, though Firefox claimed to have fewer than its competition. The question is how quickly this can be solved, and whether it will be exploited in the interim. That's where open source says its strength is, and now it's time to prove it.
I find the Christian game sub-culture endlessly fascinating. Perhaps it's the childhood of Catholic school, maybe it's the step-brother who's making Christian values movies in Hollywood. Maybe it's that I always root for the underdog, and God really is at a disadvantage in an entertainment medium which is perceived to deal with issues in a distinctly non-Christian way. One of these days I'll make it to theChristian Game Developers Conferenceand ask a few difficult questions.In the meantime, theNew York Times(reg. required) has a great article on the God Games development industry which explores the people making titles for a fast-growing population of moral thrill-seekers beyond the Holy Water gun in a Jesus first person shooter.While some of the rhetoric that spouts from the mouth of Rev. Ralph Bagley (''We're going to hold the word of God up and illuminate the place,'' Bagley likes to say. ''We're taking the land back from Satan.'') freaks me out, the article presents a unique perspective on a medium that so many of us gamers take for granted.…beyond the violence and witchcraft, there are more subtle theological objections having to do with gaming's unprecedented exercise in creative decontrol and free will.That is, in a nutshell, one of the most unique elements of interactive entertainment: creative decontrol and free will. Ludologists and narratologists may debate the finer points of storytelling versus gameplay, but computer gaming essentially offers the player the matchless opportunity to choose his or her own direction towards destiny. It may lead the gamer down the wrong path, but that choice is there in a way other forms of media are not (except, perhaps, Choose Your Own Adventure novels, which were, arguably, interactive books).This may be one of the reasons parents feel so afraid of this digital phenomenon which has invaded their living rooms. They don't understand it and until they discover that little Jimmy or Jane is playing with something they feel could be morally reprehensible, they don't appear to care what's going on inside. Somehow the current age ratings systems don't tap into this, but there are a variety of websites which feature reviews for parents and persons of varying moralities which explain in words that are relevant to those groups what is and isn't appropriate for the individual playing the game.I don't agree with an ethos that rejects in-game choice. This is beautifully typified in Christian game developers' antipathy towards role playing games because they allow players to approach a problem from within a variety of characters' heads, some of whom may not be "upstanding". This seems particularly paranoid, as if stepping into a "devil" character would immediately convert someone to Satanism. By removing the choice in a computer game, the player isn't allowed to make his or her own decision. This fear – that the experience of playing a bad guy will create moral chasms – is illogical. Do all Christian kids only play the good guys in playground cops and robbers? Do the robbers always lose?This brings me back to my step-brother, John, who is working in another industry which is similarly viewed as immoral (or was before Mel Gibson did hisPassion). He is not making movies with explicitly Christian themes. Instead he is working within a template of "values" which most – if not all – religions and moral codes abide by. The plots have nothing to do with same-sex marriage, abortion or women's rights, and like the Christian games the NYT discusses, they avoid any discussion of Jesus, God or any of the other major players in that religion. They don't preach. The characters simply deal with their decisions in a way which imperceptibly follows a particular ideology. For this reason his work isn't insidious or subversive (if it can be called that) but an alternative to the traditional fare of sex and violence. There is a bounty of games which do this, but they're overshadowed by the phenomenal press and popularity of titles appropriate to older people. It's the same as 18-rated films: these are the ones that get the press because the target audience has a good deal of disposable income and they have the ability (government-determined or otherwise) to choose.If the Christian Games community decides to create games which limit player choice, then the publishers' decision not to back them is perfectly reasonable. Contemporary gamers dig the chance to choose and expect it in their entertainment. If they're released on the mainstream market, they'll lose money. By giving their audience credit and allowing them to "experience" what it's like to play bad guys, they'll make games which may appeal to people who don't consider themselves Christian or actively reject it. They're making good steps towards the mainstream by not forcing the religion down gamers' throats with explicit references to Godet albut by removing the elemental aspects of contemporary interactive entertainment they'll remain marginalized.One other thing: why do people think that computer games are the only things that teach kids morality? Don't parents discuss these things with their children???
THQ Wireless has acquired the rights to bring Games Workshop's Space Hulk brand to mobile phones. Based in the Warhammer 40k universe, the title pitches space marines against evil alien Genestealers in tense galactic battle. Space Hulk originated as a board game but was turned into a PC title in the early nineties, and according to the press release, "THQ Wireless' interactive implementation of the brand will remain true to the existing rules and gameplay systems, whilst also addressing the needs of the 'quick play' aspect of mobile handset gaming." The release goes on to mention some gameplay details:The dynamic game environment offers a multiplicity of game modes and scenarios, including tactical, turn based like the classic tabletop game, as well as frenetic real-time action. This makes the game accessible and compelling for as wide a spectrum of handset users as possible.With Macrospace's long-awaited battle strategy sequel Ancient Empires II also due out soon, mobile owners looking for something more mentally stimulating than the next retro conversion are in for a challenging summer.
Rockstar has announced that it will be showing off a brand new game entitled Bully at E3 later this month. In its very short press release the company promised "innovative, original gameplay and humorous tongue-in-cheek storytelling", and gave away a few interesting details:"As a troublesome schoolboy, you'll laugh and cringe as you stand up to bullies, get picked on by teachers, play pranks on malicious kids, win or lose the girl, and ultimately learn to navigate the obstacles of the fictitious reform school, Bullworth Academy."The game will be developed by Rockstar's new Vancouver studio and is due for release in October on PS2 and Xbox.You have to hand it to them, it's another offbeat premise that most publishers wouldn't dare touch with a barge pole. A bullied school kid is hardly the aspirational archetype that we're normally invited to take control of. But of course, school lifeissomething we can all relate to, and however old we are, we often harbour secret revenge fantasties about giving the bigger kids what for, instead of cowering in the library. Hang on, this is becoming worringly autobiographical...Whatever, Bully certainly isn't the first game to be set in a school (and won't be the last as a dozen gutless wannabes jump on the bandwagon). Here are some old favourites...Skool DazeTheclassic school adventure, published by Microsphere in 1984. Incredibly open-ended for the time, you simply wandered around school firing your catapault at passers-by and occassionally attending lessons. You were supposed to be finding the combination to open the school safe and steal some exam results but most players never got beyond renaming the characters with swear words and repeatedly punching teachers.Here'sa great interview with the creators taken from Crash magazine.Back to SkoolThe sequel offered a larger environment, complex puzzles and the chance to have a snog with your girlfriend, but strangely, the more advanced gameplay detracted from the original's seamless appeal.Grange HillA 1987 action adventure tie-in from Argus Press software based around anactualGrange Hill storyline: Goncho's Walkman is confiscated and you have to get it back. And that's it. The poor combination of text-based adventuring and action mini-games failed to impress. Now only notable for the fact that the soundtrack was by C64 music legend David Whittaker.Tokimeki MemorialPretty much any Japanese dating sim would qualify here as a majority are based around high school romances, or lack thereof. ButthisKonami series has the most cache in the west. You can be pretty sure Bully will be nothing like it.Rival Schools United By FateCult Capcom fighting game from 1997, featuring fiesty high school kids bashing the crap out of each other in tag-team bouts. Famous for its 'Burning Vigour Attack', in which teen fighters use a youthful surge of energy to access devastating special moves - like tutting loudly, downloading deadly polyphonic ringtones, or driving opponents mad by ending every sentence in a question for no discernible reason.
Apropos of very little, I had a bit of a retro memory flashback the other day (actually it was when I dug out an old copy of Lemmings) and started thinking about what probably ranks as my favourite computer ever: theCommodore Amiga A500.Of course, each of us has their own reasons for picking out favourite machines, and most of them are generally more about our lives at that time than the computer itself.Personally, I'd had a few computers already by the time I got my hands on an Amiga back in the late 1980s - mostly Sinclairs and Amstrads, plus a little experience with MSDOS at school. I'd got my head around using computers, enjoyed it, played games, wanted to try doing a little bit more.Back then, my A500 ran on 512KB of RAM - which seemed like luxury - and did most everything I wanted: games, music, graphics and a little bit of foot-dipping into other applications. Back then it was way cheaper than the PCs and Apples on the market but seemed just as powerful as I needed it to be.I lamented its passing when I finally left it behind, by which time Commodore had given up the ghost and there were shinier, more exciting gadgets to get my hands on. A few years ago, I dug out the box and tried booting it up, but it seems the hard disk drive had corrupted. It wasn't quite a tears-in-the-eyes moment, but I did feel a little pang of sadness.But I come here to praise Amiga, not to bury her. And like most old systems it fails to roll over and die completely, and still has a vibrant community of nostalgic technoheads -Amiga.org,ANNand theClassic Amiga Preservation Society. Long may you rest in pieces, my strange beige little friend.
Yes, Sports Interactive has announced details of FM 2006, due for launch on Mac, PC andPSPthis winter. SI has never developed a footie management sim for a handheld platform before, indeed the only console iteration has been on the Xbox - PS2 was not considered powerful enough. This, as far as I'm concerned, makes the Sony handheld indispensible.Anyway, here are details on the PC/Mac version from Sega's press release.One of the many fan-inspired features to make it into FM 2006 will be that, for the first time, managers will be able to negotiate with their board of directors - not only for a better contract for themselves, but also for improved player wage budgets and increased transfer budgets or even stadium expansion. Be aware though, if you push too hard and don't reach the heights that the board specify, you'll soon be looking for a new job.Half-time team talks add the ability to tell your players individually or collectively exactly what you thought of their first half performance, via the tactics screen. Will you be able to keep your players motivated, or will you cause a collapse in the second half?Another welcome feature is the ability to manage players on a personal level. Unhappy players can cause huge morale problems for the whole squad and result in bad performances, so the new Player Interaction feature will help you to manage your team more closely.A completely revamped training module simplifies training schedules and players' training progress, with your coaches becoming far more important members of backroom staff. New media items and expansion of the media module have been implemented, including but not limited to, cup draw news and man of the match news.Want to know how many yellow cards the ref looking after your Saturday match has given in the last few matches? Now you can, with referee profiles and league tables, which add an extra element to tactics of the game. Maybe hard tackling is not a good idea for this Saturday's match!Also adding an extra tactical element to FM 2006, the player positions feature has been taken one step further. A player position indicator will not only show you the best positions for your player and where to play on the pitch, it will also show player preferred moves for those players in your team. As well as this, the Player Positions display format has been upgraded, making it easier for the manger to pick the team.And here's what Sega has revealed on the PSP version...• Select an active league from a minimum of 6 countries' • Accurate data from the world renowned SI football database • Up to date and accurate competition simulations • Accurate European competitions and world rankings • Complete tactical options to allow a manager to influence a match • Every player has an accurate player history • 30 players in a squad • Realistic commentary style match engine and computer manager intelligence • Staff feedback on the current squad via coach and physio reports • Realistically simulated media involvement - including transfer rumors • Agent approaches and dressing room unrest • A full interactive transfer system simulating modern day negotiations, including player loans, signings etc. • Realistically simulated world of football, giving information about transfers, results and injuries involving the big names in footballI'll provide more details and comment later on.
An industry which celebrates violence and the exaggerated female form might expect to be an all-male domain - but a university launched a frantic search today after a prestigious new computer games degree failed to attract a single woman.The Microsoft-backed honours course has had applications from 106 male undergraduates, but now hopes to strike a gender balance by holding a series of summer camps.Staff at the University of Derby said it believes the women-only taster days will persuade female students they have important roles to take up in the sector.John Sear, lecturer on the BSc (hons) computer games programming course, said: "We are very pleased with the interest this new course has already generated, reflecting the demand for jobs in what is a multi-billion pound global industry."However, the fact we have had no applications from women reflects a perceived gender divide within the industry. It is something we would like to address to interest more women into this subject area."The university's business school has opened a new £150,000 centre designed with help from leading academics at Microsoft, but industry researcher Lizzie Haines said the investment would be wasted without female students.She said: "Girls don't know that they can work in the games industry, they're not told that games is a good career choice either and if they don't play games themselves it may never occur to them to try it."If they do, they find mostly that it's full of challenges and the opportunity to do cutting-edge programming, as well as good pay, great prospects, and the chance to be creative."Ms Haines said women make up only 17% of the industry's workforce, with only 2% employed in technical and software development positions."There are very few women in the industry, but those who are say that it's a great place to work, but they'd like more women colleagues," she said."That would help women feel more at home there, and most importantly for the industry itself, it would help companies make more games that females want to play."The industry is waking up to this. They want to make games now for everybody, not just for a small group of boys and men in their bedrooms, but games for women and older people and games for whole families to play."Lecturers said the course, due to start in the next academic year, would combine software architecture, maths, graphic design and business skills.
"In April 2005, Lycos.co.uk tracked and stopped 3.3 million incidents of the virus software [Troj/BankAsh-A], up from the 39,789 stopped in March.Once installed, the virus remains hidden on an infected machine and when a user tries to go to their internet bank's website, redirects them to a fake website in a ploy to steal personal details and rob accounts."The stolen details are used to hi-jack bank accounts and for identity theft," says Lycos UK head of email, Wessel van Rensburg. "While these crimes are not new, the methods by which data is obtained is extremely sophisticated. This is a multi-billion pound industry and tens, if not hundreds, of thousands are being affected."
Having whinged a lot about movie tie-ins and sequels recently, I've spent the last few weeks digging about, looking for interesting new concepts that may well shape game design - or at least make an impression on it - over the next few years. Most of these concepts have been around for a while, just waiting for the right platform to turn them into mainstream games, some are already a part of the industry. I just wanted to bunch together some fascinating, fresh or evolving areas that might provide us with more compelling gameplay experiences than, well, pretty much anything in the Top Five this week. So here goes...Augmented realityThe overlay of computer graphics onto a real-world environment is hardly a new idea – run a Google search on the phrase and you'll find hundreds of research projects and practical applications for the technology. But only now are the videogame possibilities being realised. Eye Toy, of course, is the most high profile example and we're also seeing mobile phone games that use the camera function to provide simple AR experiences –SkeeterandAttack of the Killer Virusfor example. It could be that the proposed camera add-on for Sony's PSP will be used in the same way. There are some interesting experimental projects on the go too, includingBattleBoard 3D, an AR chess sim, inspired by the game Chewy and C3PO play in Star Wars, andthismultiplayer train set.Location-based gamingSeveral mobile developers are already offering variations on location-based gaming, either using GPS, or measuring the distance from the cellphone to the nearest mast to track each users' movements. The massively multiplayer titleBot Fighters, for example was launched in 2000 and has been running in territories like Ireland, Sweden andRussiaever since, encouraging users to rush around town centres engaging in Pokemon-style robot battles with passers-by. A more advanced sequel is now available. Interesting alternatives include detective adventureThe Journeyand cyberpunk epicUnder Cover 2. Sony showed a prototype GPS add-on for the PSP at last year's E3 so it could be that the company has location-based gaming in mind.Creative gamingOf course, games that have handed the creative reins over to players have lurked on the periphery of the industry for many years. Nintendo's Mario Paint series, The Shoot 'Em Up Construction Kit on C64, the many games that come with level and/or map editors. Traditionally though, these options have been rather demanding, and are rarely a central focus of the gameplay. With the Nintendo DS and its touch screen technology, however, we should see a new era where creativity becomes an integral element of the experience. Yoshi's Touch and Go, for example, challenges you to draw clouds to provide safe platforms for Baby Mario to run across, while Namco'sPac-Pixgets you to draw your own Pac-Man and then control his movement by building walls in his path.I also love the look ofElectroPlankton, a DS title that allows you to create weird audio/visual landscapes by manipulating ten musical aquatic lifeforms. UK developer Relentless created a similar, if less abstract, music toy with DJ Decks and FX two years ago. I was speaking to the company last month and they claimed that they would be revealing an innovative 'lifestyle game' concept at E3 this year - another music-based project using a totally original new peripheral. The traditional means of intertacting with videogames and the traditional design structure in which the game sets a series of clearly defined objectives for the gamer, are being challenged by these creative toys.Elsewhere, there's the sophisticated movie-making mode in Sims 2, which allows players to create their own soap operas using characters and environments from the game. Already, 7000 movies have been posted to EA's Sims 2 website andRooster Teeth, the machinima studio responsible for the classic Red vs Blue series has created its own Sims 2 drama, The Strangerhood. Later this year, Lionhead's The Movies, will feature a machinima movie-making component.There's also been a spate of games recently that have encouraged users to communicate with each other through words and pictures in various amusing ways. Nintendo's PictoChat software – a sort of multimedia messaging service for DS owners – is the key example, utilising the console's touch screen interface to create a near real-time chat system. Similarly, at 3GSM this year, Orange showed offOrangeScribble, an application which lets two or more phone users share a strip of on-screen paper - everyone can draw and write on the same sheet in real-time, using a stylus or the keypad to guide a cursor, sort of like sending notes round the back of the classroom.Another interesting example isJust Letters, a multiplayer flash game that presents you with a bunch of those magnetic letters that zany people have on their fridge doors. You can move them around to create words, but there are other users trying the same thing, so you're in constant conflict with fellow wordsmiths. Gameplay, such as it is, is entirely user-defined and usually revolves around two competing camps – those who want to form swear words, and those who want to stop them.I'm not sure how these disparate strands could be worked into a mainstream game design, but then I'm not Shigeru Miyamoto.Emotional gamingJapanese dating games have been exploring this area for years, but only since the Sims have social themes broken into mainstream games in the West. Now we're seeing the beginnings of an intriguing new genre with the likes of Sprung and Project Rub courting a wider audience through the use of relationship-based themes and friendly, inclusive interfaces. This combination of sex and simplicity reaches its zenith with forthcoming coin-op,The Act, a dating game that utilises a single control knob, like the ones used to control Pong. Functioning as a kind of interactive romantic comedy the game, which is set to be installed into pubs rather than arcades, is designed specifically to attract female gamers. We'll see..PersonalisationThe advent of digital television has brought about a paradigm shift in viewing habits. Once the whole nation sat in front of the same four channels, now, the availability of thousands of channels plus systems like Tivo and Sky+ makes a unique viewing experience accessible to each consumer. Gaming is going the same way. Microsoft's J Allard made a massive deal of this in his GDCkeynote speech, discussing how he'd like to see online communities of Xbox 360 gamers building their own content for games, and how it may be possible to buy new in-game items online using 'Micro Payments'. Of course there has been a vibrant modding community online for several years, but this has been mostly confined to PC games. Will the next generation consoles open up the possibilities of user-created levels, characters and stories to a wider audience? It'll be down to the developers to build editing modes into their games, of course. Meanwhile, we should also see more modification in the realm of MMORPGS – the likes of A Tale in the Desert and Second Life point the way.On a more modest level we should see more abundant customisation options. Driving games Like GT4, Midnight Club 3 Dub Edition and Forza Motorsport offer a massive selection of modding options, while huge online communities have been built to create and trade household objects for The Sims. Fighting games and sports sims are also offering more exhaustive 'create a character' modes. The mantra is quickly becoming, 'ask not what the game can do for you, but what you can do for the game'…Part two next monday!
So I go to Spain for a week's holiday and come back to find that some seemingly genuine pictures of the new Xbox 360 have emerged. Taken by camera-phone at an LA party - honest, guv - they apparently show the new console in all its white-cased glory. It's certainly better looking then the original, but I'm reserving judgement until I get a hands-on go next week at E3.
Yes Phantom Menace was atrocious and yes, number two wasn't much better, but you know you'll be joining the throng to see the final Star Wars film - Revenge of the Sith. And apart fromeradicating Jar Jar Binks, what better way is there to celebrate the end of an era than by owning your very own lightsaber?We've got two Star Wars lightsabers to give away, plus money-off tokens at Firebox. Fully licensed by LucasFilm, these limited edition - is there any Star Wars merchandise that isn't now? - ForceFX Lightsabers are authentically modelled to be exact replicas of the Lightsabers used by Darth and Luke in the original trilogy.Enter here.
I was in New York last week on a bit of family business and had the chance to pop into the City on Monday. Apart from the strangely empty skyline towards the bottom end of Manhattan the place looks pretty much the same as the last time I visited in 2000.There is one subtle change that I hoped to capture with my digital camera: the scene of the forthcomingNintendoStorein Times Square. Taking a leaf from the Apple tree, Nintendo's store is the first platform-dedicated entertainment consumer technology centre in the West – although certainly not the last – and punters can expect a Nintendo-branded "experience" when they walk through the doors. It was almost worth changing the flight to head down to the opening…Unfortunately I was unable to find neither hide nor hair anywhere, and that's because it's going to be in the Rockefeller Center, blocks and blocks away. Ahem. I didn't get to go back into Manhattan before I headed home, so to the US-bound readers, send pictures and reports from the opening gala on the 14th!
Google was down yesterday, and while normal service was restored after about 15 minutes, it still prompted quite a bit of comment.Search Engine Watchhas a brief report from Gary Price, with links, whileInside Googlehas a transcript of a news item by technology reporter Larry Magid.
