Aleks Krotoskiis your host for the latest Tech Weekly.Joining her in the studio isCharles ArthurandBobbie Johnson- and this week they bring you a rock legend -Feargal Sharkey.  He's now chief executive ofBritish Music Rights, and last week told the Internet Service Providers Association that the music industry is ready for change.  He stepped back fromthe BPI's comments which featured on Tech Weekly three weeks agowhich suggested internet access should be cut to those who share files.  Feargal is more optimistic, looking for a new business model that works for all parties.Anthony Roseis the man who is in charge of the BBC'siPlayer, and he spoke to us on the day that the corporation released an update to it's system which allows the iPhone and iPod Touch to access TV programmes.  However, the system has since been hacked - allowing Mac and Linux users access to DRM free downloads for the first time.  Bobbie finds out why the BBC chose to move the iPlayer onto the two mobile devices next despite continuing controversy over the lack of official access on non-Windows systems, and he asks how those plans are going.We look atAOL's acquisition of Bebo, andManhunt 2 finally receiving a releasein the news as well as your comments from the blogs.Don't forget to:•Post a message on the programme's blog•Tell us what you think at tech@guardian.co.uk•Join our Facebook group
The Guardian is one of a wide range of western news sources that has found itselfblocked in Chinaas a result of the recent unrest in Tibet. My colleagues on the media team have covered the details of our editor'sofficial complaint, and media columnist Roy Greenslade asks a few questions aboutgetting information out of the country.It's not just us, of course -other international mediahas been blocked too, and Google's also found some of its propertiesscreened out by the authorities. This is despite the ongoing work by the internet leviathan to work with the Chinese regime.What does that mean? I've been a consistent critic of the technology industry's dealings in China, which seem to me to be an integral part of the country's control of information. And if, after all of Google's work to get the Chinese on side, the situation simply ends up with Beijing locking things down as normal then it's all meant nothing. Don't forget, even if YouTube was run out of China,it would be tightly regulated.
Fog Creek Software's Joel Spolsky has entered the debate about IE8's standard behaviour rather late, but with his usual insight, he's recast it as a battle between idealists and pragmatists. Or betweenMartian headset wearers.The question is whether IE should assume most sites are standards compliant and make standards the default, or assume that they are not, and make "behaves like IE7" the default. Microsoft originally tookthe latter view, supported by Jeffrey Zeldman, publisher of A List Apart, on the pragmatic basis on "not breaking the web". However, the idea was rapidly buried in abuse and Microsoft changed its view to making standards operation the default, leading my colleague Bobbie Johnson to postWebistan calm after Microsoft backtracks over IE. Righteousness wins!Which is fine in theory, but as Spolsky points out, the reality is more complicated. "Standards are sometimes misinterpreted, sometimes confusing and even ambiguous," so there are always differences in implementation.The precise problem here is that you're pretending that there's one standard, but since nobody has a way to test against the standard, it's not a real standard: it's a platonic ideal and a set of misinterpretations.This is, I think, going to cause hundreds of millions of users, and web designers, a lot of pain. On the other hand, perhaps they should be made to suffer and try to clean up their acts, because in the long term, following standards is definitely the best idea. Alas, if that's where you want to go, you'd rather not be starting from here.Spolsky reckons there is no right answer, but he says:Secretly? Here's what I think is going to happen. The IE8 team going to tell everyone that IE8 will use web standards by default, and run a nice long beta during which they beg people to test their pages with IE8 and get them to work. And when they get closer to shipping, and only 32% of the web pages in the world render properly, they'll say, "look guys, we're really sorry, we really wanted IE8 standards mode to be the default, but we can't ship a browser that doesn't work," and they'll revert to the pragmatic decision. Or maybe they won't, because the pragmatists at Microsoft have been out of power for a long time. In which case, IE is going to lose a lot of market share, which would please the idealists to no end.As usual, the idealists are 100% right in principle and, as usual, the pragmatists are right in practice. The flames will continue for years. This debate precisely splits the world in two. If you have a way to buy stock in Internet flame wars, now would be a good time to do that.The free bonus is that Spolsky also throws in Windows Vista, which suffers from a similar conflict. Windows has suffered technically (and benefited commercially) because Microsoft almost always bent over backwards to be compatible with old software originally written for DOS/Windows, sometimes by people who couldn't program their way out of a paper bag. But 64-bit Vista more or less requires that programs don't screw around doing stupid things, which naturally breaks some software, just like IE8 breaks some Web sites.
The Foundation for Internet Policy Research (FIPR) thinktank hascriticisedPhorm's plans to introduce systems that will anonymise your browsing (if you're with BT or Virgin Media, or opt in from TalkTalk) and serve you targeted ads plus warn you about known phishing sites.In itsletter to the Information Commissioner, FIPR says thatUsers are apparently to be allocated pseudonyms for some of the processing, but at various processing stages the personal data can be linked to the pseudonym, the pseudonym can be linked to the IP address used, and the IP address can be linked to the user. Although we understand that this linkage will not be standard operating practice, it can nevertheless be performed.Many users will also be identifiable from the content of the data scanned, since it will include email sent or retrieved by users of web-based email, and messages viewable by those authorised to gain access to individual pages of social networking sites.Although some web-based email systems operate using "https:" end-to-end encryption, which would prevent interception, this is far from ubiquitous. It might be possible for Phorm to configure the service to exclude a handful of the more high-profile web-mail and social networking systems. But there are no available methods of detecting the tens or perhaps hundreds of thousands of other, low usage, often semi-private systems which currently provide web-mail or social networking in chat rooms or similar environments.Classification by scanning in this way seems to us to be highly intrusive. We think that it should not be undertaken without explicit consent from users who have been given particularly clear information about what is liable to be scanned. Users should have to opt in to such a system, not merely be given an opportunity to opt out. We believe this is also required under European data protection law; failure to establish a clear and transparent "opt-in" system is likely to render the entire process illegal and open to challenge in UK and European courts.This must be annoying for Phorm. In the meantime, we have asked the company for sight of the report by 80/20, the private consultancy run by Simon Davies and Gus Hosein (which Kent Ertegrul, chief executive of Phorm, mistook for Privacy International in our interview). The company said earlier today (Monday) that it would send it over - we haven't got it yet but expect to see it on Tuesday. We'll keep you posted...
While at Play Live this weekend I managed to grab a few moments with Sports Interactive MD Miles Jacobson, a man so enthusiastic about his work, he makes Chris Kamara look guarded and despondent. Miles was telling me about Football Manager Live the forthcoming massively multiplayer version of the footie management series. The game is currently in beta with seven game worlds running and six thousand players taking part. It'll be launching later this year.But how will the world's most detailed and authentic management sim translate into an online MMO experience? Although fans have been running complicated multiplayer leagues for years - can it work as a mainstream phenomenon?Okay, first the practicalities. As you may know, FML will be available for free download; players are to be charged a monthly subscription. Miles wouldn't specify the exact figure but said it would be roughly "the cost of two pints. In London". £16 a month then? I'm kidding of course. I'm guessing seven quid.He then talked about how SI will be pursuing a constant development process with the game, continually adding new features and tweaking gameplay, providing these changes to gamers in the form of regular downloads - a bit like the patching process we all know and love from the CM and FM series' then, but built seamlessly into the experience. (Think Xbox 360 live updates.)Already, the game's financial model has been changed as everyone was grabbing the best players right at the beginning of each league for a fraction of their worth. Now acquisition charges will ensure the likes of Fabregas and Torres can't be snapped up for pennies. The programmers have also added a YouTube-style feature; players can submit replay footage of their best moments to a goal of the month-style competition, voted on by all the participants in their league.Later, I had a quick hands-on with the game, learning about the early stages of play. The first step is to set up and customise your own team, editing the name, the kit design and even your home pitch size (within accepted FA boundaries, of course). You then get £500,000 to buy your first bunch of players. No, you don't go straight in at Premiership level, all newcomers are ranked at around Championship league status, so you won't be buy Ronaldo with your first virtual cash injection.The next bit is really good fun. The transfer market works like eBay - managers identify the players they want, then put in the highest bids they can before the deadline arrives. The game uses the full FM database which means hundreds of thousands of players are available, all with lots of lovely, accurate stats. There will also be wages auctions, allowing managers to tempt the best players with the promise of a juicier pay packet.Next, you're ready to join a league. These are set up by player admins, and cater for a range of abilities, so it's a bit like searching the lobby of an online FPS and looking for similarly ranked gamers. Furthermore, there are leagues catering for both FM fanatics who want to play for two hours a day, and for those of us who can only spare a few hours a week, or even a month. Interestingly, the fixture list for each league uses a 'resolve by' system - so instead of trying to commit players to specific match time slots, they're given a deadline of up to three weeks to play each game. Consequently, you can hop online whenever you fancy and the chances are at least one of your scheduled opponents will be around. Failing that, control can be handed over to your computerised assistant manager, who'll do a competent job in your absence.For the matches themselves, the game uses the FM 2007 engine. A few options have been switched off to make for a more user-friendly experience, plus competing managers can call time-outs to make tactical tweaks and substitutions - but apart from that it's FM business as usual.Whatisn'tbusiness as usual is the new RPG-style skills system. Managers are able to build their stats in key areas - coaching, fitness, scouting, etc, and then effectively hire themselves out to other teams. So for example, if you have a promising youngster on your squad but don't have the requisite stats for building new talent, you can arrange a loan to another team where the manager is more capable in this area. Hey presto, they get a decent prospect on the field for a few matches and you get a more developed player back at the end of it."We've been playing a lot of MMOs," said Miles, after revealing this nod to 'leveling up', "we want to keep people engrossed, not just for a few months, but for several years." He's confident they'll succeed, but then things have been going well for Sports Interactive over the last couple of years. The PSP version of FM is doing much better than expected: apparently, they're getting a big sales boost at the start of every summer, a time when figures usually plummet - Miles reckons it's blokes taking FM on holiday so they can manage their favourite team at the poolside. Meanwhile, FM 2008 has been the fastest- and best-selling in the PC/Mac series so far.Back to FML and Miles tells me that SI are working with the Northern Ireland FA, getting Nigel Worthington in on the beta testing. "He rang us up to complain that his tactics aren't working, that the game is too bloody hard," laughs Jacobson. You can bet he won't be the only professional to dabble in the game by the time it's released later this year. Football Manager has always enjoyed a symbiotic relationship with the real-world sport - plenty of real managers are known to be fans of the FM series (some have used it as a scouting tool). I'm interested to see how this develops with FML - will they be arranging virtual friendlies, or will real scores be settled in the FM universe?
The nominations at the Internet Service Providers' Association (ISPA) annual awards have been handed out - and as usual it's the heroes and villains category that draws our attention. (You can find thefull list and winnershere.)Forvillains, the nominations were:The BPI"For its heavy handed approach against consumers rather than engaging in constructive dialogue with the Internet industry when dealing with filesharing."BT Wholesale "For changing the whole engineering plan for21CNonly six months before the launch date."David Cameron MP"For buddying up with the music industry and trying to appeal to a younger audience." [Should he have aimed for anolderaudience, then? - CA]HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC)"For failing to take the protection of peoples' personal data seriously and highlighting bad practice in protecting data by loosing [sic] computer disks containing confidential details of 25 million child benefit recipients."Nicolas Sarkozy, the French President "For his proposed new tax on Internet access and mobile phone use to fund France's two public television channels, which would be free of advertising."The winner? HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC). Quite a crowded field, though.And thepotential heroes?Facebook"For respecting peoples' browsing privacy by retracting the Beacon service, a system which automatically records user's online spending habits, by making it an opt-in not opt-out service."TheFinancial Services Authority (FSA)"For keeping a keen eye on the promotional websites of financial services and warning that they are not fair or clear enough. A quarter of 77 sites reviewed "failed to present information in a fair, clear and not misleading way", the FSA said."The Rt. Hon. Stephen Timms MP, Minister of State for Competitiveness "For leading the push to increase Internet access speeds, paving the way for services such as high-definition Internet TV."Peter Robbins OBE QPM, Chief Executive, IWF "For his continued leadership of the IWF and approach to fostering extensive partnerships with the Internet industry, the government and law enforcement agencies to tackle illegal online content."Derek Wyatt MP"For a decade of support promoting the Internet in the UK Parliament as chairman of the All Party Parliamentary Internet Group since 1997."And the winner: Peter Robbins OBE QPM, Chief Executive, IWF.It could be a challenging year next time - who are your heroes and villains? From an ISP's point of view, the BBC's iPlayer might be a villain (for all that streaming it encourages) while a company that, say, offered to boost your revenues by showing targeted ads might feel like a hero. Do the nominations above fit your definitions of heroes and villains, though?
According to Japan'sYomiuri Shimbun: "The nation's four Internet provider organizations have agreed to forcibly cut the Internet connection of users found to repeatedly useWinnyand other file-sharing programs to illegally copy gaming software and music, it was learned Friday."The four organizations include the Telecom Service Association and the Telecommunications Carriers Association. About 1,000 major and smaller domestic providers belong to the four associations, which means the measure would become the first countermeasure against Winny-using rights-violators used by the whole provider industry.They organizations plan to launch a consultative panel, possibly in April, together with copyright organizations including the Japanese Society for Rights of Authors, Composers and Publishers and the Association of Copyright for Computer Software. They will then begin making guidelines for disconnecting users from the Internet who leak illegally copied material onto the Net.The story says an ISP threatened to do this two years ago. "However, the provider abandoned the idea after receiving a warning from the Internal Affairs and Communications Ministry that such an approach was regarded as Internet snooping and might violate the right to privacy in communications."Winny is an obvious target because the program's developer, Isamu Kaneko, "was arrested for suspected conspiracy to commit copyright violation by the High-tech Crime Taskforce of the Kyoto Prefectural Police" in May 2004, according toWikipedia, and fined 1.5 million yen.It would be pretty simple for any ISP to ban peer-to-peer file-sharing under its terms of service, so the people who don't do it (eg me) could join up in the expectation of a better service. Of course, there are legitimate organisations using P2P, including the BBC, and people who still want to share will use ways that make it impossible for ISPs to see what they are doing. Also, it would still be possible to "leak illegally copied material" using services such as MegaUpload and even YouTube. However, I'd have thought that P2P traffic patterns would be recognisable, even on an encrypted bit-stream.I'd sign up for a service that guaranteed a high average speed and blocked all P2P-style traffic. Wouldn't you? Why not?There's a discussion atSlashdot.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
"Adobe Systems Incorporated today announced that Microsoft has licensed Adobe Flash Lite software, Adobe's award-winning Flash Player runtime specifically designed for mobile devices, to enable web browsing of Flash Player compatible content within the Internet Explorer Mobile browser in future versions of Microsoft Windows Mobile phones. Microsoft has also licensed Adobe Reader LE software for viewing Adobe Portable Document Format (PDF) documents including email attachments and web content. Both Adobe products will be made available to Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) worldwide, who license Windows Mobile software," says anAdobe press release.This has been rumoured recently, and now it's confirmed. It would be interesting to know the dynamics of the negotiations, but I imagine Steve Jobs's Adobe-blocking strategy on the iPhone helped.
Everybody who uses the web has guilty secrets:NNDBis one of mine.I don't have a clue who most TV personalities and celebrities are, but by looking them up in NNDB, I can fake it. The problem is that while you can look someone up in a few seconds, you can end up browsing the site for another half hour.NNDB is the Notable Names Database, and it contains details of about 25,000 people: 15,118 living and 9,914 dead. It's patchy and US-oriented, but it's very fast and easy to read. In fact, some of the most useful entries are mostly lists of real name, date of birth, and so on. Wikipedia and the IMDb (Internet Movie Database) often have longer entries, but sometimes less is more.NNDB provides an "executive summary" for each person. Robin Williams is "Mork from Ork" while Bianca Jagger is "Mick's ex-wife". Eddie Izzard gets the positively prolix "Bloke in a dress going on and on". They are not all obvious. George Barris, for example, designed the 1966 Batmobile, while John Frank Stevens was chief engineer on the Panama Canal.Most entries have a photo and basic details - such as where the personality was born, went to school, and died. The list usually includes the names of family members, husbands or wives, and children. In some cases it even includes "slept with", any arrests or convictions, surgery (nose jobs, boob jobs), and incidentals such as political affiliations, illnesses, drug use and so on.Do you really care that, say, Nat King Cole was born Nathaniel Adams Coles in Montgomery, Alabama, went to the Wendell Phillips High School in Chicago, died of lung cancer in Santa Monica, and was buried in the Forest Lawn Memorial Park, Glendale? Maybe not. But having such basic facts helps ground people you've never heard of.But what makes NNDB really interesting is its ability to compile lists. Suppose you're looking at the entry for Jennifer "Rachel on Friends" Aniston. She went to the High School of the Performing Arts in New York, so clicking on that gets you a list of other people who went there. She's been mugged: clicking that lists other muggees such Elizabeth Hurley, Kevin Spacey and Rod Stewart. Clicking on her (paternal) Greek ancestry brings up a list that runs from Spiro Agnew through Pete Sampras to Lisa Zane.Some of the lists are obvious, such as Emmy and Golden Globe awards, Nobel prizes and knighthoods. Some you might not think of, such as the people who have had kidney transplants, been bitten by an animal, had asteroids named after them, or founded a cult or religion.That provides a surprisingly long list running from Abraham (Judaism) to Zarathustra (Zoroastrianism). It includes Mary Baker Eddy (Christian Science), Li Hongzhi (Falun Gong), L Ron Hubbard (Scientology), Inayat Khan (Universal Sufism), Anton LaVey (Church of Satan), Joseph Smith (Mormonism), John Wesley (Methodism), and Father Yod (Founder and Deity of The Source Family).Well, NNDB is full of surprises.
Well, as mentioned on Friday, the first major consumer games event for four years took place this weekend at Wembley Stadium. Play were expecting 20,000 visitors over the two days - I'd say most of those arrived on Saturday as yesterday was markedly calmer.It was slightly smaller than I expected, with most of the stands and the main stage crammed into a single conference room. Ascommenters to my last posthave already mentioned, it was also short on pre-release playable demos, with Soul Calibur IV, Lego Indiana Jones, Race Driver: GRID, Haze and Bourne Conspiracy heading up a modest list.But this wasn't a show for veteran gamers - it was entirely and unashamedly mainstream.The key focus was on lifestyle titles, with several Rock Band, Guitar Hero and Dance, Dance Revolution competitions going on simultaneously throughout the weekend. Microsoft brought along a lot of its casual games and created a little area for kids to sit on the floor and play. There were lots of families here, pushing prams around; lots of teenagers in emo and goth gear, perhaps tempted in by the reasonable music line-up (We Are Scientists and The Rumble Strips providing the highlights).In fact, if you were here for bands and a bit of a play about, £16 for the weekend represented pretty good value. If you were here for exclusive new games, a couple of hours would have been fine - it seems, though, that several Gamesblog readers plumped in advance for the VIP weekend deal and felt there wasn't enough to there to justify the expense. Anyone else want to add to their comments?Personally, I enjoyed the Unreal Tournament event upstairs (more on that in another post). I was also pleased to find aDare to be Digitalstand - the organisers of the annual competition for young game designers were showing playable versions of the 2007 Dare finalists, plus signing up visitors to become judges of the 2008 event.I also thought that the staff on the stands were great - I got a thorough talk through Lego Indiana Jones, although they could have done with more demo units and more space. The game looks lovely, with richly detailed environments contrasting brilliantly with the chunky lego characters. Turns out Indy is, of course, perfect platform adventure fodder, with loads of collapsable platforms, precarious rope bridges and pressure pads. The co-op angle works well too, with Indy accompanied by a series of helper characters each boasting different abilities and items. Often puzzles involve directing the other character onto a switch to neutralise an obstacle, before switching control back to the intrepid archeologist - a familiar mechanic, but well-utilised here. The whip is great, acting as a weapon, a means of crossing chasms and as a method of grabbing objects - just like in the movies.Race Driver: GRID, looked gorgeous, with lovely graphical detail, right down to reflections and shadows coming off of dents in your car's chassis. Bourne Conspiracy looked okay, a mix of third-person shooting and a large amount of hand-to-hand combat which, at times, looked a little like pub brawls. I'll talk about Football Manager Live and Far Cry 2 in separate posts as I got some good developer interviews.So... well... Considering Play put this whole thing together in little over three months, I think it was reasonably successful as a mainstream consumer event. It could have been bigger and it should have had more playable demos, but it was a hopeful start. I think, too, that six quid should have bought a whole day at the show (instead of a morning or afternoon session) and the VIP deal could have offered more, but I came away with more positive feelings than some of our readers.On the tube on my way home I sat in front of a bunch of teenage girls, plastic bags filled with booty from the event, chatting excitedly about the games they'd played, and bands they'd seen. One said, "guys for six quid, that was an amazing day". For them, at least, Play's ambitious experiment was a resounding success.
Reggie Fils-Aime, the excitable president of Nintendo of America,has promiseda "big game for the holiday that gamers will want". Full details will emerge at this summer's E3 event in the US, but that won't stop speculation that Nintendo are bringing one of their classic icons to the Wii. Maybe Donkey Kong? Or could it be - gasp - new IP? Unlikely, given Nintendo's regular recycling of their established brands, but fingers crossed etc"All I can tell you is what we announce during E3 is gonna be fantastic. The gamer is gonna be excited and the expanded audience is gonna be excited," said Fils-AimeSo, what do you think? A blatant PR hit or a belated realisation that traditional gamers are underwhelmed by 90% of Wii games? And what game is he hinting at? Maybe a new Zelda title?
This week we hope to welcome former Undertones singer Feargal Sharkey - you know, "Myfavouriteperfect [d'oh] cousin/why I like to do he doesn'/" - who is now chief executive of British Music Rights, and in aspeech last weekto the Internet Service Providers Association (ISPA) noted that ""My key message to you tonight is that the music industry is embracing change... There is huge experimentation going on, and we are open for business. We want to deliver music to our customers in any way they want to consume it."In aninterview with the Registerlast month, he made the apt observation thatInvariably, it's artists and creators who are at the sharp end of this food chain, and they're the ones that will get to the stage that they'll give up and go and do something else - because they have to pay the rent, pay the gas bill and feed themselves, buy shoes, and deal with all the things normal people expect to deal with in life. So people have to realise there's an implication in this.There's been all this play about FairTrade coffee and FairTrade sugar - but what about FairTrade bloody music?So, what would you like us to ask him?And then there'sClay Shirky, whose latest book Here Comes Everybody: the Power of Organising without Organisations looks at the way that group dynamics are changing industries and our expectations of work and play. (There's also ablog.)He cites Wikipedia, Flickr, blogs and flash mobs (used in former Soviet states as a means of protest) as examples of this un-organised organisation. Do you think it's important, or passing? What do you want us to ask him? Pitch in below.And just to remind us of some of that Undertones magic, here's the video:Right, if you watched that through you *have* to leave a question. Deadline:11am12.30 Monday for Feargal Sharkey, 1030 Tuesday for Clay Shirky, please!
We don't have room inprintfor all your letters and blog pingbacks, but do here online. So here's the full text of those we chose from. People were very exercised about Phorm and the prospects of small Linux laptops...Click through for the full text.FUTURE PHORMUp in arms is an understatement,I have already been in touch with my MP about the proposed introduction of Phorm by my ISP. Will wait to see if he even knows what i am talking about. I will stop my contract with ISP and stop buying the GUARDIAN newspaper which has also signed up to Phorm. As a campaigning ethical newspaper (like free data) how could you use such a company with such an unethical background. Use your campaigning clout NOW to stop this happening. Anthony Coulson, BrixhamAs a matter of interest (being a shareholder) , surely the only people who will be complaining is the techy-savy IT guys? I use google, msn, yahoo and even though I know these companies store my search habits for a year - and here's Phorm WITh an opt out button (where does Google offer me the opt out?) anonymising my data, and the techy world is up in arms! Wayne Grossman, ShenelyThank you for letting me know that The Guardian has signed up to use the collected data from Phorm. Charles Arthur's article was very good, though it will be the last article I'll be reading from The Guardian. I've removed the site from my favourites and won't be buying your paper anymore. Phorm is an extremely bad idea, being implemented by a very dubious company. Gareth (no post town given)Your article about Phorm in today's technology section was both interesting and worrying. Thank you for highlighting this potential abuse. Could you follow up with suggestions covering who in the ISPs you listed to contact to ensure that my web traffic is not tracked this way, and techniques for frustrating this activity if the ISP proceed regardless, such as client software to disable it, or use of proxies etc. Paul Dearing, LondonThank you very much covering the Phorm issue currently being discussed on the internet. I found the article very useful, especially as I am one of the customers of the big three ISPs you have mentioned. Keep up the good work, Paul Taylor, Bristol&gt;&gt; The adult site operators, the pill merchants, the casinos: they will always be trying to advertise on this new service. Unless your life is completely clean, you could be in for a bad surprise when these adverts appear unexpectedly. A similar problem occurs with adverts that are permissible but only just. Are adverts for condoms permitted, for example? Arguably adverts for condoms are a public service because they encourage people to use protection — but you still don't want them to appear when you're showing someone an article from the Guardian. Why can't ISPs just do the job they are paid to do?theblog.org.uk&gt;&gt; I know that Google collects data on our search histories. I can at least rationalise that by thinking "it is a free service that I don't have to use". But the ISPs are taking money for a service that they are changing without notice in ways that I don't want them to and which are ethically, if not legally, dodgy. There are those that argue that Britain is a heavily spied upon society anyway (the highest density of public surveillance cameras, for instance), but that doesn't mean that we should accept each new intrusion without some protest.auspiciousdragon.net/57north&gt;&gt; OK. Not happy. At all. Thanks, Virgin Fuckers. Currently researching methods to stop this...jboutandabout.livejournal.comTHINK... NUCLEAR?Nuclear, at its very best industry guestimates, could only possibly save 4% of UK CO2 emissions and at the cost of research and development of energy efficiency and renewables. This, however, totally ignores any determination to effect energy related emissions from the demand side. Reducing demand directly, or by improving efficiency of energy use, has the potential to make very significant contributions to climate change targets. The other benefit of this aspect of energy policy, is that demand reduction and energy efficiency would financially benefit a vast number of individuals, whereas any nuclear program would only provide major real benefit to executives of energy companies and at great cost (for evermore) to the taxpayer. Charlie Graham, Green PartyIn his article, Charles Arthur advocates "going totally nuclear" because "renewables - wind, wave, sun - cannot ever meet our growing electricity demand". However, tidal power can do this. In 1966, the Sustainable Development Commission reported to the government that there is no justification for a new nuclear programme because only four or five tidal power schemes can replace all of our nuclear power stations. It would be irresponsible to adopt nuclear power when there is not yet any suitable means of disposing of its radioactive waste and an alternative is available. Tidal power needs no new technology to be invented. The tidal barrage at La Rance in Frane has been generating for 40 years. A scheme for a Severn barrage was proposed 50 years ago and an updated scheme is under consideration by the government. If the government was seriously concerned about climate change, it would already be building the Severn Barage and starting to plan the next! John Flood, SolihullHah. So you thought you'd get away with it in Technology Guardian - that the assorted propellor-heads and anoraks wouldn't get disentangled in time to challenge your 'opinion'? A room full of carbon dioxide is no more deadly than a room full of water - the result would be suffocation if you were left in there. The effect of a roomful of carbon dioxide on the climate would be truly negligible. I believe that you are incorrect when you say nuclear fuel is plentiful - the last figure I heard was 70 years supply at current rates of usage. And when that runs out what else is there? Yes, we are facing a crisis in that the byproducts of energy production pollute the environment, the answer is to consume less and the way to achieve that is for the human race to stop breeding at its present rate. You will be aware that the Government Scientist has realised what Malthus was telling us about 200 years ago - we're running out of stuff and lack of food will kill us quicker than climate change or radioactivity. Ken Grayling, TharstonAn excellent article by Charles Arthur. Has anyone ever done a serious engineering investigation into whether it would be possible to provide enough electrical power from so-called 'renewables? Geof Davey, St.AlbansAt last someone sensible enough to point out that CO2 is just as "deadly" and "toxic" as nuclear waste (last week, Charles Arthur). But why stop there ? Surely wind turbines are equally life-threatening, if you climb up and get minced by the blades. And water can kill you if you drink too much AND if you drown in it, so tidal energy is actually twice as deadly as nuclear. In fact, drinking sea water can also send you mad - surely the only rational explanation for environmentalists' blind opposition to a nuclear tomorrow. Simon Gulliver, HoveTo suggest that if plastic bags cease to be used naphtha will be burnt as a waste product of oil refining is nonsense. Manufacture of plastic bags is only one of a wide range of outlets for polyethylene and polyethylene is only one of a large number of chemicals and plastics produced from naphtha; polypropylene, nylon, PVC,polystyrene, polyester fibre, synthetic rubbers are among familiar examples. In any case naphtha which is not used in chemical manufacture is put through a process (catalytic reforming) which transforms it into material suitable for use as a component of petrol. Peter Wiseman, High PeakNow I know Wikipedia is not necessarily the font of all knowledge but theylist about a dozen uses of naphtha. This is also a claim made by the industry body, the Carrier Bag Consortium. Can you clear this up for us? Is there really no other use for naphtha? David (no post town given)Imagine the Romans had discovered a long-lasting poison which rendered parts of England uninhabitable even today. Now imagine a civilisation existed 10,000 years before the Romans, much more advanced than our own, leaving only traces today. But they used a mysterious and lethal technology which today means certain areas of the planet make you ill, but no-one understands why. That is the legacy we are leaving with nuclear waste. Charles Arthur says nuclear waste disposal has to be done "for the long term" but is "well understood". Yes, we understand it, but I can assure you that in 10,000 years they won't. William Thomas, DartingtonIt is not necessary to cease manufacturing plastic bags as they do perform a useful role and, as you state, they use a material which would otherwise be released into the atmosphere. Genuine plastic bags which are biodegradeable/compostable and meet both the EU and American requirements are available and thus be perfectly acceptable. Rob Golding, Plastic Free Farnham Campaign.I can give you half a dozen reasons why it would be wrong or downright nuts for Gordon Brown to announce a programe to source all our electricity from nuclear by 2020. They are well known, and if you want one reference, nearly all were raised in some form in the comments one the Government consultation on nuclear power (and duly ignored). But you are the journalist, paid to research and summarise this sort of thing, and you have good Guardian journalists (e.g. George Monbiot) to help screw your head on right, so why should I give you my time to do your job? So were you just flying a kite or too lazy to think it through? Either way, you insult your newspaper's readership - get thee to the Daily Mail, where as you rightly point out, half-brained ideas have a ready take-up among a half-brained readership and ditto politicians. (Now just imagine the DM had said 'Don't buy cars more than 140g/km CO2 and don't drive at more than 60 mph; really useful ideas which would have gone down like a lead balloon with its readership ....). However, 'no use for the naptha' is also one of the least reasons I can think of to oppose the plastic bags initiative. Again, if you talk to the oil folk, I think you will find that they can either reform it to make lots of saleable things or at least burn it for their own energy needs. And most of us are quite capable of doing as the older ones always did in the past, taking a reusable bag shopping with us and thereby cutting out one piece of consumerist candy-floss which goes on the grocery bill one way or another. (But don't call it that in the DM - too near home!) Looking forward to some better journalism from you in the future. George Sudbury, Winchester&gt;&gt; The piece is quite well argued and I find it difficult to disagree with the author. But, I'm staggered to see that it's in The Guardian, a bastion of the anti-nuclear lobby! It's a good job that it is not on CIF, there would be the most horrendous set of ranting posts building up already!junkk.blogspot.comMICROSOFT VS FLASHGlyn Moody ends his article about the Asus Eee and similar machines by saying 'It seems that the only way Microsoft can hope to get people using its software on this new class of low-cost, ultraportable machines is by going fully open source itself'. The two people I know with an Asus have both foregone the Linux that came with it and installed Windows XP. John Stout, OrmskirkGlynn Moody spoils an otherwise interesting article by stating that you need 8GB to run Windows XP. WRONG. You can buy an Asus eee 4GB with Windows XP and the useful bits of Office pre-loaded in places like Bangkok. Cost about £200, and works perfectly. This and the other software including Foxit to read PDFs and an adequate antivirus programme (NOD32) take up about half the 4GB, leaving nearly 2 GB for files and folders. Add 4GB cards to the 3 USB 2.0 ports and SD slot (total cost less than £40 from Amazon) and this effectively makes the eee an 18GB machine - more than enough for 95% of users. You can also easily add programmes via a USB CD ROM, and store your photos on an external hard drive at home. And with flash memory there's no tiny, spinning, hard disk to fail. I'll never buy a conventional laptop again. John Kanefsky, Morchard Bishop&gt;&gt; On a global basis FOSS is being openly adopted by Second and Third world economies for the very reason that they cannot afford First world solutions. Whole generations of children will grow up first learning Linux not WinXP thanks to the One Laptop Per Child laptop effort. So for Microsoft the world is going to become a dwindling world of opportunity.tightwadtechnica.com&gt;&gt; I played a little with an Asus Eee a few weeks ago. The keyboard is small and the screen isn't up to contemporary standards -- but I still like it -- a lot of bang for the buck. You can get this fully functional "laptop" for about $300. I'm predicting that they'll gain a cult following similar to what happened with the Palms when they first came out.bradboydston.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; If I was in the marked for a commercial computer "that just works" I would go for the Apple of the ASUS because I cannot touch type on mini machines. But most of my machines are desktops, and half of my work is interacting with other systems. Vista is not OS X — the beautiful OS you can create things on. WIndows is now the basis of silos: medical databases, clinical trials tracking software… or is it?pukeko.net.nz&gt;&gt; Perhaps Microsoft can learn a lesson from history and Sun Microsystems. The lesson is not to wait. If Sun had open sourced Solaris and enabled its adoption on other architectures sooner it may have prevented the rise of Linux. Unfortunately for Microsoft it may be too little too late and the reality is that monopolies can't last forever.linux-foundation.org/weblogs/jzemlinTINYURLS (AT LENGTH)Last week's letters page rather mockingly featured a long url from BT, and that tinyurls might be preferable, subsequently supplied by Tech.Ed. Indeed the Tech section, such as in Ask Jack, makes a lot of use of tinyurls as it is. I would argue the opposite. A real url carries information of itself - tinyurls don't. It's much easier just to remember the basic URL and maybe the folder of a real URL, than the cryptic tinyurl. So, in the case of the BT, you just have to know that you go to products and services, and then to what's related to consumer products. I agree the BT site could be clearer, usually the easily remembered basic URL would do, so you can just click through from there. It would be nice if Ask Jack and other sections could give such basic URL information, perhaps to the first folder level, along with any tinyurls. Real URLs can also show what background company is involved, that the reader may be familiar with. Paul Bracciano, Belfast [This still misses the fundamental point: tinyurls are the most efficient use of space in print, which is where we use them, because they use only 18 characters - Tech. Ed]REVIVING THE DOCTOR &gt;&gt; this has cheered me up no end for its simplicity. There isn't a negative point in here about slumping ratings, falling share prices, BBC deception or phone line fraud. No, this story means I might finally be able to watch Doctor Who and the Mind of Evil in glorious colour, and that's a nice thing. How often do we get to say that these days?thestage.co.uk/tvtodayESCAPING IT PRISON &gt;&gt; The broader problem, I suspect, is a product of fear and complacency — yes, there are industries in which regulatory requirements make things more difficult than they might be otherwise. I'm not about to suggest that we allow people at the SIS to send CDs through the post — but then they're probably smart enough not to do that in the first place. It's mid-size, unregulated organisations which, in a way, frustrate me most — particularly those with largely professional staff.share.skype.com
Feng Zhao with a Tiny Web sensor circuit boardSome readers will know that my digital SLR camera failed and that I bought a Nikon D40 to replace it. It's not been a secret: because it involved choosing a 6 megapixel machine rather than the 10MP D40x, I wrote a column about it:It pays to think big with digital camera sensors.One reason I didn't hang about was that I was going to Microsoft's TechFest 08 in Redmond, and my first Nikon D40 image appeared in the printed paper on Thursday, with a brief report:It's GeoLife, Jim, but not as we know it. The picture is not on Guardian Unlimited, but it's the one at the top of this post, full frame.In the column, writing about the difference between the 10MP and 6MP versions of what are essentially the same camera, I observed: "You should see a difference if you print pictures bigger than 11 x 8 inches, but you won't see it on screen or in the Technology section."I guess I was right in this case. The printed image was cropped to one inch wide and less than an inch deep, providing an available resolution of 1,000 pixels per inch!In the picture, Feng Zhao is holding up the circuit board from one of the sensors he's using in sensornets -- small web-based wireless sensors that work together using mesh networking. They could also be used for home automation -- attached to or built into windows, smoke alarms etc -- to make the world greener while also providing Microsoft Live services with a way to make money without having users click adverts. (Though I should also add that this is research: there are no such Live services and there may never be any. OK, it's speculation.)Microsoft Research has a lot more projects that don't actually need new sensors, they are based on using mobile phones. The GeoLife mentioned in the title is one example: it can trace someone's route across Beijing. (That's where the server is; it would work anywhere.)Another project we didn't have room for is using software to exploit the tiny accelerometers built into a growing number of handheld devices. Ramachandran Ramjee and Prashanth Mohan from MSR Bangalore were demonstrating their prototype using a radio-controlled car and HP iPaq-3's. The handheld screen told you when you braked or hit a pothole in the road, for example.I had to ask the obvious: "If I've braked, I don't need my phone to tell me that, so what's the point?" Well, having a record could help me plan future routes, and the anonymised data can be used to annotate a map for social purposes. It could, for example, highlight bad bits of road and chaotic junctions, of which Bangalore apparently has many. Also, "In the future, phones might be able to detect pollution and other things that we could incorporate," said the researchers.I suggested they walk the 3 yards to where Feng Zhao was showing Tiny Web devices that could be built into cars or scattered around the environment....
As the mobile phone industry struggles to come to grips with Apple's iPhone, the biggest mistake it could make is to see the device purely as a phone. If this wasn't obvious before,  it became crystal clear on 6 March, when Steve Jobs and some of his colleagues unveiled their plans for what they called 'iPhone 2.0'.The key feature of the Apple device is that it is a powerful handheld computer which runs Unix and has a nice user interface — and which also happens to make voice calls. Of these properties, the last is the least interesting.In their intriguing 6 March presentation (available on the Web attinyurl.com/2j8m6u), Jobs &amp; Co articulated a persuasive vision of the iPhone as a 'platform' — ie a general-purpose computing and communication device. They also set out a technology strategy which might, one day, give Apple the kind of dominance over the mobile market that Google currently enjoys in search and online advertising.At the core of the strategy is a plan to segment the market into two categories: common-or-garden mobile phones of the kind we have now — which do voice, text, MP3s and perhaps radio and TV; and the iPhone platform which provides access to web browsing, email, sophisticated multi-media applications (including gaming) and virtually anything else that can run on a computer.The first of these segments is well on its way to being commoditised as a low-margin, fiercely-competitive, zero-sum retailing game. The second, however, offers high margins and virtually limitless expansion and is an enticing proposition.Since its launch eight months ago, the iPhone has cornered 28 per cent of the US smartphone market that up to now has been dominated by RIM, makers of the BlackBerry phone, which has 41 per cent of the market.If you own RIM shares, considering unloading them now, because the first of Mr Jobs's revelations was that the next release of the iPhone software will incorporate full support for Microsoft Exchange Server — the system that most of the world's big companies use to manage their corporate email, calendar and address-book applications.The upgraded iPhone will communicate directly with Exchange server, giving corporate users the same kind of 'push' email service currently provided mainly by BlackBerry, together with instantly updated calendars and address books and a host of other goodies. And if a corporate iPhone is lost or stolen, it can be instantly wiped and disabled by company HQ.All of which will be music to the ears of chief information officers, for whom mobile communications are still a nightmare. Apple's plans also represent a stiff challenge for RIM whose BlackBerry range was, until now, the only realistic way of providing access to corporate email on the move. My guess is that the next year will see a number of large global companies switching to Apple and ordering hundreds of thousands of iPhones for their employees.All of which is big news, but it may in the end come to be dwarfed by the other announcement made by Steve Jobs — which was that Apple has released its Systems Development Kit (SDK), the set of software tools needed to develop applications for the iPhone.The SDK is available as a free download to anyone who wants to write software for the phone, and over 100,000 copies have already been downloaded. In the presentation, Jobs was joined by programmers from several companies who demonstrated what they had been able to do in just two weeks using the SDK. Some of the stuff — especially the gaming applications — looks pretty good. And you don't even need a joystick to play: the iPhone has an accelerometer, which you wave about like a Nintendo Wii.Apple's aim is obviously to kick-start the evolution of a vigorous ecosystem of people developing ingenious applications for the iPhone. But Jobs &amp; Co have added a couple of ingenious twists.First, all applications will be vetted by Apple before being included in a new online Apps Store. This means that porn and other dubious programs will be strangled at birth. But it also means that every developer will have automatic access to every non-hacked iPhone on the planet, because every time its owner synchronises it with his or her PC, it will have access to the online store. Apple will carry all the hosting and e-commerce costs of the operation, and split any revenues with developers on a 70/30 basis.The second twist in the Apple presentation came when John Doerr, the world's leading venture capitalist, walked on to the stage and revealed that he and his partners at Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers are so taken with the prospects for the iPhone apps market that they have set up a $100m investment fund to finance developers. They're calling it the iFund — naturally.Your move, Nokia.
Lyndsay Willams (interviewed in theTechnologysection last year) is now working as a consultant on the iPhone, because Apple hasbought one of the patentson her touch-sensitive 1997SmartQuilldevice from BT. (It's the bit that turns the image round when you turn the screen around.) Alas the price has not been disclosed.She says she's "very happy" but is still working onSenseBulb.Lyndsay spent the intervening years at Microsoft Research in Cambridge, where she invented the SenseCam. She now operates via her ownGirton Laboratories.The main bit of Cambridge (England) technology in the iPhone is, of course, theARMchip. This was originally known as the Acorn Risc Machine, and was developed to power a replacement for the Acorn BBC microcomputer. Apple was instrumental in getting this spun off from Acorn, because it wanted to use the chip in the Newton MessagePad. After it was spun off, it became a huge global success, and Apple's 43% shareholding in ARM was soon worth billions. The other major benefactor, apart from Acorn, was chip partner VLSI Technology, Inc.
Neil Stanley goes to bed each night knowing he will wake up a little richer. All over the world, the clicks of computer mice are depositing a few more pounds into his account. His secret is that he was smart enough to ask: what's in a name?Stanley is a trader in domain names, the addresses of websites which commonly follow 'www' and end with '.com' or '.co.uk'. Once a banker at Goldman Sachs, he now has a different portfolio of lucrative investments including bridalfashion.co.uk, onlinecareers.co.uk, schoolguide.co.uk, sendingflowers.co.uk and impotency.co.uk.He is one of a growing band of cyber-speculators able to make a living from buying and selling domain names at a substantial profit. No effort or expertise in building websites is required. Instead, a PC with broadband connectivity and an eye for a popular generic domain is enough to draw traffic and unlock a fortune. Recently Stanley was involved in a deal which registered a domain name for almost nothing and sold it for $40,000 a few weeks later.'It's amazing how many people go to the address bar and type in a generic name instead of going to Google,' said the 44-year-old from Bath. 'If you've got mortgages.co.uk, you've got a licence to print money. It's an industry in its infancy and there's a bit of a gold rush on at the moment. It's amazing that the UK hasn't really woken up to it yet.'The analogy is real estate. The internet got invented and all the land is being bought up. In 10 years' time any word you can think of will be taken: all the real estate will be gone. If one day someone wants to build a skyscraper on it, you've made a fortune.'There are about 140 million domain names worldwide. The 6.6 million with the 'co.uk' suffix, a total swelling by 140,000 per month, are registered with an organisation called Nominet. But most trading is done in a secondary market via specialist websites, such as whois.sc, which can show whether a name has already been taken, suggest close alternatives or offer a route to the existing owner in case they are willing to sell.Stanley acquired kids.co.uk and is planning to make it a non-profit site for children, but leaves the majority of his domain names sitting idle, or 'parked'. This means that they are hosted by a specialist website as a simple, customised template containing relevant adverts. Every time someone visits the page and clicks on one of the adverts, the name owner and the website share revenue.'Whenever I register or buy a domain name, the first thing I do is park it,' said Stanley, who is writing a book on the subject. 'Anyone who then types in that name will see the web page and, if they click on an ad, it generates money. I registered noworryloans.co.uk last autumn and it probably earns &pound;10 a week on its own. My whole portfolio is bringing in hundreds of pounds every week without me touching it, and some people are creaming in thousands. My conviction is that this going to become mainstream because it's so easy.'Sedo, or 'Search Engine for Domain Offers', claims to have the world's biggest database of names for sale, with more than 10.5 million listings. Its total sales in 2007 amounted to &pound;37m. In Britain it has overseen the sale of sport.co.uk for &pound;135,000 and mobile.co.uk for &pound;120,000. Sedo also 'parks' more than 3 million domains and paid out &pound;25m to customers last year.Nora Nanayakkara, business development director of the company, said: 'We've spoken to people who are now doing this as a full-time career. People are putting their kids through school on the money they make.'Last month, cruises.co.uk set a British record when it fetched &pound;560,000. But, America is one step ahead. Kevin Ham, dubbed 'the most powerful dotcom mogul you've never heard of', is estimated to have stockpiled 300,000 domains that generate $70m a year. He even struck a deal with the government of Cameroon so that when users mistakenly type '.cm' instead of '.com', he gets a slice of the cake.The 10 most valuable domain names auctioned by Sedo1Vodka.com, $3m2Chinese.com, $1.1m3Website.com, $750,0004Telecom.com, $700,0005Annuity.com, $600,0006Gays.com, $500,0007Gibraltar.com, $360,0008Sport.co.uk, $265,0009Mobile.co.uk, $247,00010Fly.co.uk, $180,000
Peugeot 308 HDi 90&pound;13,295Miles per gallon:62.8Seats:5Good for:Long legsBad for:Crossed legsReading this over lunch? Is there a pepper grinder on the table? Turn it over and have a look at the word stamped into the mechanism on the base. Most likely it says Peugeot. It's hard to believe that the same company that invented the pepper grinder in 1842 has since grown into one of Europe's most productive car manufacturers - along with its sister company Citroen, it is second in volume only to Volkswagen - and that the mechanism inside your pepper pot is virtually unchanged from the engineer's original design.But then the Peugeot family was always good with metal. It provided the steel used in crinoline dresses, umbrella frames, wire wheels and ultimately bicycles, before at the end of the 19th century building its first car (a three-wheeled steam-powered effort designed by one Leon Serpollet - you'll knock 'em dead in the pub tonight).Peugeot's latest offering, in a model line stretching back 120 years, is the 308. Clearly it's a little different from the first. For a start it has a four wheels and a roof, but most saliently it features the latest generation of Peugeot-Citroen's award-winning HDi engine. So far more than 10m cars have been built with these environmentally friendly diesel power units, which are efficient, clean, driveable and quiet. HDi - which stands for 'high pressure direct injection' - reduces fuel consumption and CO2 emissions by up to 30 per cent compared with a petrol engine of the same size.This technology turns your car from a pint-slurping binge drinker into a thimble-sipping teetotaller. The 1.6-litre 308 I drove last week managed an average of 63 miles to the gallon, which means that a single tankful could give you a range of more than 800 miles. Just think: no more service stations ...The 308 is the spiritual successor to the 307 - a dull workhorse which sold in colossal numbers not because of what it did but because of what it didn't: it didn't break down, it didn't cost much, it didn't attract any unwanted attention. If you had a fear of ostentation, the 307 was the vehicle for you; it was the ultimate 'job-done' car. The 308 has moved the game on from the 307's efficiently bland charms, but has kept many of its virtues.The 308 is roomier, comes with an endless selection of body styles and engine sizes - all pointing to the fact Peugeot is predicting a massive year in 2008 with their first '08' vehicle. On the inside, it's clean cut and elegantly simple. The stand-out extra is the astonishing panoramic roof - a glass ceiling you'll be happy to get stuck beneath. It extends the full length of the car and makes sitting in the back a front-row opportunity for anyone into cloud spotting and roof lines.The outside, however, is a different matter. The corporate 'face' - a great gurning grille - has been applied across the Peugeot range. On the bigger 407s it looks refined and sporty, on the smaller 207s it gives the car a carefree 'guppy' look, but on the 308 it makes the car look a teenager with a sadistic orthodontist. But you'll probably find Peugeot made the steel to go in those braces, too.martin.love@observer.co.uk
Bill Brooks thought he had planned for all contingencies when he organised a fancy dress disco for his stepdaughter's 18th birthday party.He hired four bouncers to protect their Grade II listed Georgian mansion in Devon and limited the number of guests to 100. He even made sure there would be four other adults, including himself, present at all times to keep an eye on Friday night's festivities. But the 75-year-old Brooks had not counted on the party's details ending up on the internet, with an anonymous encouragement to strangers to gatecrash the event and cause as much damage as possible.'We had no chance at all. There were thousands of people here and they have absolutely wrecked the place,' Brooks said yesterday as he and his family began clearing up the devastation. 'They smashed windows and mirrors, they were deliberately out to get us. One chap was even caught removing the door from the refrigerator.' By 7pm, all the invited guests had arrived in their fancy dress and were peacefully enjoying the party. An hour later, however, more than 2,000 drunken young people had turned up, overpowering not only the bouncers but the 20 police who came with their dogs soon afterwards, alerted by alarmed neighbours.'I don't know where they all came from, quite a wide area I suspect,' Brooks said. 'They were all about 18 years old, like my stepdaughter, Sarah, but they were definitely not invited. You could tell because they weren't wearing fancy dress. We had hidden and locked away some valuables, but we did not know the lengths they would go to. They stole things and caused thousands of pounds' worth of damage.'They even smashed an old family portrait photograph. We locked all the bedrooms, but they got into some of them. They smashed up the bar and jumped up and down on tables until they broke,' he added.'We have travelled a lot and we have various mementos from abroad and they broke those too.'Sarah was terrified and was in tears. I got very hot under the collar and was shouting and swearing. I think I was the bravest of them all. They were scared of me; the police were scared of me too. Perhaps I was rather foolish, but I was protecting my home.'It took police four hours to persuade all the intruders to leave Colehayes Park, a field studies centre on the edge of Dartmoor used by universities and schools. 'Every time we thought they had been shut out, they would find another way to get back in again,' said Brooks. 'I saw people trying to break our windows so they could climb back in.' Even when police ejected the intruders for the final time, the horde continued their rampage in the nearby town of Bovey Tracy.'Our grounds are full of bottles and cartons. I haven't even looked in some rooms yet,' said Brooks yesterday. 'These people are probably quite decent usually, but they get some drink inside them. It is the devil drink.'Sarah's party is only the latest to be gatecrashed by intruders out to cause devastation after details of the event are posted on the internet. David Worthy and his son, Stephen, had to be airlifted from their home with a broken nose and spinal injuries after details of his youngest son's 16th birthday party were posted on the internet last October.
VW Tiguan Escape 2.0 TDiPrice&#163;22,050Top speed115mphAcceleration0-62 in 10.5 secondsAverage consumption39.2mpgCO2 emissions189g/kmEco rating6/10At the wheelRicky HattonBound forManchester ArndaleIn a wordPunchyEver been to Wolfsburg in Germany? I recommend it. Not, perhaps, for a summer holiday. But if you visit only one German industrial complex based in Lower Saxony on the river Aller this year, you could do worse than make it Wolfsburg.Wolfsburg is the home of Volkswagen, though "home" doesn't begin to summon its vastness. The plant, being only slightly smaller in area than Canada, occupies the horizon from most vantage points. The place hosts a cracking science museum, too, but what you notice first and most lastingly are the brick chimneys from the 30s mingling with the modern, crisp white VW Group pavilions and spotless, low-lying assembly houses, for acre after acre.New cars are crane-lifted into giant glass towers, where they look like toys in packets, then gradually shaken down to the bottom for personal collection from the Autostadt - a giant concrete and glass airport departure lounge for cars. Thus does the town uniquely combine munitions-era architecture with a generous 21st-century twist of Wonka in a conurbation almost exclusively devoted to and generated by Volkswagen. You'd feel pretty sheepish driving a Fiat here.Not a lot of people know this, but waste heat from the power stations that supply the factory's electricity is re-routed back into the town to warm the houses. Mention that, perhaps, if anyone attacks you for choosing a Tiguan in these politically sensitive times. The latest model out of Wolfsburg is, undeniably and categorically, from its roof rails to its steel door sills, a 4x4, which means that class war foot soldiers are obliged to hate it on sight, though not as strongly as they are obliged to hate the VW Touareg, for which the Tiguan is a compact baby brother.The car offers an argument-deflecting compromise position, perhaps, for the driver who fancies a raised driver's seat and some clip-on armour plating, yet who doesn't want to go the whole road-hog and buy a Volvo XC90. Even so, there's compact and there's the Tiguan, which, even if it does resemble a Touareg after a boil-wash, still bulks fairly bulbous in an urban setting and is definitely a size up on the Touran, VW's faintly bus-like MPV.Still, family inheritance at least implies that the Tiguan's robustness isn't entirely cosmetic. Certainly the big Touareg is almost as tough as it looks - not an assumption one can automatically make about reinforced family run-arounds of this kind. The same goes for your Tiguan, even though it's smaller and has a less rugged name. (Apparently we're meant to imagine some sort of exotic blend of tiger and iguana, but I can't help overhearing echoes of Tigger from Winnie The Pooh.) Nevertheless, one imagines the car is chiefly destined to enjoy life, not as an out-and-out frontline combat vehicle but, blamelessly, as a five-seat suburban child-shifter.That said, it does also come with a massive panoramic sun roof, which means you could reasonably park up close alongside your house and let it double as a mid-sized conservatory. Wholesome enough?More adventurous owners can buy the Escape version and get some extra cladding around their Tiguan's sensitive areas, plus a factory-fitted compass. Could be handy. Sainsbury's? It was due north of here the last time I looked.
A controversial video game, banned for being "sadistic, brutal and bleak", has finally been granted a certificate after a nine-month court battle.Manhunt 2 became the first game to be banned in a decade, after it was refused a rating by the British Board of Film Classification last June.At the time, the censor attacked what it said was the game's gratuitous violence and "sustained and cumulative casual sadism". Manhunt 2's creators, British developer Rockstar Games, said the accusations did not take into account the game's intended adult audience.The game puts the player in the position of a scientist who has been subjected to a series of terrifying experiments. He escapes from a menacing asylum and players must help him fight for freedom.After an edited version of the game - in which some of the most violent scenes were excised - was also rejected by the BBFC, a legal battle ensued.When an initial appeal to the Video Appeals Committee (VAC) - the independent body that oversees censorship decisions - found in favour of Rockstar, the BBFC referred the case to the high court for judicial review. This resulted in the case being sent back to the VAC for reconsideration. The committee then decided the game should be awarded an 18 certificate.The news was welcomed by Rockstar, which has been the subject of controversy in the past with other games such as Grand Theft Auto and Bully."We are pleased that the VAC has reaffirmed its decision recognising that Manhunt 2 is well within the bounds established by other 18+ rated entertainment," the company said in a statement.The BBFC said it remained concerned that the levels of violence "posed a real potential harm risk", but said it had to accept the guidance of the VAC."We never take rejection decisions lightly, and they always involve a complex balance of considerations," said the BBFC's director, David Cooke. "It is now clear, in the light of this decision and our legal advice, that we have no alternative but to issue an 18 certificate to the game."The case is being closely monitored by a government review into the effects of games and the internet on children, which is being conducted by TV psychologist Tanya Byron and is due to report at the end of this month. Reports have suggested  the BBFC will be forced to bring a more detailed, cinema-style ratings system for games when Byron publishes her findings, along with greater penalties for those who sell games to underage customers.Some have also questioned whether the censorship regime is nimble enough to deal with the rise of the gaming industry, which is now worth in excess of &pound;20bn a year worldwide. Lawrence Abramson, a partner at Harbottle &amp; Lewis, which represented Rockstar, said the majority of censorship decisions were made by "mostly older people, not gamers"."To make a decision on the game you have to be able to play the game," he said. "The system works in films, but the gameplaying experience is different."This is compounded by the fact that many parents do not take notice of the age ratings, despite the growing number of games aimed at adults. It is illegal to sell games to underage players, but many parents still allow their children to play age-restricted titles."Everyone involved wants to rid the industry of this problem," said Tim Ingham, deputy editor of the games industry magazine MCV. "The best way to do that is to offer more education for parents and try to eradicate this lingering notion that games are for kids," he said.
I need to buy a new phone, but I'd like one that I can write on before transferring the files to my computer, preferably with Microsoft Word or Outlook. I can't afford - and don't need - a BlackBerry, I just need a fairly basic handset that I can also use to write. My budget is up to about &pound;100 - is it possible?If you don't mind trawling eBay or looking at second-hand phones, there are plenty of options within your price range. Nokia's Communicator models - which flip open to reveal a qwerty keyboard - don't run on a Microsoft system, but are compatible with Word. The older, 9500 model would probably suit both your needs, as would the newer E90. The HTC TyTN, meanwhile, runs Windows Mobile (which means it should easily synchronise with your PC and Microsoft Office documents) and packs a top-quality slide-out keyboard that's one of the best around for thumb typing. Confusingly, the handset is also known as the Vario, XDA or SPV, depending who you're buying it from.New, all of these handsets are likely to cost you several hundred pounds - but if you sniff around on auction sites you can probably find one within budget.
With most gadgets, the promise of small is beautiful. It is a miracle of engineering that the iPhone can pack a music player, emailer, browser, diary, calculator, camera, world atlas and phone into a sliver of brushed metal and glass. It comes at a price: only the most pointy-fingered would attempt to write more than three and a half words on the painfully compact keyboard. But cuteness is nearly all.The biggest gizmo I'd bought in the past few years was my MacBook - all 12 and a bit inches of it. Since then, I have experimented with small versions of the same, including a little Chinese-made computer called something silly like Eeeee, and the kit Reuters give to all their foreign correspondents: a Nokia N95 phone with fold-up Bluetooth keyboard. Now that really is cute.So when I tell you my latest gadget stands 36 inches tall, and is 53 inches long, you may wonder what's up. But not when I tell you it's a piano. When I add that - apart from the keyboard itself - its maximum width is only two inches, you may sit up and notice. For a gadget it's enormous. For a piano it's tiny.It's especially tiny when you put it alongside a concert grand. That was its point. Many mediocre pianists discover safety in numbers. Play on your own and you are hopelessly exposed. Play with someone else and you can be delightfully lost.In an ideal world - a world with unlimited space and money and no neighbours - you would own two concert grands, end to end. The rest of us might settle for a Yamaha Modus F01. I bought a brightly lacquered orange version, which cannot be accused of melting into the background. But in all other respects you barely notice it.Mine sits in the fireplace, nestling under the mantelpiece, pretending it's not there. It's about five inches less wide than the big grand piano next to it which, frankly, you can't miss. But the remarkable thing is the way Yamaha has engineered the slimline speakers into the upright axis of the instrument. It is a size zero piano. If it were on the catwalk we would be agonising whether it was right to find beauty in something this thin.More importantly, it sounds like a piano and it feels like a piano. The clever Yamaha sound-designers have succeeded in sampling a pretty decent grand piano sound and playing it through wafer-thin speakers. And the engineers have created something approximating the touch of a piano keyboard, with realistic weighting, bounce, key depth, sensitivity and so on.You wouldn't think they'd have found room for a computer as well, but they have. It does all sorts of things when linked up to a PC (but not, alas, a Mac) or Midi device. Even without that, you can record and play back lengthy pieces, and even store them on a USB Flash stick.Say, for instance, it's always been your ambition to play the Bach C Major double piano concerto. You can record the first piano part on the Yamaha and then sit down at the grand piano and play the second part as well. It's better than that: you can record the first part extremely slow (with a metronome click if must be) and then speed up over time as you get more confident about the notes.Did I mention it's a pretty good harpsichord, too? There were four of us the other night: we'd been expecting five. So we rattled through a stack of Baroque two-violins-and-continuo stuff when we'd come prepared for Schumann.The speakers are not perfect, and I'm experimenting with playing it through my sound system instead. But, for the moment, I'm working my way through a hastily acquired library of two-piano stuff and wondering if I dare ask my teacher to lay down some tracks to play alongside. Small really is beautiful.&#183;Stephen Fry is away
MondaySpielberg game taps growing marketXbox 360 price cutHolocaust game causes controversyGames heat up SXSWiWould you play a GTA MMORPG?TuesdayGame design compo: make a game about violence without violenceGT5 Prolouge gets Euro extrasDreamcast site becomes phishing scamWednesdayPuzzle Quest and other fun mobile gamesARGs rock SXSWiGTA: 66 millions sales and countingThursdayDS goes synthNew offering from Samorost creatorsAre mobile games almost 'there'?Guitar Hero infringes copyright, says GibsonUK government ignoring gamesFridayDo games have BarCamps?
I'll be atPlay Liveover the weekend - it's possibly the biggest UK consumer games event since they stopped doing Game Stars Live or whatever it was called four years ago. Not sure what it'll be like, but playable versions of Lego Indiana Jones, Ghostbusters and Race Driver: GRID will be there, as well as some decent bands and a huge Unreal Tournament 3 event. I'll hopefully be talking to Sports Interactive about Football Manager Live.Are any Gamesblog readers going?
Asus is preparing to sell 5 million Eee PCs this year, up from 300,000 in the second half of last year. But "nearly two-thirds of its Eee PCs shipped this year will be Windows-based as consumers embrace the company's low-cost laptop models," saysReuters. So far,Sales have been the strongest in Europe, followed by Asia Pacific and China, said Lillian Lin, Asustek's head of marketing."There is a huge untapped computer market out there, and we want to get into the next 10 billion consumer market (with these lower cost computers)," said Davis Tsai, President of Microsoft Taiwan.Presumably you can get to 10 billion if most people on the planet buy two machines.... or maybe it's just a misprint.Still, unlike my old mateGlyn Moody, Microsoft sees subnotebooks as being more of an opportunity than a threat. It all hinges on how much it makes when someone buys a subnotebookas well asa notebook PC, and how much it loses when the subnotebook really is a lost notebook or desktop sale. (And if it's wrong, it will have to try extra-hard to get users to sign up for Hotmail etc.)Meanwhile Computerworld has acomparison reviewof the Eee PC (an Intel Classmate-type design) and the Everex Cloudbook (a VIA Nanobook design).As mentioned onAsk Jack, the Packard-Bell EasyNote XS is already around as a Nanobook design.
I've been reading Clay Shirky's new book, Here Comes Everyone, this week: it's about how the falling costs of communication and connection on the net are enabling entirely new ways of self-organising systems to emerge. And I've been wondering if that could have helped Microsoft avoid the train wreck of allowing machines to be labelled "Vista Capable" that were barely capable of anything.In other words, what if Microsoft ran like the web?Early in Shirky's book he tells the story of Ivanna, who left her Sidekick mobile in the back of a New York taxi — and then found it had been, um, acquired by a woman living in Corona, New York, one of the rougher parts of town. Ivanna tried asking nicely, but the woman wasn't giving it back. So Ivanna's friend Evan createdstolensidekick.com, a web page about the ... acquisition, with the vague aim of making the point that it's nice to give stuff back when the owner asks nicely.The upshot? Thousands of people logged on and joined the forums; leaks from inside the NYPD told Ivanna and Evan how to move the phone up from "lost" to "stolen"; others identified the Corona woman's home; even the army got involved, as the woman's brother was in the military police and hadn't been entirely charming about his sister's rights to the Sidekick. From nothing, an online whirlwind was born which eventually swept the Corona woman up, seeing her arrested by the NYPD. A wrong was righted, to some extent. Collective, disorganised-yet-functional action — funnelled through the stolensidekick site — got something done.Shirky also looks at what conventional management and economic theory tells us about the organisation of large companies: that at some point, their size means that the sum of the "transactional costs" of keeping everything going in the same direction become greater than the profits the organisation can generate. The centre cannot hold; like a dinosaur unable to react to events happening down by its tail, the time and decision lag becomes too great. This is why you don't get companies with country-sized staffs; keeping everyone doing the right thing becomes too hard.Which leads us to Microsoft. Themarvellous set of emails(PDF link) that have been released in court detailing its executives' concerns — based on their own, direct experiences of buying machines that called themselves "Vista Capable" and then being unable to run any but the most basic, non-Vista-ish version of Vista — show an organisation that despite its own staff's input couldn't change direction. Intel wanted "Vista Capable" stickers on machines that were only capable of running Vista without its Aero visual effects.Now let's imagine if Microsoft were Shirky-fied. Here's what would have happened:• Microsoft exec somewhere agrees to let horsepower-challenged PCs have "Vista Capable" stickers, although none is actually on sale; Vista isn't yet released.• Lower-ranking Microserfs hear of the decision and dislike it. One sets up an internal page on Microsoft's servers called incapableofvista.microsoft.com, explaining how stupid and woeful the idea is.• Higher-up Microsoft execs ignore it.• Lower-ranking Microserfs look at stock options granted to higher-up Microsoft exec who gave go-ahead for "Vista Capable" stickers, point out when he (it's almost surely a he) stands to cash in and query whether he'll have to pay it back if there's a class action over the stickers. Because these days, almost any misstep by Microsoft seems to attract a class action.• Higher-up Microsoft execs wonder about costs of class actions.• Microserfs club together to build a high-spec machine (this is before Vista, remember) that will be equivalent to the lowest-spec "Vista Capable" machine. They load a compiled version of Vista onto it, and take movies of it not working. They post these onto incapableofvista.microsoft.com.• Higher-up execs take copies of the films and start to show them to each other.• Copy of one of the films leaks onto the web, and from there onto YouTube. Uh-oh.• Bloggers and, soon, the media get hold of it. The story leaks out that Microsoft is trying to label machines that can't really run Vista as "Vista-capable".• Higher-up execs dump the idea and revisit the whole idea of what machines should be labelled.Any objections? Obviously, the thing that most people would say can't happen is that the Microserfs couldn't set up an internal page anonymously; they'd be tracked down and the page would be quashed before it had the chance to spread more widely.But many of the steps here have happened already. Anonymous dissent? Try theMini-Microsoft blog, whose still-anonymous author argues the company should slim down. Complaints about "Vista Capable"? Plentiful in those email exchanges. Internal Microsoft films disparaging its own products? Perhaps you've forgotten themasterful "iPod packaging" parody— an internal film made to point out how badly Microsoft does this sort of thing compared to Apple.The only thing that didn't happen — arguably, because Microsoft wouldn't have allowed this sort of internal dissent to build up like this — is the retreat from the "Vista Capable" stickers.And look what good that's done: thecompany now faces a class action, and has had to bear the embarrassment of its internal emails detailing its own staff's doubts exposed for courtroom interrogation. Seriously, is that better than having to bear a bit of internal criticism?Perhaps there's a corollary to Shirky's observations, which is that some organisations just can't make themselves more transparent like this. But it would certainly help. As Mini-Microsoftobservesof the mess, "Fighting to justify this poor decision doesn't rank up as high on the Bozo Meter as trying to defend browsing technology as being a core OS component [as Microsoft did with the US Department of Justice in the 1990s], but it's close."
"Yahoo Inc said Thursday it is moving its European headquarters to Switzerland from London," reportsAP. "One person close to the move - understood to be called Project Yodel - said it was made for corporate tax reasons," says theFinancial Times, adding:Google, which has large commercial operations in London, recently chose to base its European engineering headquarters in Zurich and in 2006 Electronic Arts, the games publisher, moved its European headquarters from outside London to Geneva.Yahoo already has a strong yodelling connection, including a corporate blog,Yodel Anecdotal.
The latest US hardware sakes figuresare in. And while it's no surprise to see the DS and Wii at the top, the PS2's continued success proves that "casual" gaming is the new hardcore. Yes, the PS2 is cheap but the likes of Singstar and a host of children's IP - Postman Pat etc - are just as important in driving sales for the elderly console. Elsewhere, the PS3 outsold the 360 although Microsoft are claiming this was a blip caused by supply issues. Today's price cut should help the 360 in Europe, but chances are there could be a few more "blips" in the coming months as the PS3 gathers gaming steam. Still, 360 owners can console themselves with the knowledge they have the best lineup of games currently available.• DS: 587.6K • Wii: 432K • PS2: 351.8K • PS3: 280.8K • 360: 254.6K • PSP: 243.1K
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
The makers of a video game which was outlawed for being "sadistic, brutal and bleak" have finally had the ban lifted after an extended legal battle.Horror title Manhunt 2, made by the successful British games developer Rockstar, has been granted a certificate after a nine-month fight with the British Board of Film Classification.Last June the BBFCrefused to grant a rating to the game, effectively making it the first to be banned in the UK for a decade.The game – in which players take the role of a patient who escapes from an asylum – was accused of unremitting and gratuitous violence, with BBFC director David Cooke saying that Manhunt 2 could not be given had been rejected because of its "sustained and cumulative casual sadism".The game's makers rejected those accusations, and said that the game was no more violent than many mainstream horror films. However, when a modified version of the game - with some of the more gruesome sequences removed - was again rejected, the matter became subject to a legal game of cat and mouse.It eventually ended at the high court, where the BBFC's decision was overturned and the UK's censorship arbitration body, the video appeals committee (VAC), granted the certificate.An edited version of the game will now be released with an 18 rating."We are pleased that the VAC has reaffirmed its decision recognising that Manhunt 2 is well within the bounds established by other 18+ rated entertainment," Rockstar said in a statement.Lawrence Abramson, a partner at Harbottle &amp; Lewis who represented Rockstar in the case, said that the entire censorship system needed to be rethought to take account of the video games industry."The system works in films, but the gameplaying experience is different," he told the Guardian.The BBFC refused to comment.
This weekend is the secondBarCampunconferencein Brighton (or, as we like to call it, Silicon Beach), the sister event to the manyBarCampsthat have sprung up around the world since 2005. They're populated by web geeks who spend two days and a night giving talks, drinking beer and making robots.Everyone who comes to a BarCamp has to give a talk for 30 minutes. It can, literally, be anything you want, from visualising relationships in virtual worlds (that'll be my talk) to how to make a cup of tea. But the talks aren't the important bits; no, it's the pitching in and workshopping on weird applications, new social-technical ephemera and, yes, robots.It's all about playing with technology and making new stuff. Neat.Now, the web and the game worlds rarely collide in these kinds of events; the techno-silos are alive and well. But BarCamp-like unconferences may very well happen in gameland, where game geeks get together en masse to collaborate on new software over a beer-fuelled weekend of geekery, and I just don't know about it.Does anyone know of any game un-conferences out there?
British internet entrepreneur Michael Birch was celebrating yesterday as Bebo, the social networking website he founded three years ago, was sold for $850m (&pound;417m) to internet company AOL.Bebo is the world's third-largest social networking website, behind MySpace and Facebook, and claims more than 40 million users. It is strongest in Britain, where an estimated 11 million people - including many teenagers - use it to communicate with each other and keep up with their friends.The deal, which has netted a fortune for Birch and his wife Xochi, was hailed by AOL as a potential way to enhance its internet business, which has struggled in recent years. "This is a tremendous acquisition and one I think is game-changing for AOL," said the company's chairman and chief executive, Randy Falco. "Bebo will be the cornerstone of our strategy."The website is hugely popular with younger internet users, and is seen as a potential goldmine for advertisers trying to connect with the notoriously hard-to-reach teenage market. This - along with its international reach and strong links with traditional media companies - made the deal too good to miss, said Falco.It is not clear whether the site's users will feel as happy about the change, however, and some experts wondered whether AOL might try to cash in on the site's audience too quickly."The smartest thing AOL can do is to leave Bebo well alone in terms of management and day-to-day operation," said Mike Butcher, the editor of technology news website TechCrunch UK. "If they are dumb they'll plaster Bebo in adverts and the users will run for the hills."Similar fears were expressed when MySpace was acquired for $580m by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation in 2005. The site continued to grow, though recent figures indicate that it appears to have peaked at about 110 million users.Last year the company was rumoured to be the subject of a $1bn acquisition attempt by Yahoo, the troubled internet company which is fighting a takeover move by Microsoft.With the internet crowded with social websites and so-called Web 2.0 companies, Bebo made its mark by forming partnerships with established media such as the BBC and MTV as well as running pioneering internet shows such as online drama Kate Modern.The move could be considered another success story for Britain's growing internet industry, which last year saw online music service Last.fm sold to American media company CBS for &pound;240m. Although Bebo was started in San Francisco by Birch, it is run largely from offices in London and has about 100 staff in the US and Britain.Bebo was the third internet company started by the Birches, and they are expected to leave shortly after the deal is finalised next month.
When the Guitar Hero game was released two years ago, it generated much acclaim, with gamers and critics alike praising the innovative technology that could turn anyone into an axe legend, no matter how little talent they deployed. No nifty fretwork or solid strumming ability was necessary; the enthusiast only had to press the right buttons on the specially crafted guitar-shaped controller.Since then, 16m have been sold, raking in more than $1bn (&pound;500m) for the makers, Activision. Not everyone is happy though. For executives at the guitar manufacturer Gibson - supplier of six-strings to artists as varied as Slash and John Lee Hooker - there was something unacceptably familiar about the technology used.Now Gibson is threatening to take legal action against Activision, saying Guitar Hero infringes one of its patents for a virtual-reality music system. The guitar-shaped controller, with its sequence of coloured buttons which are hammered in time to music playing on a screen, violates a decade-old patent, according to Gibson.In a statement, Gibson said it "has encouraged Activision to enter into discussions in an effort to secure a conclusion", but the game company had upped the stakes by making a public statement on the issue and filing for legal action against the guitar maker."Gibson vigorously defends its rights and to pursue any rights it may have against Activision," the statement said.Activision's lawyers said they disputed the claim, but that it would be invalid in any case because of the length of time between the game's launch and Gibson's complaint."We disagree with the applicability of their patent," said George Rose, Activision's general counsel, in a statement. "We believe their claims will not withstand any objective scrutiny." Neither Gibson nor Activision would comment further.
China has more internet users than any other country in the world, according to researchers at the Beijing-based analysts BDA. The research group said China had leapfrogged the US to become the world's most powerful nation online.At the end of 2007, figures from China's internet network information centre said the country had 210 million internet users, putting it just a few million people behind the US. According to BDA, growth rates indicated that China had now taken the top spot."Based on these sources, we can conclude that China has by now comfortably surpassed the United States as the world's largest internet population," said Bin Liu, an analyst with the company.China's number of internet users is increasing by around 200,000 a day, and the dotcom business sector is expanding rapidly.But concerns have been raised about Beijing's repressive approach - using the so-called "Great Firewall" to block sites it deems politically dangerous.The press freedom group Reporters sans Fronti&egrave;res, which this week staged an international day of protest against internet censorship, said in a report that China had imprisoned a number of political dissidents, and blamed western corporations for helping.The report said: "The hunting down of independent thinkers online is all the more effective as several major western companies have colluded with governments in pinpointing 'troublemakers'."Last year the founder of the internet company Yahoo! apologised to the family of the journalist Shi Tao - who is serving 10 years in jail - for passing information to the Chinese government that led to his arrest and imprisonment.Tao had received government instructions on how to report the anniversary of Tiananmen Square and his crime was to forward an email to a human rights organisation.
What's your favourite piece of technology?My BlackBerry Curve — or, as my wife calls it, my "crapberry". Being stranded without your BlackBerry is like finding yourself naked in Trafalgar Square … we're a bunch of saddos.How has it improved your life?It's totally improved my life, and totally ruined it. I can work anywhere, but I can't get away from it either, so I have to switch it off or drown it in a bath to get away from it. I'm totally addicted to it, but at least I can go anywhere.When was the last time you used it, and what for?About two seconds ago, for checking emails.What additional features would you add if you could?A TV, a car or a motorbike! No, I think if it had any more gadgets I'd never put it down. Maybe it could be a bit smaller, but apart from that, nothing.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I'm absolutely sure it will. I'm vain about these things. I want the latest, sexiest thing, but then again I tend to fall in love with the way they work. So I don't want to learn a new way of learning how to operate it.What one tip would you give to non-BlackBerry users?Don't ever get one, it will ruin your life.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'd like to think I was a luddite, but I guess I'm a bit of a nerd. I started my nerdish qualities with my first computer, and would always be upstairs playing games on it.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?A Sony Vaio laptop. Cost me about £2,500, I can't believe I spent that much on a computer.Mac or PC?I love the way Macs look, but I never really got into using a Mac. All my stuff is on PC, but I'm afraid of transferring it over. Macs have got design down to a tee; in comparison, PCs are really quite ugly.What song is at the top of your iPod's top-25 most played?Motorcade, by Magazine.Will robots rule the world?No, because Arnold Schwarzenegger is going to come back and kill them all.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I'd like the new Jaguar sports car, but I haven't got enough money yet.Vantage Pointis now showing
That the BBC iPlayer has been "hacked" is unremarkable (Report, March 13). But most people won't have the wherewithal, or time and energy, to take advantage of such a hack. Part of the design of a digital rights management system is to make circumventing it sufficiently difficult that a sufficient number are discouraged, such that the business model remains viable. Apple and others have demonstrated that when you properly design an entire service experience - for instance music finding, acquisition, listening, management and sharing - around the people who will use it, and reflect accepted patterns of sharing, people will gravitate towards it. The challenge is to create new forms of distribution that are rooted in the medium, rather than continually peddling old forms. Neither the music and broadcast industries nor the "media should be free" crowd has seriously addressed this.Nico MacdonaldLondonThe Open Source Consortium continues to press the BBC to produce a version of the downloadable iPlayer which can be used by anyone using any computer. Your article identifies the paucity of the BBC's reasons for not doing so - lack of DRM on non-Microsoft systems and that the majority on broadband use Windows XP PCs. None of this reasoning stands up in the light of the decision to provide the downloadable iPlayer for Apple's iPhone. We still wonder why the BBC won't provide a downloadable iPlayer for Linux-based computers, particularly given the opportunities identified by many, including Glyn Moody (Technology, March 6) only last week.Mark TaylorPresident, Open Source Consortium
Michael and Xochi Birch, husband and wife co-founders of Bebo, are expected to leave the company but will walk away with several hundred million dollars from AOL's $850m (£417m) takeover.The Birches, who launched the website from their San Francisco living room in 2005, will pocket a fortune from the deal which, AOL said today, developed from talks that began five months ago.When Joanna Shields, Bebo's president, was asked in a conference call today about the Birches she said that they had been "tremendous leaders" and the media would "probably hear more of them in the future".When pressed on the Birches' plans, Shields added that the pair would be "with us for a short period of time", but refused to say of they were definitely leaving. "Take that up with them," she added.Randy Falco, the chief executive of AOL, painted a bullish picture of the company's plans to make Bebo the cornerstone of a "social media powerhouse" of assets.However, some analysts have already questioned the price AOL is paying for Bebo.MySpace had 21 million unique users in the US alone when Rupert Murdoch paid $580m for the social networking website in July 2005. Bebo has 22.4 million global users, according to comScore – a charge Falco strongly defended.Falco today defended the Bebo deal and AOL's acquisitions history generally."You have to look at our track record, we have been particularly prudent in what we have paid over the last few years for companies," he said, referring to around $1bn worth of acquisitions that AOL has made."Compared to the $6.1bn Microsoft paid for aQuantive and the $3bn Google paid for DoubleClick I feel we have done a pretty good job here."Falco added that Microsoft paid around $240m for a 1.6% stake in Facebook that valued Mark Zuckerberg's social networking website at around $15bn.The deal will bring Shields back into contact with her former employer Google. Before joining Bebo in January 2007, she held a senior European executive role at the search engine giant, which owns a 5% stake in AOL.Falco said that AOL had informed Google of the benefits of the Bebo deal, but added that the search engine company had not played any formal role in the negotiations.Ron Grant, AOL chief executive, said that the next step was to "supercharge the monetisation" of Bebo by making it the centrepiece of its advertising offering Platform A.The move is a major step for AOL in attempting to completely transform its business model from subscription to an ad-funded operation. Falco labelled the Bebo deal a "game changer" for AOL.Analysts had questioned Time Warner's commitment to AOL, its online business, after the company sold off the outfit's internet access operation in Europe and is set to do the same in the US."The best way to answer that is that this is one more piece of evidence Time Warner has been incredibly supportive," said Falco."Strategically we think it is an incredibly important space to be in … we feel good about Time Warner [supporting AOL]."A major winner from the deal is London-based venture capital firm Balderton Capital, which acquired a 15.7% stake in Bebo in 2006 for $15m. Balderton will $140m from selling its stake to AOL.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Michael and Xochi Birch, husband and wife co-founders of leading social networking website Bebo, are expected to leave the company, but will walk away with several hundred million dollars from AOL's takeover.AOL, part of the Time Warner media empire, is to acquire Bebo in an $850m (£417m) cash deal.The Birches, who launched the website from their San Francisco living room in 2005, will pocket a fortune from the deal which, AOL said today, developed from talks that began five months ago.Bebo, founded by British-born Michael Birch and his partner Xochi, claims to have around 40 million monthly users worldwide.The surprise deal marks a major push by AOL to grow its social media business, which consists of AIM, a cross between messaging and social networking, and personal communications network ICQ.AOL said that the acquisition of Bebo, which has gone beyond its social networking roots to launch online dramas such as Kate Modern and strike deals with TV broadcasters, will give it a "network of approximately 80 million unique users".When Joanna Shields, the Bebo president, was asked in a conference call today about the Birches she said that they had been "tremendous leaders" and the media would "probably hear more of them in the future".When pressed on the Birches' plans, Shields added that the pair would be "with us for a short period of time", but refused to say of they were definitely leaving. "Take that up with them," she added.Following the takeover, Shields will continue to run Bebo and will report to Ron Grant, the AOL president and chief operating officer.The deal will bring Shields back into contact with her former employer. Before joining Bebo in January 2007, she held a senior European executive role at Google, which owns a 5% stake in AOL.Google bought a 5% stake in AOL in December 2005 for $1bn.Randy Falco, the chief executive of AOL, painted a bullish picture of the company's plans to make Bebo the cornerstone of a "social media powerhouse" of assets.However, some analysts have already questioned the price AOL is paying for Bebo.MySpace had 21 million unique users in the US alone when Rupert Murdoch paid $580m for the social networking website in July 2005. Bebo has 22.4 million global users, according to comScore.Falco today defended the Bebo deal and AOL's acquisitions history generally."You have to look at our track record, we have been particularly prudent in what we have paid over the last few years for companies," he said, referring to around $1bn worth of acquisitions that AOL has made."Compared to the $6.1bn Microsoft paid for aQuantive and the $3bn Google paid for DoubleClick I feel we have done a pretty good job here."Falco added that Microsoft paid around $240m for a 1.6% stake in Facebook that valued Mark Zuckerberg's social networking website at around $15bn.He said that AOL had informed Google of the benefits of the Bebo deal, but added that the search engine company had not played any formal role in the negotiations.Ron Grant, the AOL chief executive, said that the next step was to "supercharge the monetisation" of Bebo by making it the centrepiece of its advertising offering Platform A.The move is a major step for AOL in attempting to completely transform its business model from a subscription- to an ad-funded operation. Falco labelled the Bebo deal a "game changer" for AOL.Analysts had questioned Time Warner's commitment to AOL, its online business, after the company sold off the outfit's internet access operation in Europe and is set to do the same in the US."The best way to answer that is that this is one more piece of evidence Time Warner has been incredibly supportive," said Falco."Strategically we think it is an incredibly important space to be in … we feel good about Time Warner [supporting AOL]."A major winner from the deal is London-based venture capital firm Balderton Capital, which acquired a 15.7% stake in Bebo in 2006 for $15m. Balderton will $140m from selling its stake to AOL.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
AOL, part of the Time Warner media empire, is to acquire leading social networking website Bebo in an $850m (£417m) cash deal.Bebo, founded by British-born Michael Birch and his partner Xochi in 2005, claims to have around 40 million monthly users worldwide.The surprise deal marks a major push by AOL to grow its social media business, which consists of AIM, a cross between messaging and social networking, and personal communications network ICQ.AOL said that the acquisition of Bebo, which has gone beyond its social networking roots to launch online dramas such as Kate Modern and strike deals with TV broadcasters, will give it a "network of approximately 80 million unique users".Randy Falco, the chairman and chief executive of AOL, said: "Bebo is the perfect complement to AOL's personal communications network and puts us in a leading position in social media."What drew us to Bebo was its substantial and fast-growing worldwide user base, its vision of a truly social web, and the monetisation opportunities that leverage Platform A across our combined global audience."This positions us to offer advertisers even greater reach and marketers significant insights into the desires and needs of consumers."Platform A is AOL's display advertising business, which include advertising networks Advertising.com and buy.at as well as adserving business Adtech.Joanna Shields, the Bebo president, added: "AOL understands the shifting dynamics of the web and has clearly demonstrated its commitment to leveraging the ever-increasing power of social networks."With one and the same vision in this area, it was a natural progression for Bebo to join AOL, and we look forward to working together to continue to expand the online social experience globally."Following the takeover, Shields will continue to run Bebo and will report to Ron Grant, AOL's president and chief operating officer.Google bought a 5% stake in AOL in December 2005 for $1bn.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
AOL, once an internet darling that enticed Time Warner into a $164bn mega-merger, has turned to Bebo to resurrect its ambition to be a leading global player in the online advertising market.The Time Warner owned internet company aims to use social networking website Bebo to underpin the growth of its advertising operation Platform A and ramp up the share of online ad revenue it can take in the battle with rivals such as Yahoo, Google, Microsoft and News Corporation."In terms of its competitors AOL was starting to look like it had missed the wave in terms of agreements and acquisition in the hot social networking space," said Eden Zoller, a principal analyst at Ovum."Bebo makes a lot of sense in that respect and AOL has been trying to bolster its position in advertising."Some analysts questioned the price paid for Bebo - $850m for around 22 million monthly unique users worldwide according to comScore - given that it is tiny compared with MySpace's 109 million and Facebook's 100 million global users.The Bebo acquisition is being viewed by analysts as an international play, as Platform A is already strong in the US and it needs to drive the development of its business in foreign territories.As part of AOL's reinvention from subscription-model to ad-funded business it has launched around 17 international websites in the last year and plans to have portals in 30 territories by the end of 2008."This is basically an international move, rather than a domestic US one," said Arash Amel, a senior analyst at Screen Digest. "Bebo is past its prime in terms of growth in the US - its growth is coming from international markets."Bebo's heartland is the UK, with around half of its global traffic coming from the birthplace of co-founder Michael Birch.AOL's $850m takeover dwarfs the £170m paid by ITV for Friends Reunited or the £140m CBS stumped up for Last.fm, two other UK internet companies.In a conference call today , senior executives from both AOL and Bebo skirted questions about plans to ramp up the social networking site's US presence with any significant capital commitment.Bebo, which is strong in markets such as the UK, Ireland and New Zealand, has ambitious expansion plans of its own.The Bebo president, Joanna Shields, said today that Europe was "very much the focus", with plans to launch local sites in France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the Netherlands in the next five to six months.Some analysts questioned the scope for revenue growth at Bebo, which as a private company has not revealed a great deal about its financial performance, beyond saying it is profitable. This is a question that hangs over many social networking operations, Facebook included."The historic problem is that social networking websites are high on usage but the ad rates are terrible," said Dan Cryan, an analyst at Screen Digest.Cryan's Screen Digest colleague Amel pointed out that Bebo's much-vaunted move into online video deals with broadcasters through its open media platform is not likely to be a massive revenue generator.He said that because Bebo does not own its own video platform it is only able to generate revenue from lower value ad inventory around video, such as banners. Content owners such as TV companies and the video platform providers take much of the rest.And Bebo's deals with Yahoo, for search and display advertising, and Microsoft, for instant messaging, are now uncertain under AOL ownership.When the deal is closed and sealed - AOL estimates this will take around 30 days - it is, of course, Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg who will potentially be rubbing his hands in glee."Facebook must be thinking 'wow - if Bebo is one-fifth the size of us and was bought for almost a billion are we worth $5bn?'," said Amel. "Facebook will argue they are worth much more than that, forget the unrealistic figure produced by Microsoft's stake [in Facebook], as Bebo has, in the US at least, had its heyday."&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
AOL, the US global internet services and media company owned by Time Warner and headquartered in New York, used to be known as "the Goliath among internet service providers". That was back when it boasted more than 30 million subscribers and was neatly positioned in the 1990s dotcom boom as the online service of choice for less technically minded computer users.This gave it a particularly attractive position in the marketplace in contrast with the first major US internet service provider, CompuServe, which had long served the technical community.The company's zenith came in January 2000, at the very height of dotcom mania, when it merged with old media giant Time Warner in a $112bn (£55bn) deal that left AOL shareholders owning 55% of the new, combined company.However, since its merger with Time Warner, the value of AOL has dropped dramatically from a $240bn (£118bn) market capitalisation high, with the company struggling to adapt its subscription-based business model as dial-up web 1.0, which it dominated, gave way to broadband and web 2.0. In this new environment rich media such as video and user generated content came to the fore on a new generation of ad-funded websites offering users free access.In recent times AOL has attempted to move away from its original core business as an internet service provider delivering content only to its subscribers, repositioning itself as a content provider similar to companies such as Yahoo.In 2005, AOL broadcast Live 8 over the internet - thousands of users downloaded clips of the concert over the following months - and started moves to make the Warner Bros studio's library of TV programmes available online.The Bebo deal comes as the company moves to bolster its position in areas it sees as critical to its emergence as a leading advertising-supported web media and marketing company.AOL has spent nearly $1bn (£490m) on online advertising acquisitions, including market leaders like Adtech, buy.at, Lightningcast, Quigo, Tacoda and Third Screen Media to create Platform A, a display ad serving network focused on helping marketers build online brands.As part of its international growth strategy, AOL has launched 17 international websites over the last year and has plans to expand to 30 countries outside the US by the end of 2008.The acquisition of Bebo is another step on the road to beefing up AOL's content provision, but this time in the fast growing social media sector with a network of approximately 80 million unique users.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Eagle-eyed newspaper readers may have spottedmy columnin today's Technology section, which considers why Game Developer Magazine's list of the50 Top DevelopershasnoEuropeans in the top ten. Or, indeed, the top 20. The first Euro studio is Crytek at 22, while patriotic Britons must wait til 25 in order to mutter 'Rule Britannia' with wounded pride at the appearance of Dundee developer, Realtime Worlds.Various explanations are offered...There's the fact that several key studios didn't have games out in 2007, when all of Game Developer Magazine's data was collected. I also flirt with the possibility that Europe just doesn'tdoshameless, balls-out mega blockbusters quite as well as the US, and that its development strengths lie, as in most areas of the popular arts, with the indie-minded, the muted and the idiosyncratic.But there's another possible reason, put forward recently by Richard Wilson of UK videogame trade organisation,Tiga. He reckons that tax incentives offered in other parts of the world - most notably Canada - are providing British studios with unfair competition. Videogame publishers moving to Quebec, for example, can expect to have a percentage of their staff salaries paid by the province's government, which is why Eidos recently opened a studio in Montreal, joining EA and Ubisoft (morehere).Tiga has regularly lobbied the UK government to gain comparable tax breaks for UK devs. The trade body waspleasedearlier this year when Andy Burnham, Secretary of State for the Department of Culture Media and Sport, mentioned in areportthat UK games developers might soon receive similar tax breaks as the film industry.But today's budget has yielded nothing for the game development industry and Tiga is not impressed. In a statement, Wilson complained:The 2008 budget contained nothing to help UK games developers enhance their competitiveness in the face of intense global competition. It was particularly disappointing that no provision was made to help offset the impact of massive government subsidies to games developers in competing territories like Canada.Games developers will also be concerned by the budget's slew of worrying economic statistics, including an increase in the overall tax burden.It does seem as though the government is more interested in wringing its hands and worrying about the supposed effects of videogames (there are two major studies in progress, remember - morehereandhere), than in considering the industry as a boon to the UK economy. But is this really why there are no UK studios in that top twenty?
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
(Photo: DaveMc500hats on Flckr. Some rights reserved.)Amidst theeconomic gloom, AOL's management clearly sees reasons to be cheerful. And for the present, soon to be former, owners ofBebothere's one too: AOL is buying the social network for $850m (£425m).Let's try some press release:With a total membership of more than 40 million worldwide, Bebo is a global social media network which combines community, self-expression and entertainment to enable its users to consume, create, discover and share content. Bebo is one of the leading social networks in the UK, and is ranked number one in Ireland and New Zealand, and number three in the U.S. Its users are heavily engaged and view an average of 78 pages per usage day. Bebo has approximately 100 employees operating in offices in the UK, San Francisco and Austin, TX.100 employees worth $850m? That's quite a multiplier. It's a number to conjure with, recalling Nick Carr'sBig Switch articleearlier this year, which noted how much more valuable companies that rely on "cloud" computing can be.We first wrote at length about Bebo and the resttwo years ago:So what do Beboers do that is so compelling? The simple answer is nothing radically new. Beboers send email, exchange voice messages, share photos and, naturally for teenagers, trade insults. And as of last month, members can also make voice calls over the Bebo network thanks to a partnership deal with internet phone company Skype. "It's pulling all the different media together," says [site founder Michael] Birch. "It used to be phone, then email, then SMS. But now Bebo does all of these things but with photos, quizzes, drawings and blogs thrown in."But now the question is - as it always is - has AOL bought just after the wave has broken? News Corp's acquisition of MySpace initially looked like a mistake, but now seems sensible. Do AOL and Bebo make a match made in heaven... or hell? After all, AOL'stried an old-world merger. Now it seems it's trying a new-world one.
The New York Times has anunconventional obituarywith a wonderful flowchart. Wired's Adam Rogers argues that:We live in Gary Gygax's world. The most popular books on earth are fantasy novels about wizards and magic swords. The most popular movies are about characters from superhero comic books. The most popular TV shows look like elaborate role-playing games: intricate, hidden-clue-laden science fiction stories connected to impossibly mathematical games that live both online and in the real world. And you, the viewer, can play only if you've sufficiently mastered your home-entertainment command center so that it can download a snippet of audio to your iPhone, process it backward with beluga whale harmonic sequences and then podcast the results to the members of your Yahoo group.That flowchart is 50% you, isn't it? Or is it 95%?ViaValleywag
According to Reuters, guitar manufacturer Gibson has apparently written to Activision claiming that Guitar Hero infringes one of its patents. From the report:Gibson said the games, in which players press buttons on a guitar-shaped controller in time with notes on a TV screen, violates a 1999 patent for technology to simulate a musical performance.Puzzlingly though, Activisiondoeshave a license to include the guitars in its game, and to model the guitar controller around Gibson's products. I'm no legal expert (despite my ongoing court claim against a fraudulent eBay seller, but that'sanother story), but it seems Gibson is happy for the guitars to be digitised and for likenesses to be constructed, but not for those likenesses to be used to control the game:A copy of Gibson's patent included in the court filing showed a method for simulating a live performance using a musical instrument, a 3D headset with stereo speakers, and a pre-recorded concert.Gibson's law firm wrote in the letter:Based on our preliminary analysis, the 'Guitar Hero' software (including any expansion packs) and the guitar controller provided by Activision being used as a musical instrument (packaged with the software or sold standalone) are covered by the ... patent... Gibson requests that Activision obtain a license under Gibson's ... patent or halt sales of any version of the 'Guitar Hero' game software."Activision has apparently since filed a lawsuit against Gibson asking the U.S. District Court for Central California to declare the patent invalid - the videogame publisher, quite reasonably it would appear, is wondering why Gibson waited three years after the first Guitar Hero game to make its claim; three years in which (and this is possibly not entirely coincidental to Gibson's action) the series has racked upover $1 billion in sales.
