I noticed an ad on the tube this morning. It was for a novel (didn't catch the name) but the interesting thing was the "better than Lovely Bones or your money back" emblazoned on it (those terms and conditions are a must-read). For those of you who don't know, care or read bestsellers, Lovely Bones is, it sayshere, "a luminous and astonishing novel about life and death, forgiveness and vengeance, memory and forgetting." It has sold massively well and is generally regarded as a decent read - a lovely read, you could unimaginatively say.At this point you're probably wondering where the games relevance kicks in. Well, wouldn't it be a refreshing change if game ads were a bit more like this. Imagine a poster for, say, Prince of Persia: Two Thrones with "cash back if you prefer Sands of Time" slapped across it. Or maybe FIFA 2006 with "more goals per game than PES - guaranteed" stuck underneath the logo. Any others?
Yesterday I went to meet a representative of TDK, who wanted to show off the company's new Blu-Ray Discs. "We're ready to ship these now," he said with glee. I asked him why TDK wasn't supporting HD-DVD, and his response was bullish: HD-DVD was a format with a limited lifespan. Blu-Ray was a better product and a greater technological advancement.But customers don't always want the best, especially when you could actually buy one product and not the other - and even when they were both on the market, one's going to be much cheaper than the other. Of course there's going to be competition in the US, he said, but in Europe the market is different. High definition TV isn't here yet, so it's going to be a while before customers demand recordable Blu-Ray discs. That will give Blu-Ray time to bed in, and the quick-to-market HD-DVD will stand less chance of success.Nice words, but the crucial thing is going to be how much the format costs. Let's forget the players - that's all speculation - how much does TDK say it will charge for these little monsters? Well, the single layer disc (that's 25GB) will set you back about 20 euros before taxes. A dual layer disc (50GB) will cost around 30. I came away with two samples which you can see above; a BD-Rom (left) and a BD-RW (right). But I'm still not sure whether I'd plump for HD-DVD or Blu-Ray.Still, very nice to have a disc. Now I just need to find something to play it on.
"A self-professed Mac lover who jump-started a prize award for the first person to figure out how to boot Windows XP on an Intel-based Macintosh is confident that someone will step forward to claim the bounty, now at nearly $6,000," saysInformation Week."I'm an optimist," said Colin Nederkoorn of Houston, Texas, and the creator ofThe ContestWeb site. "I think someone will claim it."Nederkoorn's site spelled out his requirements and tossed $100 into the pot to get things rolling. As of mid-day Wednesday, he'd collected $5,747 as the prize for "the person/group that can make dual-booting Mac OS X and Windows XP happen on an Intel Mac."Nederkoorn blogs about suggestionshere.
The librarian John Scalzo hasposteda thoughtful look back at a year in loaning games for free. While such an option is already available in many UK libraries (perhaps for a couple of quid, rather than completely for free), no one else that I am aware of has documented so thoroughly what the gameplaying public actually plays, based upon actual behaviour. Sure, there are plenty of extrapolations based upon crunched statistics taken from carefully-worded surveys, but this is a great, honest-to-goodness sample and analysis from visitors to the local book loaner.Of the 77 titles which the library had, only one was damaged to the point of no playability. Four were stolen outright, with the perpetrators foolishly trying to sell them down at their local games emporium without taking the library stickers off (Gran Turismo 4, WWE Smackdown Vs Raw, Lego Star Wars and The Lord of the Rings: The Third Age), and the four most regularly borrowed but "lost" were NFL 2K5, Van Helsing, Alias and Tomb Raider: The Angel of Darkness. The ones that were borrowed most regularly were:1. Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets 2 (tie). Spider-Man 2 2 (tie). Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 4 2 (tie). Scaler 5. Men in Black II: Alien Escape 6 (tie). Viewtiful Joe 6 (tie). Tony Hawk's Underground 2 6 (tie). Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban 9 (tie). Katamari Damacy 9 (tie). Prince of Persia: The Sands of TimeScalzo has a very thoughtful assessment of what the public wants:Licensed games, sports titles and franchise titles rule the day. It's what people know and want. But I have also found that it doesn't really matter what we have on the shelf. If it's there, someone will check it out. Perennial unknown classic Beyond Good &amp; Evil and side scrolling shooter Gradius V are numbers 11 and 12 on that list. When all you see is roughly three to seven games on the shelf at any one time building a "quality" collection takes a back seat to building a bigger collection. But the added bonus is that people may play something that they never would have before. Never underestimate the lure of the word FREE.I think the key statements are "I have also found that it doesn't really matter what we have on the shelf. If it's there, someone will check it out," and "the added bonus is that people may play something that they never would have before." So why are companies so opposed to the resale market? Surely that would get more of their products appreciated by a wider audience. But I digress. I'll let the ever-eloquent Alice do thecampaigningforme.Unfortunately, the loans aren't broken down by gender, age, race or other demographic, but for those details from a UK perspective, you can check out the superbly comprehensive research conducted by the BBC (particularly, the aforementionedAlice) that is available for downloadhere(pdf).Both viaBoingBoing.
If you're a regular viewer of trendy BBC arts programme, The Culture Show, you'll already be aware of this, but in the unlikely event that you're not... the series is engaging in a search for the public's favourite British design icon. The suitably named Great British Design Quest, launched in conjunction with theDesign Museum, features a longlist of 25 entries taking in the last 105 years of UK invention.And in there with Concorde, Dr Marten boots, the telephone kiosk and the Raleigh Chopper are two videogames - can you guess what they are? I sort of gave it away in the title... Yes, it's GTA and Tomb Raider.Two entries for the games industry is really not bad at all. The lamp industry, for example, only has one - with the angle-poise lamp. Sadly, there's no room for the ZX Spectrum, although Clive Sinclair does receive a nomination for the C5... ha ha, only joking, it's for the Executive Electronic Calculator from 1972.Can you think of any more deserving videogame nominations? Perhaps Elite which created its own genre - and its own galaxy - on less memory than it takes to write a saucy email nowadays. Talking about sauciness, it's ironic that GTA's nomination for great design should come up in the very week that Take Two isthreatened with legal actionover Hot Coffee - an interactive sex sceneaccidentallyleft in the code of GTA San Andreas. That hardly reeks of rigorous design sensibilities, does it? I bet none of the other entrants have been found to contain lewd content. Oh, apart from telephone kiosks.Anyway, you can find out more - and then vote -here.
"The high-rise towers of Reynholm Industries are full of go-getters, success stories, and winners... apart from in the basement. While their beautiful colleagues work in fantastic surroundings, Jen, Roy and Moss lurk below ground, scorned and mocked by their co-workers as geeky losers, doomed never to make it back into normal society" says the intro to Channel 4's new sitcom,The IT Crowd. You can watch it online now (wmv stream works fine), or wait until it's broadcast on February 3.Sounds ominous, but the programme's writer and director, Graham Linehan, is credited for Father Ted (sounds even more ominous) and wrote for Harry Enfield and The Fast Show. And it's produced by Ash Atalla (The Office).The British Sitcom Guidehas the details. There's also aMedia Guardianstory.Update:You can now readNew comedy, old situationon our Technology page.
Astoryis richocheting around the blogosphere that World of Warcraft, the 5.5 million-strong virtual world that rivals some of its MMOG cousins in the East, has a pretty unfortunate policy concerning its Lesbian, Gay, Transgender and Bisexual players: don't ask, don't tell. A guild advertising itself as "GLBT friendly" was asked to remove such a proclamation because it might provoke other players to break the company's sexual discrimination policy.fromIn Newsweekly:Blizzard's stance was clear that recruiting for a guild using "GLBT" was inappropriate as, the company said, it may "incite certain responses in other players that will allow for discussion that we feel has no place in our game."Eh?! This makes no sense, and perpetuates the view that the online space is straight, thus filtering out the very diverse set of people who enjoy a virtual life. It also suggests that they are happy to coddle those users who think it's OK to throw out homophobic epithets, of which - in their view - there must be many. After all, they must be anticipating that the number of people they would have to ban for responding to the call by hurling epithets would result in a significant loss of revenue. This has implications for the rights of residents of virtual worlds, as Boing Boing's Cory Doctorow explains in his take on the situation:...real life has one gigantic advantage over gamelife. In real life, you can be a citizen with rights. In gamelife, you're a customer with a license agreement. In real life, if a cop or a judge just makes up a nonsensical or capricious interpretation of the law, you can demand an appeal. In gamelife, you can cancel your contract, or suck it up.The real world agrees.Last week, the U.S. state of Maryland, home of my high schoolalma mater, revoked a law banning gay marriage as it conflicted with the state's policy on equal rights. Human rights 1, capricious law 0. Blizzard says "it's best to remain quiet, dear". Human rights 0, capricious law 1. Dang.Surely Blizzard is in breach of its own policy by issuing an official warning to the group? While some may argue that advertising for like-minded others based upon sexual orientation is itself sexual discrimination, this is - surprisingly - not the stance that the company is taking. Considering their (reported) lack of action for homophobic epithets on official game forums, this latest action adds to a very unfortunate public policy on homosexuality indeed.prd on theGaymer.orgforums says,I was enjoying a nice mind rotting night of playing world of warcraft (who needs a man when you can have a nightelf, right?) ... so I'm bobbing along trying to grind away to a higher level, and then in general chat, a few players were using words like faggot and gay. I was not amused. So's, I asked the other players why they would use such language in open chat and I bet you can guess their response "#@!#$ faggot!"...I emailed Blizzard and asked them to do something, Blizzard's response was "just ignore em, they'll go away", riiiiiiiiight, like that's ever worked with a gay basher.So my retort was why would other slurs against minorities go punished, yet calling someone a faggot in open forum is to be "ignored"...Blizzard argues that such offline aspects have no place in their virtual space. I say poppycock. 5.5 million people are in Azeroth for a 5.5 million different reasons. Some of them are game-related, some are social, others are personal. Is this to suggest that the only service they provide is one exclusively for escapism and fun? Then they have a very narrow view of their population.AsChris Dahlencomments on the thread as reported byTerra Nova:So, okay - I'd like to segregate myself from dumbasses. Could WOW launch a "no dumbasses" server?More information on this piece of news is atBoing Boing,MMOrgy,LawGeekandTerra Nova. Related Links:Homosexuality and GamingGay Gaming
Much has been made of Google's kowtowing to censorship by agreeing to filter out certain results in its Chinese search (read, for example, John Naughton'sObserver columnfrom Sunday).Sure, you can compare searches for 'Falun Gong' on the Chinese and US sites - but it's not very visual, is it?So if you really want to see the censorship in all its Orwellian fullness, compare these: aGoogle.cn image search for 'tiananmen'and aGoogle.com image search for tiananmen.Update:as James points out, aGoogle search in China for 'Tiananmen'(with a capital 'T') does seem to yield the expected tanks etc. I had tried this but got no results, I think. Perhaps someone who uses Mandarin, or whichever Chinese input text Google.cn accepts, could tell us if that works. (Somehow I feel though that it's not a difference that makes any difference; and also that if you did enter such a search in China that there would be a visit not long afterwards from some officials...)Just as a reminder, Tiananmen Square was the site of pro-democracy protests by Chinese students in 1989; it wasruthlessly put downby the government of the time. While it is a square which has a long and valuable history, you might expect that some of that history would include something about what happened there 16 years ago. But no.One wonders whether the Wikipedia entry for 'Tiananmen' shows up inside China. Somehow we suspect not.(Via Sidney Karin at UCSD, on the interesting-people list).
"Symantec Corporation today announced the results of a research study* which reveals that the average estimated value of data stored in email on a user's laptop exceeds half a million pounds -- over five hundred times the average cost of the hardware alone. 78% of laptop users across Europe, Middle-East and Africa stated that the data on their device is of substantial value in terms of intellectual property or commercially sensitive information, with the average estimate being in the region of £550,000. Some respondents claimed that their mobile device was worth as much as £5 million," says a Symantec press release.* Dynamic Markets conducted 1,700 quantitative interviews with general employees and IT managers with responsibility for their companies' email system. All companies have 500 or more employees from a variety of sectors across Europe, Middle-East and Africa. 15 in-depth qualitative interviews were also conducted.Comment: Sorry, what was that about back-ups?
The pictures ofunsold boxessuggested that things weren't going well for the Xbox 360 in Japan. This has been confirmed withnewsthat less than 110,000 units were sold since launch. To put this in context this is even less than the 124,000 that the original Xbox sold in its first three days of launch. The reasons for this slow start are numerous and include cultural factors, but the key one is the lack of a truly must-have title. While this hasn't hindered the response in the West, there is little to tempt the Japanese consumer to the 360. This is likely to change in the coming weeks with Ninety-Nine Nights and Final Fantasy XI on the way. But even with these it looks like, in Japan at least, PS3 and Revolution have little to fear from the first next-gen console. Of course the real action now takes place in the US, and to a lesser extent, Europe, but Japan is still important. I expect a flurry of PR puff attempting to cover up the situation in the next few days, but there is no denying that the 360 is already in trouble in Japan.
According toThe New York Times, Tiffany &amp; Company is sueing eBay "for facilitating the trade of counterfeit Tiffany items on [its] site." It says:If Tiffany wins its case, not only would other lawsuits follow, but eBay's very business model would be threatened because it would be nearly impossible for the company to police a site that now has 180 million members and 60 million items for sale at any one time.eBay buyers are supposed to be protected by the reputation system, but they aren't. The story says that people trading in fakes trade with each other to boost their seller status and "regularly dole out positive feedback to each other to fool potential buyers". Meanwhile, "Buyers and sellers are often reluctant to leave bad reviews, lest their own reputations suffer. "
The city of Los Angeles is suing the makers of the video game Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas for hiding sex scenes in its computer code.The game, released in 2004, is one of a series in which the player takes the role of a criminal who commits murder, deals in drugs and pimps prostitutes in a virtual Los Angeles. However, the makers, Take-Two Interactive Software, may have stepped over the line by embedding a game within a game called Hot Coffee in which the characters have explicit sex under the control of the player, who can alter position and viewpoint with a keyboard or joystick.The Los Angeles city attorney's office has taken Take-Two to court for deceptive business practices and making false statements in marketing the game, for its failure to reveal the extent of its sexual content.After complaints from politicians including Senator Hillary Clinton last year, the company initially said the sex game had been added by hackers, but later admitted it was written in the original code. Hackers found the code and the hidden scenes last year, broadcasting the discovery on the internet.The US gaming industry has since changed the game's rating from "Mature 17+" to "Adults Only 18+" and several supermarkets have removed it from their shelves. Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas has been re-released without the explicit sex, but the Los Angeles authorities want the company to surrender the profits from an estimated 200,000 copies of the game sold under the old, less restrictive rating, and is also demanding a $2,500 fine for any false statements made by company officials about the game in the past.More than 35 million copies of Grand Theft Auto have been sold, with global sales approaching $2bn. However, stock in Take-Two has fallen from $30 a share before the discovery of the Hot Coffee sex scenes to less than half that by the end of last week. The company has admitted the discovery of "material weaknesses" in its financial accounting and has asked for more time to file an annual report.The company has not issued a statement since the Los Angeles city attorney took his case to court on Thursday.
Flagr.comoffers a way of sharing places -- eg restaurants -- using pictures from your PC or mobile phone.At Flagr.com, you can share all your favorite venues, broadcast your most recently visited locations, exchange mobile media, plan events, and find new things to do in the real world. Flagr provides a refreshing incentive to venture out and experience something new.It was one of the sites that appeared at theEntreprenueur 27event at Stanford University, which was reported by Microsoft'sRobert ScobleandMichael Arringtonof Techcrunch. You had to be under 27 to play.
A driverless car which steered itself for 132 miles to win a race across the Nevada desert has been named the best robot of all time by Wired magazine.Stanley, a converted VW Touareg R5 which was made at California's Stanford University, finished ahead of other vehicles at the Defence Advanced Research Projects Agency Grand Challenge. It averaged more than 19mph, scooping a prize of &pound;1.1m.Stanley's roof-mounted radar, laser range finders and video cameras let it find the best route and avoid obstacles. Stanford hopes that its research could help produce systems to warn drivers if they are swerving out of lane, and even allow commuters to sit back while their car drives them to work.
Google, the socially conscious internet search engine which could seemingly do no wrong, has owned up to a 'big mistake' in its latest online venture. The blunder, affecting Google's new online video store, comes at the end of the most difficult week in the company's short history, as it faced worldwide criticism for bowing to government censorship of its new search engine in China.Marissa Mayer, a company vice-president, has admitted that the new Google Video store had suffered from a poor design which made it difficult to access popular TV shows such as CSI: Crime Scene Investigation and the reality show Survivor'We made a big mistake,' Mayer said. 'You can't come out and launch a product like Google Video and say CSI and Survivor are there if they're not on the home page.' She added that the home page had been changed to make it easier to find clips, and that the response to Google Video had been 'absolutely fantastic'.But the service has been under sustained attack since it was launched by Google co-founder Larry Page earlier this month in Las Vegas at a glitzy event, featuring a comic turn by Robin Williams, which seemed to reaffirm Google as the company of the moment.David Pogue, technology critic of the New York Times, complained that the site 'doesn't live up to Google's usual standards of excellence'. He added: 'If it all sounds a bit chaotic, you're right... the site is appallingly half-baked.'Google's reputation was already reeling after its launch of a self-censored search engine in China last week.The Free Tibet Campaign said: 'Through its collusion, Google is endorsing censorship and repression.'Google argued it would be more damaging to pull out of China altogether.
Renault Clio&pound;8,995Miles per gallon:61Safety stars:5Good for:romanticsBad for:Euro scepticsThink of a car advert and chances are you'll picture the blushing Nicole and her benevolent father - a perfect example of the Electra complex (and no, that's not a new gadget, it's the psychoanalytic word for penis envy). The ad is the most successful of all time, with an astonishing 23m viewers staying in on a Friday night in May 1998 to watch Nicole marry Vic (or was it Bob?). Thierry Henry then proved how omni-talented he is by making the 'Va va voom' tagline of the car's next campaign actually sound cool.If ever there was a series of ads which proves the copywriters' art it has been the Clio's. For 15 years, we've believed Renault's cheeky little 'supermini' had all the vim and verve of a French mademoiselle. However, the ads were totally out of kilter with the actual hands-on experience of driving the car - lousy handling topped off with even lousier bodywork.The launch of an all new Clio means, of course, the launch of an all new ad campaign. This time we have Ben and Sophie arguing about the merits of a French car with British designers. A novel twist on the old France versus Britain rivalry. But the real twist in the story is that this third-generation Clio is a really decent car. So good, in fact, that it's been voted the European car of the year for 2006 by 56 leading motoring journalists - and no, don't worry, I'm not one of them.From the outside, the Clio has done away with its slightly blobby styling and introduced sleek lines, angled headlamps and a flowing, muscular look. It manages to be classy and agile yet robust and rugged - and not many cars pull off that keep-everyone-happy appeal.There are dozens of model options available. I tested the 1.5dCi Dynamique - the marque's fantastically abstemious diesel. And it was so quiet and responsive you'd never have known you were at the wheel of the taxi-driver's favourite. Both three-door and five-door cars are available, but three-quarters of the vehicles sold will be the three-door. The five-door is the same size as the Megane - the next model up - and so seems to defy the whole point of buying a 'tidy townie'.The Clio comes stuffed with big-car technology. There's the paddle-shift gearbox (technology which has been borrowed from Formula 1); adaptive cornering headlamps - so the lights point in the direction you are looking rather than the direction the car is pointing; an MP3 connection; speed-variable electric steering; air bags as standard (which sounds more like a call-sheet request for glamour models); and a five-star safety rating.All models, for an extra &pound;250, can be fitted with 'keyless-go'. This is very fancy; it means you don't ever have to use a key. You have a credit-card sized 'key' which you leave in your wallet. When you approach the car it automatically unlocks and then you press a start/stop button on the dash and off you go. It's a bit like those card-swipe keys you now get in hotels. Personally, I still feel happier when the hotel key comes attached to an unlosable piece of driftwood. But maybe that says more about my own organisational skills.martin.love@observer.co.uk
"I'm collecting photoshopped/altered Google logos by bloggers and others in response to the search engine company's decision to kowtow to China. Let a thousand protest icons bloom!" writesMichelle Malkin. There are half a dozen atthe hyperlinkopotamus, including the one below fromPaul Bubel:
When Microsoft unveiled its second quarter financial results on Thursday, it said that although it had suffered from shortages of some components, it had shipped 1.5 million Xbox 360 games consoles: 900,000 in the US, 500,000 in Europe and 100,000 in Japan. This pushed turnover of the Home and Entertainment division up to $1.56 billion from $1.34 billion, but it made an operating loss of $293 million compared to a $55 million profit in the same quarter last year.I was amused bythe GamesIndustry.biz ideathat "The continued impact of component shortages for its Xbox 360 console have been cited as the main reason for the loss in profits, though MS officials have stated that the manufacturing troubles are now being resolved." Actually, the Xbox 360 is selling at a loss (or a negative margin, as Microsoft puts it), so if Microsoft had been able to make and therefore sell more, the division would probably have lost even more money....Overall, Microsoft reported Q2 revenues of $11.84 billion (up by 9%) and profits of $3.65 billion (up 5%). Joe Wilcox of Jupiter Research has a round uphere.
The Microsoft Network (MSN) Live portal and Microsoft Research (MSR) have launchedLive Labs, a joint project to get net researchers to drive product innovation in a way that's like Google Labs, but intended to be much less insular. It has amanifestowritten by Gary Flake. Accompanying the launch there are a new set of academic research grants and 10 MSR PhD Fellowships. The overview says:In addition to our core team of Internet technologists that specialize at the intersection between science and engineering, Live Labs includes a group of renowned researchers at MSR, as well as Windows Live product designers and engineers. Together, we foster Internet-centric research programs, rapidly prototype and launch emerging technologies, incubate entirely new inventions, and improve and accelerate Live product offerings. Our entire Live Labs team collaborates closely with the academic research community through research grants, fellowships, workshops, conference sponsorships, and more.They're hiring, obviously.Update: Dion Hinchcliffe has a good report of the Live Labs announcement plus audio fileshere.
"On Thursday, Sony pulled the plug on its Aibo robot, the peppy robotic dog with a software-controlled personality -- and abilities -- that has entertained thousands of faithful owners. The dogs, which cost upwards of $2,000 each, can dance, whimper, guard and play, developing personalities based on interaction with its owners. Sony has sold over 150,000 Aibos since launching the product in May 1999," reportsThe Mercury News."The Tokyo-based consumer electronics giant is restructuring under new chief executive Howard Stringer. Sony said Thursday that it plans to focus on three core businesses -- electronics, games and entertainment. Its two robotics efforts, the Aibo and the Qrio humanoid robot, got the ax."
The Official Google Blog has posted a defence of its actions,Google in China. Over at Search Engine Watch Blog, Gary Price has posteda round-up of coverageincluding remarks made by Sergey Brin to CNN, and articles that look at what's being censored. Google Blogoscoped has also covered the ground, picking up Gary's observation,Google Removes Its Help Entry on Censorship. It also links to aJoy of Tech cartoon.Finally, inAn Open Letter to Google, Andrew Shieh compares searches for "Falun Gong" onGoogle.com(1,840,000 results) with a search onGoogle.cn(11,900). He writes:The results on Google.com show generally accurate articles about Falun Gong. The results on the Google.cn site are all government propaganda. It's an embarrassment. No one at Google can possibly be proud of the search results shown above. This is not the same as displaying incomplete search results; this is showing misinformation, lies, and propaganda. When you remove all of the sites that speak the truth, all you are left with is lies.Note: I redid the searches to include quotation marks.
There's been a meme going round all week, driving me bananas. Some semi-random examples:http://www.caterina.net/archive/000929.htmlhttp://www.kottke.org/06/01/four-thingshttp://jeremy.zawodny.com/blog/archives/006185.htmlhttp://www.zeldman.com/daily/0106c.shtmlhttp://meyerweb.com/eric/thoughts/2006/01/24/four-things/http://www.kartooner.com/archives/2006/01/26/four-things/http://www.mattbrett.com/archives/2006/01/four-things/The total is now well over a million so with luck it should be over by the end of next week....
When news emerged that total unknownGizmondowas launching a handheld games device to compete with 20-year market incumbent Nintendo's DS and giant Sony's PSP, it was obvious they either had something miraculous to unveil, or were about to provide their investors with an object lesson in being stupid. With its perplexingly low-key product launch and perennially deserted Regent Street flagship store, it's clearly the latter. But unbowed by repeated and uniform failure, the company has announced a successor to its virtually-nil selling machine that will launch in 2006, provided Gizmondo can raise the $75m necessary to stay afloat that long. Your investment capital would be safer with the KLF and a box of firelighters.
Rebelstar: Tactical CommandGame Boy AdvanceStrategy-gaming fans of a certain age will fondly remember the turn-based skirmishes of the X-Com: UFO series, which saw players control a team of agents in the usual battle to save the world from an alien menace. During this particular invasion, salvation comes via meticulous application of strategy rather than rapid application of trigger finger. Rebelstar: Tactical Command brings a neatly cut down version to Game Boy Advance, preserving the series' painfully exacting standards and forcing you to time attacks and patrol sweeps perfectly or face extinction by unseen enemies. Assigning weapons, team formation and the all-important management of each turn's time limit make this a return for the game's well-loved play mechanics and penchant for brutal difficulty. Action fans and those prone to irritability should give this a wide berth.&#183;Namco, &pound;30JackedPC, PS2, XBOXSince EA's classic Road Rash - a 16-bit motorbike game that involved dodging oncoming traffic while using heavy objects to bludgeon fellow riders to the tarmac - there has been a sad dearth of biking combat games. Jacked is a new addition to the genre, and one that screams "budget", from its garish graphic design to appalling, gabba-meets-heavy metal soundtrack. The game's no better, with over-simplified handling, thrown-together tracks and merciless collision-detection conspiring to suck out any enjoyment, leaving only the bitter husk of despondency. When bargain bucket copies of utterly superior driving game Burnout 3: Takedown are the same price, Jacked is a pointless choice.&#183;Xplosiv, &pound;20
MondayMedia, games and suicideReal goods for fake moneyGizza jobTuesdayRevenge of the driving shooter?Undermining the advertisersBooth babes banned at this year's E3Nintendo does scienceWednesdayNintendo revolutionises North America by Thanksgiving50 Cent: reviewproofSony in Siren sequel shockerNintedno chatsThursdayArt games - beyond consumptionTechnologyDS redesignKonami invents 'new' multimedia experiencePlenty on the horizon for PSPFridayPregnancy and virtual prophylacticsPossession and the art of PS3 programming
I spent much of last December writing a preview of PS3 zombie shocker, Possession, for the Official PlayStation 2 magazine. The game is a mouth-watering mix of survival horror adventure and squad-based shooter, with you commanding a ravenous undead army against a city stuffed with civilians, cops and soldiers.The magazine is now out on the shelves, so I can finally talk about meeting up with Possession developer,Volatile, and chatting about what it's like to write games for Sony's next-gen hardware. At the time, the team were working with an emulator rather than a full PS3 dev kit, but already seemed comfortable with the peculiarities of the multi-processor behemoth.Of course every developer is going to have a different take on PS3, but this is what one of them had to say...First of all, as with Killzone developerGuerrillaina recent online Q&amp;A sesh, they were happy to point out that PS3 is not as complicated to write for as we've all been led to believe. Apparently, the machine's use of Open GL as its graphics API means that anyone who's ever written games for the PC will be intimately familiar with the set-up. In fact, PS3 employs a cut-down version named Open GL ES, which is even simpler - as Volatile's lead PS3 programmer, Lyndon Homewood explained:"ES is designed for things like set-top boxes and mobile phones, where you want the fundamental graphics but don't need some of the fringe stuff that Open GL has. Because you've got that on PS3, it's going to be much easier than the PS2 to get something up and running - there are hundreds of books out there for it, so you can do your background reading. All the documentation is there."We also got onto talking about how PS3 will deal with Cg - a version of the programming language C, which allows developers to code for advanced graphics processing units, specifically in the area of 3D shaders. (You can read more about Cghereandhere). You may be completely up to spec on how this works, but Lyndon gives a decent beginners guide if not:"Cg gives you a standard documented API for programming graphics chips. The main two segregations of Cg programming are the vertex shader and pixel shader. With the vertex shader you can act on 3D models at the vertex level, so for each triangle you can do something on each corner and then everything in-between is interpolated. So if you want to make your whole shape bigger, you can just push all the vertices out a bit. In this way you could, say, morph your character into a giant just by scaling up all the verts. It's a lot easier to get to that point in the graphics pipeline."And then you've got the pixel shaders. When you render each triangle on screen the GPU asks whether you want to do something to each individual pixel you render... so at this point you could run some sort of mathematical algorithm on each individual pixel - perhaps a lighting effect like high dynamic range lighting (a rough Wikipedia entry on HDR lighting can be foundhere). And that wasn't possible on PS2."All of this is already available and won't be a massive leap from what you're seeing on PCs with high-end graphics cards. But obviously on PS3, you've got eight chips to spread the processing cost over - the main PowerPC chip and seven SPE chips. In a PC, there's just one CPU, two in a dual processor machine. Having an eight CPU multi-processor system in your living room is pretty flash."At the end of the day it's just a multi-processor architecture. If you can get something running on eight threads of a PC CPU, you can get it running on eight processors on a PS3 - it's not massively different. There is a small 'gotcha' in there though. The main processor can access all the machine's video memory, but each of the seven SPE chips has access only to its own 256k of onboard memory - so if you have, say, a big mesh to process, it'll be necessary to stream it through a small amount of memory - you'd have toDMAit up to your cell chip and then process a little chunk, then DMA the next chunk, so you won't be able to jump around the memory as easily, which I guess you will be able to do on the Xbox 360."The graphics capabilities of PS3 will, I think, be slightly above the absolutely top-end graphics cards on the PC, but you've got much more processing power in the box so you're going to see a lot more physics, a lot more generated geometry. With water ripples, for example - they're pretty much algorithms, you have a flat plane of triangles and you run some sort of mathematical algorithm over it to generate a surface rippling effect - well, you will have the processing power to do these sorts of generated geometry effects On PS3. You could actually put one chip aside just to do that..."According to Homewood, the management of the SPE chips is going to be a major consideration. One way is to assign specific roles to each of the chips - get one handling physics, one working on AI, etc. This might sound tidy, but Volatile are not convinced - partly because certain gameplay events, like a massive shoot-out, are going to create spikes in demand for, say, animation, collision detection and rag doll physics. One SPU working alone on each of these elements won't be able to deal with such spikes efficiently. Also, there's the question of co-ordination:"The way we're thinking of doing it ourselves is via a job queue. We'll stick the jobs we want to do into a queue on the main processor and then we'll get the SPEs to pull off a queue entry and process it whenever they're free. You want to make sure all of your processors are always running. If you give the chips specific jobs, you'll end up with a lot of them being idle - you won't get the maximum out of PS3 doing that unless you time everything perfectly, so that the time it takes to do the animation on the first chip is exactly the same amount of time to do the physics on the next chip, which is exactly the same length of time it takes to do all your AI on the next chip - I think that would be extremely problematic."One last thing. Volatile reckon PS3 is going to be much better for HD cinematics than Xbox 360, thanks to its Blu-Ray storage medium. 20 minutes of HD-TV footage takes up around 4.7GB, so an Xbox 360 game would quickly run out of space. This is going to matter more in the coming years as movies and games merge and we see more film elements being brought across to games.So there you go. PS3 is relatively easy to program for if you have experience with high-end PCs - certainly more straightforward than PS2 with its proprietary graphics APIs. We've also heard lots of talk - from various studios - that Sony's developer support will be a lot stronger with PS3 (it's already much, much better with PSP apparently). Time will tell.For now, we have screenshots, demos and promises, we have enthusiastic developers taking their first glance at the next generation of Sony hardware. We don't have games.
One imagines that when rumours about Disney buying Pixar first began whistling around that folk up in Microsoft's headquarters in Redmond began to feel uneasy. The reason: as Disney's biggest shareholder, Steve Jobs (CEO of Pixar and of course of Apple) is surely going to give Windows Media a hard time. And while Disney doesn't lead the studios in content distribution, it does have a voice in the development of digital downloads. What if Disney said that it would prefer Apple's formats over Microsoft's...?Microsoft does, or did, have a relationship already with Disney:this dealsigned in February 2004 seemed to be about to open the floodgates. Except... nothing seemed to come of it. As Joe Wilcox, the Jupiter analyst, points out, there had already been a deal with MSN and Disney in 2002. Again, little seemed to come out of it.However, conspiracy theorists should consider this. Jobs in his role on Disney's board will be constrained by the same code that constrains any board-level executive in a publicly-owned company: the things they do must be intended toincrease shareholder value. (That was always the mantra of the characters in Neil Stephenson'sCryptonomicon, and that's because that's what they have to do - or at least say they're trying to do.) Things that can be interpreted as not encouraging the company to grow can lead to lawsuits. Very expensive lawsuits.The question is, does it increase Disney's shareholder value more if it ties up a distribution deal with Microsoft, or with Apple?Here's the problem for Jobs. If he votes for a measure in which Disney ties up with Microsoft, stockholders in Apple could claim that he has acted in a way that doesn't increase their shares' value. They could sue him.If he does something where Apple gets the nod, to the exclusion of Microsoft, Disney shareholders might claim that by siding with the minority company, he has failed to increase their shareholder value. (And as Jobs will be the largest single shareholder in Disney, he could even sue himself.)The situation seems impossible, to be honest. But it's hard to imagine that there won't be some maneouvring behind the scenes to.. encourage Disney towards licensing Apple. At the very least, you could expect that Apple will get an easier listen than it ever might have.So this isn't a death knell for Microsoft's Windows Media format. But it must surely be a significant leg up for Apple's Quicktime format, even though it seems to lack the strong DRM that the Hollywood studios like that is found in Windows Media Video.And what's weirder is that all these shenanigans could make Bob Cringely'soddball prediction from June 2005- "That's the story as I see it unfolding. Steve Jobs finally beats Bill Gates. And with the sale of Apple to Intel, Steve accepts the position of CEO of the Pixar/Disney/Sony Media Company" - come at least half true. And half true is better than nothing, as any journalist, or blogger, will tell you.
"What kind of company will Google become in the coming decades? Will it succumb to hubris and flame out like so many of its predecessors? Or will it grow into an omnipresent, omnipotent force -- not just on Wall Street or the Web, but in society? We put the question to scientists, consultants, former Google employees, and tech visionaries like Ray Kurzweil and Stephen Wolfram. They responded with well-argued, richly detailed, and sometimes scary visions of a Google future."On the following pages, we've compiled four very different scenarios for the company. Each details an extreme, but plausible, outcome. In three of them, Google attains monopolistic power, lording over the media, the Internet, and scientific development itself. In the fourth, Google withers and dies. That may seem unthinkable now, but nobody is immune to arrogant missteps. Not even the smartest business minds of 2005." FromBUSINESS 2.0
Microsoft's blogging site, MSN Spaces, is getting an update, according to an exclamatory post on the team's official blog,The Space Craft. Users can now post from three email addresses instead of one, can upload up to 500 photos a month, display their Xbox Gamercard, and so on. Also, the commercialisation has started:Great news for those of you living in the US, UK, Canada, Germany, France or Japan. You can now make money with MSN Spaces. You heard me. Make Money! With Amazon.com if you sign up for an associates ID, whenever anyone buys a book from Amazon.com by linking through from your space, you get a portion of that. So make sure to put up all of your favorite and maybe not so favorite books online. In the same vain (sic) if you live in the US or Canada, you can earn money by allowing Kanoodle ads to run in your space.Comment: MSN Spaces probably has around 30 million spaces, while MySpace has more than 50 million, andXangacould be between the two. How many are active is anybody's guess, and no doubt many teenagers have spaces on all three. Either way, the relatively sudden emergence of more than 100 million social networking blogs is a significant phenomenon.
"Google's new China search engine not only censors many Web sites that question the Chinese government, but it goes further than similar services from Microsoft and Yahoo by targeting teen pregnancy, homosexuality, dating, beer and jokes. In addition, CNET News.com has found that contrary to Google co-founder Sergey Brin's promise to inform users when their search results are censored, the company frequently filters out sites without revealing it," reportsCNet.Some of the blackballing appeared to be a mistake. The University of Pennsylvania's entire engineering school server -- which hosted one Falun Gong site -- was blocked from Google's Google.cn China site. So was an Essex County Web site, which sports the word "sex" -- as in "Essex" -- in its domain name. Google.cn also doesn't display search.msn.com to someone who's hunting for the rival Microsoft service.Although this is amusing, lives are at stake. As the story says later:Adrienne Verrilli, communications director for the Sexuality Information and Education Council (blocked from Google.cn), said valuable, life-saving Web sites often get blocked in censorship sweeps. "I guess the Chinese people aren't allowed to get good sexual health information," Verrilli said. "That's unfortunate and disappointing. We have such good information for the Chinese, who are going to be steeped in their own HIV/AIDs crisis very shortly."Update: But now CNet reportsGoogle fixes China search bugs
Like airport novels and the movies of Adam Sandler, there are some games you only ever want to experience once. They may be littered with specious devices to add 'replay value' - the odd easter egg, a few hidden rooms, the chance to play again as the same character but in a goose outfit - but sometimes, you just can't go back. Even if you enjoyed it the first time round.Then there are others that call at you from the shelf, that just won't let you go - they may not have been your favourites first time round, but they offer something that bears repeated viewing. It could be great characters, stunning sand box game design, enormous levels... whatever. You just know that on those big videogame clean out days, when all your old stuff ends up on eBay or the pre-owned shelves at Game, you just can't bear to part with this one.Today's question - what is the game that just keeps giving toyou? Let's stay away from mulitplayer-focused titles, which have replayability built-in thanks to the social element. I'm talking single player experiences. I'm talking:Super Mario 64The Bible, the Complete Works of Shakespeare, of open-ended game design. Frankly, I just like coming back to check out what a perfect 3D camera system and character control set-up should be like, when I've had to experience the exact opposite. The music is weirdly soothing, too.Half-LifeThe dramatic build-up is so perfect with this game, so unapologetically cinematic, playing it again is like revisiting a really well-constrcuted blockbuster movie. Sometimes, I just like running through the first chapter, enjoying the opening sequence on the monorail, watching the scientists scampering around, worrying out loud about their jobs, their clothes... giving them a playful tap with the crowbar...ParadroidI don't know why, but I can't leave this masterpiece of 8bit coding alone. It is, perhaps, the sheer genius of the robot mind-control sub-challenges, or maybe it's the sparse figurative majesty of the level design, or the discordant computer noise of the soundtrack. Or perhaps it's because I never completed it.Silent Hill 2Multiple endings fiendishly hidden behind layers of incomprehensible spookiness. Plus, you don't need so many changes of underwear the second or third times you play.Sim City 3000Of all the supposed examples of 'sand box' game design this is the most pure. It really shares more similarities with Lego, or even with architectural planning software, than with other videogames. Every time you load up, it'll happily indulge any crazy planning scheme you concoct - well, until your city goes into economic meltdown because you put the nuclear power plant in the centre of town as a tourist attraction...Civilization 2Don't get me started.OutrunIt was either this or Sega Rally, but I opted for Yu Suzuki's 1986 legend. When it came out, it seemed to perfectly capture the Californian dream as imagined - in my case - from a scruffy arcade beneath a viaduct in Stockport. It still has a certain magic, I don't know if that's amazing game design or nostalgia.House of the DeadAnother Sega title, this time on Dreamcast. I'm not sure actually, if I've played this more than another lightgun blaster of the period, Confidential Mission, but I expect I have as I can pretty much play out the whole game in my head. This ability is absolutely certainly going to come in handy one day.
Why does anyone fly to Brussels any more? After all, the city is only two-and-a-quarter hours away from Waterloo by rail. Yet for all the inconvenience of travelling to the airport, checking in, clambering on to a twin-prop and out the other end - not to mention the environmental impact of the trip - more than a third of trips to Brussels are still taken by plane. Just what is it that makes flying so appealing?I decided to find out by catching the first flight of the day to Brussels from City airport and the Eurostar home that evening. Assuming you book a week in advance, there is little difference in price. You can expect a semi-flexible return on Eurostar to cost &#163;199 in standard and &#163;319 in Business Premier class, while VLM Airlines tickets vary between &#163;46 and &#163;190 before taxes and charges. Take the 07.45 from City and an evening flight home and the total cost comes in at &#163;190.70.Waiting for a tube train at 6.15am on a Tuesday morning, it was easy to understand why regular commuters would exchange much for a few extra minutes in bed. The time difference works against Britons heading to Europe for morning meetings, and I had deliberately left only an hour to reach City airport to test VLM's claims that it can beat Eurostar on this route. Until the airport acquired its own Docklands Light Railway station in December, the journey took longer: flyers had to catch a shuttle bus from Canning Town or Silvertown. The DLR was still blessedly empty by the time I reached Bank at 6.45am, and the check-in hall is barely two minutes' walk away from the new stop. I joined the queue at 7.10am, five minutes before the recommended time and with 20 minutes to spare before check-in officially closed.The line moved reasonably fast, but not quickly enough for one gentleman, who was politely ordered back to his place after complaining that the plane left in 20 minutes' time and he might not have time to get through security. He needn't have worried: City is no Gatwick. The trickle of travellers filtering through the X-ray machines did not have to wait, and by 7.35am we were at the gate and waiting to board the 50-seat Fokker twin-prop outside.Boiled sweets were handed out - a thoughtful touch that I hadn't seen since a Lufthansa flight eight years ago - and the plane took off just five minutes late. Breakfast - grapes and apple slices, yoghurt and a cheese croissant - arrived while Essex was still visible beneath the clouds. Plenty of coffee followed. An hour later, we were back on tarmac.Had I known the airport better, I could probably have caught the 10.04 train and been at Bruxelles Central 20 minutes later. But I was slightly taken aback by the low price of a single ticket (&euro;2.60, or &#163;1.78 - could that really be all?) and wasted a couple of minutes double-checking the wording. The entire trip from London Underground station to the centre of Brussels came in at three-and-a-half hours, though passengers should note that check-in at Brussels closes a full half-hour before take-off.Just under 10 hours later, I checked in at Brussels Zuid for the 18.56 departure to London. Business Premier customers are entitled to use the Philippe Starck-designed lounge, and it's an elegant, dimly lit space with 60s-style bubble seats and a stylish locker in which customers can recharge phones and Blackberries - though it is a little too easy to eavesdrop on other people's conversations.Long-haul serviceEurostar's promise to offer "long-haul service on a short-haul journey" in the Business Premier class is justified. The evening meal (an unusually good magret de canard, salmon, Belgian cheese, chocolate and raspberry mousse and truffles) came in small portions and, like most airline food, was a whisker too cold. But the carriage was almost empty and the staff had plenty of time to chat with passengers.The train rolled into Waterloo on time. Eurostar says its punctuality in 2005 was "much better" than that of the airlines, with 86.3% of trains on time or early. VLM counters with a figure of 92.1% for on-time arrivals (defined as "within 15 minutes") on the City-Brussels route.Which was quicker? From north London, VLM is marginally faster, at 3h 30 from home to city centre. The Eurostar journey took ten minutes longer.From the point of view of frequency, VLM has six return flights each weekday, while Eurostar is about to introduce a tenth service. Those keen to work during the journey will prefer the extra space and power points of the train service. Much depends on how seriously your business takes global warming and whether Waterloo or the Docklands are closer. Flying may be the old-fashioned, environmentally undesirable option, but the competition is certainly keeping VLM and Eurostar keen.Ten ways to kill a spare hour in Brussels&#183;The Russia-themed Europalia festival (www.europalia.be) runs throughout the city at various venues until February 21. Highlights include a Russian Avant-Garde retrospective at the Palais des Beaux-Arts, Fabergé eggs at the Espace culturel ING, and particularly imaginative exhibitions devoted to the Trans-Siberian Express and the Huns at the Musées royaux d'Art et d'Histoire. All are described in English as well as French and Dutch.&#183;If neither Belgian chocolate nor models of the urinating boy Mannekin Pis appeal as gifts, try the small streets north of the Grand Place for shops selling unusual Europe-themed objects such as ties, mugs, fridge magnets and tea towels proclaiming the joys of ever-closer union.&#183;The Musee des Beaux-Arts (entry costs &euro;5) at Place Royale is a short walk from the central station and has fine collections of Bruegel, Bosch, Magritte and the sardonic fin-de-siecle Belgian artist James Ensor.&#183;Place du Jeu de Balle hosts a flea market from 6am to 2pm every day. Nothing is labelled and haggling is standard practice - stalls sell anything from inkwells, fake and real furs to boxes stuffed with personal effects salvaged from house clearances.&#183;East of Place Royale is the Sablon quarter, the art deco equivalent of London's Portobello Road, dominated by chocolatiers, high-end antique shops and galleries.&#183;If you're taking more than one metro journey, you might as well buy an all-day Jump metro card - it costs only
&euro;3.80 (&#163;2.61).
Two hundred and fifty years ago today saw the birth of one Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. You may have heard of him.Over on the opendotdotdot blog, Technology Guardian's friend and contributor Glyn Moody puts forward the possibility thatMozart was a hacker, not just a composer.Computers may not have existed in the eighteenth century, but the musical machines called orchestras and choirs are conceptually identical to synthesisers, which are themselves specialised music computers. Just as programming code specifies how a computer should act (and a MIDI file controls a synthesiser), so musical code – in the form of a score – directs what instruments and voices should do and when.Not sure how far I agree, but still it's a nice attempt to co-opt this musical legend into the geek world. Rock me Amadeus indeed.
As avian flu spreads, and the number of cases in Turkey rises to at least 20, a heightened sense of urgency is taking hold in business circles in the UK. In its Risk Assessment for 2006, published yesterday, the Financial Services Authority placed a possible outbreak of bird flu as a threat alongside terrorism and urged firms to devise contingency plans should the disease start spreading among humans, and a pandemic break out.For big firms such as HSBC, such planning has become common since the attacks of September 11, 2001 depressed world markets for months. HSBC is planning for an absenteeism level of 50% - double the rate forecast in guidelines drawn up by the World Health Organisation - in the event of an outbreak.But if HSBC and other big firms are taking the threat of bird flu seriously, most small firms are showing a disturbing lack of preparedness - either because of complacency or a lack of resources.Assessing the private sector's state of readiness for a pandemic is not easy - even for parliament. In December, the House of Lords' science and technology committee noted in its report on the issue, Pandemic Influenza: "Like local government, representatives of the business community were reluctant to come forward."Fortunately for the committee and for the wider public, Professor Jim Norton of the Institute of Directors (IoD), along with Kevin Hawkins of the British Retail Consortium and Alan Lacey of Sainsbury's, did step up to bear witness."Their evidence was probably the most alarming that we heard in the course of our inquiry," the report concluded.The IoD, which represents the interests of more than 50,000 small and medium-sized companies, carried out two surveys in the past year on member preparedness for a pandemic.The first one, undertaken in June 2004, found that half of IoD members actually had formal plans in place against major disruption such as terrorism. But much depended on the size of companies: the smaller the firm, the less prepared it was. Only 38% of companies employing one to 25 staff had contingency plans, whereas 77% of companies with more than 200 staff had such plans.Sector-specificA wide discrepancy also existed depending on sector. The study found that 71% of IoD members in the financial services had drawn up contingency plans, compared with only 38% in manufacturing.The other IoD survey, conducted with telecoms firm Cable & Wireless, carried more alarming news.This survey, of companies of 30 to 500 employees, found that two-thirds of these firms had no provision for staff to work from home should there be a quarantine that stopped employees coming to the office - an obvious recourse in the event of a pandemic.Furthermore, 65% of those companies felt they would be "very seriously affected" if they lost access to their site for more than one day. Worse still, four out of 10 of the companies surveyed either did not bother backing up critical data or backed it up on-site, where it would be inaccessible in the event of travel restrictions.David Birchall, who runs internet service provider Artemis Media in Haverthwaite, Cumbria, says the IoD surveys bear out his own findings in his region. Birchall, an adviser to the Federation of Small Businesses, started thinking about emergency planning about four years ago with the events of September 11 in mind. Since then, he has drawn up a handbook not just for his own business, but as a template for other small businesses in the area.He seems to be an exception. Apathy seems to be widespread, despite events that have had a direct impact on businesses in the area, ranging from foot-and-mouth with its travel restrictions, floods in nearby Carlisle, to a fire in a Manchester communications tunnel."Few businesses have contingency planning in any shape or form" says Birchall. "Most small businesses spend their time struggling to cope on a day-to-day basis so it's hard for them to sit down for a day to think about wider issues."For Birchall and his business partner Loraine Thompson, however, the risk of catastrophic failure is always at the back of their minds. Their checklist of threats covers power cuts, fire or flood, product or service failure, environmental or IT systems failure, theft and bad debt, litigation and avian flu or other pandemics.As their business continuity plan states: "Over 80% of our businesses which suffer a catastrophic event ... fail to survive more than a few months because they did not plan for such an event even though they may have known it was a possibility."If avian flu strikes and there is a quarantine that forces Birchall, Thompson and their half-dozen associates to work from home, they plan on keeping in touch with each other and their clients via video conferencing through voice-over-internet protocol (VoIP), which is cheaper than normal phone communications.If a pandemic strikes, Artemis thinks there will be enough time to buy VoIP phones, distribute them, and set up accounts on Skype, the internet operator, which allows users to communicate free.Meanwhile, Artemis recommends that shared files are backed up on laptops to be removed from the office for safekeeping overnight and at weekends. It also advises that individual non-shared files should be saved on duplicate laptops and discs to be kept in a fireproof safe within the office complex, with another set kept off site.Macro planningWhile Birchall is doing all he can at the micro level, planning at the macro level is being handled by bodies such as the Health Protection Agency and the Civil Contingencies Secretariat (CCS) at the Cabinet Office. Some companies - in power generation, telecoms and retail for example - have even participated in simulation exercises with the Health Protection Agency.In his testimony before the Lords' science and technology committee, the IoD's Professor Norton paid tribute to the "excellent work" of the CCS, but gave a glum assessment of economic preparedness against a possible outbreak of avian flu."I doubt that there is much political capital to be made in building defences against threats whose timing is unpredictable," Prof Norton told the committee. "I'm unconvinced that the necessary steps are being taken in implementing adequate protection across Whitehall and more widely."
image from MMOrgy.comThere's a lot of sex in virtuality, and quite a disproportionate amount inSecond Life, the virtual world from Linden Lab oft covered on these web pages. We've talked about theout-of-world implicationsfor interactive jiggery pokery already, but it's come to my attention via a superb article from last month on the sex-in-online-worlds siteMMOrgy.comthat there's pregnancy and childbirth in SL. Curious. I admit I've checked out a couple of baby factories in the world, but haven't yet gone the way of Greg or Keith (in digitalia, that is).At the moment, the offspring which any resident can bring into the virtual world is not resultant of a digital tryst; like with most things in the space, it's economic. You can buy a baby in any of the boundless infant clinics which are popping up all around the digital landscape as avatars rush to bring forth progeny into the digital sphere. I imagine there may be an overpopulation problem in the future if this fad continues.These babies are automated, like Non-Player Characters. They are not enacted by real people. In effect, they are bots; it just so happens that their shapes are "Baby". They could just as easily be "dog", "ferret" or "automatic hoover". Depending upon the package you choose (and this is starting to sound an awful lot likeTotal Recall), you can take the kid away immediately, like you would in a transaction for a dress or a bit of bling, or you can go through the whole birthing process - preceded if you wish by a "nine month" period of manually expanding your avatar's belly in the "edit" screen.Childbirth looks as painful as the real thing. It occurs with stirrups, gynos, the whole thing, and an expectant mum's movements (the screams, the pushes etc) are animated by an in-world "pose ball", or bit of code which takes the over the avatar's movements. Unfortunately to date it doesn't look like there are yet any alternative options; no water-births, at-home births, seated births, etc.Now, while it's all well and good to talk about the mechanics, I'm interested in a meta-issue. I won't explore the reasons people do this sort of thing (theMMOrgy articledoes that well), or even how they go about going at it in the first place, but I do wonder how the in-world dynamics would change if the rampant virtual coitus resulted in a lots of unanticipated little bundles of joy, or a virtual virus. Would the virtual world be over-run with ankle-biters, and would avatars die of virtual AIDS? Or would the populations who enjoy flexing their attachments move elsewhere in order to engage in no-strings fornication?In the real world, it's rather difficult to conceive. Lots of things have to be in place for the egg and the sperm to manifest into a little darling. It's not exactly random, but let's just say that it's not always the outcome of a roll in the hay. According to the MMOrgy article, avs in the gameSociolotronhave cycles, complete with the monthly visit. Again, it's not always a given that virtual intercourse equals pregnancy, but it's certainly more of a possibility than in Second Life.As far as I know, there are no virtual STDs resulting from unsafe sex in the digital landscape. There are certainly viruses which take over worlds - notablyWoWandSLhave both been hit by such epidemics - so surely, something like this could be implemented. Again, what effect would this have? Would there still be as much experimentation, but just a new roaring trade in prophylactics?Virtual worlds are often places for safe experimentation. Would implementing such consequences have an effect on the enjoyment of the game?And now, for an even more out-there idea, read up onTeledildonic Conception, also from MMOrgy.
Sony yesterday reported higher than expected rises in profits during the October to December quarter, thanks in part to strong sales of its game consoles and LCD TVs.Net profit climbed 17.5% to &yen;168.9bn (&pound;822m) for the quarter, up from &yen;143.8bn in the same period last year. Sales rose by 10.2% to a record &yen;2.37 trillion.Under a revival plan announced last year by chairman Sir Howard Stringer the group will shed 10,000 jobs - about 7% of its global workforce - by the end of March 2008. Yesterday the firm said it expected to have trimmed 4,500 jobs by the end of the fiscal year.
Ask many small businesses what their biggest problem is and they're likely to respond with one word: cashflow. They're working hard, business is coming in, yet they're struggling because one or more customers are not paying their bills on time."On time" can be a flexible notion, of course. Last month the Forum for Private Business (FPB) complained to the Government because, it alleged, Halfords had decided to pay its suppliers on a 120-day cycle rather than one lasting 90 days as it had previously done. Halfords says it has done no such thing, although it declines to discuss the issue in depth.Certainly in the letter the company sent out to its suppliers, seen by the Guardian, it urges recipients to move to a 120-day cycle by the end of January. A spokesman says the idea that Halfords has done this unilaterally is ridiculous, and accuses the FPB of seeking publicity.The FPB is awaiting the Government's response and is even considering legal action. The DTI, for its part, confirms that, as a representative of SMEs, the FPB would have the right to test Halfords' action in court, but believes that since this legislation is in place, no further clarification or comment is necessary.VulnerableWhatever the outcome of this particular row, the fact remains that some smaller traders believe they are vulnerable to large customers or suppliers who want to change their trading terms and conditions apparently on a whim.One businessman who has been hit by this in the past is Paul Lindsell, proprietor of Lindsell Marketing. He has always stated his terms as 30 days and has paid on the same basis. The smaller clients understand the financial pressures the business is under and fall in with this. "It's the larger ones that think they can play games," he says."I'm not going to name names but we work with one &euro;2bn company which, as at the mid point last year, hadn't paid us anything since January. I made representations to our contact but it wasn't until August that we had anything from them." Fortunately this happened at a point when Lindsell had built its cash reserves to cope with emergencies. "If it had happened when we were newer, it could have been terminal."The laws on late payment are clear enough; if a company fails to pay on time then the creditor can charge a flat fee and interest. What can be up for debate is what constitutes "late". Thirty days is widely accepted as the norm, but companies may vary this by mutual agreement.Jonathan Warner-Reed works at legal company Fox Hayes, and points to contracts as a way of settling payment terms. The first contract will go from one side of a trading partnership to the other, with one set of trading conditions on it. The second draft will come back with the other company's terms and conditions, and so on. "It's usually a matter of who fired the last shot as to whose terms apply, and that will determine how invoices must be paid," he says.Size mattersThe difficulty, he says, is when one side is much larger than the other and will be unaffected by the demise of a particular agreement whereas the smaller partner could be wiped out by it. "The probable outcome is that the smaller company will continue to work with the larger one, with a knock-on effect to the smaller company's suppliers as the smaller company can't pay its bills on time."Lindsell says the smaller organisations tend not to invoke the legislation on interest charges as sanctions against bad payers. "I can just imagine what my &euro;2 billion company would say to me if I said: right, I'm going to charge you interest. I wouldn't be working with them for long."Paul McGerty, an accountant with accountancy firm and business adviser Mitchell Charlesworth, agrees that heavy-handedness with the legislation is likely to be counter-productive. "Basically, in such a 'David and Goliath' situation, you are at their mercy unless you provide a service no one else provides so that switching supplier is not a possibility," he says.Commercial decisionsHe suggests explaining to a larger partner that the new terms will have an adverse effect, and if they won't listen, consider whether or not your business really needs them as a customer. "It comes down to a commercial decision: can your finances match the requirement? Is invoice discounting a possibility? Can your margins take the increase in costs?"You'll notice most of those options involve a reduction in profits for a small company. Correspondingly, if the larger firm has longer to pay you and therefore hold your payment in an interest-bearing account, its profits will increase.The reality is that if a small business decides to ditch a big customer then it is the small business that is most likely to suffer. Justin Edson, managing director of small company Alto Clothing, says that when a large customer changes its terms, what seems a minor alteration to the bigger organisation can cause havoc to the other company's cashflow."Whatever the legality of this, the practicalities are quite clear," he says. "If a small business challenges a large customer over this, it risks alienating the customer. This could lose revenue for the small business in the long term, as the customer can usually find someone who is willing to accept their terms of payment. Therefore most small businesses find a way to adjust to the change in payment terms."This tends to involve building a cash reserve, which Lindsell finds annoying: "It introduces economic inefficiencies because companies have to build up a larger reserve than they should need."What needs to happen is that Governments of whatever colour need to make it a criminal offence to pay late rather than leave it to us to charge fines."Unfortunately, there is little sign of that happening.The legislationThe Late Payment of Commercial Debts (Interest) Act (1998)This is the one to quote when you're aiming to charge a bad payer interest for keeping you waiting for your money. It grants small businesses (of 50 employees or fewer) to charge interest from large businesses, and since 2000 they have been able to charge interest from smaller businesses as well.The rate to apply is the Bank of England base rate plus 8 per cent, and the interest is recoverable in the small claims court. It is advisable to put a proviso on your invoice if you intend to invoke the Act in the event of late payments, although it's not obligatory. It remains true that the majority of organisations don't invoke the Act because of the impression, right or wrong, that it will lose them customers.
If you had to name the unluckiest business start-up in the country, Stinky Ink (stinkyinkshop.co.uk) would be a strong contender. John Sollars, a Shropshire-based man who left a good sales job to set up the web-based ink cartridge company, lost &#163;32,000 to fraudsters within eight weeks of launching the business.It was money he could ill afford to lose. After leaving his sales job in April 2002, he had already spent &#163;5,000 buying stock for Stinky Ink, which he launched in late June of that year. After registering the site with online shopping malls, Sollars saw an immediate result: "We started getting orders, and I thought: 'This is great. It's vindicated my decision. These are really good orders.'"The company was shipping orders all over the country - to places like London, Eastbourne, Brighton and Newark. Typically a customer would put in a small order and then come back with a bigger one, sometimes for as much as &#163;2,000.After six weeks, Sollars was finding it difficult to pay his suppliers: as a start-up, he had been unable to get a business account with a bank, or a merchant account for handling credit cards.So he set up an internet merchant account with payment solutions provider WorldPay, which meant that WorldPay would handle the payment transactions for him.Under the terms of the account, WorldPay agreed to pass payment onto Sollars between four and six weeks after the transaction had been made. In the meantime, Sollars was paying for new stock from his suppliers on three individual credit cards, each up to a limit of &#163;10,000. In mid-August, as he rapidly approached his limit, he phoned WorldPay to see if he could have his money a little earlier.He was in for a shock: WorldPay looked at the accounts and told him the payments had been found to be fraudulent, carried out on stolen credit cards. WorldPay recommended that Sollars refund the victims: "I said, 'This is my business, this is my life, there's thousands of pounds there.' But they wouldn't give me the cash."At this point, Sollars read the terms of his agreement with WorldPay and discovered that the company didn't accept liability in the case of fraud. In long conversations with the company, the only advice it could give was that he should pay back the money.Sollars called in the local West Mercia police, who told him that a crime is committed at the point where an order is placed, so although he was the victim, most of the frauds committed were outside the force's remit. "They weren't interested," says Sollars. He had no option but to remortgage his house and to refund the money. "I have to say I cried," he says. "You're so alone. I just wanted someone to talk to."Online fraud is rising steeply. According to CardWatch, a UK banking industry initiative that aims to raise awareness of card fraud prevention, losses on card-not-present (CNP) transactions in the UK have risen from &#163;13.6m in 1998 to &#163;150.8m in 2004. An estimated 78% of those losses occurred in internet transactions. Since the introduction of Chip and PIN has made it harder to commit fraud with a physical credit card, fraudsters have been moving to the online world. Unfortunately, it is the merchant who bears the cost.So, is there anything Sollars could have done to prevent the crime from happening? Chris Barling, chief executive of Actinic, which makes e-commerce software for small businesses, says some merchants are more at risk than others: "People who are selling things that are easily sold on are more likely to experience fraud. If you're selling clothing then that's not so easy to shift. If you're selling digital cameras you might find yourself a target." As a seller of ink cartridges, Sollars was an obvious target for fraud.Experienced retailers develop a nose for fraudulent orders, says Barling. An order from a Hotmail, Gmail or Yahoo! account - any email account that isn't easily traceable - should arouse suspicions, as should a mobile telephone number. Fraudsters also tend to request the high-cost shipping option and place high-value orders.It's easy to be duped if you're not alert, says Barling: sometimes fraudsters will put in a genuine, low-value order first to establish trust and then a fraudulent, high-value one later. Always check up on orders you're suspicious about, he says, but don't reject them out of hand - about 10% of orders will look suspicious, and you can't afford to lose 10% of your orders. Above all, exercise caution: "Don't ship an order, particularly abroad, if you can't afford to lose it," he says.Steven Philippsohn, senior partner at law firm Philippsohn Crawfords Berwald, says Sollars' experience is a common one. Another tactic, he says, is for fraudsters to place an order, and then send a fake email purporting to be from a payment provider such as WorldPay or PayPal, stating that the payment has been processed and that the merchant can send the order. The merchant then ships the order only to find that the payment has not in fact been made.Philippsohn's advice is simple: "Never send the goods out without getting the money in your account." In Sollars' case, of course, this was hard because the terms of his agreement with WorldPay meant that it took several weeks to credit his account. The answer, says Philippsohn, is to choose a more expensive payment option that carries out more checks and makes the payment more quickly: "The cheaper the package, the more insecure the service."Credit card companies are taking stronger action too. The Verified by Visa and MasterCard SecureCode schemes, launched in 2002, require cardholders to pre-register use of their cards on the internet, and supply a username and password as part of the registration process. Users then have to enter the username and password each time they purchase something from a participating website. For merchants, it means that the liability for chargebacks is shifted to the card issuer. Take-up is still low (one in nine internet transactions uses Verified by Visa), but Philippsohn believes it will grow.A spokesperson for WorldPay says the banking system it connects to makes automated checks on each transaction, including verifying the address on the card and checking the card security code (CSC) - the additional digits printed on the back of the card to confirm that the card number provided is genuine. It has also enabled 5000 of its merchants to use Verified by Visa and MasterCard SecureCode. The hard truth is that it is still mainly the merchant who loses out to fraud, so it is up to the business owner to be vigilant.Luckily, Sollars had the strength of character to bounce back. For 18 months, he worked seven days a week, and made sure the company's name was optimised in the search-engine rankings. Now, says Sollars, Stinky Ink takes 100 orders a day and this year he is predicting a turnover of &#163;1m: "From fairly desperate times we're a proper business now."
In the last Business Sense in November, we revealed the finalists in our eBay Business Sense challenge - the five entrepreneurs who would get &#163;1,500 seed money and training from eBay power sellers and other experts in the workings of the online marketplace.Four of the five finalists travelled to eBay's UK office at Richmond-upon-Thames for the afternoon of expert advice.Severe weather stopped Denice Purdie, who is selling organic soaps, from travelling from the west coast of Scotland: eBay has since provided her with extra help.Jamie Parkins, eBay's UK top seller account manager, told the finalists that the best research is watching other people's auctions - both how much they raise and how they write and design them. "There's no shame in looking at what other people have done," he told the finalists (although direct copying is banned).The time auctions end is particularly worth researching, said Sean Jones, a full-time eBay seller of books, motorcycles and computers. Many bidders wait until the auction's last minutes, and earlier buyers may want to rebid as a result, so sellers should end auctions when target buyers are online.For example, Clare Tomkins, who is selling schoolbags, should try to avoid ending auctions when parents are ferrying children to and from school, said Jones.The finalists wanted more advice on writing and designing their own pages. Jones advised they avoid eBay's own templates: "No offence," he said. Azita Qadri, eBay UK's small business manager, conceded that they are "quite tacky"."Don't worry about trying to make it look as slick as possible," Jones added. Instead, sellers should show their personalities - for instance, through the free About Me page, as buyers like to purchase from real people. "Do people actually look at those things?" asked Clare Tomkins. They do, Jamie Parkins replied: "And you can sell them a story."Stuart Reed has already sold more than &#163;4,000 of sporting goods from his parents' shop through the site. However, he said that some items did not sell for the minimum levels he set: "The profits I made on what did sell got eaten up in what didn't sell," he said.One way to tackle this is to start an auction at 99p, but it can backfire if only one person bids, and it sells at that price."It all depends on the liquidity of the eBay market," said Qadri.If research suggests an item will find several bidders, a low starting price may well tempt more to bid, generating a higher end price than would have been reached from a higher start price. But if competition looks unlikely, a higher start price, or a reserve, can make sense.However, Qadri added, selling a few items cheaply is good publicity. Roger Eigenheer, who has bought and sold bicycles and parts for several years on eBay, had his own twist on this: he has started valuable items at 99p, then paid eBay extra to keep those items at the top of the list of his auctions.This led to whether it is worth paying extra to make items stand out. "You can spend a lot of money listing," said Qadri. "Don't take all the options, as they won't always work in your favour."Sean Jones added that if everyone in the sales category in which you are listing pays extra for bold text, buck the trend - because that will make you stand out, and cost you less.For regular sellers, Qadri said that an eBay shop, which starts at &#163;6 a month and allows items to be displayed for a month for 5 pence (standard auctions start at 15 pence and last at most 10 days) may well be worthwhile. It also provides a fixed web address, although its items are not included in eBay searches.Shops, as well as some other options including fixed-price Buy It Now sales, are only available to sellers when they have gained a certain positive feedback score, although in some cases this can be countered by registering a PayPal, credit card or bank account.High feedback scores also reassure buyers: Jones reckons that 25 is an "absolute minimum", with 100 the ideal.But the finalists started the competition with new accounts and zero scores. "You want to be buying items at 99p with no shipping cost, paying immediately and getting feedback," Jones told them, as scores combine points for buying and selling. It will also provide lessons on how other sellers package their goods, he said.Jones added that, despite its costs - normally 3.4% plus 20p a transaction, although the percentage drops for big users - eBay's payment system PayPal is a convenient way of accepting credit and debit cards.Paul Edwards, who is selling conservatory kits worth several thousand pounds, asked whether there was a way to reduce eBay's final value fees, which are based on percentages of the sale price, although they taper from 5.25% of the first &#163;30, 3.25% of the next &#163;570 and 1.75% of the rest. There isn't, he was told: eBay does not charge final value fees on property, and charges a maximum fee of &#163;30 for vehicles, but there is no equivalent for other expensive items.Clare TomkinsTrading name:book-bagsShop URL:stores.ebay.co.uk/Back-to-School(Blog:seasidefabrics.com)Feedback rating:58 (100%)Based largely on customer requests, Claire Tomkins has started making classroom bags for teachers, laundry bags and toy storage bags: "I've got to keep things fresh. Whenever I can, I invent a new bag," she says - usually weekly.On eBay's Pulse research facility, Tomkins noticed people tend to search for specific toys, so she listed one of her bags as suitable for some of these brands - but this was removed by eBay for "keyword spamming". She considered relisting with just one toy name, but eBay advised her this is something of a grey area.Other research, on her shop's statistics, led Tomkins to run a few auctions on the US version eBay.com, as this increases visits from America. She has also sent bags to Spain, customised with the names of a customer's yachts - as well as "Tegan" and "Sara" - two Canadian singers the customer is planning to meet.By selling associated items, Tomkins is about three-quarters of the way to her target of 100 sales a month, which leads to eBay Power Seller status.However, "at the moment, I'm knackered," she says. Expansion would mean employing people but, she says: "I'm loath to do that until I am confident that I am going to be successful".Stuart ReedTrading name:sports_and_leisureFeedback rating:3 (100%)Stuart Reed has concentrated on establishing suppliers and researching how to approach his market, having held only a few auctions so far. 
He is selling active sports goods, starting with watersports and fitness equipment, then expanding to specialist gear for running, cycling, swimming, boating and general fitness.He waited for the &#163;1,500 seed-money to provide the funds for buying stock: the cheques were sent just before Christmas, although some of the finalists started trading before then.Using eBay's Pulse facility, Reed has found that active sporting goods tend to sell rather more on Thursday and Friday evenings, making these the best times to end auctions.Timing"It's when people come home, have their dinner and log on to eBay," he says. "In general, the weekend is quite good on eBay, but those who are into these sports will probably be out at the weekend."He expects to sell around 70% to 80% of products through his eBay shop facility - which he is in the process of establishing - with auctions for building brand and image.Of eBay in general, he says: "It's a very good way of shifting volumes of stuff, but it's also a very good way of putting your brand and image out there."Roger EigenheerTrading name:green-wheelsShop URL:stores.ebay.co.uk/GREEN-WHEELSFeedback rating:43 (100%)Roger Eigenheer's policy of starting auctions at 99p has produced some exciting Sunday evenings, when he closes all his auctions. "Without exception, all the bikes I have sold stayed at a couple of pounds until two or three hours to go," he says. Then they take off: one Cannondale bicycle went from &#163;90 to &#163;290 in the last five minutes. "It was amazing to see. Two guys got in a bidding war," he recalls.Eigenheer has not yet lost money on a bike, although a ladies' model sold for just &#163;5 more than he paid at police auction - the source for his stock. "I've taken that as a learning point, and not bought any more ladies' bikes," he says.He had not planned to stock BMX bicycles either, but changed his mind after noticing "BMX" as the top bicycle search in eBay Pulse, and they have sold well.Eigenheer, who has a full-time job, spends at most 15 hours a week on selling. He saves time with a template he developed for describing bikes; by using eBay's &#163;4.99-a-month Selling Manager Pro, which automates tasks including leaving feedback; and by closing all auctions on Sunday, he is able to post a week's items on Monday lunchtime.Denice PurdieTrading name:scottish_soap_companyShop URL:stores.ebay.co.uk/Purdies-The-Scottish-Soap-CompanyFeedback rating:41 (100%)Denice Purdie and her husband, who sell organic handmade soaps, are selling 10 times the goods through their eBay shop than through auctions, seeing the latter as advertising for the former. "We've lost money in profit, but we've covered our costs," she says of auctions.She is testing packages for particular dates: for Burns night, she is selling whisky soap with a book of Robert Burns' poetry. Producing such packages for retailers takes a lot of time and work, she adds, but the process is made much easier online, says Purdie.Purdie employed a professional photographer to take pictures of her stock, costing &#163;5 an image. "It sounds silly, but people think they will get quality if the pictures are quality," she says, comparing it with the shop-window and interior of a physical shop.She says that the eBay shop facility is very easy to operate. However, it attracts a lot of spoof emails - fakes of those sent by eBay to shop owners - for instance, when something is sold.These aim to get a shop owner to enter their log-in details on a fake eBay web-site, so their account can be abused. "I'm quite shocked that eBay don't do more to tell people about them," says Purdie.Paul EdwardsTrading name:tfs_conservatoryShop URL:stores.ebay.co.uk/TFS-ConservatoryFeedback rating:8 (100%)Paul Edwards has had a frustrating time so far, selling a couple of low-value conservatory components but no conservatories. He would risk a big loss if he started auctions low, but with auction running costs linked to the starting price, starting them high is expensive. "Putting these auctions on cost &#163;67. I've had two emails - two leads. They are not sales as yet," he says.One listing was pulled due to a mention of Edwards' external website (tfsconservatories.co.uk). "Their rules say, if you've got a link to more information, that is allowed," he says, and his external site links back to his eBay shop for sales. As Business Sense went to press, Edwards was in email contact with eBay to protest at the decision.He adds that standard website addresses are much better than eBay shop URLs for publicity: "If I put an advert in a local paper with all the slashes, it doesn't look professional."Nevertheless, he is adding more information to his eBay shop and working hard on its design. He says that eBay tools such as the free Turbo Lister software make it "a fantastic medium - if you've got the right goods to sell".eBay top tips&#183;The Pulse facility (pulse.ebay.co.uk) provides the day's most popular user searches and watched items, either for the whole site or narrowed down to three levels of categorisation.&#183;The Want It Now feature, where buyers ask for desired items, is useful for research as well as selling.&#183;Use as many of the 55 characters allowed in an auction title as possible. If relevant, use "New" or "Free P&P;", as people search on these and they are short. Don't waste characters on exclamation marks and so on.&#183;The ideal image size is less than a megabyte, such as 640 by 480 pixels. Either resize larger images, or for speed use a lower-quality camera that generates this image size.&#183;Consider a free service if you want multiple images for an auction, such asphotobucket.com, rather than paying eBay extra. Your own web space may well have strict limits on traffic volume.&#183;If you allow international sales, work out postage rates in advance, otherwise foreign buyers may send the UK rate of postage.&#183;Include your contact details and web-address when sending goods to promote repeat sales.&#183;Never start an auction at &#163;1: the listing fee for starting prices up to 99p is 15p, but this jumps to 20p for the &#163;1.00 to &#163;4.99 bracket.
Selecting the right Bluetooth headset is important, and a lot will depend on your criteria. Finding a replacement became a priority in my house when the old one - a trusty, inexpensive Plantronics M2500 - went through the wash on a warm cycle and then the tumble drier in a shirt pocket.It still appeared to charge up when switched on; sadly, charging up was all it would do. Recognise the phone, work as a microphone? All that stuff had gone.Gadgets have moved on since that model was current of course, but the main drawback of the Bluetooth headset is still remembering where you've put the damned thing, no matter which model you use.Setting up is easy in the vast majority of cases. Set your phone to detect Bluetooth, follow some simple instructions in your headset's manual and your equipment will be happy to talk to itself.The snag with reviewing these items is that if a connection is lost, you don't actually know whether it's the phone that's lost it or the headset, or whether there's been some sort of interference from another device somewhere. For the purpose of this round-up, however, we're being generous and assuming any loss of communication wasn't the headset's fault.It's important to add, too, that although the products have scores to aid clarity, there were certainly no duds.The lightweight:Plantronics Discovery 640This is one of the smallest headsets we tested and it's a pleasure to use most of the time. Set-up was simple and the ear gels are very comfortable; you get a choice of three and a wire-thin ear-rest to attach it.The headset itself is no more than an inch-and-a-half long, which is no doubt why Plantronics is pitching it at the style-conscious wearer (actually, anyone over 40 will still be convinced they look a noddy while wearing it, but you'll be a safe noddy while you're driving at least).It will support more than one device at a time, which is a step forward, as will many of the devices on test. Plantronics says this enables you to use the same headset for your mobile phone as for your landline.However, Bluetooth-compatible landline phones are in fact hard to come by and we couldn't find many, but no doubt if the idea catches on they'll be along very swiftly.This headset is flexible, and comes with interchangeable fittings. That should be a good thing, but in fact this is the product's undoing, as the ear gel has a tendency to fall off when it's in a pocket.The charger is shaped as if it will act as a carrying case but it doesn't accommodate the earpiece or ear gel. The benefits and the sheer lightness of the thing outweigh these drawbacks; hopefully they'll be addressed next time the company upgrades.Price:&#163;69Maker's URL:www.plantronics.co.ukPros:Very small and lightweightCons:Has a tendency to fall apart in your pocketStar rating:4/5The fashion statement:Jabra JX10Some people welcome a bit of designer glamour in their life. When you look at the packaging on the Jabra JX10 and it lists the designer as a selling point and a headset specifically for the male market, you might think they're getting their own way a bit too much.If the designer market is for you, you'll like the accessories that come with this - it's a solid unit rather than a put-it-together-yourself item like the Plantronics. The USB lead for charging via the computer is a nice touch and it had a pouch to protect it from multiple-items-in-pockets syndrome. The mains lead wasn't long enough to accommodate the desk stand particularly flexibly, but at least it had a desk stand.It was light to wear and very simple to operate. Getting a new phone to pair with most headsets requires remembering exactly which combination of buttons puts the device into pairing mode; the JX10 has a pairing button to make this work for the short of memory. It's light to wear and didn't fall apart even once.If the price were different on this one then it would have achieved five stars, easily. If you don't mind paying extra for looks this is a pleasure to wear, and it works admirably.Price:&#163;99.99Maker's URL:www.jabra.co.ukPros:Lightweight and very stylishCons:Price and battery life suggest it's a fashion accessory rather than a workhorseStar rating:4/5The workhorse:Jabra BT500For the first time in this product round-up, I remembered I was wearing glasses. The Jabra and Plantronics headsets had slim wires to go behind ears: this one didn't. It fitted reasonably well, but for the money I'd hoped for more comfort. That said, it had a lot of the positives associated with its more expensive cousin. A single button for partnering as many devices as you wish is a plus. Among the manufacturers, Jabra's instructions are probably the clearest - if only because someone has thought to advise you to record your voice commands through the headset rather than using the phone independently, although that didn't work on my Sony Ericsson phone.And unlike the super-whizzy and extremely comfortable JX10, this one will offer eight hours of talk time between recharges. It feels more serious than its more expensive brother.Indeed, this is part of the problem; it feels more serious, but at &#163;79.99 it still feels as if it's priced like a fashion accessory, and frankly, it isn't one. It fits comfortably enough around the ear, and it does its job perfectly well, but it's not inspiringly lightweight or ultra-clear. Walk into any branch of any mobile phone shop and you'll be able to get something a little heavier, but not much, with roughly the same functions, for half the price.Price:&#163;79.99Maker's URL:www.jabra.co.ukPros:Solid amount of talk timeCons:Slightly cumbersome for the price, particularly for wearers of glassesStar rating:3/5The small workhorse:Motorola H700When I say this headset is as dull as a very dull thing indeed, that should be taken as a compliment. To put it another way: you don't really want to think about your headset in depth; you want to charge it up, pair it with the phone and forget it.And in this case you almost certainly will. It's solid enough and, like a lot of low-priced Motorolas, it's designed to fit people with standard-issue ears only: I didn't like wearing it with glasses particularly and it wasn't as comfortable as its much more expensive counterparts, but for short journeys that wouldn't be a problem.It scores in a number of areas. It's smaller than its predecessor in the Motorola range and it has six hours of talk time and 130 hours of standby - the lowest of the headsets under review but also at the lowest price.There are gimmicky features as well. It has a light so other people can see you're on a call (although they might, of course, guess this from the fact that you're talking to yourself). The end folds up to save space, but it's still only marginally longer than the Plantronics once it's opened up anyway.It's a dull product, but perhaps it should be, as its task isn't particularly thrilling. It also does the job for a better price than the others. The fact that something that works, is reliable and sticks to a reasonable budget can be called dull is surely something to be welcomed.Price:&#163;49.99Maker's URL:www.motorola.com/ukPros:Small and well-pricedCons:None in the context of business use - not a great fashion statement, but you probably don't want to make oneStar rating:3/5The Cheapie:Sony-Ericsson HBH-PV700People on a low budget might want to look at a headset that just does the job as inexpensively as possible, and they would be well advised to check out the Sony Ericsson HBH-PV700. It has five hours' talk time compared with the six or eight you'll find from other models in this round-up, but it's a third of the price of some of them.Given the low cost, it's a good performer. Sony Ericsson will guarantee only that it will work with its phones and functions - for example you can change the phone's profile from the headset - but there's no reason it shouldn't perform just as well with any other hardware.It's not the lightest item on the market, but it's by no means uncomfortable or heavy. Comparing it with its more expensive competitors should by rights be unfair, and yet it scores reasonably well in function, size and design. You might be tempted to ask why you're considering spending more.Price:&#163;31.99Maker's URL:www.sonyericsson.comPros:Cheap, reasonably lightCons:Only five hours' talk time - but look at the price.Star rating:4/5
OnlineHSE's Better Business could save you a fortuneNew year, new resolution time - although if self-employed readers have had the time to make any resolutions before the 31 January deadline for forms for the Inland Revenue they're too organised for their own good.A serious set of resolutions, though, might centre around Health and Safety compliance. The Health and Safety Executive (HSE) has launched a campaign called Better Business, backed by a number of articles on the Guardian Unlimited website - and the suggestions don't cost a fortune.The HSE's website on the subject is at hse.gov.uk/betterbusiness and its focus is on spending less but making your organisation a safer place to work.There are some pretty frightening statistics in health and safety - mostly scary in a financial way. If someone has an accident at work then not only might you be liable for compensation but you'll also have to find a replacement, pay someone to train the replacement for the absentee's tasks and allow for a loss of productivity while the training is taking place.The HSE site contains free-to-download PDFs of a number of relevant documents, and although the rules and regulations apply equally to large and small companies, the tone is pretty clearly aimed at the organisation that hasn't got much of an idea where to start yet. It is well worth investigating.Another useful thing we found trawling the web is new software for small companies that don't have a fleet of minions to read and sift every email (everyone, then).Costing under &#163;30, it's called Summarize! and you can get it fromgetsummarize.comThe idea is that it takes your emails and writes a summary, to whichever length you'd like and skewed towards whichever keywords you'd like it to focus on.BooksLife and times of a turnaround guruWe were approached this week by "turnaround executive" Erik Van Rompay, telling us about his e-book, The 39 Confessions of a French Turnaround Executive.The book itself is a good deal less racy than the title might imply, but it's a lively enough read and the author is clearly speaking his mind.He presents 120 real-life situations he has experienced in his career, and presents plenty of examples of good and bad practice.Van Rompay recalls the bosses who demotivate employees they don't want in order to get rid of them; and he regards it as his job to cut through the bull about why he's been hired and decide which of the four classic reasons - financial turnaround, market turnaround, product turnaround or organisational turnaround - they really have in mind.He also points to the helpful and unhelpful people you'll find in an ailing business, like the hands-on manager who has to make a lot of noise every time he or she does something so everyone knows about it.Van Rompay adopts unusual strategies, such as getting employees to spy for him and, when he realises rumours about his role are circulating in a company he's helping, he hangs around the coffee machine to stamp them out.It's informative, although it would be unfair to say it's a particularly brilliant read - Van Rompay has opted to self-publish an e-book in several different languages, but his written English is pretty creaky. If you can cut through that - and it's worth doing - the book is downloadable free of charge at39confessions.ifrance.comMobilesMobile firm's motivation through inspirationSo, how do you motivate your staff to do better for you? Throwing money at them is the usual policy, and jolly effective it can be, too, but not in every circumstance.Full marks, then, to mobile audio conferencing company Mobix, which thought that encouraging people to read inspirational books would be a good idea. Even fuller marks for giving away a book to start them off - Steven Levitt and Stephen Dubner's Freakonomics.The killer, though, is in realising that if you're a company in anything to do with mobile and audio you should give your book away in that format, which is why Mobix staff were given an iPod Shuffle with the book on it, fromAudible.co.uk- and of course plenty of space for more music and software with which you can install it.Further examples of unusual management techniques will be welcomed at the Business Sense office.BankingSMEs are missing out on &#163;136m a yearA couple of entertaining pieces of research have come out since Christmas. First you can forget the so-called iPod Generation - call-handling company Totem has rebranded the 25 - 40 age group as the impatient generation.Apparently, almost 80 per cent of this age group will hang up on a business if a call isn't answered within 10 rings. And inevitably, lost calls cost you business.Meanwhile, there are further rumblings about business banks, with Alliance and Leicester Commercial Bank saying that 45 per cent of customers who switched to their services were doing so because of better value, with a further 36 per cent switching because of customer service and another 17 per cent just saying the other banks didn't understand their business.What's more, small businesses, claims the bank, are missing out on &#163;136m per year because they won't switch their business accounts.Web hostingA waste of moneyFinally, if you're not already pouring money away on a bank that's no good to you, there's a good chance you're wasting it on dated technology. 
That's the view of Fasthosts, a company that has commissioned the Server Solutions Study.This document suggests that a lot of smaller businesses elected to host their own websites in the early days, and many still do so. This means they are paying for their own failover systems, firewall, backups and uninterruptible power supplies if there's a power cut, instead of taking advantage of a hosting system that will offer economies of scale on all of that by hosting more than one business.Fasthost believes this betrays a 1980s attitude to technology that is unlikely to help many businesses at the moment.
Those of us of a certain age remember the Rolling Stones heading off into tax exile on the Riviera. As a teenager I thought they had achieved the perfect combination of sun, debauchery and economy.Now I find I've become an accidental tax exile myself, although it's unlikely my exotic-sounding status will actually save me any money. When I headed off to Ibiza early last year I assumed that I'd continue to pay tax in the same way as before. I was self-employed in the UK and my clients were all still there. All that changed was my computer was now connected to Telefonica broadband rather than Demon.But on a trip back to Scotland I spoke to Ross Mackenzie, tax partner with international accountants Mazars. "Most countries have a 183-day rule, which defines where you are resident for tax purposes," he explained. You don't pay the tax where it's earned, but where you live or your "centre of economic interest" as the tax authorities call it.It sounds simple. You pay your tax where you live for most of the year. Well, it might be straightforward if Pitt the Younger hadn't introduced income tax to Britain a couple of centuries ago using a variation on the medieval fiscal calendar. So, while most other countries measure liabilities ending on December 31, Britain's year runs to April 5. "Some people try to use that difference to their advantage," Mackenzie told me.Theoretically it's possible to receive two sets of tax allowances, but it's not easy. The UK Inland Revenue requires a a lot of evidence that one of its tax payers really has departed its shores. The department does, however, provide detailed information in booklet form and from its website.In an ideal world, a move to the sun would also be accompanied by a reduction in tax. Unfortunately for me, the UK has just about the lowest rates of income tax in Europe - at least on paper.Anyway, it is not that simple to work out which country will deduct the smallest proportion of your income. The Stones' old stomping ground, France, for instance, seems to squeeze high earners hard. Tax there, however, is assessed by dividing the income by the number of people in the household. And France recently lowered its punitive top rate.Although tax is subject to political vagaries, an accountant will be able to make a reasonable assessment of liabilities according to the laws of your intended country of domicile. But accountancy is an art, not a science, and legislation does not always reflect varying national attitudes to tax. Often the declaration of income is regarded effectively as "voluntary".The common Mediterranean attitude is: "Which do you love more - the state or your family? So why should you give more than is necessary to the state?"In many places - and for obvious reasons I'm not going to be too specific - avoidance is effectively built into the system. It is, for instance, still quite common in rural areas for property and other major purchases to involve a substantial amount of "black money". Perhaps a third of the actual price of a property may be handed over in cash and never declared to the authorities.As a result, it was suggested the mini economic boom in the run-up to the introduction of the euro was caused by people rushing to spend their undeclared pesetas, lira and escudos before they became worthless. It also explains something that had baffled me. I couldn't understand why the hardware store near where I live has the largest selection of safes I have ever seen. Obviously some are for tourist hotels and apartments, but many look big and secure enough to store the cash and crown jewels of a small sovereign nation rather than a holidaymaker's papers and trinkets.As for me, I'm still very British about declaring all my income, even if I'm not going to be rendering unto Gordon what is Gordon's any more. But if I had fulfilled my rock star ambitions, I'd probably now be resident in Dubai, which has a hard-to-beat zero rate of income tax.&#183;Nick Clayton is a freelance writer and web content consultant.
Publishing and research firm VNU has splashed out an undisclosed sum to buy tech news red-topthe Inquirer.Founded four years ago after its creator split withthe Register, the will be brought into the VNUnet fold alongside the European versions ofGizmodo, among other things.From theTechnology Guardian story:The deal will see Inquirer founder Mike Magee return to VNU - where he worked for several years in the 1990s - retaining the editor's chair but handing off advertising and administrative duties for the site. [Paul] Briggs will take the role of publisher, but according to him it will otherwise be "business as usual".I spoke to Magee earlier on, and he said he was "very happy" at the deal, and admitted that he'd been thinking of selling up for some time, since the task of running the site was becoming more onerous.
You wait weeks for an incredible PSP story... and while you're waiting some vaguely serviceable ones trundle past!Yep, it's been a busy day for Sony's lifestyle gadget. Not only has Konami invented a whole new genre for it - the clever non-game game - but, in a fun little throwback to the past, the publisher has also announced some titles with actual interactive gaming elements. Most notably, there's Metal Gear Ac!d 2, not really an announcement as such as we've know about this for a while, but here's some gameplay details anyway:"While the new game retains the popular card-based combat and movement system of its predecessor, Metal Gear Ac!d 2 enjoys a far more instinctive and comprehensive control system than that of the first game. Key advances include the ability to control Snake directly within 'Move' modes, while changing commands are now displayed in real-time to facilitate more rapid actions within action situations. This combines beautifully with a wider range of actions, too, with familiar Metal Gear moves such as slinging, crawling, and fighting now all accessible - and via the touch of a button."They're also more than doubling the number of cards on offer from 200 to 500, adding new card types and introducing an 'Arena Mode' which, "pits players against boss characters from previous games in the series". Card battle fans will be able to 'shuffle' out and buy this sometime in late-Spring/early summer (or however you wish to interpret 'Q2').Konami has also revealed Pocket Racers, a UK-developed toy car racing game with an emphasis on multiplayer competition. According to the press release, "The courses range from a messy bedroom, a conveyor belt-laden factory and a kitchen, and feature sneaky short cuts and hidden extras for the player to find." There wouldn't happen to be some ex-Codemasters staff working on this would there?MicromachinesPocket Racers is out in Spring.Finally from Konami, I like the look of Steel Horizons (pictured on the main page - do you see what I did there with 'horizon'?), which is also coming to DS. It's a WWII naval strategy game with you commanding battleships, aircraft carriers, destroyers and submarines in a combination of turn-based and real-time encounters. You'll also captain one of three ultra-secret Navy vessels as part of a storyline which involves a highly advanced 'third-party', "pulling the strings to orchestrate the war".Elsewhere, Sony has provided a few details about Killzone: Liberation a brand new adventure in Guerrilla's FPS series - changed to third-person for the PSP. It's due out this winter and here are some plot details:"The story follows the conclusion of events in the first Killzone, with the battle against the Helghast still raging on. In Southern Vekta, the rules of war have been cast aside with the Helghast General, Metrac, employing brutal measures in order to seize the initiative. Returning as Templar, your mission is to undertake a covert operation to save hostages captured by Metrac ...whilst ISA troops continue the fight for liberty..."And to provide a crescendo to this symphony of PSP announcements, Eidos has revealed that Tomb Raider: Legend will be hopping over to PSP in Spring, courtesy of Crystal Dynamics andBuzz Monkey Software. "Based largely on the PS2 version of the game, the PSP version of Tomb Raider: Legend also features a number of exclusive game modes together with a host of Bonus Reward Content," admits today's release.Right, that's enough on the PSP renaissance for today.
Not if it can help it; and probably not even if it can't. The search engine company is demanding that the US Department of Justice gets a court to enforce a request for one million random web addresses and records of all Google searches for a one-week period. The reason: to estimate how much pornography shows up when children go Googling.The Bush administration's demand seems to be part of an effort to revive the 1998 Child Online Protection Act (Copa), which makes it a crime for commercial distributors of "material harmful to minors" (deemed as material appealing to the "prurient interest", including female breasts) not to protect their sites from access by minors.However, Copa never took effect, and eventually the US Supreme Court ruled that it might be unconstitutional. Now, though, the Bush administration appears to be looking for fresh evidence that might suggest that filtering software, the preferred method suggested when Copa first failed the Supreme test, is less effective than before. That would mean showing that searches turn up porn sites not covered by filters.But the request, with which MSN, AOL and Yahoo complied (Ask Jeeves was not asked), has got privacy shivers running up and down the internet's collective spine. Google apparently feels the same way: Nicole Wong, an associate general counsel for the company, says the company will fight the government's effort vigorously. "Google is not a party to this lawsuit, and the demand for the information is overreaching," she adds.As Danny Sullivan noted at his SearchEngineWatch blog: "It's a stupid request, of course. It's sort of like the government asking a major car dealership to give you a list of random licence plate numbers rather than the Department of Motor Vehicles. Surely the government can generate its own list without forcing a private company to do this."But while the list of searches and websites might be a huge amount of data, it is unlikely that any of it would lead back to you, or indeed any individual who runs a search or owns a site.AOL, MSN and Yahoo were at pains to point out that no private data was passed on. At least, Yahoo did: "We are rigorous defenders of our users' privacy. We did not provide any personal information in response to the Department of Justice's subpoena. In our opinion, this is not a privacy issue. We complied on a limited basis and did not provide any personally identifiable information," the company told Sullivan (http://tinyurl.com/dwlds).No date has been set for the hearing.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A curious thing about 3G mobiles is that the only function distinguishing them from earlier ones - seeing who you are talking to - is hardly used. This is not much reward for the &pound;22.5bn the operators spent on licences in the April 2000 auction. They are bought because they do most things a bit better than previous phones and operators are selling them cheaply, hoping it will create a big user base to be milked later on.I have tested one of the latest models (a Nokia N70) for more than a month as my sole phone and the first thing to say is what everyone already takes for granted: it is a daily miracle that so many functions - from playing music to watching television or video - can be bundled into a phone weighing only 126g. Its two megapixel camera was a joy, the best I have experienced on a mobile. Some photos, especially of buildings, were of a high quality. I found myself emailing them on the spot to my website - well, until the phone bill arrived (more of that later).The FM radio worked well and it was easy to download the text of entire books either by Bluetooth from my hard disk or from a paid-for site such as ICUE. It also has an MP3 player and games. I was impressed watching multichannel television despite flaky reception from time to time and was unsurprised to find a high level of user acceptance in trials. Success will hang on pricing it affordably.Although new phones are being purchased for sassy new features, some functions that have been there for years without being used are improving. The voice recorder was good and, but for the office BlackBerry, I could see myself using the diary.Improving connectivity makes it better to access bookmarked sites. Among mine is a free BBC one giving updates on traffic conditions on the M4. For a subscription (from TrafficTV) you could also connect to a real-time CCTV camera on your chosen motorway to see traffic jams in the raw. Using Google on the move is vastly improved thanks to Opera - the browser of choice for mobile surfers - because it scales to the size of the screen and takes you straight to the input line. Despite some failures to get through, I followed my bidding on eBay fairly easily and found it easy to access the Guardian and BBC websites for news.The N70 works with Navicore's new &pound;199 satellite navigation system with a memory card and small 80g Bluetooth receiver. For the first time on a mobile, it gives current updates on hold-ups and traffic cameras. Initial reaction - maybe through being used in central London where high buildings affect satellite signals - was mixed, but it shows the way things are going.Downsides? Operationally, not a lot apart from needing a course at night school to fully understand all it can do. Reception, though better than previous phones, was still pretty moody. Connectivity with the web could be slow or not there at all despite the hype of 3G. The sliding panel at the back to reveal the main camera sometimes opens unintentionally and the four-way navigation button was much less effective than previous Nokias.The biggest drawback was finding that a full month's bill was more than three times as much as usual. My operator's shop failed to explain why. Wireless uploads to my Flickr site (supposed to be around 7p) were varying between 2p and more than &pound;1, even though they were on lowish resolution. It was also impossible to distinguish between uploading snaps and downloading from other sites. This is a real problem. Operators are trying to recoup their &pound;22.5bn auction outlay by charging as much for data as they can get away with. Until they adopt something like the broadband model - more or less unlimited usage for a flat fee - they should be unsurprised at low uptake. The web-on-the-move revolution has yet to happen.&#183;vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It's easy to condemn Google for working with despotic Chinese authorities to censor things that they don't want widely discussed -- their human rights record, invasion of Tibet, attacks on sects such as Falun Gong, missiles aimed at Taiwan, and so on. It's especially easy if you are a journalist, academic, politician or otherwise in a position where you can ignore the commercial realities of doing business in a global marketplace. It's not so easy when you're risking the future development of your company, your job, or your family.And given China's size, cost advantages and rate of growth, not being in China is a serious business issue for a great many companies today.Another reason for not rushing to condemn Google (or Yahoo, or Microsoft) is to avoid being hypocritical. For example, I use an IBM ThinkPad X31, which was made in China, and I know and like many of the former IBMers who are now part of China's Lenovo. If I hunted around, I'm sure I could find many other tech gadgets that have been made in China. What about you? Are your hands clean? Are you honestly in a position to condemn others for working with the Chinese authorities when you are exploiting them yourself?When we opposed the evils of apartheid in South Africa, we boycotted South African goods, and the companies that worked with the regime. That was honest. Let me know when you do the same to China.For companies, there was an interesting paragraph at the end of The Wall Street Journal's article,Google Launches Service in China. It said:Some US tech companies are working behind the scenes to craft for the Internet in China an equivalent of the Sullivan Principles, guidelines formulated in the 1970s that helped mobilize US corporate divestment to protest South African apartheid.TheGlobal Sullivan Principles of Social Responsibilitydon't demand a boycott but include actions that are intended "to achieve greater tolerance and better understanding among peoples, and advance the culture of peace".Google is a big company, but it's not big enough to change China on its own, and that realisation has simply exposed the naivety of its sloganeering. Google, Yahoo, Microsoft, AOL and every other net player might not be big enough to change China either. However, they'd have more chance if they worked together on a common code of principles, instead of scoring points off one another.
A lot of my email has not been arriving, so I contacted my ISP, Tesco, which replied that it is blocking emails from Wanadoo, Yahoo and Hotmail because they are sources of spam. I agree with the principle, but why didn't they send out a warning message? Friends and I wasted a lot of time trying to resolve a problem that did not actually exist, and presumably others have, too. Bill GillI have had letters about mail blocking from Christopher Clifton, a Tesco.net user, Harry Mitchell (Tiscali.co.uk), Colin Killick (Freeserve.co.uk), and several who now can't send email to NTL users. Sometimes mail is returned with a message such as "host smtpin.ntlworld.com [81.103.221.10] refused to talk to me" or it just vanishes. (Tesco.net is run by NTL, and Freeserve is run by Wanadoo.)This is not spam blocking or filtering. NTL and other ISPs are using databases provided by Sorbs (Spam and Open-Relay Blocking System) and other services that blacklist mail servers and IP addresses. All mail from those servers is blocked. Once blocked, only the ISP can get its servers removed. When I checked Sorbs on Monday, two of Wanadoo's mail servers were blacklisted (193.252.22.157 and 158) and one (193.252.22.156) was not. Mail can go through any server at random, which explains why some mail goes through while some does not.NTL can apply what blocking list it chooses, and I expect that blocking remote servers in the US and China can block millions of spams while affecting few users. However, I would expect a rational ISP to whitelist some "nearby" servers that are the source of large amounts of legitimate mail, whether on Sorbs or not. NTL says: "It is one our highest priorities to work with block-listed ISPs to help them secure the necessary delisting. We are currently doing this with a major UK ISP."Under the circumstances, I've been sending NTL users invitations to Gmail. However, anyone using an email address supplied by any ISP should think about moving to an independent email service. Ideally, buy your own domain name so your email address is independent of the service you are using. It's painful having to change address - but you will likely have to do it eventually, and it's better sooner rather than later.Update: Obviously I raised the issue with NTL, with little apparent success. However, the day after this answer went to press, NTL emailed me to say it had tackled the problem. NTL's email says: "When it became clear that Wanadoo would not be de-listed in short order both NTL and Wanadoo looked for alternative ways to manage the blocked mail. NTL made system adjustments so that it was able to ignore certain block list entries, while retaining controls on the many transient and offensive spam sources that are listed for good cause. This allowed Wanadoo to send mail from all their servers to NTL customer addresses and the backlog was quickly cleared."I trust this is the case, and thankyou NTL.
Photo: Intel 300mm wafer with 45nm shuttle test chipsIntel says it hasproduced test chips using a 45 nanometer processthat will be rolled into production in the second half of next year. Intel is already running 65nm processes where most of the competition is still on 90nm. Intel is building two factories to produce 45nm chips: Fab 28 in Israel and Fab 32 in Arizona.The 45nm SRAM chip has more than 1 billion transistors.For the full story, seeeWeekand/orCNet.
I have a six-year-old PC which I have gradually updated - extra memory, CD writer, Ethernet and USB 2.0 cards, second hard drive, etc. It runs really well. The Pentium III processor is only 500MHz but I do not perceive it as slow. When is it better value to buy a new machine? Have I passed it already? Nick ChiplenIf your PC runs well and does what you want then I can't see any reason to replace it. The Pentium III is perfectly OK for web surfing and running everyday applications, if given enough memory. You have 384MB now but RAM chips are so cheap it is worth fitting the maximum your PC will take. However, further upgrades may not be cost effective, given the plunging prices and expanding capabilities of new PCs.
