It's Friday - game release day! What's coming out? I'll tell you:Resident Evil: The MercenariesZombie drama hits the Nintendo 3DS.UFC Personal TrainerGet fit with thugs!Tour de France 2011Cycling fun from French studio Cyanide, now working on a video game conversion of Game of Thrones.
US consumer watchdog the Federal Trade Commission is reportedly investigating the way Twitter deals with the companies that build applications and services for the company.Twitter's rapid rise has been supported by an ecosystem of third party companies who build applications that make the service easy to use on PCs and mobile devices. More recentlythe company has clashed with developers as it has bought or built its own services.According to Business Insider, the FTC is now looking at Twitter's relationship with those third party companies. Twitter declined to comment.In April Twitter bought Tweetdeck, a service that allows Twitter users to filter messages which was founded by British tech entrepreneur Iain Dodsworth. Dodsworth's company had been a takeover target of Bill Gross, an internet entrepreneur. Gross's UberMedia reportedly offered $30m for the firm.The company has been working to keep more of its revenues in-house as it reportedly considers an initial public offering that analysts believe could value the firm at more than $10bn.Industry research firm eMarketer calculates that Twitter, which does not provide financial information, generated an estimated $45m from advertising in 2010 and was expected to generate about $150 million this year.
When Viktor Mayer-Schönberger's stepfather died, he left a collection of 16,000 heavy glass photographic slides, his visual record of decades travelling the world. His stepson had to decide what to do with them. "I had two rules in working out whether to keep a slide. One, if there was anybody in it I knew or might know. Two, if it was beautiful. Know how many I kept? 53."His stepfather also kept a diary of his travels. Mayer-Schönberger doesn't expect to publish it any time soon. "The entries were so dull! What was the temperature, if the butter was good."But maybe there was a point in his stepdad recording butter quality at some otherwise forgotten breakfast. In his book Delete: The Virtue of Forgetting in the Digital Age, Mayer-Schönberger, professor of internet governance and regulation at theUniversity of Oxford's Internet Institute, writes: "Time is quite simply a very difficult dimension of human memory for humans to master."Mayer-Schönberger says: "My stepfather's diary was probably incredibly meaningful for him because when he read some banal detail about butter, maybe that triggered the memory of the place for him. He externalised what was important for him, so he would have the cues he needed to remember something later."In Delete, Mayer-Schönberger traces the history of such external memories – cave paintings, scrolls, photographic slides, diaries – and their importance to the flourishing of human knowledge. "Since the early days of humankind," he writes, "we have tried to remember, to preserve our knowledge, to hold on to our memories and we have devised numerous devices and mechanisms to aid us. Yet through millennia, forgetting has remained just a bit easier and cheaper than remembering."No longer. Because of the digital revolution, he argues, it is easier to keep everything – the  drunken email you sent your boss, the photo you put on Facebook in which you're doing something non-CV-enhancing to an inflatable cow – rather than go through the palaver of deciding what to consign to oblivion.That's because so many of our external memories – digital pictures, emails – are now hardly as heavy as Mayer-Schönberger's stepfather's glass slides, but lighter than bees' wings. The overabundance of cheap storage on hard disks means that it is no longer economical to even decide whether to remember or forget. "Forgetting – the three seconds it takes to choose – has become too expensive for people to use," he writes. If Mayer-Schönberger's stepdad had taken digital photographs, his stepson wouldn't have had to bother thinking about which to delete.But isn't it great that digital memories correct fallible human ones? "Many of my critics say that forgetting is a weakness of the human mind that we should be happy to get rid of. I agree we benefit from digital memories, but not if that means we lose the capacity to forget because that capacity is valuable."The dream of overcoming human memory's fallibility was expressed by HG Wells when, in the 1930s, he wrote of a"world brain"through which "the whole human memory can be . . . made accessible to every individual". Today, perhaps we have that world brain, and it is called Google. Mayer-Schönberger sounds an Orwellian note about this: "Quite literally, Google knows more about us than we can remember ourselves."His point is that a comprehensive memory is as much a curse as a boon. He cites the case of a 41-year-old Californian woman called AJ who, since she was 11, has remembered the events of her every day in agonising detail – what she had for breakfast three decades ago, what happened in each episode of every TV show she watched. That inability to forget, Mayer-Schönberger argues, limits one's decision-making ability and ability to form close links with people who remember less. "The effect may be stronger when caused by more comprehensive and easily accessible external digital memory. Too perfect a recall, even when it is benignly intended to aid our decision-making, may prompt us to become caught up in our memories, unable to leave our past behind."And not being able to leave our past behind makes humans, he argues, more unforgiving  in the digital age than ever before. In 2006, Vancouver-based psychotherapist Andrew Feldmar was crossing the Canada-US border to pick up a friend from Seattle airport – something he'd done many times before. This time, though, the border guard searched online and found that in 2001 Feldmar had written in an academic journal that he had taken LSD in the 1960s. As a result, Feldmar was barred entry to the US. "This case shows that because of digital technology, society's ability to forget has become suspended, replaced by perfect memory."In the 19th century,Jeremy Bentham envisaged a prison called a panopticonin which guards could watch prisoners without them knowing whether they were being watched. In the 20th century,Michel Foucaultargued that the model of the panopticon was used more abstractly to exercise control over society. In the 21st century, Mayer-Schönberger argues that the panopticon now extends across time and cyberspace, making us act as if we are watched even if we are not. He worries that this "perfect memory" will make us self-censor. "That's becoming standard. In the US most colleges have a mandatory class on how to clean up your Facebook account."But isn't it good that digital technology encourages us to modify our behaviour? "Not necessarily. If you increase utility of storage, you risk collateral damage. In my home country of Austria, the DNA database keeps samples of everybody who left traces at a crime scene. It even means there are two classes of people – suspects and non-suspects and the class of suspects includes those who have been mugged or raped who have their DNA samples on the database."Mayer-Schönberger took part in a radio phone-in recently. One caller related how her children's classmates found her image on a website publishing mugshots of convicts. "In the US, there are companies who buy up mugshots of prisoners and put them online – unless you pay $500 to take them down." Surely that's inimical to the spirit of the law whereby convictions become spent and offenders are rehabilitated? "It is inimical, but that's not a question that troubles their business model."Suddenly this woman was punished again for an offence she had committed more than a decade ago and for which she had spent time in prison. Friends and neighbours treated her as a criminal, even though a day before they had entrusted their children to her care. Mayer-Schönbergerwrites in the new edition of Delete: "Digital memory, in reminding us of who she was more than 10 years ago, denied her the chance to evolve and change." This story, he argues, typifies how digital memory denies us the capacity to forgive.Once lost, it's difficult to reconstruct. Germany's lawmakers tried prohibiting HR departments from Googling job applicants – thereby compelling institutional forgetting. "It was impossible to operationalise. They couldn't stop HR department workers Googling at home, for instance."Mayer-Schönberger believes his book struck a chord. "Nine out of 10 Americans want the right to force websites and advertising companies to delete all stored information about them. And for US digital natives [those born after the introduction of digital technology] the figure is 84%."Why is there such a concern? "People feel vulnerable online and don't trust organisations to protect their personal information. Google was clumsy in dealing with complaints aboutStreetView. Think ofFacebook: it's in their DNA to keep information because they can monetise it."He's intrigued by what Facebook does to human identity. "In the analogue era, it was relatively simple to keep your lives separate. If my main leisure pursuits were being in the golf club and in an S&amp;M circle, it was essential that no one at the former knew about the latter. Facebook, by not allowing you to have two accounts, problematises that separation. The response is that individuals employ strategies to hack the system – almost all my colleagues have two Facebook accounts, to keep different parts of their lives boxed in."What can be done to reverse the demise of forgetting? "I suggest we reset the balance and make forgetting just a tiny bit easier than remembering – just enough to flip the default back to where it has been for millennia, from remembering for ever to forgetting over time." He argues that digital storage devices (cameras, mobiles, computers) should automatically delete information that has reached its expiration date.How? He suggests that users, when saving a document they have created, would have to select an expiration date in addition to the document's name and location on their hard disk. "Expiration dates are about asking humans to reflect – if only for a few moments – about how long the information they want to store may remain valuable."This chimes with Harvard cyberlaw expert Jonathan Zittrain's idea that we should have a right to declarereputation bankruptcy– ie to have certain aspects of one's digital past erased from the digital memory. Such a right might have helped the woman caller to Mayer-Schönberger's phone-in.Mayer-Schönberger envisages that each digital camera could have a built-in process to select expiration dates for a photo. Before taking a picture the camera would send out "picture requests" to what he calls "permission devices" (about the size of a key fob that, perhaps, might dangle from our necks) that respond to the request with the owner's preferred expiration date. That date could range from zero to three years to 100 years from now (an option reserved for really memorable pictures).He concedes expiration dates are no overall solution to the problem, but what he likes about them is that they make us think about the value of forgetting and, also, that they involve negotiation rather than simply imposing a technical solution to a technical problem. There are alternatives, such as turning your back on the digital age. "I don't like digital abstinence. I want us to embrace participation in digital culture and global networks. Just not at any cost."He argues that digital memory intrudes into our most intimate relationships. "Think of my old love letters. I hope they were destroyed or they're rotting in some attic. There's an implicit ethical agreement that they won't be used against me or published." In the digital age, such implicit ethical agreements are rendered obsolete. So much of our past is so readily retrievable in the digital age that we can't help but stumble across things we'd do better to forget. In Delete, he imagines a sad little story of two friends meeting after not seeing each other for years. John and Jane arrange to go for coffee at an old haunt to reminisce. But Jane can't quite remember the name of the cafe. So she has a brainwave – she'll check through her old emails to John. As she looks for the cafe address, she stumbles across an exchange with him that poisons her attitude to him. Instead of forgiving and forgetting, she is overwhelmed with old resentment and, quite possibly, won't turn up for that coffee.Our digital footprints, that's to say, can trip us up later on – unless we self-censor assiduously. Given that, what information is Viktor Mayer-Schönberger prepared to disclose to me about himself – given it will be Googlable for the forseeable? He tells me he was born in a small Austrian alpine resort called Zell am See 45 years ago. Little Viktor started computer programming when he was 12, invented a new computer language aged 14, and before he was out of his teens had won awards at the International Physics Olympics and the Austrian Young Programmers Contest. Aged 18 he started a data security company called Ikarus Software.He sold Ikarus at 26, amassed degrees from Salzburg, Cambridge, Harvard and the LSE. He worked for his father's tax law practice, then spent 10 years on the faculty of Harvard's John F Kennedy school of government. Last October, he took up his Oxford appointment. He has John Lennon glasses, and sounds – thanks to all those Stateside years – like Steve Buscemi. He has a wife and one child and hopes that this information will never be used against him. But, given how little we know about the future, who knows if that will happen?When we finish this interview the professor did not activate a permission device to change preset expiration dates for the online version of this article, which was kind of him. In future,  journalism may well not be like that."One thing that's pleased me since I've been working in this area is some online services have implemented expiration dates for information." Among them wasdrop.io, which offered private file sharing with expiration dates – and was bought up by Facebook last year. Google also now has a facility to set dates after which a web page will no longer be included in its search results displayed to users. He is heartened too by the tendency to encourage digital users to set privacy settings. "When Apple launchediCloud, it allowed you to sync privacy setting across devices – that's incredibly nifty."Mayer-Schönberger is now researching what he calls "institutions of remembering". "We set up institutions of memory to help us remember important things – such as the Holocaust, for example. But with Google and Flickr and other sites offering seemingly comprehensive memory, we might be prompted to devalue these established institutions of memory. They risk being drowned out by stuff online. My fear is that the digital age, while benefiting us enormously, impoverishes us too."Delete: The Virtue of Forgetting in the Digital Age is published in paperback on 25 July by Princeton University Press, £12.50.
Much to the annoyance of technology execs based outside Cupertino, the message for the small army of tablet devices launched to compete with Apple's iPad is growing deafeningly loud.Sadly, HP's "breakthrough" TouchPad – to go on sale in July – is showing no signs of disrupting that pattern – here are some critiques from the best of the web.Wall Street Journal – Walt MossbergClever user interface, nifty wireless printing and unobtrusive notifications. But with a poor battery life and a paucity of compelling apps, the TouchPad is no match for the iPad.Mossberg says: "H-P stresses that webOS is a platform and that the TouchPad is just one iteration of it. The company plans to add the operating system to numerous devices, including laptops, and hopes that this scale will attract many more apps. And it pledges continuous updates to fix the current shortcomings."But, at least for now, I can't recommend the TouchPad over the iPad 2."Gizmodo – Matt BuchananConceptually, the TouchPad is way ahead of most other tablets – but it is painful in practice. Buchanan says: "You're stepping on my dreams, HP. The TouchPad is so close, closer than anything else, to being good. But it's also very, very far from it. Look, give this thing six months. It could be amazing. If it's not by then, well, I guess that says everything that needs to be said."This is my next – Joshua TopolskyIntuitive user interface, and phone pairing is a bonus – but the hardware feels cheap and the software can be sluggish. Topolsky says: "The TouchPad is far from perfect — really, not even close right now. Still, there is DNA here that is amazing, and deserves to be given a second look."Engadget – Tim StevensPlasticky hardware, decent battery life, intuitive interface, altogether promising. Stevens says: "We all wanted the TouchPad to really compete, to give us a compelling third party to join the iOS and Android boxes on the ballot. But, alas, this isn't quite it."Precentral – Derek KesslerMultitasking is a breeze, a few software bugs, and dissapointing lack of rear-facing camera – but a legitimate contender in the tablet space. Kessler says: "The TouchPad's not a perfect tablet by any stretch of the imagination...HP's still making their case, and if there's anybody with the power, expertise, and connections to make a successful tablet, HP and webOS could be the winning combination."Ars Technica – Casey JohnstonMuch improved WebOS, great set of native apps and snappy to touch. Possible the iPad's strongest competitor. Johnston says: "The HP TouchPad, if it were less expensive, could be an extremely strong, if slightly less polished, alternative to the iPad. But like other recently-released high-profile Android tablets, it's determined to take on the champ. And just like those Android tablets, its hard to recommend over an iPad at the same price. But the competition does creep ever closer, and the TouchPad stands as a solid iPad competitor for those who, err, 'think different.'"Slashgear – Victor NguyenMultitasking is a treat, WebOS is a pleasant surprise – but its biggest challenge lies in getting developers on-side. Nguyen says: "The HP TouchPad offers one of the best tablet experiences around, and we can see many would-be tablet buyers missing out on that while the platform keeps its marginal status. Uninspiring hardware, perhaps, but we'll happily look past that based on webOS' charms."The Guardian – Charles ArthurHP has a tablet that looks like a viable competitor, says Arthur: "The TouchPad, for me, stood alongside the iPad in terms of quality – both user experience and build – and made the multitude of me-too Android tablets (and the PlayBook) look distinctly second-class."Have you got a tablet? Or are you hankering after a TouchPad (or something else) now? Let us know...
Google's new social network service, Google+, has apparently been blocked in China within a day of being launched.The company also halted new signups after a torrid first 24 hours in which "insane" demand to join it forced the company to close it to new members briefly.According to the site Great Firewall of China, which uses a server based in China to try to access external web locations, Google users inside China are unable to access any location within google.com, which includes the URL for Google+, at plus.google.com.Another access-checking service, Just Ping, also reports that the plus.google.com URL isinaccessible within China.The blocking by the Chinese government, using its "great firewall" – a censorship system which blocks a huge number of websites outside the Chinese borders on the basis that they contain "destabilising" content such as pornography or unsuitable views – matches that applied to other western social networks, includingFacebookandTwitter. By contrast, the Guardian's siteis accessiblein many parts of China.)Google's main URL, google.com, has been blocked inside China since the company decided to withdraw from the mainland in 2010 in protest at what it saw asgovernment-inspired hacking.According to the Great Firewall site, its Chinese version, google.cn, isalso blockedwhile that of China-sanctionedBaiduis not.Google+ is being seen as Google's answer to Facebook, which boasts almost 700m users – although it is effectively banned inside China, where only people who use encrypted connections to the outside world are able to join it.Vic Gundotra, one of the company's top engineers who watched the development closely,posted on Google+early on Thursday morning (at roughly 8.45pm on Wednesday night in Google's Pacific timezone) that "we've shut down the invite mechanism for the night. Insane demand. We need to do this carefully, and in a controlled way. Thank you for all of your interest!"Invites were opened up again on Thursday afternoon, though only on a limited basis.There are no details yet on how many people have joined the service.China's government on Friday celebrates an important anniversary, of 90 years since the founding of the Communist party of China, and it has instituted a number of crackdowns on internet use and heightened censorship.Earlier this week Google revealed that it receives asteady stream of requestsfor private data from developed countries — but that it had had no content removal requests from the Chinese government in the second half of 2010. However it received 90 requests from China-controlled Hong Kong for user data, an increase of 80% from the same period in 2009; it acquiesced to 53 of them, a 59% compliance rate.
I'm looking for a reliable way – preferably cheap or even free – to synchronise Microsoft Outlook between a desktop PC and laptop. The laptop is running Windows XP Pro and the desktop Vista Pro (which, incidentally, I love!). Changing from Outlook isn't really an option as I've looked at other email clients and don't like them; I was a Eudora user until Qualcomm discontinued it, and I absolutely hated Thunderbird. The Outlook .pst file on the desktop PC is around 2GB, so copying it between laptop and desktop each time and then back again is just too time-consuming.Brian BuckleyYou'd expect there to be a simple way to synchronise Outlook on two PCs but evidently Microsoft does not see it as a problem. Outlook is designed for business users, who are expected to get their email from a Microsoft Exchange Server and therefore won't have a synchronisation problem. Individuals and home users are expected to use the desktop version of Windows Live Mail, which replaced Outlook Express in Vista and Windows 7.In fact, the .pst (personal storage) file is something of a concession, andsupport document 297019says: "The Microsoft Exchange Server 4.0 team created .pst files in order to let users maintain a copy of their messages on their local computers. The .pst files also serve as a message store for users who do not have access to a Microsoft Exchange Server computer (for example, POP3 or IMAP email users)."To make the best use of Outlook, you could consider switching to an email service that uses Exchange Server, such asSimply Mail Solutions. This week, Microsoft launched a cloud-based service calledOffice 365, which provides hosted Exchange Server, SharePoint Server and Lync communications software. It's aimed mainly at small businesses, but it would work well for an individual whose working life is based around Outlook and Microsoft Office. However, home users aren't going to use services like this because of the cost. Office 365 starts at £4/$6 per month, whereas anyone can use the excellent online Office apps at Hotmail/SkyDrive for free.The simplest free alternative for Outlook users is to set up Google's Gmail to provide IMAP instead of POP3 email. You can then set up Outlook on both your PCs, and let them fetch email separately. You will also be able to access email via a web browser, if you wish. Google provides full instructions on how toset up your Outlook 2007 client to work with Gmail. It's very easy if you don't use Outlook's Auto Account Setup wizard and click to set it up manually. (The auto account setup works perfectly, but it sets up a POP3 account. When I did this, I couldn't see how to change it to IMAP later. Clicking the "Change" button didn't do it.)I suspect this approach would work with Hotmail as well as Gmail, and with the Windows Live Desktop program, which can automatically download email from Hotmail. This would also solve your email problem, too, but you'd lose Outlook's information management features.As you know, you can use one Outlook .pst file and copy it from the desktop to the laptop and back, but this gets tedious. However, you could keep one .pst file but access it while it's still on the USB thumbdrive. All you would have to do is unplug the thumbdrive from the desktop PC and plug it into the laptop. A modern USB2 Flash drive should be big enough (8GB or 16GB), fast enough and cheap enough to do the job. However, I'd worry about file corruption, and about Outlook getting confused if its .pst file isn't where it thinks it should be. I'd certainly close Outlook before unplugging the thumbdrive, and plug it into the other PC before opening Outlook.This suggests another alternative: keep the shared .pst file online using a storage service such as Dropbox. A quick search found a post on the Lifehacker blog –How to Sync Your Desktop Email Client (Outlook or Thunderbird) Across Multiple Computers– explaining how to do this. One huge drawback would be that you couldn't do email if you didn't have a good internet connection, whereas Office 365 works seamlessly whether you're online or offline. Apart from that, the prospect of corrupting my .pst file would put me off even attempting it. (Code Two offers a professional online Outlook sharing service,Public Folders, at a price – Syncing Master and 3 CALs for $160.)Finally, when Microsoft fails to meet what looks like an obvious customer need, a lot of small companies will offer utilities to fill the gap. There are plenty of commercial programs that will synchronise Outlook files across two or more computers. Examples include 4Team'sSync2, ITSTH'sEasy2Sync, Public Shareware'sPublic SyncTool (PST)andSYNCING.NET Personal Edition. You can find many similar products on Slipstick's page,Synchronizing Microsoft Outlook on Two Machines, or by searching office.microsoft.com forOutlook sync. It would be hard to pick one, but most seem to be available in 30-day try-before-you-buy versions.I already use Gmail in IMAP mode, so that's what I'd suggest. However, if you are a business user, Office 365 – reviewedhere– looks like a good value alternative. Basically, you get hosted Exchange at a reasonable price (since you'll be using your existing version of Office), and you can consider the powerful SharePoint and Lync services as a free bonus.
Bobby Kotick doesn't give many interviews. He doesn't really need to. Via a few off-the-cuff remarks, the chief executive and president of Activision has become one of the most quoted executives in the industry, his statements pounced upon and often mangled by games industry bloggers who see him as the epitomy of corporate evil.He has certainly presided over a turbulent year for the mammoth third-party games publisher. Massive sales of Call of Duty: Black Ops were countered by the apparent axing of the previously successful Guitar Hero franchise, and a legal spat with the co-founders of Infinity Ward, the creator of the million-selling Modern Warfare titles. This Christmas, Modern Warfare 3 is likely to bring in at least $1bn for Activision, and its rivalry with EA's Battlefield 3 title is likely to define the games market for the year.So what does Kotick make of EA? Has he been surprised by the backlash against the new social gaming service Call of Duty: Elite? And what support will Activision give to the two new hardware platforms announced at E3 earlier this month: the Nintendo Wii U and the Sony PS Vita? Here's what he had to tell us.How was E3 for Activision?I think we had a fantastic presence – I would say the feedback we've received has been the best overall that we've ever had at E3. There were two products in particular: Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3, obviously, andSkylanders. It was productive and worthwhile for us.Do you still feel that E3 is relevant?I think it's relevant from the perspective of being able to gather retailers, journalists and investors all in one place. And because it's in LA [where Activision has its corporate HQ] it's a little more efficient for us than it might be for a lot of other companies.The showdown between Battlefield and MW3 was a key focus this year – is that sense of competition exciting?To be honest with you, I don't spend a lot of time thinking about our competition.EA was very keen to stoke up some rivalry. John Riccitielloclaimedto have "got your goat" with the Battlefield demo…You know, I just don't comment on our competitors' products. That's not something we feel the need to do.Call of Duty: Elite has been greeted with a certain amount of controversy – there have been criticisms about monitising social content. How would you respond to that?We started out with a desire to give back to our players; we wanted to add capabilities that were the direct result of research conducted with our audience. We have tens of millions of players, and we went out to our audience and we solicited their thoughts and opinions on what would make the game – on a free basis – more fun to play.So the bulk of what we've done is to create a free service that offers a whole host of new, interesting and well-differentiated capabilities that will get our audience really enthusiastic and excited about playing. We have very articulate audiences – they're able to prioritise what's important; they're able to give us clarity on features that they think will be useful. So from that perspective, what we're delivering is the direct result of player input – and a lot of it.There were also a certain number of things that our players wanted to see, with the recognition that those particular services would be costly for us to develop. And we spent a lot of time talking about what's a fair way to charge for whatarepremium services. In that regard too we got great audience feedback. So [Elite was based on] very well-informed research that goes deeper and is more extensive than anything we've done before. I think the combination of offerings is very well aligned with the interests of our communities.Activision has expressed its support for the Wii U and Vita. How relevant do you think specialist hardware is in the new era of smartphone, tablet and cloud-based gaming?There will always be a need for specialised hardware to satisfy the needs of gamers. With the Wii U … from a development perspective, having a Nintendo device that is on parity with the other hardware from a graphics perspective was really necessary. For the kinds of games we create, it was becoming very difficult for us to support the Wii with the expectations that our gamers have. I think that the user-interface itself is very clever – there will be a lot of innovation to come from having the second screen. It's also critically important that you can use the existing physical interfaces with the new device because those are really compelling. Nintendo has always done a very good job of thinking about the user experience and this is no exception.So this is something you can bring your core games on to? Might we see Modern Warfare and Prototype on Wii U?Well, without telling you our title plans, it's now more possible to do deep rich multiplayer games – we need more clarity from Nintendo on the online capabilities, but we've had development systems for a while now and we're very enthusiastic about it. As for the Vita have you played on it?Yes, I've played WipeOut and a few of the other titles…It is a fantastic piece of hardware. Technically, we're super excited about what we can do on it, it's really something incredible. The question is, where is the market? I think the pricing was surprisingly affordable, the product itself is really great – so the questions is, is there a need in the marketplace for a very specialised portable device of that capability? Hopefully there will be because it's a really nice product and its very well differentiated from what you can get in even the most capable smartphone or tablet today.You must be heightening your support for smartphones and tablets though? Those markets are booming.Yeah, but as I usually say, we're never the first guys into the market – we're very deliberate about how we enter. We like to do it with the highest quality products that are appealing to the broadest possible audience. But yes, those are market opportunities that area starting to emerge. I don't think they are going to be big opportunities for revenue growth in the short term, but over the long term, they're going to be exciting.Talking about new opportunities, you seem to be investing heavily into toy/game crossovers withWappy dogand Skylanders. How did these come about?With Skylanders, it really started out with a vision that one of our studios had to create a Pixar-style character universe – they had a clever story and a good gameplay idea that was basically a way to bring your toys to life. For us, that was an interesting and appealing concept – and if you think about pathways to innovation, physical interfaces have become a much more important part of the game experience; the ability to use new technologies as we're employing them in Skylanders – the ability to have two-way communications between a  toy and a game, then being able to transport your characters and abilities across every possible platform that has a micro processor and a display – it is all very interesting.The thing about having a toy that actually keeps track of your skills and capabilities or how you progress within a game is that it actually creates a currency for kids. The way that you interact with characters cross platform, the way the portal is able to unlock these magic moments you have with the characters - I've never seen anything quite like this. But launching new intellectual property, especially of this complexity, is the hardest thing to do in video games. I'm very excited about it's prospects, but it's very risky.Can we expect more announcements about original IP this year?We're always developing new IP – the two things that are currently being speculated on most are the new MMO from Blizzard and the work that Bungie is doing. Both of those are entirely new intellectual properties.Will we hear anything on those soon?Nothing I can talk about right now.Do you think you'll be able to apply any lessons you learned from the demise of Guitar Hero to your new IP, or even to Call of Duty?I think we've always said, if we don't think we can deliver great gameplay and innovative experiences, we won't necessary put a product out. With Guitar Hero we didn't think the products that we could put out this year or next year would be right for delivering innovation to your audience – we felt that taking time to innovate was the right thing for the franchise.So both of those franchises will return?Until we can deliver a really high level of innovation and tap into the high level of creativity and inspiration of the people we have making games, we won't put the products out. That goes for everything – we've always subscribed to that philosophy.
Byacquiring Palm, HP – the biggest seller of PCs to businesses, and a behemoth in the whole tech world of software and services – also got access to everything that Palm had been doing with webOS, its own follow-up to the not-lamented-at-all Palm OS.With the TouchPad, HP has a tablet that looks like a viable competitor* to the iPad. The asterisk? Oh, sure – that's because the place where it's principally going to compete is in the enterprise. This, not the PlayBook, is the one that says "amateur hour is over". It makes the PlayBook look small and underpowered. (Because, actually, the PlayBook is small and underpowered.) The TouchPad is being positioned as a device that knows why it exists: to hook up to every cloud service that you can imagine, whether on the internet or your corporate intranet.And I even discovered why you might want to do true multitasking (two programs actively updating) on a tablet – which the TouchPad very definitely can. That, plus its ability to play Flash video, means that it has two things going for it that the iPad hasn't.Furthermore: the TouchPad, for me, stood alongside the iPad in terms of quality – both user experience and build – and made the multitude of me-too Android tablets (and the PlayBook) look distinctly second-class.Some of this shouldn't be a surprise. Palm was led, up to the buyout, byJon Rubenstein, formerly head of hardware at Apple, who oversaw the iPod's explosive growth, and is now, within HP, in charge of the TouchPad and smartphone division.First impressionsSolid but not too heavy, the TouchPad has a 4:3 screen, which personally I think makes a better screen for work, rather than the 16:9 variant preferred in the Android ecosystem, which is ideal for gazing at widescreen trailers of the next Transformers movie.There is a front-facing camera and an oval "home" button; the home button serves the same purpose as on the iPad, waking up the screen or returning you to the "home" page (which may be a view of your current running processes). The build quality is high – none of the rough edges around the screen that you find on almost any Android tablet (the Samsung Galaxy 10 prototypes that I've seen are the exception).It uses a wireless charger, an elegant solution to the problem of how you keep the thing charged up (some tablets are very picky about what charger they have, which can be frustrating if you can't identify it from the six or seven that most places have). The charger – a solid easel that the tablet sits in – can lie down or be raised, in which case the tablet will function as a clock while sleeping/charging.Logging in to the machine for the first time does require you to register with HP; this, I think we can agree, is now the minimum annoyance that is the price of entry for any new OS. (You'll get it with an iPad and you'll get it with Android.) The process wasn't painless, but the pain was minimal.The home screen doesn't have the iPad's "full house of icons", or Android Honeycomb's "empty room"; instead there's an icon bar at the bottom of the page (internet, mail, calendar, chat, photos, and an arrow - the latter leading to "apps".)HP TouchPad: it can pull pictures in from cloud services including Facebook and Photobucket (though not yet Flickr)Apps, camera, action!Press on any of the icons, and you'll get a new page push up from the bottom of the screen which initiates that element (if it isn't running, or if it's a browser page). Just as with the PlayBook, you can get rid of apps by swiping them up to the top of the page. Alternatively, swipe from the bottom and you'll see your running apps, arranged side by side in a flat carousel that you can swipe through and choose. These app windows are called "cards", and they're one of the things webOS really brings to the party.Cards: good deal"Cards" are elements from the same app. So if you want to open a link from a web page without losing the page you're on, you can press-and-hold and get an option of "open [link] in new card". These can then be arranged on top of each other, letting you group ideas or projects together. The cards are arranged like a hand of cards – so if you want to open one of three or four that are stacked on top of each other, it's simple.This strikes me as a great approach to the user interface. If Apple and Google are smart, they'll be trying to think of ways to copy it for their respective tablet OSs – though I suspect for Apple it won't fit into the paradigm of iOS. It might be easier for Google, though we might not see it for quite a few more revisions.BrowserUnlike the RIM PlayBook browser,the HP TouchPad browser was snappy and faithful in rendering, in my experience. It's recognised as a desktop rather than mobile browser (another plus; I've come across other tablets which have been detected as mobile phones). The question of "tabbed" browsing doesn't arise because you have the Cards paradigm. So yes, you can do tabs, but more elegantly.EmailHP TouchPad: the columns on the email can be pulled to take up more or less space if you want to read an emailHP lets you connect to pretty much any email service – Google, Microsoft Exchange, Yahoo, even Apple's soon-to-be rebranded MobileMe. If it's in the cloud, HP's got it covered. The email app itself looks very like the iPad and Honeycomb ones, but with the added extra that you can pull columns to the side to move them out of the way to focus on an email.To clarify: the standard view on emails is three columns – account, sender, content. On the TouchPad, you can drag the "sender" column leftwards to hide the accounts: this lets you see more of the emails. And if you want to focus on a particular email, you can drag its content column leftwards over the sender column. It's a smart response to the problem of finding and concentrating on what you want.CalendarHP TouchPad: the calendar app won't surprise anyoneCalendar apps – especially on tablets – have reached some sort of evolutionary end-stage which only some monstrous event, such as an asteroid or an extinction event, will change. There's the standard day/week/month view. The day view isn't much good – you have to scroll through to see more than six hours at a time. If anyone has a great idea for a calendar user interface, we'd all appreciate it very much..ChatThis is where I discovered the place where actually, you do want to multitask. One day I happened to be signed in to chat – Google Chat. Someone popped up who wanted a chat, and so we did, via text. But chat being what it is, there were delays – during which I was able to go off and load web pages and read around the subject we were discussing. (Anonymous, since you're wondering.) And I knew when they'd returned to the chat because there would be an audible signal from the Chat app when something new was posted – at which point I could return to the Chat app and continue the conversation. The swipe-swoop-press-chat-swipe-swoop-browse cycle was easy. I have to say that it was about as simple as using a desktop to do the same thing – but far more relaxed.The "Chat" applications you can join include AIM, Google, Skype, and Yahoo. (The lack of Microsoft Messenger is surprising.) Beyond that, you have to head over to the HP App Catalog to get apps that will join you to those other services.Did I say apps? Yes, I did.AppsPre-installed apps: the TouchPad comes with• Bing Maps (which can work out your location apparently via Wi-Fi; it did mine without any input except allowing location services)• Contacts app (synchronises with your cloud contacts services)• QuickOffice, which will synchronise with Google Docs. One sizable problem here: it renders Google Docs text as black on a black background. For shared Google Docs spreadsheets, it can be quite laggy.• Music (only stuff you have on the machine - nothing from the cloud)• YouTube• Facebook• Photos and video (which can be pulled from the cloud)• Memos (for short text notes)• "Phone" (for Skype and webOS phones, if you have one of the latter).For other things, you'll need to head to the app store. Ah. Yes. This is where things get a bit sticky. The HP app store (called the HP App Catalog) is nearly as empty as the RIM PlayBook's one. There's nothing like the range of apps that you can find on Android – or, of course, in Apple's store. HP is trying to make a virtue out of this by having a big magazine-style front called "Pivot" (I kid you not). This only confuses matters, but can't hide the fact thatthere aren't many apps out there.The experience wasn't much good either: apps appeared to download, but never appeared to finish. The App Catalog is clearly in its early stages. Possibly the version I had was using the wrong software; in which case it needs to get fixed, pronto. (Update:commenters are saying that this is essentially in preview form. We'll see.)Now, with RIM, I was just rude. But that's because RIM didn't have a clear idea about who would be using this – whereas HP has a laser-like determination that these things are going to be in chief something-or-other officers' (the so-called CxOs) offices. The PlayBook looks titchy and trivial. The TouchPad looks professional; its entire mien says "I've got work to do"; the PlayBook, to me, said "I'm a slightly larger smartphone, but that's about it".What I also think will happen is that companies will start building cloud services on their intranets which will work with the TouchPad (and of course any cloud-enabled device, but the TouchPad starts out thinking that way). There is also an enormous number of corporations with lots of HP kit, and they will be interested in making the most of that investment. This is where HP has a vast lead over RIM: it's an absolutely colossal corporation with a lock on corporate sales and services. That counts for a lot more than having a hip smartphone. On that basis, I can see the HP webOS ecosystem growing more quickly than the RIM QNX one (and it's interesting that many of the apps on the App Catalog are paid).Battery lifeThis was excellent in my experience – easily around the eight-hour mark (down to about five hours if you're going to insist on playing Flash videos). Most notable was that if you simply left it sleeping (with multiple apps suspended) the battery barely ran down at all. I've seen Android Honeycomb tablets that would die pretty much overnight; the TouchPad would lose 1% or 2% in that period. That makes it viable for really long trips. It may even outdo the iPad on this feature – though I didn't have one to compare it with.ExcitementsApart from the iPad, nothing up to this point has looked like it has grasped the entire difference of use that a tablet entails. I think that HP's approach – that this is for corporate use, that it will connect to the cloud – is a smart one. The looks of the device itself, which is wonderfully sleek, and its interface, which is a real pleasure to use, and makes multitasking actually like something that you'd want to use, rather than something in a tick-list.Once HP has its smartphones available, you'll also be able to transfer URLs, emails, photos and so on between those and a TouchPad by touching them. However, that requires HP to actually have some smartphones to offer for sale, and after the disastrous experience with the Palm Pre, the carriers are giving it a wide berth until it can sell some TouchPads. Touch-to-transfer is interesting, but not here yet.DisappointmentsOne thing that the TouchPad doesn't always give you is a blazing-fast response. Quite a lot of the time, you're left gazing at its tail-chasing white circle icon as it communicates with HP's or other companies' servers. The rendering isn't always the fastest, and sometimes I found that trying to drag items (such as columns in the Mail app) wasn't as responsive as I would have wished. Similarly, the orientation sensor wasn't always correct, and wasn't always quick to correct itself either. You'll often find yourself waiting quite a while before an app starts up – which is a good reason not to shut any of them down ever.There's no video out, which on its face is a huge mistake. That will limit how much penetration the TouchPad can get; without video out, it's not going to be the ideal product for sales teams to take to offices and show off. Perhaps that's going to come in the next version.Tick-list:• 9.7in capacitative screen, 1024x768 (4:3 ratio)• Dual-core ARM Snapdragon (the APQ8060) at up to 1.2GHz• 1GB of RAM• 16GB or 32GB• Wi-Fi 802.11a/b/g/n• Bluetooth 2.1+EDR compatibility• light sensor, accelerometer, compass, and gyro• 1.3 megapixel front-facing webcam (note: no rear camera).• micro-USB port, for direct transfer of data (such as photos, music or video)Those in favourSlick OS, cloud-based concept, "cards" paradigm, true multitasking, excellent battery life, pleasing design, wireless chargingThose againstCan be sluggish, few apps, weightier than iPad 2Price comparisonHP TouchPad: £399 (9.7in, 16GB Wi-Fi), £479 (9.7in, 32GB, Wi-Fi). 3G version to come.PlayBook: £399 (7in, 16GB Wi-Fi), £479 (7in, 32GB, Wi-Fi), £559 (7in, 64GB, Wi-Fi).Apple iPad: £399 (9.7in, 16GB, Wi-Fi), £479 (9.7in, 32GB, Wi-Fi), £559 (9.7in, 64GB, Wi-Fi)Motorola Xoom: £480 (10in, 32GB, Android Honeycomb)Acer Iconia tab: £449 (10in, 32GB, Android Honeycomb). There isn't a 16GB version.Asus Eee Pad Transformer" £380 (no optional physical keyboard, 10.1in, 16GB, Android Honeycomb).ConclusionThe arrival of the HP TouchPad splits the tablet world: there are now the real contenders, and the many also-rans. I'd say that the TouchPad and the iPad are now the contenders. The iPad has "consumer" crossover power; most consumers won't go for what the TouchPad does. But it has tremendous potential as an enterprise device (in a way that the RIM PlayBook seems to me not to have). Don't be surprised if this turns into a big seller in the coming months, given HP's corporate sales heft.•The HP TouchPad will go on sale in the UK on 15 July 15 at HP.com and  high-street retailers including PC World, Curry's, Amazon, Argos, Comet and Carphone Warehouse•Updated with info about App Catalog; slight correction of content re App Catalog; information about pre-installed apps; micro-USB port
There have been great expectations for mobile gambling ever since the days when it was one of the "three G's" expected to make big money for mobile operators from their 3G customers. The other two were games and girls (i.e. adult content).The three content types experienced mixed fortunes in those early years after the operators launched their first 3G services. Games became a steady revenue stream, but operators struggled to convince more than 5% of their customers to pay for them. Adult content did fairly well once operators had age verification systems in place, but they didn't like to talk about it.And gambling? It did okay, but was only ever a niche business for the operators, and particularly for the bookmakers and other gambling firms.Fast forward to the post-iPhone apps era, and consider the change. Games are huge in terms of downloads and revenues, becoming the most lucrative category on the various app stores. Mobile adult services have been sidelined by the approval policies of the store owners, and likely also by the fact that smartphone owners are only ever a Google search away from free material.Gambling? It seems mobile gambling may be doing rather better from the apps era, at least according to new figures released by bookmaker Paddy Power and betting exchange Betfair this week.Paddy Power's chief operating officer Breon Corcoran was one of the speakers at Google's Think Mobile conference in London this week, explaining that 55% of the companys' regular betters own a smartphone. 34% of its active customers are now accessing the service through their phones, with Paddy Power's mobile revenues increasing by more than 300% during 2010.Corcoran outlined the user growth too. In January 2010, the company had 10,000 mobile customers. A year later in January 2011, this had increased to 50,000. Yet by April 2011, it had 120,000 mobile users, thanks to its apps for iPhone, iPad and Android.Betfair has also been prospering from mobile, announcing this week that in its last financial year, it took more than £1 billion in bets from mobile devices. 168,000 people placed a Betfair bet from their phones – up 122% on the previous financial year – while revenues from the company's mobile apps and mobile sites was up 88% year-on-year."Developing new betting methods and experiences for the increasing amount of our customers who wish to access Betfair through their mobile phones is a key priority of the business," says Raj Vemulapalli, the company's vice president of mobile engineering.Betfair in particular is investing heavily in mobile, including launching HTML5 mobile web apps for Android, and launching an API for other developers to integrate its betting exchange into their own apps – complete with a 5% share of any revenues generated through those apps.The contrast between iOS and Android is interesting when it comes to mobile gambling, too: it's one of the few areas where Google has taken a harder line than Apple in terms of approvals.Earlier this year, Apple allowed real-money gambling apps into the App Store for the first time, yet at Think Mobile, Corcoran took a friendly pop at Google for moving in the opposite direction, and barring such apps from Android Market.Independent figures released this week by IHS Screen Digest claim that net mobile gambling revenue in the UK rose from £19 million in 2009 to £41 million in 2010, with senior analyst Ronan De Renesse hailing "a new wave of speedy, glamorous mobile gambling applications" as the key factor in this growth.
Once in a while, someone will say something that's so self-evidently true, and so unexpected, that you'll spend the rest of your life working through its implications. For me, one such truth is "A publisher makes a work public, it connects a work and an audience", and the person who said it is my editor Patrick Nielsen Hayden, senior editor at Tor Books, the largest science fiction publisher in the world.I first heard Patrick say this a decade or more ago, sometime after Google was founded, but before it was the enormous powerhouse it is today. Patrick was talking about the role of a publisher, and how it might change as a consequence of the internet. As soon as he said it, something clicked for me: the Flatiron Building, the famous skyscraper in midtown Manhattan that houses Tor and its parent company, Macmillan, is essentially in three businesses.The first is identifying works for which it believes there may be an audience: reading slush (the uncharitable but accurate term for unsolicited manuscripts), entertaining agent pitches, and scouting around for writers to solicit.Then there is the process of taking steps to prepare the work so that it will be of interest to that audience: editing, typesetting, proofreading, packaging, adding art and design elements.The third business is connecting the work to the audience: writing catalogue copy and distributing catalogues, despatching a salesforce to major retail and wholesale channels, soliciting testimonials, placing ads, soliciting reviews, touring authors, and these days, producing internet collateral from accompanying videos to online chats to full-blown game tie-ins.The mergers-and-acquisitions craze and the boom-and-bust cycles of the 80s and 90s drove publishers to move many of these functions out-of-house, so that manuscripts might come in through a freelance acquiring editor, be proofread by a freelance subeditor, receive a cover from a freelance artist, and be publicised by freelance publicists. This outsourcing revolution wasn't entirely straightforward, and there have been many bumps and false starts on the way as publishers worked out how to integrate freelancers into their workflow (it helped that many freelancers were former employees who already understood how things were done). Slowly but surely, publishers have delaminated themselves, separating out many of their vital functions and repositioning themselves as co-ordinators of many disparate suppliers who work in service of identifying, improving and delivering works to and for audiences.In a world in which producing a work and getting it in front of an audience member was hard, the mere fact that a book was being offered for sale to you in a reputable venue was, in and of itself, an important piece of publishing process. When a book reached a store's shelf, or a film reached a cinema's screen, or a show made it into the cable distribution system, you knew that it had been deemed valuable enough to invest with substantial resources, not least a series of legal agreements and indemnifications between various parties in the value chain. The fact that youknew abouta creative work was a vote in its favour. The fact that it wasavailable to youwas a vote in its favour.Partly, this was the imprimatur of the creator and publisher and distributor and retailer, their reputation for selecting/producing works that you enjoy. But partly it was just the implicit understanding that no company would go to all the bother of putting the work in your path unless it was reasonably certain it would recoup. So "publishing" and "printing" and "distributing" all became loosely synonymous.After all, it was impossible to imagine that a work might be distributed without being printed, and printing things without distributing them was the exclusive purview of sad "self-publishers" who got conned by "vanity presses" into stumping up for thousands of copies of their memoirs, which would then moulder in their basements forever. But just as the internal functions of publishing were separated out at the tail of the last century, this century has seen a separation of selection, duplication, preparation and distribution. Every work on the internet can be "distributed" by being located via a search-engine without ever being selected or duplicated or prepared.It's true, of course, that the works that are best selected, best prepared and best distributed tend to reach wide audiences and/or find commercial success. You're more likely to watch a video that's been well-shot, publicised by a deep-pocketed pro, that bears the stamp of a major studio, and that has been inserted into a major distribution channel like LoveFilm or Netflix or a theatrical distribution arrangement.But it's also true thatmanyworks are viewed on the internet without having any of these things. And sometimes they get them out of order: an obscure work is "discovered" by a blogger or a highly ranked tweeter, goes viral and is seen by many – and so isdistributed firstandpublished second. Clay Shirky calls this "Publish, then select" (in contrast with the old model, which was "Select, then publish"), but that's not quite right. The work isn't "published" until some force connects it with an audience.Why does any of this matter? Because the point of a publisher is to connect creators and audiences. Partly, publishers do this by ignoring creators who have nothing to say to the audience whom they can reach.Partly, they do this by revising the work in ways they believe will make it better for that audience. Publishers incidentally collect money from audiences, advertisers, or other third parties, and they sometimes remit part or all of the money to creators, but there are plenty of traditional publishers who did neither – the people who put Bibles in hotel rooms, for example; or the major newspapers that paid little or nothing to guest editorial writers who valued their reach more than the per-word fees.The internet has created a large number of new kinds of publishers who act to connect works and audiences. These essentially group intosearch engines, then bloggers, curators, and tweeters, and finally suggestion algorithms (such as Amazon's "people who bought this also bought…" recommendations; Reddit's human voting system; Netflix's suggestion system).In their own way, each of these entities acts to toss works over the attention transoms of audiences. There's not always money involved, and when there is, the entity that gets the bulk of the money differs for each example. But generating and distributing money are no more essential to publishing than printing or distribution are. Collecting societies like the PRS gather lots of money on behalf of musical performers but do no "publishing" to speak of; meanwhile, the people who pay them may be doing rather a lot of publishing, as when a hot club plays an obscure track for its impossible-to-reach, rarefied customers.Publishing – including film and music and game publishing – has always been first and foremost about connecting works and audiences, because without an audience, there's no reason to improve a work, to duplicate it, to distribute it, nor to sell it. But for the first time, it's possible to "publish" without engaging withanyother part of the process, and that is a weird and wonderful thing. It changes the power relationship between publishers and creators and investors – think of the musician who storms out of her label deal, puts her own work online and relies on Amazon or Magnatune or an influential MP3 blogger to promote the work to her fans.Critics and skeptics of the internet characterise many of the present-day publishers as parasites. This is nothing new: musicians and writers have been griping about labels and publishing houses forever; but this time, it's often the labels and newspapers and other rightsholders who believe they're getting the short side of the deal.But just as traditional publishers found new efficiencies when they outsourced many of their key functions, today, the signal duty of a publisher has become a standalone function. "Publishers" are everywhere, as general purpose as Google and as specialised as the obscure blog that manages to show a link to the three people in the world who care about it. Anyone with a future in a creative industry is going to have to make peace with this fact.
Justin Timberlake is to take a "major role" in the new direction of Myspace after he emerged as one of those behinda $35m deal for the ailing social network.The singer turned actor, who starred as Facebook investor Sean Parker in the Hollywood hit The Social Network, took a stake in Myspace along with the online advertising company, Specific Media.The unlikely entrepreneur will "lead the business strategy" for the fallen social network, the Specific Media chief executive Tim Vangerhook, said on announcing the $35m deal on Wednesday evening.Myspace has shed billions of dollars from its price tag since it was dethroned as the dominant social network in 2008. Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation agreed on Wednesday to sell Myspace for a fraction of the $100m it was seeking – a sign of the site's dramatic fall from greatness.News Corp will retain a minority stake in Myspace after putting the struggling social network up for sale earlier this year, engaging investment bank Allen &amp; Co to find a buyer.Inan interview with AdAge, Vanderhook said Timberlake, 30, had put his own money into buying Myspace, but refused to disclose how much. He confirmed that the former N Sync singer will have an office in Myspace but that he was "probably not going to be there every day".Asked whether he thought Timberlake had been inspired by his star turn in The Social Network, Vanderhook said: "I don't think it was so much that – that was just ironic. He's really passionate about how can he create a better community."Timberlake said in a statement: "There's a need for a place where fans can go to interact with their favorite entertainers, listen to music, watch videos, share and discover cool stuff and just connect. Myspace has the potential to be that place."Art is inspired by people and vice versa, so there's a natural social component to entertainment. I'm excited to help revitalise Myspace by using its social media platform to bring artists and fans together in one community."Just this week,Parker said Myspace's fall from grace was down to it being a "junkheap of bad design", while Facebook blossomed with lots of new features.He told TV host Jimmy Fallon at the NExTWORK conference: "They weren't successful in treating and evolving the product enough, it was basically this junkheap of bad design that persisted for many many years. There was a period of time where if they had just copied Facebook rapidly, they would have been Facebook. They were giant, the network effects, the scale effects were enormous."Myspace is expected to shed more than half of its 500 remaining staff as part of the deal. The layoffs follow a 30% staff reduction in April last year, and a further 47% cut in January. Two years ago Myspace employed more than 1,400 people.News Corp bought Myspace in 2005 for $580m. In 2006 Google signed a $900m deal to sell ads on Myspace; by 2007 it had 300m registered users worldwide and was being valued at $12bn. By November 2010 the user figure had fallen to 91m.Facebook passed Myspace in terms of numbers of users two years ago and is now approaching 700m globally. As people dropped Myspace, so did advertisers. Market research firm eMarketer estimates that the site will earn about $183m in worldwide ad revenues this year, down from $605m at its peak.Specific Media, a US digital advertising company founded by brothers Tim, Chris and Russell Vanderhook in 1999, said it planned to work with Timberlake to turn Myspace around by making it "the premiere digital destination for original shows, video content and music".The company added it intended to use Myspace's infrastructure to "deploy socially activated advertising", enabling brands to take their campaigns viral by allowing users to share ads with friends.News Corp's Myspace sale comes as a new generation of internet firms are attracting sky-high valuations. Zynga, the online games developer behind hits including CityVille and FarmVille, is planning aninitial public offeringthat could value it at $20bn. LinkedIn, the business-focused social network,has already gone publicand is valued at $8.6bn. Next year Facebook is expected to go public – analysts have estimated it could be worth $80bn or more.
The first generation of music apps based on artists tended to be purely promotional. There was talk of this being a new way to engage with fans on a more personal level, but usually that translated as just another channel to tell them to buy gig tickets and iTunes downloads, watch YouTube videos, and follow tweets.The second generation of artist apps is already looking more interesting, particularly for artists who are creatively engaged with the interactive possibilities of apps. Today's release of theRadio Soulwaxapp for iPhone and iPad, and also Bjork's upcoming Biophilia project, are good examples.Belgian duo Soulwax (also known as 2 Many DJs) have apparently been working on their app for two years with a team of people: its App Store listing credits an art director, executive producer, musical assistant, five vinyl encoders and the app designer.The app sits alongside the Radio Soulwax website, which has 24 one-hour mixes with accompanying visuals – "we call them mixes, but in reality they are more like musical films based on the record sleeves," explains the App Store listing. A new show will be added every week in the coming months, promising a deep dive into Soulwax's record collection.Users can choose to stream the mixes to their iOS device, or download them. The former is likely to be more popular however: the download of the first mix, Introversy, weighs in at 537MB. The app is free to download and use, presented as a labour of love rather than a commercial endeavour."We grew up surrounded by our dad's extensive record collection and many of our earliest memories are of record sleeves, so it only makes sense that we made this tribute to that forgotten art form, albeit in a very digital way," continues the listing.As for Bjork, the iPad apps for Biophilia are not available yet, but their release is imminent. They will take the form of ten apps – one per song on the Biophilia album – sitting under what's described as a "mother app" to provide a central point of access."The layers of content in each app include: an interactive game based on the song's scientific and musical subject matter, a musical animation of the song, an animated score, lyrics, and an academic essay," explains astatementreleased as a teaser for the apps."The game enables the user to interact with musical elements of the song and to learn about different musical features while creating their own version; the musical animation and animated music score bring together conventional and innovative ways of representing music visually; and the academic essay explores the ideas behind each song and app and how they are realized musically."What the Radio Soulwax and Bjork app projects share is creative engagement from the artists, working with developers, interactive designers and visual artists. Just for the fans? Perhaps, but they are two more steps along the road to finding out how tablets and smartphones may change the way we experience music.
A burst of 10  links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSemis: Inventories High, Netbooks Dissolving, Say Analysts &gt;&gt; Barrons.com""While we had indicated Q3 (September) PC-Notebook builds were looking up 10% to 15%, we believe the current outlook is more muted, looking for 8% to 10% for Q3.""Desktops will continue to increase, the problem, once again, is the same culprit that's been cited frequently this year, the Netbook, writes [Sterne Agee analyst Vijay] Rakesh: "The segment facing some challenges has been Netbooks, which we believe declined substantially 20% to 30% quarter over quarter into Q2 with tablets picking up." Some original design manufacturers (ODM) "saw Netbook units down 50%" this quarter, he writes."Notebooks, meanwhile, in the current quarter are flat with last quarter, versus a prior view to be up 5%, in unit terms".TDL4 – Top Bot &gt;&gt; SecurelistSo far, it has infected 4.5m PCs: "The malware detected by Kaspersky Anti-Virus as TDSS is the most sophisticated threat today. TDSS uses a range of methods to evade signature, heuristic, and proactive detection, and uses encryption to facilitate communication between its bots and the botnet command and control center. TDSS also has a powerful rootkit component, which allows it to conceal the presence of any other types of malware in the system.&#10;"Its creator calls this program TDL. Since it first appeared in 2008, malware writers have been perfecting their creation little by little. By 2010, the latest version was TDL-3, which was discussed in depth in an article published in August 2010.&#10;"The creators of TDSS did not sell their program until the end of 2010. In December, when analyzing a TDSS sample, we discovered something odd: a TDL-3 encrypted disk contained modules of another malicious program, SHIZ."Bad news all round.Organizational Charts &gt;&gt; Bonkers WorldOrg charts, simplified. Everything that we know about Microsoft and Apple suggests it's absolutely accurate. Actually, and Google. And Oracle. Hell, it's all correct.Specific Media CEO Talks MySpace and Justin Timberlake &gt;&gt; Advertising Age"Not only did little-known ad tech company Specific Media acquire the once-mighty MySpace from News Corp. for $35 million in cash and stock today, but it secured Justin Timberlake as an equity investor and creative player in the process.&#10;"As a condition of the sale, MySpace let go of half of its 500 employees; News Corp. will retain a 5% stake in the site.&#10;"We asked Specific Media CEO Tim Vanderhook what in particular he saw in MySpace, which lost close to $651 million in the 12 months ended in March; how he got Mr. Timberlake involved; and what the plan is now."The plan, you might say, is a bit hazy. "We want to... be a true home for content creators and artists."Middle man: Dell expands on growth plans &gt;&gt; Channel RegisterFrom the annual investors' meeting: ".. while Dell sells to global enterprises, the big, proprietary and Unix systems that these companies deploy in their data centers are not what Dell peddles. So only a portion of the $290bn in sales of hardware, software, and services at global enterprises is available to Dell, and hardly any of the $220bn in consumer spending will go to Dell.&#10;"'The largest part of the business is right in the middle,'explained Dell (the man), and this is where Dell gets 80 per cent of its revenues and 90 per cent of its profits. So you can see why the company is sticking to its focus on the midrange. 'Our competitors do not – or have not been able to – focus on that part of the industry.'"Another detail: persuading people to buy pre-configured machines and ship instead of flying them, it could save $20 per PC.The History of Advertising on Facebook [INFOGRAPHIC] &gt;&gt; MashableSkyscraper infographics are this year's .... [suggestions welcome]Re: [PATCH 0/7] overlay filesystem: request for inclusion &gt;&gt; Linux Filesystem DevelopmentLinus Torvalds - remember him? - on userspace filesystems: "Umm. 'userspace filesystem'?&#10;"The problem is right there. Always has been. People who think that userspace filesystems are realistic for anything but toys are just misguided."Google+ (in three frames) &gt;&gt; xkcdAs ever, make sure to hover over the image to get the extra joke in the title text.Inside Google+ — How the Search Giant Plans to Go Social &gt;&gt; Wired.comSteven Levy, author of 'In The Plex': "The image was discovered by Google VP of product management Bradley Horowitz when he opened Google Image Search and typed "Emerald Sea" — which had just been chosen as the project code name. The first result, a depiction of an 1878 painting created by German immigrant artist Albert Bierstadt, so impressed Horowitz that he commissioned a pair of art students to copy it on the wall facing the fourth floor elevators. That way, the hundreds of workers contributing to Emerald Sea would draw inspiration as they headed to their computers to remake Google into a major social networking force."The massive wave symbolizes the ways Google views the increasingly prominent social aspect of the web — as a possible tsunami poised to engulf it, or a maverick surge that it will ride to glory."Thousands of Tumblr logins stolen in phishing attack &gt;&gt; GFI Sunbelt Security Blog"It's a simple enough attack, luring Tumblr users with the promise of "hidden" pornographic content that requires entering login credentials to view. 'This page contains adult content. Please revalidate your credentials"'"The old ones are the best.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
Myspace, once the world's hottest internet firm, has been sold to an online ad company for around $35m, a fraction of the $100m its parent company was seeking for the ailing social network and billions less than its value five years ago.Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation bought Myspace in 2005 for $580m. In 2006 Google signed a $900m deal to sell ads on Myspace; by 2007 it had 300m registered users and was being valued at $12bn. But the social network was subsequently crushed by Facebook, which launched a year after Myspace.News Corp put Myspace up for sale this year, engaging investment bank Allen &amp; Co to find a buyer. News had been looking for $100m but settled for $35m offer from advertising targeting firm Specific Media. The sale is believed to be mainly in stock and News Corp will retain a small holding.Myspace is expected to shed more than half of its 500 remaining members of staff as part of the deal. The layoffs follow a 30% staff reduction in April 2010 and a further cut of 47% in January 2011. Two years ago Myspace employed more than 1,400 people.Facebook passed Myspace in terms of numbers of users two years ago. As people dropped Myspace, so did advertisers. Market research firm eMarketer estimates that the site will earn about $183m in worldwide ad revenues this year, down from $605m at its peak.The sale comes as a new generation of internet firms are attracting sky-high valuations. Zynga, the online games developer behind hits including CityVille and FarmVille, is planning an initial public offering (IPO) that could value it at $20bn. LinkedIn, the business-focused social network, has already gone public and is valued at $8.6bn. Next year Facebook is expected to go public – analysts have estimated it could be worth $80bn or more.
It is Thursday. Where has this week gone?!
FBI agents in the US have searched the house of a teenager in Hamilton, Ohio, whom they suspect of being a member of the hacking group LulzSec.A report in the local newspaperquoted an FBI agent, who said that federal agents had searched a house on Monday 27 June at which the suspect had lived.Nobody was charged after the search. The FBI is believed to have been acting on information from interviews and data gleaned from Ryan Cleary, who lives in Essex and has been charged with five offences under the Computer Misuse Act. LulzSec denied that Cleary had any involvement with the group in a tweet after his arrest, and suggested he had only hosted a chatroom for them.Thewebsite Threatpost reportsthat the Ohio teenager was known within LulzSec as "m_nerva", who leaked text logs of discussions between the group after they had hacked into the website of an FBI affiliate at the beginning of June.In those discussions, the apparent leader, called "Sabu", warned them not to discuss what they were doing with anyone.After the logs were leaked,the person controlling the LulzSec Twitter account threatened m_nervasaying "Remember this tweet, m_nerva, for I know you'll read it: your cold jail cell will be haunted with our endless laughter. Game over, child."LulzSec also released alleged detailsof the identity of m_nerva and another member; one of the names was of a person who lived in Hamilton, Ohio. The other allegedly lived in Halethorpe, Maryland.Last week FBI agents searched the house of a woman in Iowa and questioned her about links with the group. LulzSec said in a statement that it had six members, though it never stated their gender. But The Guardian understands that one key player was a female known in the group as "kayla" who carried out a number of website attacks.LulzSec announced that it was disbanding in a message on Sunday, and its senior members appear now to have tried to meld back into the larger Anonymous hacker collective, from which they are attempting to drive its present direction.
Age:One day.Is it like Google, only that little bit more so?It's like Google, but with&nbsp;faces.What does that mean?Google+ is a new social networking platform integrating several of the company's present services.OK. What doesthatmean?It's Google's version of Facebook, basically.Why do we need it when we have Facebook?You may have a point. 500&nbsp;million people already use Facebook.Not me. I quit last month because I was afraid someone might steal my identity to do terrorism.You may be paranoid, but you are not alone. Recent figures suggest Facebook participation may have peaked, with the number of users down 6 million between May and&nbsp;June.So what has Google+ got that Facebook hasn't?Google+ allows users to put contacts into groups according to status, and share content only with certain "circles". It also has "hangouts" where only permitted friends can have live video conversations.Sounds more like social exclusion than social networking.There's also a feature to connect strangers with common interests, called Sparks.But Facebook and MySpace have been around for years. Isn't Google a bit slow off the mark?Actually this is Google's latest stab at social networking, after the failure of Google Wave and Google Buzz. As one research analyst put it: "They've been throwing stuff against the wall for several years and so forth nothing has stuck."I'm not normally an early adopter, but Google has helped me accidentally find a lot of porn over the years, so I'll give it a go. Where do I sign up?You have to be invited first.So it's like a VIP club, is it? A whole special internet for Stephen Fry and his mates? Typical.They're just testing the latest version by releasing it to a small number of users. If all goes well they'll furnish it to the rest of us.Do say:"Let me know when you've got all the kinks worked out."Don't say:"Hi @Google+! Want to be #facebook friends?"
I've been usingGoogle+for less than a day. It is very much an early work in progress. But the service – a major new push into the social web, launched in a semi-public test phase this week by the search and advertising giant – is already ample proof that the social network and media worlds do not begin and end with Facebook.What Google has understood, and put (with some glitches) into practice, is what Facebook has resisted. First, privacy has been baked into the service, not added as an afterthought. The privacy settings still need work, but it's clear that Google has learned fromthe mistakes it has madeand theongoing privacy insults that Facebook showers on its users.Second, Google appreciates the reality that we live in generally non-concentric groups such as family, close friends, colleagues, people with whom we do business, social acquaintances and more. And G+ makes it relatively easy to sort people into a group or groups where they most naturally fit.Those choices are about the values Google is bringing to the social media table. They don't go as far as I'd like, but they are a serious improvement over what we've seen from the competition.The service itself is already more useful to me, in key ways, than Facebook has ever been. The main reason is the easy ability to create different groups for people I follow and then read the feeds separately. For example, I've created a group – Google calls them "circles" – called "tech journos", where I'm following a number of my favourite technology reporters and commentators, including this media site'stechnology editor, Charles Arthur, who also is in my "colleagues" circle.No one but me can see the names of the circles I've created, nor which circles I've designated for individual people. (I'm considering a circle called "insufferable" for people I find personally annoying but whose work I feel obliged to keep track of, in any case.) The G+ interface, the clean and easy-to-use design of which was led by Andy Hertzfeld of early Apple fame, allows me to drag and drop people into the appropriate circle or circles – a highly useful feature.I also decide which of my posts are public or restricted to people in my circles, or even just one circle. So if I want to post something for my family, and only my family, a couple of simple mouse clicks ensure that they are the only ones who'll see it. I can't overstate the value of this.Google has been moving more and more toward what former CEO Eric Schmidt called a "mobile first" approach to its products and services, and G+ shows some of the results of that mandate. There's been near-universal agreement that the mobile apps, especially for Google's own Android operating system, are even now. terrific I'm still struggling to get the app working, for reasons too cumbersome to describe here, but even the mobile web version of G+, written in ever-more-powerful HTML5, works quite well on several devices, including my Android phone and tablet.Among the truly brilliant features of G+ is something called "hangout" – a video conferencing system that could be bad news for Skype. Users can pull groups together for a simultaneous video chat that is intuitive and, for me in one such call, solid in performance. I am already imagining how ideal this will be for workgroup teams. Hangout and "huddle" (group chat) don't work in the mobile web version, as far as I can tell.By default, the feed of postings from people I follow – Google calls it a "stream" – is encrypted. Every online service offering any kind of communications should do this by default. I don't know if encryption extends to the video and text chats; if not, it should. Moreover, it should use industry-standard methods that have been vetted by security experts to assure that there are no backdoors for spies and snoops.A less successful feature, at least so far, is called "sparks", which uses Google's search system to find news and other information about topics I find interesting. It seems to be using a blend of methods from Google's regular search, Google News and other services, but so far, I don't find the results compelling. I assume that Google will be incorporating suggestions from people I follow, creating a more social news experience, as well as connecting "sparks" to Google Reader, which is today a far better way of keeping up with topics I follow routinely.There's a strongsense of unfinishedness about G+, which is not at all surprising. The service I'm looking at is not widely public. As Google's Bradley Horowitz said in a public posting, "Remember, we're in early testing … Things may be a bit wonky … bear with us."It's definitely wonky in places, but I'll have no trouble bearing with Google on this service. Google+ is already good enough for me to use on a daily basis, and I can't wait to see how it evolves.
The high court will rule for the first time next month on whether to force a British internet service provider to block access to a website enabling illicit filesharing "on a grand scale".Hollywood film studios, including Warner Bros, Fox, Disney and Paramount Pictures,on Tuesday asked the high court to order BT, the UK's largest ISP, to cut off access to Newzbin2, which they claim provides links to pirated movies and TV shows.Mr Justice Arnold on Wednesday said the court will make a formal judgment soon after 12 July, once BT and the studios have put forward written submissions for a separate court battle over the sale of counterfeit products on eBay.The ruling in that case, due to be handed down at the high court on 12 July, could help decide whether BT is liable for the material – legal or illegal – that travels over its network.BT argues that forcing it to ban its 6 million UK customers from accessing a website would usher in a new wave of online censorship. In its written submission, BT said rights holders could try to block about 400 filesharing websites a year. Blogs containing defamatory comments would also be targeted, BT added.However, the Hollywood studios – represented by their international trade body, the Motion Picture Association (MPA) – claim that online piracy is costing them hundreds of millions of pounds a year. They want BT to block access to Newzbin2 in the same way it blocks child abuse websites on the Internet Watch Foundation list.Richard Spearman QC, acting for the studies, told the high court on Wednesday: "Anything that can be done to deter or prevent this infringement ought to be done."
You may have noticed that Treyarch released its latest Call of Duty: Black Ops map pack yesterday. Annihilation offers four new multiplayer maps as well as a new zombie level entitled, Shangri-la.I've had a few goes on all the multiplayer layouts now, and they seem to be among the most architecturally dense and complex that the studio has produced. Here's what I've enjoyed so far...Drive In (main image above) is essentially this pack's take on the Stadium level from First Strike: a small, intense space in which an overlooked central point – this time the drive-in car park – becomes an all-out slaughter zone. I love the '50s styling, and the mini amusement arcade where you pass a couple of Operation Wolf-style coin-op cabinets, apparently running a game called Call of Duty: World at War...There are nasty little rat runs hedging around one side, with corrugated iron hangers to lurk in and flies buzzing about. Snipers can climb up behind a big neon sign, while a nearby building provides nice overviews of that courtyard area and has already provided me with some furious sieges.Visually, Hazard is the real treat – a re-designed version of the Black Ops campaign level 'Cliffside' it's a chic coastal golf club, complete with bars and a small swimming poot (which, with its elevated position, provides a nasty sniper hole). Treyrach says this is designed specifically for long-range engagements so ditch that Uzi and go for an assault or sniper rifle. Also, the undulating fairway is an absolute killing field as it's criss-crossed by multiple firing lines. Still, if you survive long enough you get to appreciate the little ranbow effect around the sprinklers.Silo is based around a Russian nuclear missile construction site and is a mass of sub-stations, control rooms and missile complexes. Between the buildings are an array of narrow alleys and interconnecting paths, and I was constantly legging it straight into enemies. Treyarch has built in lots of flank routes too, so this is one to take slowly and carefully, preferably with someone watching your 'six'. Which I never have. Alternatively, load up on decoys and see if you can trick out naive opponents. Again there are several very good sniper points above the congested ground level, allowing patient campers to pick out enemies as they jog between cover points.Finally, Hangar 18 is a medium-sized map filled with references to alien conspiracy theories and esoteric technology. In the middle is a big Lockheed Blackbird, which you can climb on top of if you facy making yourself a target for any of the snipers hiding out in the facility's satellite dish emplacements. Treyarch reckons the key to this map is getting in to, and maintaining control of, the eponymous hangar. But if you're not playing as part of a functioning team, Hangar represents another nerve-shredding slog through military-industrial buildings, where you'll doubtless be continually whacked from 100m away by some clever swine who's already worked out all the deadliest engagement angles. Good fun though.A decent selection, then, with lots of scenic flourishes to distract you as you play. There's less multi-layered verticality than some of the other packs, but much more complexity at ground level.At least that's what I think. Now over to you...
Zynga, the company behind popular social networking game FarmVilleexpected to float this week, is achieving off-the-chart growth with revenues apparently already more than double what it expected to generate just one year ago, according to a confidential business plan seen by the Guardian.The company expected to triple growth in revenues from $581m (£363m) last year to $1.5bn in 2015, according to the business plan, dated May 2010.But the company, which is reportedly on the verge of floating 10% of its shares in New York, may already have achieved its 2015 forecasts if information reportedly shown to investors is correct.According to a recent report in the New York Post, the San Francisco-based company had told investors it expects to generate $1.8 bn this year alone, yielding $630m in profit.It is expected to launch around 10% of the company on the market as part of a $500m financing round.The 2010 business projections, seen by the Guardian, show the company expected worldwide revenues of $816m this year; $1.016m in 2012; $1.3bn in 2013, $1.43bn in 2014 and $1.5bn in 2015.More than half of the revenue was forecast to be generated in the US with most of the non-US revenue coming from western Europe.The figures in the 2010 business plan show the phenomenal success of the gaming company, which only launched four years ago. The company's CityVille is the biggest game on Facebook followed by FarmVille, which between them have more than 130 million players. In the US, FarmVille players outnumber real farmers by five to one.Across the world, the company claims to have 215 million active users a month and all eyes will be on the company when it floats.Last year it was valued at $5.5bn, making it the world's second-largest gaming company behind Activision Blizzard. But the latest valuations are in the $15bn-$20bn range.Although there are fears of a new dotcom bubble, Zynga's appeal is that it has tapped into a lucrative method of making money online by selling gamers virtual items such as seeds to produce crops in FarmVille and virtual cash to construct buildings in CityVille.It has also developed lucrative revenue streams through sponsorship and partnerships.Last month Lady Gaga teamed up with the gaming companyto launch her new album. She gave an early listen to a track, Born This Way, to FarmVille fans who completed a special task on her speciality farm GagaVille.And last year, in the first deal with a physical retailer, it partnered with US chain 7 Eleven to create special products such as a Mafia Wars Slurpee and FarmVille vanilla ice cream. Gamers could buy the virtual confectionary and win a voucher for real goods in 7,000 participating stores, with 7 Eleven getting a cut of the revenue generated in Farmville.The virtual-goods market is seen as one of the most remarkable innovations in social networking because it actually makes money – the virtual market is expected to more than double to $20.3bn in 2014, according to ThinkEquity LLC.A spokeswoman for Zynga declined to confirm or deny the figures, saying it never comments on revenue.
The Ogilvy vice president, Rory Sutherland, and the Carphone Warehouse chief executive, Charles Dunstone, bagged the keynote slots at Google's Think Mobile conference in London, outlining contrasting views of mobile technology and the industry around it.Sutherland kicked off, with a talk on the science of human behaviour. "Our adoption of technology has actually leapt ahead of our understanding of people's understanding of it, their use of it, and how they actually react to it," he said."Over the next few years I think we're going to see something of a slowdown in technological progress ... relative incremental improvement, but relative stability."Less about huge leap forwards in what technology can do, and more about establishing what that means, and how we will be using it.Sutherland addressed the comparative merits of television and mobile for advertising: TV is still better for emotional engagement, but mobile is a different kettle of fish."The comparative advantage of mobile is interesting to discuss ... it's about context, it's about timeliness, it's about the ability to actually engage people in extraordinarily sophisticated dialogue, customisation, feedback, customer service," he said."In many ways its comparative advantage may be closer to what we think of as customer service than to what we think of as advertising."Sutherland also talked about "target moments" and "target context" on mobile — an area where mobile enjoys an "extraordinary comparative advantage" over other media.Dunstone followed with his own take, suggesting it's important to look at the history of mobile when trying to get to grips with what's happening now."All the way through mobile, people have failed to understand its potential, and then failed to capitalise on its potential," he said. "It's quite an odd business to work in. Generally what happens in the mobile business is not what anyone has ever anticipated."The obvious example: text messaging, famously invented as a way for operators to communicate with their customers about network outages and other issues. And then picture messaging, which was expected to boom but didn't."Everything the mobile phone industry has invented thinking customers would like it has been a failure, and everything that has been a success has occurred through an accident," said Dunstone. "The business model has succeeded in spite of the incompetence of the people within."Dunstone talked about the transformation of the mobile market in the last three to four years, where "the incumbents in the marketplace have squandered the opportunity" to such an extent that the key players are now the companies with operating systems, rather than the companies who run networks or make hardware.He pointed to Apple, Google and Research In Motion – still a powerful brand for UK teenagers – and potentially Microsoft."They're now the people that are driving the marketplace, and it's a sad reflection of everyone else in the mobile industry that it's taken these new entrants to come in and give the existing companies a masterclass in how to sell mobile data."What about the future? Dunstone said Carphone Warehouse is focused on three trends."Users of smartphones are not just users of smartphones: they're bigger users of every form of communication," he said. "These are highly connected people," he said.The second trend: how to use mobile as a payment mechanism. "The next prize is also who can consolidate some kind of one-click," he said. "Apple are clearly succeeding, Amazon are succeeding, but beyond that it's hard to think of people, and that's an enormous prize."Third: using mobile as an m-commerce channel."People tend to be using their mobile phone or tablet while doing something else," he said: watching TV, lying in bed or out shopping. "You get very, very targeted responses from people. They're not surfing or browsing: they're somewhere and they want to find the Nando's restaurant, or whatever it may be."Dunstone said there is also currently much less competition in paid-for search on mobile than online. Carphone is running a trial with Google where users can search for a product, and find out how many of them are in stock in a nearby store."Hopefully that can help us win the battle over the O2 shop, the Apple shop or whoever we're dealing with," he said.Dunstone also said that a small trend: people mis-spell much more often when searching for things on their mobile phones — something for mobile website owners to be aware of."There's no silver bullet: no one who can tell you exactly what's going to happen in this space," he said. "You will succeed by experimentation, and generally fortune will favour the brave. If you go for it and engage in the marketplace ... the more you push, the more surprised you will be about what you can get out of it."
What every startup works on is the user's experience in the first few minutes – seconds even – that they are using their application. What do you see? How easy is it to join? Can you get your profile set up in less than a minute? Can you get your picture on your profile in seconds, edited, and move on?Try it on Twitter or Facebook or any of a multitude of sites and you'll see what a slick, well-oiled operation is. Developers and designers will stand over pages with stopwatches trying to get the signup process to happen as quickly as possible.Google+ shows that Google is not a startup. My invite arrived in email: an eager click later and I was being told that I couldn't join Google Plus – despite the invite – because I was using a profile in a corporate Google account. But isn't Google meant to be for corporate sharing too? Oh, never mind.I switched to another browser, and logged in to my personal Google Mail account. I put in the URL from the invite."Oops! You don't have a profile!" it chided. We're already at the point where, if Google were a startup, 50% of would-be joiners would have given up and gone back to Twitter, or Facebook, or reading a news site. (Update:but see later for the experience on mobile, which is far better.)I created a profile – though it burped at my CV, insisting that I had used "invalid years". (Perhaps it's because I'd had a job in the 1990s. Look, even Google was started in the 1990s.) Upload a photo? Sure. I'll try. No, it didn't like my photo. Never mind, you don't need to have a photo in your profile.That done, I pasted the invite link into the browser. Hurrah! It worked. Wait, what's this? I'm being asked to upload a profile photo "so people can recognise it's you". Fair enough. I grabbed a photo, cropped it smaller, and uploaded it.Or tried to. Much twirling icons later, it decided the photo was too big (or that "something is wrong with your internet connection, or it is not a valid image file". Thanks for insulting my internet and my photo, Google.). I shrank it. It accepted it. Then it wanted me to crop it –again. I did. It pondered this for a while. I gave up.At this point, if Google were a startup, it would have lost precisely 99.999% of every would-be joiner. Getting photos uploaded is the most fundamental thing you have to be able to do, and every startup knows it. (Twitter's upload works like butter.)So because I'm doing this for you, dear reader, I abandoned the photo side. Now we have the introduction. Bear in mind that I now felt unfavourably disposed towards Google+. This is not a good place for any internet service to be in.You're now presented with three choices: "Circles", "Hangouts" and "Sparks" – respectively, the not-necessarily-overlapping groups of people who you know; a shared webcam chatroom; and a feed of data from interests you may have.The "Circles" idea initially looks promising. You see a list of your contacts from email, who you can add to "circles" (which are nicely animated: you pull the name into a circle, and it rotates neatly to fill up). You can add more Circles as you like, and put the same person into more than one Circle. That's really neat, I thought; this is a clever way to categorise people, and stop what I do or say from bumping into each other.But the horror comes when you scroll down and – if you have any number of contacts – discover that there are huge numbers of people. Helppp! Do these all have to go into a Circle? Quite quickly the Circles dashboard starts looking like the cabin of a 747 – all those buttons and dials, and one gets the uncomfortable feeling that you're never quite going to be finished with doing it. In which case, might it be simpler not to start at all?Again, that's not a feeling that one should be feeling when standing on the threshold of a new service. The competition in this space – which really boils down to Twitter and Facebook – is ferocious, and ferociously evolved.Twitter is the pinnacle of brevity: your profile can't be more than 140 characters. Write that up, and it will suggest some people or organisations you might like to follow. For Facebook, you have to take a bit more time, but that's your life you're putting in there – and then it will offer to import your address book and link you with people. And even if you don't, it will search for your email address in friends' address books, and suggest you link up.Circles, though, makes no pretence at knowing how you want to categorise people. It doesn't even (and this is where Google has missed a trick) figure out who you correspond most with and offer those as the people you might want to put into Circles first.So, let's try a Hangout – my laptop has a camera, after all, and there is at least one other Guardian developer on the site (with whom I'm now having one of those conversations where you don't actually converse). "Start a Hangout!" says the button. OK, I shall. Webcams ahoy! Unfortunately, my webcam was broken – though you can have a voice Hangout.Sparks wants to be a feed of "interests" – but for me it was a signal failure. What we want in today's high-speed world is a rapidly moving listing of the very latest news – the sort of thing you might find it you had a stream of information coming out of Google News, or (to mention it again) Twitter.Instead ... it's a rather laboured-looking product that has over-tidy white space around very dull headlines which seem to be pulled in from all over the web. Why would I click on anything there? It's actually too tidy – nothing looks urgent, and the lack of movement (whereas Twitter feels like a constantly evolving beast) means it has a static – in web terms, dead – feel.The place where you're really going to be sharing web pages (if you're signed into Google+ on your browserandthe site has enabled the "+1" facility via a single line of Javascript) is in the Stream. Google clearly wants this to have the urgency of Twitter or Facebook. That in turn needs lots of sites to participate. It faces the challenge of creating the virtuous circle - something that only really happened for Twitter once link-shortening sites got their act together.Many of these criticisms apply of course because this is an entirely new service, and so there's nobody there, and so it doesn't seem to have any utility. No doubt when Facebook was only available at Harvard, or Twitter was still on its first thousand users, everything else lookedbetteremptier and less exciting too.But there are deeper issues too. Google hasn't indicated that there are going to be an APIs – programming hooks that outside developers can connect to – which will let people develop "Google+" applications. By contrast, the reason why Facebook and Twitter are such successes, in terms of reach, is that they either use APIs or have built themselves so that they can go far beyond the desktop web. (Update:apparently the internal project, called "Emerald Sea", had a fully-fledged API. So these worries may be unfounded.)Google+, with its complicated desktop interface, strikes me as something which looks wonderful on a 21in screen, but once you shift onto a smartphone (which is where more and more people are going to experience the web) then it's going to struggle to be useful.The real testing Google should have done – and it's not clear whether they did – is on a smartphone. That's the future. Right now I'm not convinced that Google+ is going to be part of it.Android: the appAfter I had written this review, Google indicated that there is indeed a Google+ app on the Android Market, and that there will soon be one for the iPhone, and that there will be a web app for mobile browsers. So I gave the app a quick spin.The experience is immediately much,muchbetter than the desktop version. It is broken into clear sections: the Home page, which has "Stream" (of what's happening from people you're linked to), "Huddle", "Photos", "Profile" and "Circles". The action all happens in the "stream" - the others are mostly administrative, though "Photos" offers the chance to instantly upload any photo you take on the phone to a private folder. (Again, Google is wary about privacy now.)The Android app does make it easy to share web pages - in the Android web browser clicking on the "Share this" contextual menu lets you share a page directly in the app - it's smooth and fluid, and everything that the desktop version isn't.The ScoresUser experience: Desktop: 2/10The beginning process – having to fill in long profiles, bad photo experience – is appalling.Mobile: 8/10- much more pleasant.Circles: Desktop: 5/10This could be a lot smarter if it were to offer people based on how often you email back and forth with them. People who only email you are obviously not "friends". Google should be smart enough with algorithms to figure this out. The dashboard used to control can easily become too complex.Mobile: 7/10: still no autosuggest, but cleaner because it's not overwhelming as the desktop version is.Hangout: Desktop: 6/10— though there's a lot more potential in this. Used corporately, it could be something that would displace Skype in companies, especially those which have already adopted Google Apps.Mobile: unable to evaluate in time available.Sparks: Desktop: 3/10Almost useless at present: there's no sense that it's about news, or anything.Mobile: isn't included. This actually feels like a good thing.Overall:Desktop: 4/10Not as bad as Buzz – which ignored privacy altogether – and Circles is a clever idea. But "being social" isn't just about involving lots of people in things. It's also about getting out of the way. The irony is that Google's biggest product, its search page, is a classic of simple design. But everything else it does becomes too complicated. Google+ might work better if it tried to do less, and then built it up.Mobile: 8/10.Time will tell, but if I were offered the choice of this or Facebook, I'd take Facebook. But I'd take Twitter's simplicity and speed over both.
Google is launching a new initiative to help small-to-medium sized businesses create mobile websites.Google Sites Mobile Landing Pages -Google Mobilizefor short - is being announced today at the company's Think Mobile conference in London. It provides templates for SMEs to create and launch mobile landing pages.Unusually for Google, it is launching first in the UK, rather than the US. The impetus for the new tool was Google's research showing that 28% of British mobile users have used their phone to make a purchase."Lots of people are buying on a smartphone, but what we're not seeing is lots of people have mobile-enabled websites making it easy for people to buy on their phone," said Ian Carrington, Google's mobile advertising sales director for northern and central Europe, in a press briefing before the conference."It's the biggest barrier today for m-commerce, and they are losing out to people who do have mobile-optimised websites. Only 17% of the businesses that we work with today have a mobile-optimised website."Google Mobilise is free for businesses to use, although for Google the payoff will come if they become customers for the company's mobile AdWords platform.Carrington also addressed the question of apps versus mobile web, stressing that Google is not taking a side in the debate, but that businesses may be focusing too much on native apps and not enough on their mobile websites."We would generally encourage people to have both," he said. "A lot of people have an application strategy and not a mobile web strategy."Carrington also outlined some statistics on UK mobile usage, claiming that 36% of the UK population now own a smartphone, with 20 million people connecting to the web from their mobile phone - up from 14 million in 2010."53% of people who own a smartphone [in the UK] are using it while watching TV," he said. "We call this phenomenon dual-screening: they could be playing a game, checking their emails, texting a friend..."Carrington also said that Google has noticed a definable trend of  viewers seeing an advert on TV, and then turning to their smartphone or tablet to find out more about the product or brand."We want advertisers to start integrating mobile into the whole of their communications piece," he said."The simplest thing they can do is make the strapline and message exactly the same - if they're advertising something on TV with a message, it should be the same on mobile."Other stats revealed by Carrington at the event from Google's UK research included the fact that 24% of British smartphone owners use their phones for comparing product price while in shops.Meanwhile, Google's Android Market app store has now reached 4.5 billion total downloads. "A year ago that was one billion, and that first billion took two years to happen," said Carrington. "The last billion took 60 days."
Critically acclaimed developer Double Fine, creator of such eccentric delights as Brutal Legend and Stacking, surprised the world when it announced that it was working on a Sesame Street game. But studio founder and game industry legend Tim Schafer grew up loving the series – which he saw as a comedy sketch show, rather than an educational establishment.Once Upon a Monster, a sort of interactive story book in which gamers help a series of monsters get in touch with their emotions, is not your average yawn-inducing "edutainment" nightmare; it's a funny, visually stunning mini-game collection, making fine use of the Kinect controller.In part two of our interview with the game's project leader, Nathan Martz, we talk abut the challenges of introducing children (and their parents) to physical controls, and tricky problem of how scary kids' stories can be.So, Once Upon a Monster is a physical game aimed at very young children. Did you need to think carefully about the amount of physical exertion required in every task?We've been focus testing this game since our early prototypes, and it's not the kids who get tired, it's the adults – we have to be more concerned about the parents! The game is structured as a series of chapters and we've designed them to be self-contained: after 30 minutes of play you can put it down. The chapters themselves are broken up into activities and between every activity you turn the page and the game progresses at the speed you want it to. So we've built in breaks every 3-5 minutes.The chapters are themed around different emotions, aren't they?Emotions are used as broad themes. Shyness is one – we have a monster who's had a great idea but is too shy to carry it out so you help him. We have a chapter about bravery and about being yourself – and those two concepts are interwoven. We have a really fun one about music and dancing where we use the band as a metaphor for family, recognising that everyone has a different role and appreciating people who are often unappreciated in a family.Besides Sesame Street, what were some of the influences on Once Upon a Monster, in terms of communicating stories and characters to children?Two of my personal favourites are Pocoyo and a series of short bumpers done for Nickolodean called Purple and Brown – they're two blob creatures, kind of the Beavis and Butthead of claymation, but all of their communication is non-verbal and they're really, really funny. They have a wide variety of emotions, even though  they're very simple characters. And in Pocoyo, all the characters are very expressive and can tell whole stories without speaking.Another thing for me, and this is more of an anti-influence – very often in games and movies when you see monsters, they're just adults with fur. They speak English, they have jobs, they spend monster bucks at the monster mart, it's not a very fresh take. Part of the magic of monsters – and this goes back to Where the Wild Things Are – is that they have their own logic, their own rules.Fictionally, the two biggest influences are Never-Ending Story – the idea of a living story that you can enter and shape – and also Winnie the Pooh, which shares this idea of self-contained stories set in a magical world that you enter and interact with.Have you been able to infuse the story with any of Double Fine's characteristic wit?It's interesting you should mention wit, because one of the things about Cookie Monster is, he's extremely erudite – he has the grammar of a caveman but the vocabulary of a professor. A lot of his humour is based around simple grammar and funny, adult words.Has this project taught you any universal lessons about game design?Learning how to create a new IP – for me and a lot of the team it's our first time doing that. Of course, we're fortunate to have Tim's guidance, but we learned a lot about what makes compelling characters and environments. There are some things we've tried that are pretty risky that I've been very pleased with, like having our monsters unable to speak English – they can communicate vocally, but just emotions not concepts. It's very easy to create a game where a monster will say "blah, blah, blah" and Elmo replies, "What's that, Marco? Did you say…" But there are more clever ways to write a scene where a monster communicates and you justknowwhat they're trying to say.We've learned a tremendous amount about co-op especially intergenerational co-op – how to design games to be accessible and forgiving, and embracing this whole Kinect idea of, if you think you are doing the action correctly, you are – that's a massive lesson. And there's the key Kinect maxim: physical is fun. Anything you do in Kinect, the more physical you make it, the sillier it is, the more fun it is to do. And the other thing is, it's just as much fun to watch as it is to play. It's really pleasing to watch people who are into the game and feel happy.And what has been the most challenging element of Kinect?Two-player co-op is hard! With two players on the same screen, there are so many things you just haven't thought of that are really hard. Every idea has to run this crazy obstacle course.Do you think you'll be releasing DLC?Well, the game is broken up into chapters and these are fairly modular. For a variety of reasons we didn't want a game that felt like it had a beginning and an end and once you'd played through it you were done with it. Kids have their favourite stories that they come back to again and again, and we wanted the game to have that kind of compelling quality. In some respects, it feels like an anthology, a collection of stories, and it's designed to be extendible; it's a book without an end. So provided the opportunity is right, we're looking forward to extending these possibilities and exploring this more.Ultimately, do you feel more responsible toward this audience than you have done with previous Double Fine games?One of my favourite quotes is from the English author, G.K. Chesterton. He was writing in the early 20th century when there was a lot of debate about what was appropriate for children, and he wrote, "Fairy tales don't tell children that dragons exist, children know that dragons exist – fairy tales tell children that dragons can be killed." This game isn't about slaying monsters, but philosophically, there's some of that spirit – through the power of fiction you can help people understand what is possible.So we could be geeky and say that play is effectively life's own tutorial level…Yeah, it's funny, When we were doing some usability tests with parents and kids we saw a lot of occasions, especially early on, where the kid would struggle with the mechanic and the parent would step up their game to compensate. I was like, man, parents are really great dynamic difficulty systems! That's what a lot of parenting is about – just put in a very dorky game developer-centric way.•Once Upon a Monster is out on Xbox 360 in October, published by Warner Bros
Barely weeks after the hacking scandal that forced Sony to shut down its PlayStation online gaming service, the company has instigated a management reshuffle at the very top of the hierarchy.The former president and group chief executive of Sony Computer Entertainment, Kaz Hirai, will become chairman of the division in August, with  incumbent Akira Sato set to retire. Andrew House, the president of Sony Computer Entertainment Europe, will take Hirai's role as president of SCEI, effectively taking control of the day-to-day running of the entire PlayStation business.Although the timing suggests links with the PlayStation Network hack, in which access was gained to Sony's database of tens of millions of PlayStation owners, it appears the move is more about preparing for the next phase in the company's hardware business, including the continued growth of PS3 and the impending launch of the new PS Vita handheld games device.House is a veteran of the PlayStation brand, having been instrumental in the marketing of the original PlayStation console in the mid-90s. In 1996, he became vice president of marketing a Sony Computer Entertainment America, strategising the launch of the PlayStation 2 and PSP consoles across North America."We are facing new challenges this year, such as the successful launch of PlayStation Vita and further growth of PS3 platform as well as expansion of [our] non-gaming business," said Hirai. "I'm confident that the skills and expertise Andy has gained over two decades working for Sony and SCE Group will contribute enormously in leading the PlayStation business and to bring new initiatives in managing the business in the networked era."Hirai is widely being touted as an eventual successor to Sony chariman and CEO Howard Stringer. A turbulent year for the company has seen it revise profit forecasts in the wake of earthquake damage to its factories and the PSN hack, which isestimated to have costthe company around $170m (£106m).According to Reuters, there were calls at a recent shareholders' meeting for Stringer to resign.Meanwhile, Ken Kutaragi, the veteran engineer credited with overseeing the birth of PlayStation, has retired as Honorary Chairman of SCEI, retaining his role as senior technology adviser of Sony Corporation.Kutaragi joined Sony in the 1970s and was heavily involved in the original iteration of the PlayStation – as a CD drive add-on for Nintendo's SNES console. When Nintendo pulled out of the deal, Kuturagi masterminded the re-invention of the technology as a standalone console, effectively dragging Sony into the games industry.He was president of SCEI until the end of 2006 when he was replaced by Kaz Hirai. Kutaragi briefly became chairman of SCEI until retiring from that role in controversial circumstances the following year. It has been suggested that his move to the non-executive position of honorary chairman was a form of punishment for the huge costs of developing and launching the PS3 console.With his responsibilities to "reinforce and further acceleratethe development of the PlayStation business including PlayStation Vita", House has a considerable challenge ahead of him. The PS3 has gained considerable ground on the Xbox 360 console, hitting the 50m unit mark in April.But with the growing importance of digital downloads and online services, the company needs to ensure it can guarantee network security to consumers. It will soon also have a new Nintendo console, the recently announced Wii U, to compete against.Elsewhere, the PlayStation Vita device, set to launch this winter, needs to find a space for itself in a crowded market that also houses the Nintendo 3DS and the growing range of gaming-centric smartphones and tablets.
The online social gaming firm Zynga reportedly plans to raise up to $2bn (£1.25bn) with a flotation this week that would value the fledgling internet company at between $15bn and $20bn.Zynga, the firm behind the hugely popular Facebook games FarmVille and Mafia Wars, will file plans with the US Securities and Exchange Commission as early as Wednesday to become the latest in a gold rush of social media companies to go public,according to CBNC. Zynga initially intends to sell only 10% of its shares in the hope of driving up their valuation, CNBC reported.The four-year-old gaming firm is expected to become the biggest internet flotation since Google, following sky-high valuations in recent weeks for LinkedIn and the Chinese Facebook', Renren.Zynga, which  announced in Mayplans to partner with Lady Gaga, says it caters to more than 215 million monthly active gamers selling virtual farm animals for real money.According to a sourcereported by the New York Post to have been approached to invest in the San Francisco-based firm in March, Zynga expects to generate $1.8bn in revenue this year – with a profit of $630m. Secondary market estimates put Zynga's 2010 full-year revenues at $850m.On last year's revenues, a $20bn market cap would value the company at 23 times last year's sales – a higher multiple than the recent big-money technology flotations.Shares in LinkedIn have soared since it went public last month. The social network for professionals is now valued at $8bn after floating with 2010 revenues of $243m and a profit of $15.4m. Renren has a market cap of $2.98bn after raising $743m with its New York stock exchange debut.Morgan Stanley is expected to be the lead underwriter on the Zynga IPO, along with Goldman Sachs, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Barclays and JP Morgan.
For Nintendo, this year's E3 wasn't just about the Wii U: the noise made by its new console tended to obscure the fact that make-or-break time is approaching for the 3DS, and the Wii isn't quite dead and buried just yet. Nintendo was keen to showcase games for its existing consoles, and we got our hands on two efforts that ought to drive 3DS sales – Mario Kart 3D and Super Mario 3D – plusThe Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword, which, despite its tardiness, is surely the most hotly anticipated Wii game ever.Mario Kart 3DPretty much every Nintendo console has launched with a version ofMario Kart, so it was a tad surprising that the 3DS didn't. But the four courses that made up the demo version of the game we played at E3 gave an inkling of why Mario Kart 3D hasn't arrived yet. Rather than being a mere warmed-over 3D-ised version of Mario Kart for the DS, Mario Kart 3D actually has some new stuff in it.That isn't to say that all the old stuff isn't there, too: it's a reassuringly familiar game, and its perfectly judged mechanics (such as drifting round corners and piling on the opposite lock for a speed-boost) have, wisely, not been tampered with. But one difference becomes apparent the moment you dive into your first race: you can customise your kart by picking from a selection of bodies, wheels (some of which jack your kart up like a monster truck) and glider-wings for the rear.That's right: in Mario Kart 3D, when you launch your kart off one of those characteristic cliffs or jumps, a wing opens up, and you will glide back to earth. We discovered that speed-boost power-ups work in mid-air, and there's a delightful trade-off between staying in the air and thereby avoiding ground-based traps, and getting back to earth as early as possible, which is usually a slightly quicker way to proceed.Another innovation is the ability to drive underwater – in previous versions of Mario Kart, there were plenty of water's-edge tracks and, if you ended up submerged, you would be fished out and replaced on the track. But in Mario Kart 3D, when you go underwater, your car sprouts a propeller, and you can drive normally.Plenty of work has gone into Mario Kart 3D's tracks – while some feel familiar, albeit with new additions, the majority of the ones we played were new. Some featured multiple paths, with thin tracks, requiring precision driving and providing the best short-cuts. There were rolling boulders to be dodged, and a Donkey Kong-themed jungle track – unfortunately, crashing into the DK barrels, we discovered, didn't yield any power-ups. The bottom screen showed a top-down map, so you could keep tabs on competitors: up to eight people can race against each other, either locally or via the web. Although the stereoscopic 3D made it marginally easier to judge distances and aim green shells accurately, it couldn't really be said to have added much to Mario Kart's classic gameplay.Super Mario 3DNintendo development guruShigeru Miyamotorecently described Super Mario 3D – Mario's first starring vehicle on the 3DS – as a cross between Super Mario 64 and Super Mario Galaxy, and the four levels we played at E3 confirmed exactly that. Its name doesn't really do justice to its originality: Super Mario 3D is definitely not cobbled together from bits of old Super Mario games.Gameplay-wise, it veers more towards Super Mario 64's classic 3D platforming – there isn't too much messing around with gravity, which of course is characteristic of Super Mario Galaxy. But there are a lot of elements familiar from the latter, such as rhythmic tiles which appear and disappear. One level involved making your way through a pirate ship, avoiding slow-moving bullets and the like, and moving into and out of the screen at regular intervals. Moving in and out of the screen was a recurring theme, and that is one area that is much easier to judge when you play in 3D.We also had a go with theTanooki (raccoon) suit, which transforms Mario into a raccoon with a tail-attack (which can also be used to hover). We took on a mini-boss – one of Bowser's younger relations – and had to whack him with the tanooki-tail until he was dizzy. And we saw a new type of block, which, when you bash it, teleports you to an otherwise inaccessible part of the level. Super Mario 3D, given that it is all-new, will be a must-buy for 3DS owners.The Legend of Zelda: Skyward SwordYou can't help thinking that, if the first Wii-specific version of what is surely Nintendo's most revered franchise – The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword – had been ready in time for Christmas 2010, the Wii's disastrous late-period sales dip would at least have been delayed. As it is, the Wii's successor has already emerged, with what will surely be the Wii's swansong still months away.We were able to play three levels of The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword at E3, and were convinced that it will have been worth the interminable wait. They were clearly designed to demonstrate how the latest iteration of the action-adventure franchise makes full use of the Wii Remote's motion-sensing capabilities.The first level was a bird-riding one, with a hint of Quidditch to it: in competition with three AI-controlled characters, we had to chase a bird and grab a golden statue it was holding. Moving the Wii remote changed the bird's orientation and shaking it encouraged it to flap its wings and speed up. We discovered that the best approach was to fly above our target and swoop down on it. Although this clearly wasn't representative of core gameplay, it was quite fun and showed the game's diversity.The second level, set in a castle, was much more familiar Zelda fare:Linkwas on foot, and had to battle spiders and skeleton enemies, the latter using his sword and shield (swinging the Wii remote for sword-slashes and thrusting the Nunchuk to employ the shield). The spiders were best attacked with bow and arrow (with the Wii remote and Nunchuk working together cleverly to ape a bow), and there were also access puzzles to solve, for which Link used his flying beetle to trip switches and open doors. Classic stuff indeed.The final level on show was a boss-battle, involving just swordfighting, but as we were taking on an elf-like boss, a precise and tactical approach was required, to get around his defences and find unprotected areas to attack. Again, this was classic Zelda gameplay, and the responsiveness and controllability of Link's sword was very satisfying. In its graphics, Skyward Sword harks back to earlier Zelda games, eschewing Twilight Princess's more realistic look in favour of a fairly cartoonish approach. If you're thinking of buying just one more game for your Wii, The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword will surely be it.
Courtesy ofCisco, a skyscraper infographic about the dawning of the age of the zettabyte.The what? Each zettabyte is 1,000 exabytes. No? One exabyte = 1,000 petabytes. One petabyte = 1,000 terabytes. One terabyte (you may be starting to feel the ocean floor now) is 1,000 gigabytes. See, you can find your way to the shore now.Cisco sees the movement towards the exabyte as an inevitable endpoint of the growth in video traffic online. Its analysis suggests that we'll have shifted into the zettabyte age by 2015: by then, it reckons,the majority of global Internet traffic (61 percent) will be in some form of video—Internet video-to-PC, Internet video-to-TV, mobile video, et al.The "dawn of the Zettabyte era" will be an unprecedented online milestone that will occur in our lifetime.Part of the problem of course is that it's almost impossible to wrap your head around the physical or temporal ramifications of these numbers. For example, from the Cisco blogpost: "A zettabyte is roughly 1000 exabytes. To place that amount of volume in more practical terms, an exabyte alone has the capacity to hold over 36,000 years worth of HD quality video…or stream the entire Netflix catalog more than 3,000 times.  A zettabyte is equivalent to about 250 billion DVDs."Oh, that's much easier - got it now.This image shows how Cisco expects traffic to change over the next four years. Note how the US is the biggest user, but China is accelerating too. (You canplay with the graphics yourself on the Cisco website.)Cisco forecast for data traffic growth, 2010-2015, by region/countryOf course - to put some perspective on it - at that point some of us may still be struggling with 2 megabit/s connections. The zettabyte era might pass us by. But here is what it looks like, from Cisco's point of view.Zettabyte comprehension: the infographic by Cisco
Former British home secretary John Reid believes cyberspace requires a new global way of thinking about policy, politics, law and security. As he releases his "cyber doctrine", what does the lifelong historian Lord Reid make of the new online world order?Aleks Krotoski and Charles Arthur review the talk of the week in technology, including the end of hacking collective LulzSec, BT and Google's plans for "white space" – the spectrum left behind in the analogue to digital TV switchover – and what the US Anti-Trust lawyers have in store for Google.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamVendor Bubbles &gt;&gt; asymcoFun with Google Widgets and lots of data about smartphones since 2007. The line graph is actually the simplest view.England's health data mapped &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukThis is really interesting to play with. Uses data from public health observatories - who had hell's own fight a few years ago trying to publish data on Ordnance Survey maps online. Now: fixed.Groupon India publishes 300,000 user passwords &gt;&gt; The Register"Groupon subsidiary Sosasta.com accidentally published a database containing the email addresses and clear-text passwords of 300,000 users and the cache was indexed by Google."Oops.Why Google+ won't hurt Facebook, but Skype will hate it &gt;&gt; GigaomInteresting analysis. Google hasn't got a hope of catching up with Facebook, of course.It's So Obvious &gt;&gt; Biz Stone"As for the bulk of my time day-to-day, I'm thrilled to announce that Evan Williams, Jason Goldman and myself will be relaunching The Obvious Corporation as co-founders. Our plan is to develop new projects and work on solving big problems aligned along a simple mission statement: The Obvious Corporation develops systems that help people work together to improve the world. This is a dream come true!"Collaboration? Lots of things this could be. Then again, he has a good track record - Twitter, Blogger. Should it have been Obviouser to guarantee success?Former YouSendIt CEO pleads guilty to Web attack on his old company &gt;&gt; latimes.com"The former chief executive of the YouSendIt, a website where users can post files too large to send over email, has admitted to launching an online attack against the company he once ran.&#10;"Khalid Shaikh, who is one of YouSendIt's co-founders, pleaded guilty last week in a San Jose court to the 'transmission of a code to cause damage to a protected computer.'"No reason given. He faces up to five years in prison, three years of supervised release and a fine of $250,000.@tomcoates: Fundamentally, Google is a utility company... &gt;&gt; TwitterClick through for his comment on Google+ that follows from that premise.#lulzlog stats &gt;&gt; nonyNews!Interesting "who posted when" analysis on the leaked LulzSec logs. Doesn't necessarily tell you what time zone they're in, but gives a clue to their comings and goings. Though of course "kayla" - one of the most important members - never actually appears by name.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
It's Wednesday – middle of the week. Let game chat see you through!
A magazine subscriptions database which held personal information of members of the US armed forces has been hacked into, according to an American media company.The Gannett Government Media Corporation holds information about subscribers to Defense News, one of the world's most widely read publications on the military, and other publications aimed at serving US army, navy, air force and marines personnel.The company discovered the breach on 7 June and notified subscribers via email.It said that names, passwords and email addresses had been hacked, and that other details, such as duty status, pay grades and type of service, were also obtained by the hackers.Emails can be used by cyber criminals for so-called phishing scams, where recipients receive an email purportedly from a trusted sender that is then used to gain control of their computer. One fear is that hackers could go on to take control of a government computer system.Other targets for hackers in recent weeks have included the US banking group Citigroup. IBGE, the Brazilian statistics agency which saw its site hacked on 24 June, found the front page of its website replaced with a human eye in the colours of the Brazilian flag.A note left on IBGE's website read "there's no room for groups without an ideology such as LulzSec or Anonymous in Brazil", in ab attempt to distance the group from other prominent hackers.LulzSec first appeared after highly publicised assaults on Sony, the CIA and the US Senate, but recently announced it would disband as its members were "getting bored".On Saturday an anonymous post appeared to name the group's leader and core members.One alleged member, 19-year-oldRyan Cleary, was arrested in the UKafter an international investigation into LulzSec's activities.The Anonymous group rose to prominence during an Operation Payback campaignin support of the website Wikileaks. The group used distributed denial of services (DDoS) attacks to target companies such as Visa, Mastercard and Paypal in an attempt to disrupt their websites.
Google is challenging Facebook domination by unveiling a new project called Google+ that it says will try to make online sharing more like real life.More than a year in the works, Google+ lets users share things with smaller groups of people through  'circles'. This means only university friends, workmates, or families – but not necessarily all at once – would be able to see photos, links or updates.Another feature called 'sparks' aims to make it easier to find online content you care about, whether fishing or recipes. That can then be shared with friends who might be interested in it.In an online video, Google calls it "nerding out" and exploring a subject together.Early reviews also suggest that the 'hangout' and 'huddle' elements of Google+, which enable video and mobile chat, could be aimed at challenging Skype,which was recently bought by Microsoft for $8.5bn(£5.3bn)."Google+ should give Blekko, Skype and a gaggle of group messaging companies a pause," saidOm Malik, who has had an early view of the project.Lou Kerner, a social media analyst for Wedbush, believes Facebook has already won the competition to become the world's global social network. But he said: "I don't think they're seeing this as a direct competitor to Facebook."Google+ has limited access to the service to selected usersto begin with. That appears to be a reaction to the calamitouslaunch of its Google Buzz servicein February 2010, when it was made available immediately to the 75 million users of Google Mail, leading to complaints about privacy invasion, because it let everyone who had emailed a person see all the others as part of their Buzz contacts.This time Google is being more careful. It has not indicated how quickly it will roll out the service globally."We think people communicate in very rich ways," said Vic Gundotra, senior vice president of engineering at Google. "The online tools we have to choose from give us very rigid services."Twitter and Facebook make selective sharing within small groups difficult, Gundotra argues. "If you tweet or like a link, then everyone who follows or is a friend sees it."In ablogaccompanying the launch Gundotra says, "the subtlety and substance of real-world interactions are lost in the rigidness of our online tools. In this basic, human way, online sharing is awkward. Even broken. And we aim to fix it."Facebook has its own 'groups' feature, but it's not clear how many people use it. Facebook does not offer statistics on it.
A tangled web of hackery ... LulzSec ties by associationThe LulzSec (RIP) chatlogspublished by the Guardianlast week gave us anfascinating glimpse inside the loosely-hierarchical hackersbehind many recent profile attacks.But we didn't get a graphic of the various LulzSec associations. Fortunately,the Nonynews bloghas stepped in.The above graphic shows how closely each of the pseudonymous hackers are linked, according to the five days worth of their private chats. Line thickness corresponds to relation strength, the colours correspond to the importance of each member (important marked red, then reduced through to yellow, green, aqua and, finally, blue).Joepie91 emerges as most engaged in the interactions, despite apparently beinga fringe memberwhen it comes to targeting and attacking websites.Looking at thepersonal stats, all of the key players – Sabu, his No. 2, Topiary, and prolific DDoSer, storm – chat mostly with Joepie91. The table below ranks members based on their input into the chats. According to this, roughly half of those involved over the five day period are fringe members (or alternative aliases used by the main players).Big talk ... LulzSec members ranked by engagement in leaked chatsThere is also time-based analysis (not shown here) which shows that the most discussion goes on between 1200 and 1800 (though the participants might be in different time zones). This may be some clue to which time zones the members actually live in - though of course hackers are usually thought of as night-owls rather than larks, no matter which time zone they're in.And if you were after clues over why the dastardly group disbanded, behold their indecision:Should I stay or should I go ... a puzzled LulzSec
Call it the battle of the analysts, because only one group can be correct. At issue: will Apple unveil one new iPhone in September - or two?At issue may be the reputations of some of the finance industry's biggest names.First, the predictions of two iPhones. Chris Whitmore of Deutsche Bank suggested in a note to clients on Monday morning that he understood that Apple was to launch both a high-end "iPhone 5" and a low-end "iPhone 4S" (our money's still on 4G): "With Nokia and RIMM struggling," he writes, "the time is right for Apple to aggressively penetrate the mid range smart-phone market (i.e. $300-500 category) to dramatically expand its [total addressable market] and market share." (First reported atFortune.)Whitmore's argument is that an unlocked, lower-priced iPhone 4S with a prepaid voice plan would "drive significantly greater penetration" into the countries where Apple already has distribution.Pre-paid: where the customers areIt's the pre-paid market that is potentially so valuable, as everyone acknowledges. Over at Asymco,Horace Dediu has crunched some of the numbers(though he doesn't express any opinion on how many phones Apple might announce, or even when):the global split between pre-/post-paid subscribers as of 2010...[shows that] roughly 1.5 billion are post-paid and 3.7 billion are pre-paid. That means that nearly 70% of the world is not being addressed by the iPhone as it currently stands. Put another way, a shift in positioning might result in a 250% increase in addressable market.Dediu also points out that "most pre-paid subs see a full price for the iPhone (retail around $700 to $1000) vs. post-paid customers seeing a price of $200 or below. The $200 happens to be an important psychological price inflection point where volumes increase dramatically."So the logical thing in that case, if Apple is going for market share - which it certainly did with the iPod, segmenting the market from top to bottom - is to come up with at least two different phones, one for the high-end contract market, and another for the lower-end prepaid market. If you don't think that the iPhone remains an object of desire, you haven't been reading the reports ofpeople having their phones stolen which then end up in distant lands(in this case, Vietnam).Obviously, providing a $200 iPhone wouldn't stop theft. There might be the smidgen of a chance it would slightly reduce it, though.Fortune has a graphic showing the breakdown between prepaid (no contract) in red and postpaid/contract (in blue) by geographic region, which graphically demonstrates how valuable the prepaid market is - if, that is, you can price your product to sell there.Prepaid (red) v contract (blue) customers by proportions in regions where iPhone is on sale. Source: Fortune, Deutsche Bank, carriersSo, a priced-to-sell prepay iPhone? No, says Keith Bachman of BMO Capital, who has slapped the idea down. He favours the single phone approach: an iPhone 4S (4G! We keep telling you!) On theBarrons blog, he's quoted insisting that there won't be a second new iPhone; "we believe that the 3GS will be the low-end iPhone," he said in a research note. This is, of course, pretty much what already happens - but the fact that the 3GS doesn't have SHINY NEW attached to it limits its appeal in some markets. Those are the places where sales of Android handsets, built and priced to shift, are rocketing.No second iPhone?Richard Windsor of Nomura is also in the "no second iPhone" camp: he has said on more than one occasion that his sources in the Far East see no signs of the sort of ramping up and extra supply chain recruitment that would imply a second iPhone. He does, though, agree with the view put forward by Whitmore and Dediu that if Applewereto go after the prepaid market with a less expensive phone, that it could have a dramatic effect on the market; his analysis is that next year Android will take a commanding lead - except that "if Apple does a cheap iPhone, all bets are off."Also in the "one iPhone" camp is Katy Huberty of Morgan Stanley, who came back from a week of meetings in Taiwan (reports Fortune) saying that she expects iPhone and iPad production to "begin ramping up aggressively" from August. To which one replies: well, yes, because that's when you're heading into the peak Christmas period. Obviously you'd do that. Huberty thinks there will only be the one iPhone, and that the launch might not be until late September - in which case she's reducing her estimate for iPhones sold by 2m for the quarter. If there's an early September launch, then she's putting those 2m back into the July-September quarter. (There's more detail on her estimates inthis screenshot from Fortune.)Can't (iPod) Touch thisFinally, one idea which pushes us back towards the "two iPhones" argument: the iPod Touch isnot includedin Apple's Back-to-School promotion in the US. In previous years, this has included a free iPod Touch; this year it's going to be a $100 iTunes Gift Card. That in itself is most intriguing, because Apple has updated the iPod Touch over the past two years; if it's leaving it out of the promotion... why? Could it be because it's got a phone coming (and secondary school kids pretty much all have phones now, after all) that will be at a price to tempt school kids?Only one question then remains: how, exactly, could Apple build a phone down to that key $200-$300 price tag? It's not true to say that Apple doesn't know how to build for low prices - there's nobody challenging the iPad for quality at the price it goes at. (Though stay tuned for developments this week...)What would it be like?The possibilities that have been aired are that it will have a smaller screen (unlikely) or less storage (much more likely) and slower processor (likely). Another possibility that few seem to have considered is that the high-end phone could have a larger screen (perhaps like the Galaxy II?) and more storage - so that any new "cheaper" iPhone would, in specification, resemble previous iPhones, but have a new look (and hence street cred) while costing Apple nothing more in terms of raw components as the 3GS it presently sells.To figure out whether there's really a second iPhone coming, therefore,watch for signs of the 3GS supplies drying up in the next couple of months. Since that's the most likely low-end configuration, any slowing in supplies would mean they're being diverted to the "new" low-end iPhone.And if that happens then as Nomura's Windsor says, it really is going to get interesting.
Bafta has officially launched its second Young Game Designers competition, aimed at encouraging school children to consider a career in the games industry. Keen entrants will be encouraged to get into teams of three and submit their ideas in writing to Bafta. The winning entry is set to be announced at the British Academy Children's awards in November 2011. All children between 11-16 are allowed to enter, and information will be going out through the schools network.Launched in 2010, the competition is supported by the University of Abertay and the National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts as well as games publisher, Electronic Arts. Last year's competition received hundreds of entries from throughout the country and was won by a team of students under the name Beached Whale Productions, who produced their idea for a game entitled,HAMSTER: Accidental World Domination. The concept was later developed into a prototype with the help of Dundee-based developer,Electric TopHat, while the team members had a week's work experience at EA's Bright Light studio in Guildford, where the Harry Potter computer games are made.At the launch event today, Bafta also unveiled Hope and Millie Katana from Waterloo Road and Tyger Drew-Honey from Outnumbered as celebrity ambassadors for the competition; they will be involved throughout the year. "I was invited to the Bafta video game awards last year, and was then invited to get involved with the Young Game Designers competition," said Drew-Honey, whose favourite game is cult sci-fi adventure, Mirror's Edge. "I thought it sounded really interesting. There seems to be a common opinion among parents that gaming is somehow brain-dulling, and that we should be exercising of studying all the time, but there are a lot of educational games out there."As well as combating the prejudices of parents, the competition is a chance to remind school children that the games industry is a viable career option. When Nesta commissioned a research paper about gaming, the subsequent report entitledNex Gen, found that only a fraction of children realised games were developed in the UK: most thought that the US and Japan were totally dominant in the sector. On the contrary, Britain has produced some of the world's biggest titles including Grand Theft Auto, Tomb Raider and Batman: Arkham Asylum.Bafta is planning to accompany the competition with country-wide workshops and events, as well as a range of classroom materials. More information can be found at thecompetition website.
On Monday, something happened to Arnold Schwarzenegger that he rarely experienced in his movies. He lost. In 2005, while still governor of California, the star of Predator and The Terminator co-signed a law that would ban the sale of violent video games to minors in the state.The games industry, through theEntertainment Merchants Associationopposed, and on Monday, the US Supreme Court ruled that this law was a violation of the First Amendment. Following the decision, Justice Antonin Scalia stated: "Even where the protection of children is the object, the constitutional limits on governmental action apply."The decision was greeted with barely contained delight by the games industry. The Entertainment Consumers Association said it was "thrilled", the Entertainment Software Association called it "a landmark ruling" and Electronic Arts chief John Riccitiellotold website Game Politics:Everybody wins on this decision – the Court has affirmed the Constitutional rights of game developers; adults keep the right to decide what's appropriate in their houses; and store owners can sell games without fear of criminal prosecution.But naturally, there is a certain amount of discontent. Two Justices dissented on the vote, which ended 7-2 in favour of the Entertainment Merchants Association. One, Stephen Brayer,said: "What sense does it make to forbid selling to a 13-year-old boy a magazine with an image of a nude woman, while protecting the sale to that 13-year-old of an interactive video game in which he actively, but virtually, binds and gags the woman, then tortures and kills her?"California state senator Leland Yee, who penned the 2005 law, also questioned the ruling; he has vowed to fight on. "As a result of their decision,"he told PC Magazine, "Wal-Mart and the video game industry will continue to make billions of dollars at the expense of our kids' mental health and the safety of our community. It is simply wrong that the video game industry can be allowed to put their profit margins over the rights of parents and the well-being of children."Yee is considering rewriting the law, focusing it more tightly (perhaps on specific depictions of violent acts) so that it can pass untested. His hopes have been raised by two Justices, Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice Samuel Alito, who reportedly stated that they would reconsider if the law was trimmed or re-defined. Alitoexpressed afterwards: "I would not squelch legislative efforts to deal with what is perceived by some to be a significant and developing social problem."It's an ambiguous and complex situation that contrasts sharply with entertainment classification systems in UK, where the rating of movies and video games is more closely enforced. In the US, the Entertainment Software Rating Board oversees an entirely voluntary ratings system, with no legal powers of censure over retailers, even when a title is rated AO, or "adults only". The ESRB requests that participating stores ask for parental permission before selling Mature or AO rated games, but failure to comply is not legally enforceable. The 2005 law would have hit stores with a $1,000 fine for selling mature titles to under-17s.Now, the ESRBclaims high levels of retailer compliancethroughout the country and alsopoints to statisticsthat show the effectiveness of its awareness system with parents. But in Britain, the Europe-wide voluntary classification systemPEGIis accompanied by the requirement to have enforceable BBFC age-ratings on products that demand a 15 certificate or over. Stores in the UK can be prosecuted for selling 15- or 18-certificate movies or games to under-age customers.Amid all the talk of victory, let's not forget that the EMA is a trade organisation not a free speech campaigner and that it represents an industry that would potentially lose billions in revenue if sales of games were to be restricted as they are in Britain. I personally have no problem with the UK set-up – despite increased parental understanding of games classification, there are still plenty who would allow their children to play 18-certificate games and I'm not at all comfortable with that.However, in the US, there is a more pernicious struggle between the religious right and the liberal entertainment media. Many feared the California law could be the start of a slippery slope toward wider censorship measures. Interpretations of the first amendment are being tested and subjectified – if the concept of free speech starts being chopped up, goes the liberal argument, where does the process of ratification end?There is also the possibility of de facto censorship. It's likely that if a classification law was passed nationally, large retailers such as Walmart would limit their stock of games with legally enforceable age ratings; as a result, publishers would make less money from mature-rated games and their development could be sidelined. The US is the world's largest market for retail titles, so perhaps we'd all see less titles like Grand Theft Auto, Bodycount and Call of Duty.And then we have the added complication of downloadable content. Presumably, the law wouldn't just have affected retail packaged games; it would have applied to titles bought over streaming services such as Steam or the Xbox Live Arcade. Vindicia, a company the provides billing systems for games publishers, filed an amicus curiae brief to the court in support of the EMA case. The company's CEO Gene Hoffman pointed out that age-verification processes are problematic to instigate, and can easily be circumnavigated by determined tech-savvy children. He suggested that current parental control features and filtering software were doing the job.He also stated,"If the ban was enforced, the increasingly popular 'freemium' business model for game publishers would have been jeopardised. For this business model to work, players need to be able to access a sample of content without going through a restrictive age-verification process, and without having to provide credit card details up front (unless children know their parents' credit card details, this requirement might also otherwise prevent access by children to inappropriate content)."So there are other factors in the argument against Schwarzenegger's proposed law. It's not just about protecting retail game sales, it's about the evolving culture of game design and game distribution. And at the base of everything is the simple proposition that violent games should be considered in parity with violent movies – should any law require the classification of one entertainment media platform while ignoring others?The one certainty is that, although this ruling is an important milestone for the games industry in the US, it's unlikely to shut the door on future legislative efforts. It also raises important and uncomfortable questions about the whole concept of free speech in the digital era. This is a victory for the games industry, but its consequences and meanings remain uncertain.
Colin Firth's box office hit The King's Speech is at the heart of a landmark court battle over online piracy between Hollywood film giants and Britain's largest internet service provider, BT.Major film studios, including Paramount Pictures and Disney, asked the high court in London on Tuesday to force BT to block access to the website Newzbin2, which they claim is "infringing copyright on an enormous scale" – including 75 illicit versions of The King's Speech.The case is the first of its kind in Britainand could pave the way for the biggest clampdown on online piracy yet.Hollywood studios argued in court that illicit filesharing was a "very significant social evil" and is responsible for "several hundreds of millions of pounds a year" in lost revenue. The studios – represented by their international trade body, the Motion Picture Association (MPA) – want BT to cut off access to Newzbin2 for UK internet users in the same way that it blocks child abuse websites on the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF) list.However, BT claims that such a blocking order would be the "thin end of the wedge" and there would be "nothing to stop countless other" rights holders demanding that hundreds of other contentious websites are banned.In its skeleton argument, BT claimed in the high court that rights groups would like to see about "400 sites a year" blocked by internet providers. "Rights holders in the music and movie industries have already identified 100 copyright infringing websites which they would like to see blocked," the ISP said. "Claimants would seek orders blocking access to websites alleged to contain defamatory allegations or private and confidential information."Richard Spearman QC, acting on behalf of the film studios, told the court that if a blocking order is granted, they will demand that other UK ISPs, including TalkTalk and Virgin Media, also blacklist the website or face court action.He told the court that there was now "no other way of impeding the infringement of copyright" than to obtain a court order. "[Newzbin2] allows repeat and mammoth-scale copyright infringement," Spearman said. "If BT could not see that happening then they have to be the biggest ostrich in history."The offshore-based Newzbin2 has about 700,000 members, with annual turnover of more than £1m, according to the rights holders.According to the rights holders, Newzbin2 currently helps distribute about 115,000 illegal versions of films and 320,000 TV shows.The film industry's fight against Newzbin stretches back to March last year, when the high court ordered the offshore-based site to remove all of its pirated material and pay damages to the studios.However, the company behind the site, Newzbin Ltd, went into administration shortly after the ruling and avoided compensating the studios. Within weeks, clone site Newzbin2 appeared hosting similar material. The rights holders claim Newzbin2 has about 700,000 members, with an annual turnover of more than £1m.Chris Marcich, the MPAA president for Europe, the Middle East and Africa, said: "Newzbin has no regard for UK law and it is unacceptable that it continues to infringe copyright on a massive and commercial scale when it has been ordered to stop by the high court."The case continues and the high court is expected to make a ruling this week.
Office 365 is a relaunch of Microsoft's clumsily named Business Productivity Online Suite (BPOS). Bizarrely, it's also referred to on Microsoft's own website as Business Productivity Online Software and Services – giving the impression that the branding was never quite spot on.The basic Office 365 package is an upgrade to the 2010 versions of Exchange, SharePoint, Office Communications Online and Live Meeting – the last two of which have become one and are now known as Lync. More interesting though are the additional Office Software Online options that it brings. You can have online web apps at a small extra cost, and for a bit more subscribe to full Microsoft Office.Despite cynics referring to this as a glorified rebranding exercise, the inclusion of the most commonly used office software in the world certainly adds a massive edge. Furthermore, the increase in options in SharePoint 2010 and Outlook Web access 2010 is considerable.BPOS customers can relax in the knowledge that their subscription will soon be upgraded, while others who bought traditional SharePoint and Exchange spent a week installing it and setting it up on an expensive server will be on the same old system, eyeing their competition jealously as their productivity increases along with their new software.Okay, it might not be that dramatic, but when future upgrades happen – and the cost of new servers and server maintenance don't rear their ugly heads – it will have a big effect on costs and continuity. Old servers can be a dangerous game if not backed up, as massive data loss can be terminal – especially to small businesses.This approaches another big improvement – the provision to subscribe with fewer than five users, which puts cost-conscious small businesses in a position to pay a fair price and have a system that can grow with them. A subscription to Office, for instance, can save a startup company thousands on initial software expenditure, meaning they can pay as they start to make money rather than at start up.If you're new to the cloud, then it is worth pointing out that all of this basically means that you move one or two of the big servers in your office into the bin and access everything instead from Microsoft's servers. Microsoft Exchange syncs perfectly with your local Outlook and can be accessed anywhere online using Outlook Web App (previously Outlook Web Access – yes, the name changes are endless) which is used to manage email, calendars, contacts and tasks.A full Personal Information Manager in the cloud is a massive bonus, and the Outlook Web App means you have most of the functions of your desktop Outlook at your fingertips wherever you are, not just when you're on your own PC. The range of options and features are vast in comparison to the 2007 OWA and gives users a great deal more flexibility in how they manage their email and time.Microsoft Office 365: the Home PageA common misconception about cloud services is that in order to work you need to be online. I agree that this need for connection is a major drawback, and one that Google Apps Premier has in buckets. (You can't even change a Google spreadsheet or document if you're not online. This may change later this year with offline HTML5 versions, but for now it's a big hassle.)This is where Microsoft really shines: OWA syncs with your on-premises Outlook. Equally, Office 365 supports the SharePoint Workspace offline tool, meaning you can work on your desktop and then sync with the cloud when you are connected. If you've used SharePoint 2010, which is a big improvement on 2007, the online version is virtually the same. The familiar MS Office style means that it is easy for anyone familiar with Microsoft software to learn.It's perhaps unfair that Microsoft has the inherent advantage of a familiar user interface, but nevertheless it does – and that's all there is to it. SharePoint is a great document management tool. It can be made as simple or complex as you like with its greatest advantage being its one size fits all approach (and equally perhaps its greatest drawback). Many users like the basic approached offered by a shared drive, rather than the complexities of document management and so simple document storage facilities can be setup for access by groups of users with as much filing and process as you deem suitable.SharePoint 2010 in Office 365 can also be used as a public-facing web presence with easy-add features such as maps and PayPal integration. By clicking the website button in a team site, you're taken straight to an online web page. This isn't a full solution and is obviously not going to remove the need for a website; however, while designing your site, it can be very useful as a landing page. For companies that don't spend much time on the web, or much money on IT, it can provide that simple web presence which will allow people to verify your company as essentially "real". Before or after meetings, everyone invariably checks a company's website; if there's nothing there, then it certainly doesn't look good.Finally, there's Lync 2010, combining instant messaging with web conferencing. This can definitely save time and money – we've found through BPOS that the OCO (IM) is very well received. It's a product linking all of a company's users, and one which definitely saves money and sometimes deals. When sitting in a meeting with your laptop, you essentially have a silent line to those back in your office. You can basically get questions answered by colleagues without clients even knowing that you've asked them. (Well, apart from the frantic typing, perhaps.) It's something that many companies never knew they would benefit from until they have it.Unfortunately, there's no telephone integration yet, although it's something that is coming in one form or another. Still, it's easy to allow external users and to invite people to video and audio conferences which, especially for a small business, is extremely powerful software feature given the price. You can also effectively present online through desktop sharing – which, if it suits your business model, can save time and money.Microsoft Office 365: the IT Management dashboardBeyond these functions you have your options on MS Office software. This can be delivered via web apps or via a full blown PC download. The subscription service will take away a large amount of focus on basic software upgrades. The Web Apps have the added features which originally made Google Apps really stand out - such as live, collaborative document editing. Obviously with this tied in with Lync you can create collaborative works with extreme efficiency regardless of locality. You can also use SharePoint Workspace to work with documents when you're offline, synchronizing with Office 365 when you have a connection.The integration with Office 365 and your desktop is very simple. OWA can sync with Outlook 2010 at the click of a button and you can sync both your work desktop and your home PC very easily.Office 365 is the product Microsoft should have released in the first place. The previous name was never up to scratch and the 2007 software, made slimline for the cloud, felt like a kneejerk reaction to Google Apps. No doubt Microsoft had to react, but Office 365 feels more robust.The financial savings over time will be significant and although its price point is a lot higher than Google Apps, I think the options and familiarity are vastly superior. The desktop software almost moves it away from comparison with Google Apps; perhaps most important of all is the free phone administrator support, which has always been a major advantage (and cost) that even BPOS had over Google Apps.Office 365 is officially launched on Tuesday 28 June. It has taken a while, but Microsoft may well have put itself back in pole position in the Software as a Service battle.•Andrew Gradwell has experience in all levels of IT, as a user, support engineer and a company director. Heading upCloud Hypermarket, he is on a mission to bring cloud savings to companies that really need it, rather than those it is most profitable to sell to.
Sony chief executive Sir Howard Stringer has sidestepped calls to stand down in the wake of the devastatingPlayStation Network hacking attack that affected 100 million gamers.Speaking at the company's annual shareholders meeting on Monday night, a combative Stringer said the electronics giant was targeted simply because it tried to protect its intellectual property."We believe that we first became the subject of attack because we tried to protect our IP , our content – in this case video games," the Welsh-born executive said. "These are our corporate assets, and there are those that don't want us to protect them, they want everything to be free."Stringer sidestepped one shareholder's call to step down over the breach, a call greeted by scattered applause from some other shareholders.Sony was forced to shut down its popular PlayStation Network on 20 April after the attack, thought to be the largest in internet history. The company has estimated that recovery from the huge breach, which saw the personal information of as many as 100 million gamers stolen, will cost about $173m (£105m).No group has yet claimed responsibility for the attack. The notorious hacking clan Anonymous refuted allegations that it was to blame after Sony claimed to have found evidence pointing to the loose-knit collective.Stringer has fought back at critics who accused the Japanese electronics giant of being too slow to warn gamers that their personal information – including email addresses and credit card details – might have been compromised.He said in May: "This was an unprecedented situation. Most of these breaches go unreported by companies – 43% [of companies] notify victims within a month. We reported in a week. You're telling me my week wasn't fast enough?"The network, which allows gamers to play virtually against each other online, hasslowly limped back into lifeafter it was reopened in a reduced form on 16 May.The US Homeland Security Department on Monday unveiled a new guidance system to help large corporations stave off attacks from internet pranksters,the Financial Times reported. The guidance includes a list of the top 25 programming weakspots which hackers have been known to target.
Microsoft is hitting back at Google in the cloud with the release of itsOffice 365offering – a cloud service which extends Office to the cloud.But not to be outdone, Google got its own punch in first on Monday night – with ablog post offering "365 reasons to consider Google Apps".It's the latest instalment in a battle between the two in which Google is seeking to undermine Microsoft's Office monopoly –which generates around 50% of its profits– and divert some of the revenue to itself, while also getting more people to use the internet, where its search offering, and associated advertising, dominates.Part of the reason driving Microsoft to make the shift – so that people in businesses can get Office-like facilities directly online – is people like Tom Conophy, who are stirring anxiety and action in Microsoft's executive offices these days.Conophy, the chief information officer of the InterContinental Hotels Group, decided earlier this year to begin moving nearly all the company's 25,000 office workersoff Microsoft's email and Office applications onto Google's web-based alternatives.About 6,000 employees in the hotel management company have converted so far, Conophy says, and things are going well. The savings, he estimates, will add up to millions of dollars a year. And Google's online offerings, he says, have improved steadily since it entered the business market four years ago.''We could do this now because the Google cloud apps are ready for prime time," Conophy said.Halting such defections is a top priority at Microsoft. Office 365 is the response – a cloud-based version of Microsoft's email, whiteboard collaboration software and word processing, spreadsheet and presentation programs, which will get a marketing launch later on Tuesday from Steve Ballmer, the chief executive.But in this battle, Google is already making a preemptive strike. That Office 365 is on the way has been known for some time – and so Google has been shoring up the defences around Google Apps.On Monday, the day before the launch, it put up a post on its Enterprise blog offering to help people make "an informed choice", suggesting that "Office 365 is for individuals. Apps is for teams" and "Office 365 is built for Microsoft. Apps is built for choice" – on the basis that "Office 365 is optimised for Windows-based PCs and devices, which reduces your flexibility. Our applications are designed to work well on any device, on any operating system. Desktop, laptop, Chromebook, tablet, smartphone. Windows, Mac, Linux, Android, Blackberry, iOS, Windows Mobile."In fact, you can connect to Office 365 from a tablet or smartphone – note that Google only suggested it was "optimised" for a PC.Microsoft's long-awaited move, analysts say, is a studiously crafted bet, including various offerings at different prices. They are not sure though whether it is a workable strategy – or wishful thinking. Microsoft's plan is to embrace the demand for cloud-based tools for office workers, which promises to be less costly for companies than conventional software, and yet avoid cannibalising the business that is its biggest single money-maker.''If Microsoft stumbles, it really opens the door to Google," said Matt Cain, an analyst for Gartner. "It's a tremendous long-term threat to Microsoft and its Office franchise."The Microsoft unit that includes the Office family of products is a $20bn-a-year business with pre-tax profit margins of 60%. It's bigger and more profitable even than the company's other big profit engine, the Windows PC operating system – which ebbs and flows with the sale of PCs.Google portrays the arrival of Office 365 as an endorsement, if not a capitulation. ''This is a recognition that our business is for real," said David Girouard, president of Google's enterprise division. "We've really helped move the needle in the marketplace."The company now claims more than 30 million active users of Google Apps, its collection of online office productivity and communications programs. But about 12 million of those users are university staff and students, who typically get free access to the apps.The standard charge for business and government customers is $50 per user a year. Google will not disclose how many customers pay that fee. However, in its latest quarterly results revenues from "non-advertising" sources was $269m, compared to $8.2bn from advertising incomes.Google says Apps are gaining momentum. Earlier in June, it announced a series of large converts. TheNational Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the US agency that conducts climate and ocean studies, with 25,000 employees, is adopting Google Apps. Others include the state of Wyoming, with 10,000 workers, and the McClatchy Group, a publishing chain, with 8,500 workers.The subscription renewal rates to Google Apps, Girouard said, are higher than 90% and for larger companies the rate is nearly 100%.There are other cloud-based business email, productivity and collaboration tools including entries from Zoho, VMware's Zimbra, IBM's Lotus Live and Salesforce.com's Chatter.Yet Google, analysts say, is the main rival that Microsoft has in mind with Office 365. ''There's no doubt that the increasing popularity of Google Apps has forced Microsoft's hand," said Melissa Webster, an analyst at IDC. "But Microsoft is really embracing the cloud now. This is the other shoe dropping."At $50 a year, Google's pricing seems far more appealing than the standard price for the Office PC software, which costs from $200 to about $400, depending on features. Office 365 prices are from $2 per user a month to $27 per user a month.The $2-a-month service is just email and is intended for companies that want to extend communications to employees currently not being served, such as factory workers. The $27-a-month offering is all the online features, including Web conferencing and digital whiteboards for team projects, and a license to the most powerful version of the Office personal computer software.A $6-a-month offering is aimed at extending Microsoft's email server services and collaboration tools, like SharePoint, to small businesses. These small businesses typically have the Office PC software but not the related software, analysts say.So with cloud-based versions of Word, Excel and PowerPoint, plus several new communications and collaboration tools, that offering could be quite appealing, analysts say. The price, at $72 a year, is somewhat above Google's, but it carries the Microsoft name and familiarity."It could be a lot of net new business, and stable recurring revenue, if Microsoft can pull it off," Webster said.The question though is whether doing so will add to Microsoft's revenues – or whether that will eat into Office revenues and profits. And if people get the idea of using the cloud, will that make Google more attractive – and cheaper? For Microsoft, the risk is that the cloud may turn out to be a knife.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamOfficial Google Blog: An update on Google Health and Google PowerMeter"In the coming months, we're going to retire two products that didn't catch on the way we would have hoped, but did serve as influential models: Google Health (retiring January 1, 2012; data available for download through January 1, 2013) and Google PowerMeter (retiring September 16, 2011). Both were based on the idea that with more and better information, people can make smarter choices, whether in regard to managing personal health and wellness, or saving money and conserving energy at home. While they didn't scale as we had hoped, we believe they did highlight the importance of access to information in areas where it's traditionally been difficult."The PowerMeter side is arguably more interesting than the Google Health one. There's lots of health data. Smart data on power use? Not so much.Apple to begin assembling iPhone 5 'in mid to late August' &gt;&gt; AppleInsider"Apple will begin production of fifth-generation iPhones in August ahead of a projected late third quarter launch, according to intelligence obtained by by one investment banker's recent trip to Taiwan .&#10;After meetings with unnamed individuals in Taiwan last week where Apple's supply chain and manufacturing facilities reside, Morgan Stanley analyst Katy Huberty issued a note to clients in which she confidently stated:  "Apple's next iPhone will begin production in mid to late August and ramp aggressively" into the calendar fourth quarter."Yes, but there's more to come...Why isn't Amazon stamping out Kindlespam? &gt;&gt; John Naughton"At first, I thought that Amazon's rationale might be similar to the one Google takes on the issue of infringing or objectionable YouTube content: given that 48-hours'-worth of video is being uploaded every minute, it simply isn't feasible to pre-scan stuff before it's published. But Google will take it down on receipt of a complaint. That won't get Amazon off the Kindlespam hook for two reasons: (1) Compared with video, pre-scanning of text is perfectly feasible, and computationally not that difficult; Amazon could easily do it. (2) Detection of infringing content in Kindlespam by rights holders is very difficult for the reasons outlined earlier, so while a take-down-upon-complaint policy is perfectly feasible, complaints will be much less frequent than they are on YouTube.&#10;"So we're left with a puzzle. Pre-scanning for crap, spam and infringing content in Kindlespam is perfectly feasible — and indeed only Amazon can do it effectively. Yet it does not do it. Why?"The LulzSec boat sails away. Was it worth the ride? Should you care? &gt;&gt; Naked Security"The world is already in a questioning frenzy about what happens next.&#10;"Sadly, the questions are often of an unanswerable sort: inviting speculation, possibly even wild speculation; or trying to squeeze conclusions from unsupportable, possibly even wildly incorrect, starting points.&#10;"Here's one example. 'Do you think,' one questioner asked me, 'that LulzSec was as sophisticated as it made out?'&#10;"But LulzSec never made any particular claims about sophistication. Also, it trumpeted only its successes, and didn't enumerate those sites which it tried to hack but failed."Many good points made here.Why mobile apps suck when you're mobile &gt;&gt; David Singleton"In 2011, Smartphones are ubiquitous and everyone and his dog is writing mobile apps, but using apps when you're not in range of a fixed wifi hotspot or standing still in an urban area is often extremely frustrating. How often have you tried to refresh and found yourself staring at an interminable spinner that makes you want to throw your phone at the wall? Here's why (and a plea to app developers to do something about it!)."The short version: latency. (Via @zzap)Capital.bg : Nobody wants to buy RIM &gt;&gt; Asymco"RIM is an engineering led company. Many successful companies rightly develop their engineering skills first because that is what allows them to create new products more quickly. This is true of Nokia and also of Apple and Microsoft in their early years. What is difficult is to allow marketing people to define products after that early phase. This is partly due to the fact that there is less respect for "Marketing" among engineers. Many see it as a "soft" discipline where there is little rigor. But this is not an accurate or fair picture. Great marketing determines what products should be built not just how they should be sold. Engineering can discover new products based on new technology becoming available, but Marketing can discover new products based on unmet user needs. Both need each other."Google May Choose Several Android Launch Partners For Ice Cream Sandwich &gt;&gt; mocoNews"The most interesting part of the report, however, buried underneath the obsession with hardware specifications, is the notion that Google may be preparing to launch Ice Cream Sandwich (the next version of Android) with multiple partners. If you'll recall, a few months ago several Android partners raised quite a stir complaining about Google's practice of picking a single vendor as the primary launch partner for a new generation of technology.&#10;"However, if Google really is planning to shake things up and launch Ice Cream Sandwich devices spread out across Samsung, Motorola (NYSE: MMI), LG (SEO: 066570), and perhaps others, it would be a notable change to how Android partners roll out new devices. It would allow all the major vendors to have new products going into the all-important holiday shopping season, rather than just one lucky company."ThePiratebay deletes 50 Days Of Lulz &gt;&gt; ActivePolitic"Thepiratebay just deleted the lulzsec torrent "50 days of lulz" , reason theres some virus in it...  Being as how this torrent was extremely popular, it may have infected 100's of thousands of people already."Classy.iPad v Netbook: feature comparisonSome of the points aren't correct any longer, but it's an interesting example of how a feature checklist tells you nothing about a device.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on deliciousTo suggest links, tag articles on delicious.com with "guardiantech"
It's the start of the week and... wait, it's Tuesday?!
Private information on Google users was demanded by governments or police more than 14,000 times in 26 developed countries in the second half of last year, according to figures released for the first time by the internet group yesterday.In an effort to highlight online censorship, Google disclosed that it had received more requests from the United States than anywhere else, and that it complied with anywhere from three-quarters to more than 90% of the requests, depending on which country they were made in.Google received a record4,601 requestsfrom the US to disclose internet users' private data in the six months to December, up 28% year-on-year. The California-based company said it fully or partially complied with 94% of user data orders from the US, and with 72% of those from the UK.According to Google,the UK made 1,162 user data requestsin the second half of last year, ranking it the fourth in terms of requests , behind the US, Brazil and India. Google began releasing its half-yearlyTransparency Reportin April 2010as a way to highlight state censorship of the internet.William Echikson, Google's head of free expression for Europe, the Middle East and Africa, also said there was "more and more" pressure from European governments to remove content. "We are seeing governments around the world crackdown on the internet, and there is more and more pressure from inside Europe – it's not just on us but all internet companies," he told the Guardian.Google products are banned or partially banned in 25 countries, Echikson pointed out. He said the Arab spring uprising, in which Egypt and Tunisia clamped down on the internet, has "raised the profile" of online censorship, but internet companies need to do more to combat the trend.Google said it complied with a request to block access to 43 YouTube videos in Thailand because they were breaking that country's law by "mocking or criticising" the king, Bhumibol Adulyadej.The figures show thatBrazil still leads the wayin requesting that Google removes content from its services, with 263 orders, ahead of South Korea, Germany, Libya and India. The UK's Office of Fair Trading requested the removal of 93,360 fraudulent Google Adwords linked to scams over the period. The majority of content removal requests from the US arise from court orders over defamation. According tothe figures, six US court orders resulted in the removal of 1,110 items from the Google Groups forums over the defamation of a man and his family.Google said it had received no content removal requests from Chinese authorities in the latter part of 2010. The search engine began redirecting Chinese users to its uncensored Hong Kong sitein June 2010amid allegations of state spying. Hong Kong increased its demands for user data by 80% in the six-month period, to 90; Google complied with 59%.Google Transparency Report: Goverment requests for user data from July to December 2010CountryData requestsPercentage of data requests fully or partially complied withUnited States460194Brazil180476India169979United Kingdom116272France102156Italy83760Germany76876Spain35961Australia34581Poland27212
The teenager accused of attacking the website of the UK Serious Organised Crime Agency has been released on conditional bail.Prosecutors were unsuccessful in their appeal against Ryan Cleary's bail in a hastily convened hearing at Southwark Crown Court in London on Monday.The 19-year-old, who was diagnosed with Aspergers syndrome last week, was arrested last Monday as part of an international investigation into the internet hacking group LulzSec following attacks on the CIA and US Senate.Cleary's bail conditions mean he is banned from using any device capable of connecting to the internet. The Essex teenager must observe a curfew between 9am and 7pm. He will be electronically tagged and must not leave the house without his mother, Rita Cleary.She was in court for the short hearing on Monday afternoon. The court reversed an earlier decision to hear Cleary's case tomorrow after an appeal over his "vulnerability" from his legal team.The student has spent the past week being interrogated by the FBI and UK police over the alleged attacks. He could yet be charged with further offences.Cleary's computers, iPhone and PS3 have been confiscated by police.In a statement read outside court, Cleary's lawyers said: "Ryan Cleary is very relieved to be granted bail and to be home to his mum, his cats and his books."He has cooperated with police and will continue to do so. Ryan has last week been diagnosed with Aspergers... He will now be provided with the professional support he needs. His obvious intelligence can now be channelled into a worthwhile pursuit."One thing not so positive from this case is that the British police are investigating and appear to be accepting jurisdiction [unlike the Gary McKinnock case]. Ryan will not be making further statement for the time being."The case is due back at Southwark crown court for a case management hearing on 30 August.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn had record numbers of UK users last month as millions of Britons flocked to social networks to learn about the Ryan Giggs injunction.Twitter's UK audience jumped by a third between April and May as thousands of users tweeted about Giggs's alleged extra-marital affair. The number of female pensioners using the site also doubled month on month, according to online traffic figures released by UKOM/Nielsen on Monday.The figures also show that Facebook overtook MSN last month to become the second most-popular site in the UK, with 26.8 million users, behind Google with 33.9 million.The social network for business professionals, LinkedIn, registered 3.6 million UK visitors in May, up 57% from a year earlier.According to Nielsen the growth in visitors to social networks is being primarily driven by the over-50s, with a 65% rise in men aged 50-64 visiting Twitter at the height of the gagging orders fallout in May, compared with April.Since May 2009, the number of 50- to 64-year-old Brits using Facebook has rocketed by 84% – far outstripping overall UK growth, at 41%."Just a few years ago, this group may have found itself out of place on these sites," said UKOM general manager James Smythe. "Now, on Facebook, for example, they account for more new adults visiting the site in the last two years than the under-50s."Facebook is still streets ahead of rival social networks in terms of US users, the figures show. Mark Zuckerberg's social network attracted 140 million visitors in the US last month, a 12% year-on-year boost. Twitter attracted 23.6 million US users in the same period.Twitter also managed to double its online traffic in Spain last month, but saw a fall in visitors from Germany – where Facebook recorded a 72% lift in traffic in May.UKOM/Nielsen monitored the online behaviour of about 50,000 people in Britain and similar numbers in the other countries. The panel was recruited both online and offline.
Holding its own on the E3 2011 show floor wasOnce Upon A Monster, the latest highly stylised comedy romp from Tim Schafer andDouble Fine Productions. But this family-friendly title is not the sort of thing that usually gets hardened games writers queuing up for a turn. It's based around Sesame Street for a start.Coming out on Xbox 360 later this year, Once Upon a Monster is set in a lively storybook world where six sad monsters need help with different emotional scenarios. Featuring full support for Kinect, the player must dance, gesture, run and jump through a range of challenges, each involving members of the Sesame Street cast.But what led Double Fine to make such a kid-friendly game? What attracted the arch surrealists behind Costume Quest and Stacking to Jim Henson's loveable creatures? A little while ago we had a long chat with project lead Nathan Martz, discussing everything from the genesis of the title, to the challenges of writing games that teach without patronising or boring players. It's a fascinating insight into the working processes at Double Fine, and the demands of bringing Sesame Street to interactive life…Why did you set out to create a Sesame Street game?Most of the core design work was actually done before we partnered with the Sesame Workshop. The original idea is almost four years old, but Jim Henson was a huge influence. He was an amazingly creative, expressive guy – The Muppets, Sesame Street, Star Wars – he left a mark on our childhoods. And for me as a craftsmen, I loved his ability to create memorable characters who were at once new and very familiar. That and Where The Wild Things Are, a little bit of Calvin and Hobbes … all this is mixed in there, along with Scott Campbell's own personal art style. He's a master at creating upbeat, fun characters.So what was the genesis of the game, if it didn't start out as a Sesame Street title?The original name of the game was Happy Song. We were just talking about how great it would be to make an uplifting game. I was dating this girl at the time and she asked, 'don't you have a happy song, a song that, when it comes on in the car radio, you just feel great?' At first I was, like, nah I don't have a happy song, but I do of course. Everyone has a happy song. So I thought about a game where some cute monsters help you make your own happy song. It was sort of like a Fisher Price version of the music program Acid. We wanted it to be like LittleBigPlanet – accessible creativity.What happened to that?We went back to Brutal Legend, and we had two years left on the game. After that, Kinect was announced and Tim and I were already excited about taking Happy Song and moving it forward. We just thought, whoah, Kinect – this is a brand new interface, it's family friendly,we'refamily friendly. And we thought, we've GOT to do more than music. It should also be about dance and decoration, and if it's a family game, it's got to deal with a whole range of activities not just raw physical stuff. And that's where the storybook idea came in – as we introduced a wider range of activities we needed a story to unify them, and a world to set that story in. The last piece was Sesame Street. We'd often been asked how big an influence Jim Henson was on us, and if we had the Sesame Street license what would you do with it – then we found it was actually an option. We've never done a licensed game before and we may never do one again, but for us, this is an IP that we're honoured to work with. We're so flattered.So you then worked very closely with Sesame Workshop, who own the puppets now. How restrictive have they been?Usually, a game like this would be very traditional, it would take place on Sesame Street with numbers and letters. But because we actually brought a whole original storybook concept, we started an IP partnership. We have total creative control, as long as we match their curriculum goals, their sensibilities, and as long as whatever lines we write for their characters are appropriate. It's a partnership with their writers as well. We'll send emails back and forth to make sure the educational curriculum, the jokes, and the gameplay all match.And do you also take in ideas from other teams within Double Fine?It's a hugely collaborative environment – and honestly, a lot of that comes through our hiring practices. When we interview programmers, we don't ask, 'do you know C++? Can you write assembly?' We talk about game design. We ask, 'why are you in the industry? What gets you excited?' So we have a culture, a community of developers who are passionate about the same things, who have compatible sensibilities – and that makes it easier to share ideas. If you look at a game like Costume Quest – it's a very different aesthetic, they're different worlds, but the same DNA flows through. That's one of the great advantages of being one studio working on multiple games – we get a lot of ideas out there, we sit just feet from the other teams, there is constant cross-pollination.And how did you get to grips with the Sesame Street characters themselves?We visited the Henson Creature Shop in New York where they've built very Muppet since 1969. I've seen one of two Cookie Monsters, the original Mr. Snuffleupagus. We spoke to their art director about the fur, the armatures, about the differences between Cookie's arms and Elmo's arms… We have a dynamic procedural fur system for every character in the game – there's even a below the fur Muppet tissue simulator that controls how the joints wobble around, so it feels … Muppety.You mentioned that you've got to reflect the 'curriculum goals' of Sesame Street. How do you do that without this becoming a piece of 'edutainment'?A lot of people when they think about Sesame Street, they think of numeracy and literacy, the bread and butter of the series. But actually it has a bunch of other areas to its curriculum. The biggest one for us is the Whole Child concept – it's about social and emotional development, educating kids, not just as brains, but as people, focusing on what healthy relationships look like, how you identify and express emotions, how you communicate and empathise with other people. The other part of Whole Child is called 'healthy habits for life', which is all about physical lifestyles – getting outside, exercising, good nutrition, proper diet… That's where Once Upon A Monster interfaces with their education department. All of our chapters are really about helping monsters to solve problems which have an emotional component to them – and as you're helping them, of course, it's all Kinect, so you're expressing those emotions by being active and physical.So partly the game is about relationships?If you want to put the game in a nutshell, it's about empathy. A huge part of what a kid learns when they're growing up is social and emotional development. As adults, we take it for granted that other people have emotions that are different from ours, and we can identify what they are, but those are skills that children have to learn. Children don't even understand that other people have minds of their own until the age of three. As an adult, it couldn't be more obvious that emotions are things I can help people with, but this is a huge part of a child's development – especially the idea of empathy, of recognising the motions of others. This is really woven into our storytelling. We try to do it in a way that we're not hitting you over the head with it – we don't say 'here are five monsters, what emotions are they expressing?' But rather, as you play every story, you can't help but learn those lessons.Although this is sort of a children's title, were you able to employ traditional game design techniques? Did it feel the same as making, say, Brutal Legend?One of the ways we differ from a traditional game is that we're not so built around skill based-progression. Usually, the meat and potatoes of the experience is – you fail until you are good enough to succeed. Some games level that a little with dynamic difficulty, but basically, the entire structure is, 'here's a skill, practice it and we'll only let you progress once you've demonstrated a certain level of mastery'.For us, that's actually pretty problematic for a couple of reasons. One, kids develop at different ages and at different rates – and we're looking at pretty young children. In fact, we've focused tested with kids younger than four. We don't want to make an experience in which you're punished because you can't jump above a certain height or your gross motor skills aren't developed enough – that would be a pretty harsh thing to do and it would run counter to the spirit of our game. Also, we're about co-play, we're about kids and parents playing together, so if the parent is doing well, but the child is struggling, we don't want parents to feel frustrated at their kids, or that the kid is holding them back. Our whole game is designed around the idea that as long as you'retryingto play, as long as you're participating in the activity, we're going to try to make sure you can get through the entire thing.But we do have a sort of rewards layer on top of that. If you go through again and do an activity in record time, or get the most collectibles, or dance really well, we'll give you bonuses and those will unlock content outside of the main game. That gives, more accomplished players, or older kids, or parents, a reason to come back and replay pages. But for us, skill is a way to reward the player rather than a way to gate the player. Kinect as an experience is either incredibly magical or incredibly frustrating – that's more about how you design your activities than what's intrinsic to the technology. When Kinect works, it feels like its just reading your mind. If it reads you jumping or waving, even though all it's doing is watching your movements, people have such a tight mental connection with their bodies, it feels like mind reading. That is people's expectation of the device.There's a lot of dialogue and story-telling in the game. How did you work with the Sesame Workshop on this? Were there elements you had to avoid, and things you couldn't do?Well, there are two parts to this. There's the voicing of the characters – Cookie speaks in a particular way, Elmo speaks in a particular way and you really have to write to those characters carefully and closely. There's also the educational curriculum component. If you want to talk about shyness, for example, there's actually a Sesame Street way they handle that kind of interaction, they effectively 'model' how to approach someone who is struggling with being shy.Every script that we write goes to Sesame Workshop and their educational group vet the entire thing for both voice and educational content. One of our chapters starts off a little bit scary; it's about a monster who is trying to be something he is not, and it's also about bravery. The arc of the story is that with a little bit of bravery things aren't as scary as they might seem. So fear was something we talked to them a lot about – how scary can we be? We don't want to terrify three-year-olds – in fact the goal isn't about being terrifying it's about providing a counter-point, a context in which to be brave.And you're working with iconic characters here, really…Yeah, these are very visible characters, especially in the States. Sesame Street gets a lot of money via public service broadcasting and it's very visible, both culturally and politically. There's been a big debate in the States about how much funding congress is going to allocate for public broadcasting at large – so Sesame Street has to be careful; the characters can't do anything unseemly or dangerous. Elmo in particular should not  do anything that you wouldn't be comfortable with your own three-year-old doing because he is the model for the good behaviour of a child that age.But how much was Double Fine able to bring its own character into game?All constraints are both useful and challenging at the same time. When this was first announced, a lot of people were like, 'Double Fine has sold out!' But actually, this is the marriage of two IPs Sesame Street is one, but Once Upon A Monster, the storybook world and the monsters, these are all brand new, they're created by Double Fine. It's the fist time Sesame Street characters have ever entered another world. So the stories we tell, the monsters we create and they problems they have – we have a tremendous amount of creative freedom to make those, and by and large we make them as we see fit.That said, we have to make sure the stories we tell, the lessons we teach, align not just with Sesame Street's values but also the methodology of communicating those values. It's very challenging – as with any game that interacts with such a powerful franchise. You've got to be very thoughtful. And the biggest challenge is, any game idea we have has to work in our universe, it has to work with Sesame Street and it has to be fun on Kinect. It's really, really challenging to come up with stories and gameplay that connect all of those dots…
Ocarina of Time is a game about curiosity and the joy of discovery. It's not simply a role-playing game thatincludesa bit of exploration, it is a game that asks you to remember – as Miyamoto famously does – what it was like when you were a kid and your neighbourhood was a place of wonder and mystery, and there was something interesting around every corner. The land of Hyrule can still take you back there if you let it.But you could, of course say, well, this is Ocarina of Time – again. Another nostalgic re-release for an industry suffocating under the weight of technical demands and budgetary heft. But it is also the perfect reminder, in an era of relentlessly governed, ruthlessly prescriptive corridor shooters that there is something profoundlyrightabout giving players a world to explore, a few hints and tips on its rules and the freedom to go out there and get hopelessly lost.The story, of course, is still the guiding line – with young hero Link charged by Princess Zelda to see off the threat of the evil Ganondorf. But there are multiple side-quests, some that you just discover, others handed to you by the cast of idiosyncratic characters (I think these challenges represent a child's view of adult-imposed chores – at once filled with import but also mystifying and irrelevant). Everything has to be discovered, everything spins out from the hub world that is Hyrule field, a vast meadow that represents the game's and the player's imagination.And the sense of exploration is layered in on itself. It matters what time you get somewhere (thanks to a simple but vital day and night system), and there are the masks that can be loaned from a shop in the market and worn to elicit new responses from characters. How these systems sit on top of each other without becoming unfathomably complex and repetitive only Nintendo knows.The controls, once so carefully mapped to the N64's unique controller, have been expertly converted to the handheld console. Players are still able to assign items and weapons to any button they like, but it's also possible to access your entire inventory – as well as the camera controls – from the touchscreen, so there are multiple set-ups available. Aiming the bow or catapult is achieved with the left trigger, though you can also opt to use the motion controls, moving the 3DS itself to aim, which is remarkably intuitive.In the midst of combat, I sometimes found it difficult using the small 3DS analogue controller to leap and strafe, while aiming and intermittently protecting myself with the shield (using the right trigger) – everything's so bunched up on the device, as opposed to the comparatively enormous N64 pad. But, of course, another beauty of Zelda is its generosity; for the first few hours enemies are pretty soft and there are always plentiful heart symbols to replenish your health. This is not Demon's Souls.Visually, Nintendo has pulled off a clever trick here – the game resembles yourmemoryof Zelda on the N64, but it has been enhanced to match modern standards of clarity and resolution. It retains the cartoonish impressionism and the slightly drained patina, but the textures are more complex and many subtle effects have been tweaked. It does not look as good as, say, Kid Icarus promises too, but that is part of its charm: playing Ocarina of Time feels like nostalgic reverie, and the iconic visuals play into that.The 3D capabilities of the device don't add much ofpracticaluse to the game, though they do help to enrich the sense of immersion in certain locations. Hyrule field, for example, becomes a much more impressive expanse, while set-piece locations like the Spirit Temple are lent an architectural grandeur that the small screen would normal detract from. The animated sections, though, benefit most obviously – the lovely legend sequence, which shows the three goddesses leaving the Triforce behind, is a sumptuous, almost psychedelic, firework display of falling comets and expanding star fields that comes alive again in three dimensions.The thing is, and this is way off-message as far as Nintendo is concerned, it doesn't matter. Zelda is Zelda. The important element, alongside the textural updates, is the transportation to a handheld console. The pleasure is the same as the original handheld Zelda: Link's Awakening way back on the Game Boy. It means the vast game can go everywhere with you; it means you can curl up with it in some shabby old armchair, preferably in front of an open fire.There's something to be said about experiencing a game on its original platform, with its original interface – but Ocarina of Time on the 3DS is exactly the right way to update a treasured game, and it makes one of the fundamental achievements of this industry available to millions of people who never saw the original and aren't prepared to hit eBay for an N64.Because be in no doubt, Ocarina of Time is one of those rare works of art that transcends taste and simplyisgreat. It should be a set text on every game design course on the planet. It should be shown to every studio that thinks the term "cinematic" is somehow exactly synonymous with "linear" – indeed, it should be shown to every studio that thinks "cinematic" is the loftiest aim of interactive entertainment.It isn't. The aim is to construct a world – however mannered, however repetitive and surreal – and make it worth exploring. All games should be about curiosity and surprise; it's not just violence and lulz that make Rockstar's titles so successful. The likes of Red Dead and GTA (alongside the works of Valve, I think) are the true western heirs to the Zelda hegemony. I wonder how Skyward Sword will fair in this context? I wonder how anything will ever better Ocarina of Time in its small but vital corner of this bloated industry.
For a game created by two of Japanese development's biggest stars – Shinji Mikami of Resident Evil fame, and Suda51, who created Killer 7 and No More Heroes – Shadows of the Damned seems to have limped into the shops with a surprising lack of fanfare. This is even more curious when you consider that it's their first collaboration, and the first game either has made to be published by Electronic Arts. Maybe the powers that be were worried that, given its makers' track records, it would be too weird for the general public to handle. And sure enough, Shadows of the Damned is as weird as hell, and every bit as twisted as the average horror movie fan could desire.You play Garcia Hotspur, a demon-hunter whose girlfriend, Paula, has been kidnapped and dragged down to the underworld by Fleming, a leather-coated demon king with several sets of red eyes. Your mission is simple: to work your way through the underworld, killing all the demons you encounter, before entering Fleming's castle, kicking his ass and getting Paula back. A simple plan that suggests, quite accurately, that Hotspur isn't exactly concerned by the niceties of existentialism and the like.Indeed, his lack of political correctness proves to be at a similar level to that of Duke Nukem, and he has a more-than-willing accomplice in the form of Johnson, an English-accented ex-demon who works as a torch in Hotspur's right hand and who transforms into a weapon whenever Hotspur aims. Johnson is absolutely key to the game: he has three forms, in their base-states known as the Boner, the Teether and the Monocussioner. These are a semi-automatic pistol, a machine-gun and a shotgun that shoots explosive skulls, respectively.Gameplay-wise, Mikami has clearly taken the lead, as Shadows of the Damned feels a lot like Resident Evil, although in this instance, you can still move around when you're aiming – the ability to roll out of the way of incoming attacks is a key mechanic. One of the game's fun aspects is trying to work out which elements were devised by Mikami and which by Suda51. One key mechanic feels like it was jointly conceived: at times, the demons will generate a black, oily darkness that constantly drains Hotspur's health – luckily, he has an alternate light-shot which he can aim at goats-head lamps to drive away the darkness, or barrels of pressurised light that rip apart nearby demons like bombs. At times, there are no goats-head lamps around, so Hotspur has to use Johnson as a torch for lighting firework-launchers instead, giving him only a temporary reprieve from the threat posed by the darkness.There are various ways in which the darkness provides puzzle-solving opportunities, as well as plenty of other, more conventional puzzles. And there are periods when the gameplay veers around wildly – the 2D loading screens, at various points, morph into a 2D side-scrolling shooter (which, cleverly, retains the darkness/light mechanic) and plenty of boss-battles that Resident Evil fans will find reassuringly familiar. But perhaps the best aspect of the game is the way it restricts itself to just three weapons, which you can regularly upgrade so that they acquire outrageous powers. The Boner, for example, can be turned into the Big Boner when Johnson is connected to a phone-sex line, becoming a huge object Hotspur can barely aim, but which makes sense given that he is standing on top of a building and using it to take out 50-foot-tall demons. The Teether develops an auto-aim, and the Monocussioner eventually lets you load four skulls that combine into a rolling bomb, which lets you essentially treat demons as bowling pins (and is crucial in the later boss-battles).Shadows of the Damned, then, manages to feel both familiar (if you are a fan of Resident Evil, you'll love it) and unlike anything you've ever played before, in terms of the bizarre world it takes place in, which seems to make a worrying amount of sense. It's true that, at times, it feels a bit disjointed, the dialogue is occasionally annoyingly clunky and given that it has no online element, you could argue that it's hopelessly old-fashioned. But if you like the sort of gameplay that Resident Evil offers, it will bring you a lot of enjoyment, more or less from start to finish.
