With the benefit of hindsight, life as I knew it came to an end in late 1994, round Seal's house. We used to live round the corner from each other and if he was in between supermodels I'd pop over to watch a bit of Formula 1 on his pop star-sized flat-screen telly. I was probably on the sofa readingVogue(we had that in common, albeit for different reasons) while he was "mucking about" on his computer (then the actual technical term for anything non-work-related, vis-à-vis computers), when he said something like: "Kate, have a look at this thing called the World Wide Web. It's going to be massive!"I can't remember what we looked at then, at the tail-end of what I now nostalgically refer to as "The Tipp-Ex Years" – maybe The Well, accessed by Web Crawler – but whatever it was, it didn't do it for me: "Information dual carriageway!" I said (trust me, this passed for witty in the 1990s). "Fancy a pizza?"So there we are: Seal introduced me to the interweb. And although I remain a bit of  a petrol-head and (nothing if not brand-loyal) own an iPad, an iPhone and two Macs, I am still basically rubbish at "modern". Pre-Leveson, when I was writing a novel involving a phone-hacking scandal, my only concern was whether or not I'd come up with a plot that was:  a) vaguely plausible and/or interesting,  and b) technically possible. (A very nice man from Apple assured me that it was.)I would gladly have used semaphore, telegrams or parchment scrolls delivered by magic owls to get the point across. Which is that ever since people started chiselling cuneiform on to big stones they've been writing things that will at some point almost certainly be  misread and/or misinterpreted by someone  else. But the speed of modern technology  has made the problem rather more immediate. Confusing your public tweets with your Direct  Messages and begging your young lover to take-me-now-cos-im-gagging-4-u? They didn't have to worry about that when they were issuing decrees at Memphis on a nice bit of granodiorite.These days the mis-sent (or indeed  misread) text is still a relatively intimate intimation of an affair, while the notorious "reply all" email is the stuff of tired stand-up comedy. The boundary-less tweet is relatively new – and therefore still entertaining – territory, as evidenced most recently by American model Melissa Stetten, who, sitting on  a plane next to a (married) soap actor called Brian Presley, tweeted as he appeared to  hit on her.Whenever and wherever words are written, somebody, somewhere will want to read them. And if those words are not meant to be read they very often will be – usually by the "wrong" people. A 2010 poll announced  that six in 10 women would admit to regularly snooping on their partner's phone,  Twitter, or Facebook, although history doesn't record whether the other four in 10 were then subjected to lie-detector tests.Our compelling, self-sabotaging desire to snoop is usually informed by... well, if not paranoia, exactly, then insecurity, which in turn is more revealing about us than the words we find. If we seek out bad stuff –  in a partner's text, an ex's Facebook status or best friend's Twitter timeline – we will surely find it. And of course we don't even have to make much effort to find the stuff we probably oughtn't. Employers now routinely snoop on staff, and while this says more about the paranoid dynamic between boss classes and foot soldiers than we'd like, I have little sympathy for the employee who tweets their hangover status with one hand while phoning in "sick" with the other.Take Google Maps: the more information we are given, the more we feel we've been gifted  a licence to snoop.  It's the kind of thing we might be protesting about on the streets of Westminster were we not too busy invading our own privacy, as per the recent tweet-spat between Mr and Mrs Ben Goldsmith.Technology feeds an increasing yet non-specific social unease – and that uneasiness inevitably trickles down to our more intimate relationships. For example, not long ago,  I was blown out via text for a lunch date with a friend ("arrrgh, urgent deadline! SO SOZ!"), whose "urgent deadline" (their Twitter timeline helpfully revealed) turned out to involve lunch with someone else.Did I like my friend any less when I found this out? Well yes, a tiny bit – until I acknowledged that I've done something similar 100 times but was "cleverer" at covering my tracks. Would it have been easier for my friend to tell me the truth? Arguably. Should I ever have looked at their Twitter timeline? Well,  I had sought to confirm my suspicion that they weren't telling the truth, so given that my paranoia gremlin was in charge it was no wonder  I didn't like what it found.It is, of course, the paranoia gremlin that is in charge when we snoop – or are snooped upon – by partners, while "trust" is far more easily undermined than it has ever been.  The randomly stumbled-across text (except they never are, are they?) is our generation's lipstick-on-the-collar. And while Foursquare may say that your partner is in the pub, is that enough to stop you checking their Twitter/Facebook/emails/texts?Once, it was the lingering hint of  a scent that wasn't ours which had us furtively rifling through wallets, handbags and pockets, yet now that the contents of our pockets are blogged and Instagram-ed there are, clearly, far fewer secrets and many more lies.&nbsp;This modern insecurity is, I think,  a boundary-less emotion (techno-related narcissistic-masochism?) spawned by the tech-devil himself – and arguably even  more bonkers than old-school paranoia. And even though techno-related narcissistic-masochism doesn't yet have its own support group, now that it is with us I'm pretty sure it will be impossible to get rid of without the application of some sort of internal Tipp-Ex.After all, being fallible humans who clearly can't trust ourselves to trust, why on earth should we trust to technology?Separate Livesby Kathryn Flett is published on 5 July  by Quercus, at £7.99. To order a copy for £6.39, with  free UK p&amp;p, go toguardian.co.uk/bookshop, or call 0330 333 6846
Gravity Rush, PS VitaWaking up with amnesia, your character finds out only that she has strange powers and a new feline friend before being launched into her adventure.Plenty of games let you fly, but Gravity Rush is the first in which you simply drop, altering gravity's direction to send you, your magic cat and any unlucky bystanders hurtling towards your next goal. Taking place in a vertiginous, cel-shaded city, challenges, time trials and plot-furthering quests are available from people scattered around its towers and piazzas. It starts gently, letting you get to grips with a novel control system where you fight by plunging at foes from high above. It's inventive and elegant – finally a reason for Vita owners to rejoice.SCEE, £34.99Heroes Of Ruin, 3DSHeroes Of RuinWhen someone places a curse on Ataraxis, the wise ruler of Nexus, it's your job to find a cure. That means choosing one of four customisable character classes and traipsing round various dungeons, happily chopping up their inhabitants and looting everything you can see. It's a game that encourages you to play online, with three fellow adventurers joining you by default – and, as if all those elements weren't enough, there's an entire trading mini-game based on StreetPass, the 3DS feature that lets you exchange goodies with other players as you  walk past each other in real life.Square Enix, £29.99Plague Inc, iPod, iPhone &amp; iPadPlague IncIn Plague Inc, you're the virus (parasite, fungus, prion or other death-dealing microorganism) and your job is to kill all humans. Pop DNA balloons as your infection spreads, then use the points you earn to guide the evolution of your disease, along with special abilities such as drug resistance for faster spread in rich countries or genetic hardening to hamper the scientific search for a cure. Worse symptoms and increased lethality make your illness scarier, while getting too deadly too fast can cut short your aim of devouring humanity. Simpler and much more accessible than Pandemic 2.5.Ndemic Creations, 69pGames newsPetz FantasyOther games out this week includeSteel Battalion: Heavy Armor(Xbox), which replaces Capcom's infamous 40-button joystick and pedal set with a few gestures on Kinect to help pilot your towering bipedal tank and keep its crew from deserting mid-battle; andPetz Fantasy(3DS, which lets you bring up unicorns, dragons and vulgar doe-eyed mythical beasts rather than anything as prosaic as puppies or kittens. Thatgamecompany, maker ofFlOw,Flower, and also the surprise hitJourney, which eschews practically every gaming convention to produce something akin to ambient art. It has now announced plans to make games for "human beings, not just gamers", which also means abandoning their PlayStation-only policy. Finally, wobbly behemoth Zynga (ofFarmvillefame, but little else) continues to weather financial storms with Nasdaq banning short selling of its shares.
I've hadone of these before, haven't I? Yes, I remember, it just about converted me to the idea of the so-called crossover, even though I&nbsp;found it hard actually to love (that could be more a problem with me, to be honest. I'm working on it). We went to Wales, where we were the only crossover in the village.This one is different, though. It's a&nbsp;hybrid. Not a petrol hybrid like a&nbsp;Toyota Prius etc, but the world's first&nbsp;diesel-electric hybrid car, Peugeot says, proudly. They should be fairly proud, too – it's pretty bloody good.I don't believe electric cars are there yet. They're mainly toys for people who want to look as if they care. Toys for the rich, also – they're expensive (even with incentives), and you really need a&nbsp;house with a&nbsp;drive, as well as another car for when you want to go farther than the end of the road. Until the technology, the infrastructure and the incentives get better, they're not practical for most people.For the rest of us who care, the choice is between an economical diesel (even an economical petrol) or a hybrid. And the problem with hybrids is that they're also expensive. You have to do a lot of miles (possibly negating the fact that you care) to make them viable.And that's certainly the case with this one; it costs 8,000 quid more than the cheapest diesel 3008, which itself isn't bad on fuel economy (54mpg combined) or emissions (135g/km). By my calculations, you'd have to drive twice round the planet you're trying to save, or into the London congestion zone every day until the capital is actually under water... OK, so "my calculations" don't really exist. You have to do your own to see if a hybrid makes sense.If it does, this is a brilliant one. It&nbsp;has four operating modes – Auto,&nbsp;which changes between diesel&nbsp;and electric power for maximum efficiency; ZEV for purely battery power (until it runs out); Sport for a&nbsp;bit more va va voom (a&nbsp;surprising amount, actually); and&nbsp;4x4 (not for serious off-road capability, but useful on a slippery winter hill).I do apologise, this is all getting a&nbsp;bit technical, almost like proper motoring journalism. Steady on. What it boils down to is, here is a roomy family car that has 200bhp (sorry!) but emits less than the magic 100g/km of C02. Meaning free road tax, and no congestion charge. As I said, that's pretty bloody good.The only thing wrong with it, then, is the price. Oh, and the air-conditioning, which is rubbish. It&nbsp;wouldn't normally matter, but we&nbsp;had it in that heatwave in May.Soooooohot. It's too late, anyway. We're all going to die…Peugeot 3008 HYbrid4Photograph: Simon Stuart-Miller for the GuardianPriceFrom £26,995Top speed118mphAcceleration0-62mph in 9.1 secondsCombined fuel economy74.4mphCO2 emmissions99g/kmGreen rating8/10Cool rating5/10
Price crash! And for once, it really is: prices of SSDs - solid-state drives, aka Flash drives - with capacities large enough to be truly useful as the boot drive of PCs have more than halved in the past year, according to data from the US and UK.Meanwhile in the UK data supplied to the Guardian by Dabs.com, the online retailer, shows that prices of HDDs (aka spinning hard drives) has rocketed by as much as 50% due to thefloods in Thailandwhich devastated the country, killing hundreds and also destroying many factories where hard drives were assembled.But at the same time prices of SSDs has continued to fall - so that in the UK they are now below £1 per gigabyte, the level previously thought of as marking the "affordability" level. In the US, many have fallen below the $1 per GB level.According to data collected by Camelegg from the US online retailer Newegg, andanalysed at Tech Report, SSD prices across the board have roughly halved in the past year, so that drives with capacities of 128GB or more are selling for less than $1.50 per gigabyte - and in a number of cases for less than $1 per GB.US retail SSD prices per gigabyte by capacity and make. Source: Newegg, via CameleggIn the UK, data supplied to the Guardian by Dabs.com shows that prices have fallen similarly, from an average of £1.49 per GB at retail including VAT in June 2011, to just 71 pence per GB including VAT, based on a range of devices from OCZ, Corsair, and Crucial.SSD prices at Dabs.com for the same capacity devices, June 2011-June 2012. SSDs are 120 and 128GB; HDDs 1TB.The price differential between the two types of storage is also closing. Wedid tell you this was coming, in 2006. At that time, 80GB counted as quite a big magnetic hard drive, and cost around $50 at wholesale, while 32GB of Flash would cost $100.In 2005, the price differential per GB between HDDs and SSDs was33:1. By 2006 it was19:1. With the latest figures from Dabs, even at retail the difference has shrunk dramatically, tojust over 10this year.Even in January, when Icompared the performance of a number of SSD drives with each other and with a hard drive, prices were £1.23 per GB for 256GB drives.The Newegg data, analysed by Tech Report, shows a rapid erosion in prices for SSDs. Here's the data for Crucial:SSD pricing, June 2011-2012 for Crucial SSDs. Source: Newegg via TechReportAnd now for Vertex:SSD prices June 2011-2012 for Vertex SSDs. Source: Newegg via TechReportDuncan Rutherford of Dabs.com also points out that sales of SSDs have increased rapidly, in some cases going up sevenfold (for products from Corsair), while sales volumes for HDDs have dropped by 20-40% for some makes.That all adds up to a rapid changing of the guard: as SSD capacity ramps up, prices will continue to fall, although HDDs will continue to be the default option on non-premium devices, and desktops.But Windows 7 has supported SSD since its arrival, while Apple is increasingly pushing users of its laptops towards SSDs; its latest "Retina Display" MacBook Pro is only available with SSD storage, as are the new version of its MacBook Air.For those who are still using HDDs and want a rapid way to upgrade their computer - particularly a notebook - changing to an SSD is the fastest way to get a new experience. And the price fall now means that a like-for-like capacity swap may be possible, so that you don't have to delete or shift anything from your existing hard drive in order to fit into the SSD space.
The Office of Fair Trading (OFT) is to investigate Facebook's $1bn bid for Instagram, because it is concerned the giant social network might choke off picture uploads to other sites from the app, or else restrict other apps' ability to upload to it.The UK competition regulator has asked for comments from interested parties, and given them until 5 July – just two weeks away – to respond. The OFT aims first to decide whether it has jurisdiction over the takeover, and will then determine whether to drop its investigation if it does not or cannot see any harmful effects, or to either seek undertakings from the two companies or refer the entire bid to the UK Competition Commission, by 23 August.Instagram is one of the fastest-growing social networks ever, starting in October 2010 and reaching 30m users solely through its iPhone app in less than 18 months. The service's simple function allows people to take pictures and then upload them to its own social network, and also to send them to Facebook or Twitter, as well as emailing them. An Android version of the app has been downloaded millions of times.Facebook's audacious$1bn bid for Instagramin April marked a key shift for Mark Zuckerberg's globe-spanning social network. It aimed to add Instagram users – many of whom already posted their photos to Facebook – into its purview.Facebook's move, which was approved solely by Zuckerberg, was also seen as a way for it to shift up into the mobile space, where it has admitted it struggles to make money because it had not yet begun serving adverts to users.While the OFT investigation might derail the takeover, Facebook may initially be more concerned about theongoing investigation in the USof the same deal by the Federal Trade Commission, which is looking at the same questions as the OFT – namely, whether the takeover might cut off future competition that had been planned by Instagram.Facebook said in a statement: "We'll continue to work closely with the OFT and look forward to answering any questions that arise."The US social networking giant is understood to have already responded to the OFT's initial queries, although neither side is yet sure whether the organisation has jurisdiction over the deal.The OFT has jurisdiction under the 2002 Enterprise Act if two or more enterprises merge to create one with an annual turnover in the UK of more than £70m, or a 25% share of a market is created or enhanced. Facebook has not yet released data about its revenues in the UK, and it is also unclear what share of the UK photo upload market it might have.
okay, so it's clearly going to rain all summer – we'll need to stay inside. And what better way to do that, than by celebrating video game culture in all its myriad forms and unquestionable beauty.Here then, is a selection of game events taking place throughout the next few months. Try and get yourself along to at least one of them – you'll get to hear amazing things about game design and maybe even play a couple of new titles you've never heard of. And the British weather cannot ruinthat.Update: we've added another event! (Which makes the title incorrect, but I'm afraid of changing that on a Friday evening with no production editors to tell me if that will break the whole site or not.)FlameCityNightsWhen:28 JuneWhere:Antenna, NottinghamWhat:The latest in a regular series of evening events organised by the curators of the GameCityFestival will feature Watchmen artist Dave Gibbons and Jonathan Smith of Lego Batman creator TT Games. The duo will talk about how to create engaging heroes, and how they work in video games. There will be opportunities to ask questions, and lots of other indie titles will be playable during the evening. There's also an Olympic theme, so be prepared to play Kinect games or Hyper Sports or something, too. Of course, the chance to meet and chat with Dave Gibbons should have been enough to have you lunging for theGameCity Nights websitefor more details. It's an over-18s only event and tickets cost £5 each.Games BritanniaWhen:2-6 JulyWhere:Magna Science Adventure Centre, SheffieldWhat:An enormously ambitious event mostly aimed at schools, featuring hands-on workshops and lectures on game design from leading industry figures like Ian Livingstone. There is also a public exhibition entitled Replayed, which explores Britain's video game heritage and will include lots of classic games to rediscover. Tying in closely with the campaign to get computer science taught in schools, this should be a fascinating introduction to the games industry.RezzedWhen:6-7 JulyWhere:Brighton CentreWhat:Organised by Eurogamer and Rock,Paper,Shotgun, this is a brand new event dedicated to PC and indie gaming. Over two days, it's set to offer gamers hands-on experiences with the likes of Borderlands 2, Far Cry 3, Aliens: Colonial Marines and Project Zomboid. There will also be gaming tournaments, and Valve is giving a Dota 2 beta key to every one of the 5000 expected attendees. Tickets are £12 a day or £20 for both days.Bafta Games Question TimeWhen:2 JulyWhere:Pennine Theatre, SheffieldWhat:Okay, this is strictly part of Games Britannia, but it deserves its own entry. Starting at 8pm on Monday night, this is a chance for audience members to put their games industry questions to a panel of experts including Broken Sword creator Charles Cecil and UKIE chairman, Andy Payne. Tickets are free, but pre-booking is advised.London Games FestivalWhen:27 Sept - 28 OctWhere:various venues, LondonWhat: After a break last year, the London Games Festival is back, taking in a range of events around the capital. As usual, it encapsulates a series of self-contained treats including the excellentEurogamer Expo(27-29 September, Earls Court), Future's Golden Joystick Awards (26 October) and the always fascinatingMCM London Comic Con(26-28 October). more announcements are due to be made over the summer.GameCity 7When:20-27 OctoberWhere:various venues, Nottingham city centreWhat:The annual games event that I will go ahead and call 'utterly unmissable to anyone who has even glanced with ardour at a video game' is now a week-long odyssey, taking in the usual selection of inspiring talks, indie game expos and amusing evening shenanigans. This year Peter Molyneux will be taking over for a whole day and you can expect lots of insight and indiscreet comments about working for Microsoft. Gamesblog will there too, albeit in a reduced capacity, hosting one of seven different mornings at the Broadway Cinema cafe. We might well find something else to do as well, if the organisers let us.Have I missed anything? If you're holding an event or festival with any video game components leave a comment below or get in touch with me via my Guardian email address and I'll add it to the list!
A selection of 15 new and notable apps for you today:FlipboardAfter a limited-availability beta, social magazine app Flipboard is now properly available on Android, albeit optimised for smartphones rather than tablets. As on iOS, it pulls in news from Twitter and Facebook as well as other social networks and a host of news sites, knitting everything together into a flippy touchscreen magazine.AndroidHay DayDeveloper Supercell wants to welly-boot the FarmVille farm-building genre into its next generation. It's a new game made for iOS rather than a conversion of an existing Facebook title, and while the gameplay remains focused on growing crops and rearing animals, the controls are much more touchscreen-oriented, with a dash of sly humour throughout.iPhone / iPadNike+The Nike+ fitness app has been closely associated with iOS since its launch, but now it's available for Android devices too. As before, it involves mapping runs and tracking data, while sharing to social networks and cueing up "PowerSongs" to get you through painful moments.AndroidAudibleAudiobooks retailer Audible has launched its Windows Phone app, providing access to its 100k+ catalogue of titles, and the ability for existing customers to download from their libraries on the service. Social features and light gamification are also included.Windows PhoneFamJamThis new iPad app styles itself as "a safe private communication hub for your entire family", the idea being that children, parents and other family members can share drawings and photos. They're posted on a "private family feed", and there are also personalised inboxes and profiles. The pitch: "Grandparents no longer have to miss out on the fun drawings on the fridge!"iPadFlockedup Social Music PlayerThis is an inventive music app for Android, which claims to be "the first real-time music app for groups". What that means is connecting to friends in the same location, browsing one another's music collections, and then playing songs that boom out of every device in sync "turning your phones into one giant boombox".AndroidGabiWith Facebook soon to be integrated into iOS 6, is there much need for third-party Facebook apps on iPhone? Developer Loui Apps hopes so, with its stylish Gabi app. It aims to act as a better filter for your Facebook news feed: it "only shows you what's best: the best pictures, videos, statuses, groups, links, interests, etc".iPhoneTiVo for TabletsOne for US owners of TiVO set-top boxes, this: the official TiVO app for Android tablets. It's used as a controller for the digital video recorder, searching and browsing through shows, as well as managing recordings and getting more information on shows and their stars.AndroidThe London ProjectA group of London bloggers have teamed up for this interactive iBook (yes, not strictly an app, but anyway) that showcases "the World's greatest city during a momentous year in its history". That means stories, maps, videos and images from Dalston street preachers to lost sports venues.iPadMartha Stewart CraftStudioShe's done cocktails and cookies on the App Store, but US celebrity Martha Stewart is focusing on crafts this time round. Her new iPad app "delivers Martha Stewart's world of paper crafting and design", with sets of themed designs and additional ones available via in-app purchase.iPadTitan AR"Ever wished you could bring your real comic to virtual life?" asks the App Store description for this app from Titan Publishing. Well... Not really, but augmented realityseems to be all the ragein the comics world, so let's run with it. This involves pointing a smartphone at Titan's comics to see virtual animations and 3D characters.iPhone / iPadMadefire ComicsThere are some big beasts operating in the digital comics world, but Madefire Comics has ambitions to take them on. It's launched an iPad app offering "a continuous flow of new material created especially for the iPad" in the form of comics like Catch Treatment, Captain Stone and Mono from famous artists and writers.iPadStereomoodStereomood is the latest music app that aims to provide playlists based on your current mood, rather than a specific artist or genre. In this case, more than 100 playlists are available, all using music from independent artists, with moods including sleepy, sunday morning, stargazing and, er, cleaning.iPhoneEven Monsters Get SickAn unwell monster takes centre stage in this stylish and charming book-app for children from Busy Bee Studios. Aimed at five-year-olds and up, it combines the story of a boy named Harry's ill monster with six mini-games.iPadThink: Mind-PathRavensburger's new iOS game is based on what my (rough) calculations is the 874th game designed by Dr. Reiner Knizia. It's a logic-training game where you connect path cards with coloured crystal balls.iPhone / iPad
June sees the release of Steel Battalion: Heavy Armor, the latest entry in Capcom's series of games that feature towering battle Mechs with big guns, and the first that players will control using Kinect.Anyone who played the first Steel Battalion may raise a quizzical eyebrow at that last fact as the first game came bundled with a control system that involved two joysticks, pedals and a ton of buttons.So how did the developers – headed up by one of the game's line producers, Kenji Kataoka – go about turning players into the controller for Heavy Armor?We sat down with Kataoka-san to find out …When did the development of Steel Battalion Heavy Armor begin? Did you pitch Microsoft after seeing Kinect, or did they approach you?To answer that simply, Kinect came first. Microsoft was pitching this new technology in the form of Project Natal to publishers. They came to us with it and when we first saw it, we immediately knew it was Steel Battalion material and we decided to work on a game with them.Not to sound too incredulous, but how did Kinect immediately make you think of Steel Battalion? That game had a control set up that had pedals, two joysticks and a ton of buttons!Actually, the two have more in common than you think. If you think of the first Steel Battalion and Kinect, the biggest common factor there is that neither of them have a traditional control set up. There are very few games out there that don't use the control pad as the main interface.With Kinect, it's more like we're making the control system through a kind of augmented reality. Instead of pressing physical buttons in front of you, you're assuming a control interface is there through what you can see on the screen. You're reaching out for a lever and making the gesture of pulling it and you see the lever move on the screen. That's almost synonymous with pulling a physical lever. In a way, the screen itself is your controller and you're reaching out for items in the screen to control the game.You said that Steel Battalion went into development very early on – before Project Natal became Kinect. How did the gestation of the hardware effect your game's development?Well, I hope you can reflect my answers here as mildly as possible, because it may sound like I'm about to slag off Microsoft, which isn't my intention.I'll try!Well, let's just say there was some disparity between what became the product we know as Kinect, and the prototype we first saw that was attached to a high-end PC and the dev kit that it came with.So you thought you were getting a Ferrari and you actually got a Ford Model T?No! Nothing as bad as that! But we saw all of these things happening in the original demo with the prototype. It was so accurate and there were so many things you could do with it. But then, that prototype was running off a high-end PC. When you got right down to it, Kinect was going to have to run off an Xbox 360 so there were going to be certain limitations – memory limitations and so on. That was quite difficult to adjust to. We managed it, but it was difficult.But in the end, it's actually to the benefit to the consumers. Everyone knows that a high-end gaming PC is better than any console currently out there, but the Xbox 360 has the edge with accessibility. Kinect comes in a package that you can easily plug in and run off your Xbox 360 and you don't need to be too technical to work with it. With a PC you need some technical know-how. You don't need any of that with Kinect and the Xbox 360.Did the discrepancy between the latency of the Project Natal prototype and Kinect force you to junk any mechanics or features for your game?Kinect has had its ups and downs. At the beginning we pretty much had all the capabilities we'd been told it would have. Then it slightly deteriorated and lifted up again because it was being optimized and everything was being made efficient. We kind of followed that undulating line with Kinect.One of the first things to go was the interface based around finger movements. Originally, Kinect detected every movement in your fingers and your thumbs. Those had to go because Kinect could only detect the hand as one point. Certain head movements had to go to – in fact, head movement was taken out completely at one point, because of all the tinkering – and then we brought it back in.How far along in the development did you playing around with the game's plot?Well, the story itself has changed quite significantly since the start of the project. Without going into specifics, we've probably rewritten it about four or five times. The game's world, though, has been consistent since the game's inception.It's a what-if world that we imagined our world would look like if technology had remained fairly stagnant since the second world war. We didn't want a typical sci-fi feeling, because most of the games that involve Battle Mechs tend to go over the top and everything becomes a bit like Transformers. There's nothing wrong with the Transformers, but we wanted a different feel to that.All these machines were designed from scratch and they're technically feasible. That was the mood and the look we were going for.The setting of the story is quite interesting because the lack of technology completely overhauls the world order and what we recognise in our world as assets or resources that give certain countries an advantage are gone.I can't go into much detail about the game's story itself, except to say it will shock you.We also did a lot of work on the game's characters. There are 30 characters in all, all of whom have their own back story in the game. Your comrades are your only means of survival in the game. Without them your chances are slim. If you don't have a gun-loader, you won't be able to fire shells with your Mech unless you load it yourself – and during the time it take you to do that, you might get destroyed by an enemy you didn't see. You really have to have these NPCs and click together in order to work well.If all 30 of the NPCs die, is the player permanently hamstrung in terms of the gameplay?Actually, we initially wanted to limit the number of comrades you have in the game to 30, but then we realised some players could kill off all of the characters and then that would make the game too hard for them. They would probably give up at that stage and we didn't want that.As a compromise we've put in soldiers who don't have back stories and who aren't as personable. They're just mundane NPCs. Ideally you'll end the game with all 30 characters still alive, but the game is hard and we know that this won't be possible for everyone.Speaking of the level of difficulty, don't you think that it may jar somewhat with one of the driving principles behind Kinect, which is essentially aimed at winning over casual core players?Well, we're aiming to deliver a higher experience with this game – and that's not to say it's a more difficult experience. In order to achieve this, there's certain roleplay involved that we require from the player.If you think of a racing game, the difficulty of driving a car is different to difficulty of each track you race on. If you've never played a racing game before in your life, and you have to start playing one on the game's most difficult track, you'll find it's totally impossible to get to grips with. If you're experienced with racing games, the only challenge is the course itself.It's the same with this: if you've never played with Kinect, there's a smaller learning curve, because you're using hand gestures and movement. You need to get used to the movements in Steel Battalion early on. Once you're familiar with that, the challenge comes in what each level of the game has in store for you.Finally, is there a multiplayer in the game? If so, is it co-op or competitive?There's competitive online play, but it's not PVP. It's PVE – so you have up to four players and you all have to accomplish the same mission.Were you ever tempted to do a 4-player co-op mode where the player and four friends had to sit in the same room performing different tasks in order to run the Mech as a team?Well, in the very early stages we had thought of a 32-player mode where players control a vertical tank and you had you and your friends controlling this massive tank.Seriously?Seriously! Of course, then we had to rethink that because players would fight over who gets to control the gun. I mean, most players would rather control the gun than sit in the engine room or work in maintenance wouldn't they?
It wasn't hackers, or excitement over Euro 2012, nor avatars using the Gif image format that knocked Twitter over so thoroughly on Thursday that it couldn't even display its famousfail whale, which usually indicates problems at the site.Instead, the two-hour outage was due to a "cascading bug" in part of the infrastructure powering the social network connecting its 140 million users worldwide, the company'shead of engineering Mazen Rawashdehexplainsin a blog post.The Guardian has confirmed separately with trusted senior sources inside Twitter that hackers had nothing to do with the outage – though that did not prevent some claiming to have caused the crash, which ruined the social network's uptime record.The "fail whale" – indicating that Twitter's servers couldn't keep up with demand – used to be a common sight in the network's early years, but has become progressively less common as the service has grown larger.Rawashdeh notes that: "For the past six months, we've enjoyed our highest marks for site reliability and stability ever: at least 99.96% and often 99.99%. In simpler terms, this means that in an average 24-hour period, twitter.com has been stable and available to everyone for roughly 23 hours, 59 minutes and 40-ish seconds. Not today [Thursday] though."The problem was that the bug's effects spread out from their initial location to affect other parts of the system – rather as a power outage in one part of a city can lead to overloads on supply in other parts, and cause a cascade of outages which eventually shuts down the network.Rawashdeh explains: "At approximately 9am PDT [5pm BST on Thursday], we discovered that Twitter was inaccessible for all web users, and mobile clients were not showing new Tweets. We immediately began to investigate the issue and found that there was a cascading bug in one of our infrastructure components. This wasn't due to a hack or our new office or Euro 2012 or Gif avatars, as some have speculated."One of the characteristics of such a [cascading] bug is that it can have a significant impact on all users, worldwide, which was the case today. As soon as we discovered it, we took corrective actions, which included rolling back to a previous stable version of Twitter."That took about an hour, but a half-hour respite between 10:10 and 10:40 Pacific time then saw the site drop out again, with "full recovery" following at 11:08 PDT.A hacking group called Ugnazi claimed in emails to several organisations – and later, with no apparent irony, in tweets – to have caused the outage.The group has given no credible explanation of how it did so, though, and Twitter was quick to dismiss the claim.
Back in 2010, Smurfs' Village was one of the first freemium games on iOS to cause controversy for its use of in-app purchases, as parents complained their children were buying its Smurfberries virtual currency on their iTunes accounts without them knowing.Since then, there have beenlawsuits, and moves by Apple to help parents block IAP on their device before handing it to a child. Yet as arecent Wall Street Journal article made clear, a number of games publishers are still making heavy use of IAP in titles that appeal strongly to children.Here's a new example:Shrek's Fairytale Kingdom. New on the App Store from Smurfs' Village publisher Beeline Interactive – a subsidiary of Capcom – it's a freemium game based on Dreamworks's film franchise available for iPhone and iPad."Experience the twisted fairy tale of everyone's favorite ogre in an all new way. Become part of the story! Earn the friendship of the solitude seeking Shrek as he outfits his beloved Swamp with all manner of ogre-ly comforts," explains its App Store listing.That means a combination of FarmVille-style resource management as you decorate Shrek's swamp and more quest-like features, starring other characters from the films. It looks like a lot of fun, but its use of in-app purchases is questionable.I should point out first that Beeline appears to be doing things by the book. The very first paragraph in the Shrek's Fairytale Kingdom App Store listing is a warning to parents:"PLEASE NOTE: Shrek's Fairytale Kingdom is free to play, but charges real money for additional in-app content. You may lock out the ability to purchase in-app content by adjusting your device's settings."Later on, it delivers a warning that "iOS may keep you logged on for 15 minutes after an initial in-app purchase. Additional purchases may not require a re-entry of the password during this 15 minute interval. This is a function of the iOS software and not within our control."Meanwhile, the first time you launch the game, a pop-up warning appears reiterating the reminder of the ability to lock out in-app purchases.So what is that IAP, exactly? The game uses two forms of virtual currency: coins and magic stars, used to decorate Shrek's swamp and speed up quests. Coins can be bought in various amounts, from 2,000 (£2.99) up to 80,000 (£69.99). Stars have a similar range: from 150 for £2.99 through to 5,000 for £69.99.In-app purchases of just under 70 quid in a Shrek game? Yes, Shrek's fanbase isn't just children, and yes, this is far from the only freemium family-friendly game offering this level of IAP. But still, 70 quid.This screen is shown to players when they complete the tutorialThis morning, I played through the tutorial section of the game, which explains how the core swamp-decoration and questing mechanics work. And what surprised me was the screen that appeared just after I finished that tutorial. It's above."Great Job! To get you started, here's a onetime special offer," suggests the game, with the option to buy 525 stars at a special rate of £6.99.What bothers me is partly the idea that the game is actively suggesting in-app purchases in this way, and partly the fact that it happens so early in the game – certainly within the first 15 minutes.It's certainly a contrast to theinspirational videoshown in Apple's WWDC keynote of a mother using apps with her speech-impaired daughter. The flipside – games that are likely to attract a large audience of children that promote IAP aggressively – is less likely to be feted on-stage by Tim Cook any time soon.
Nintendo is launching a new version of its 3DS handheld console, complete with screens that are 90% larger than those on the original model. The Nintendo 3DS XL will launch across Europe on 28 July.The new version of the console will come in three new colour combinations – silver and black, red and black, and blue and black – and will be bundled with a 4GB SD card so buyers can immediately start downloading games from theNintendo eShop.However, the device will not ship with an AC adaptor in Japan or Europe – in its press release, Nintendo states that as most buyers will already own the original 3DS, an adaptor is being left out to allow for a lower retail price. An AC adaptorwillbe supplied with the console in North America.The launch of the 3DS XL will be accompanied by the release of two games designed to exploit the larger screen sizes. New Art Academy is a follow-up to Nintendo's DS art game, which takes players through a series of lessons and projects. Freakyforms Deluxe Your Creations, Alive! is a pet game where you design and create your own creatures.The new console was revealed on Thursday evening via the latestNintendo Directvideo, Nintendo's online news channel. The announcement also promised improved battery life for the device, despite its larger displays.After a slow start, the 3DS console has sold almost 18m units since its launch in March 2011.The device offers two displays, one of which features stereoscopic technology to provide a 3D effect without the need for glasses.It also comes with a camera capable of capturing 3D photos and videos, as well as Wi-Fi internet access.Nintendo has a policy of regularly updating its handheld consoles. The previous Nintendo DS device went through four major hardware iterations, ending with Nintendo DS XL in 2009.This is set to be a vital year for the veteran video game manufacturer. The company reported its first ever annual loss last year, its accounts in the red to the sum of $500m.However, this year sees, not only a re-designed 3DS, but also the winter launch of its Wii U console.
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRIM says first BlackBerry 10 device will not have a physical keyboard &gt;&gt; The Washington PostThe first BlackBerry device running Research In Motion Ltd.'s new operating software will not have a physical keyboard, only a touch-screen one.That should make them stand out, then.Why Silicon Valley tech wunderkinds will only ever have one good business idea during their entire lives &gt;&gt; ForbesThe Valley culture also supports the idea of "serial entrepreneurs" - those who do it again and again. It's just a matter of time, if you keep at it, before you'll strike oil. And, when you're surrounded by so many other successful entrepreneurs in the Valley, success seems so close you can touch it.But there's another side to all the start-ups: lots of failures. A few years ago, I was in the Valley meeting with a CEO of a photo-sharing start-up. I thought it was quite good. He was almost 40.  He had spent his entire career in the Valley.  He gave me a tour of the offices, we talked about all the prestigious VCs he'd signed up, and then we went back to his office and closed the door. About 45 minutes into the discussion, he shared something with me...LG Optimus L7 review &gt;&gt; The VergeThere's no need for fancy vocabulary the Optimus L7 is slow. Graphical transitions stutter, applications take two or three seconds longer than expected to open, and even swiping through homescreens can cause problems from time to time. LG has openly stated that it's looking to entice first-time smartphone buyers with its L-Style lineup it should be offering them a better experience than this.A brief rant on the future of interaction design &gt;&gt; Bret VictorIt's all about the hands, but also other things. Read.Metrics firms bicker over which browser, IE or Chrome, is No. 1 &gt;&gt; ComputerworldA pair of Web metrics firms that track browser share have traded sharp blows, calling into question how their rival measures usage, and which browser - Microsoft's Internet Explorer (IE) or Google's Chrome - is the planet's most popular.The dispute over usage numbers isn't new: In March, Roger Capriotti, director of IE marketing, made his company's strongest case up to then for the data published by Net Applications, and dismissed the numbers from Irish metrics company StatCounter because of what he labeled omissions and flaws in the latter's methodology.Net Applications says IE is still miles ahead, at more than 50%. StatCounter says Chrome has edged ahead.Common sense on non-upgradeable Windows 7 Phones &gt;&gt; Gadget WritingThe always-reasonable Tim Anderson:Of course it would be better if Microsoft had managed to stay compatible with current hardware, but I think the fuss is overdone. Here is why.Dropbox reads your files...kinda &gt;&gt; Windows Phone CentralAfter the supposed presentation about the XBOX 720 leaked, we saw it being removed from Scridb.com at the request of Covington &amp; Burling LLP which is a firm known to have dealings with Microsoft.None of that is surprising, but today Windows Phone Central's Daniel Rubino sent me a certain document via Dropbox so that I could take a look at it. However, trying to download the file just returns the image you can see above. This was not a link shared publically, but yet, it was removed seemingly automatically.WHAT BLACK MAGIC IS THIS? Oh, probably MD5 hashing. (Dropbox doesn't read your files. What a klutz.) As you were.Player 'completes' Diablo III video game &gt;&gt; BBC NewsJust over a month after the release of Diablo III, a pro player has managed to complete the game on its hardest setting.We're trying to ascertain whether the small earthquake in Chile caused any disturbance in the boss level. You also have to love the quote marks - the literary equivalent of tongs - put around "finished". Meaning "might not have finished, we haven't visited to check."Protecting web users for five years and counting &gt;&gt; Google Online Security BlogContains maps and stats showing where malware and phishing sites are hosted, and the volumes of attacks. Peculiar thing: Brazil is a major host of phishing sites?Samsung Galaxy S III phone bristles with extras &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comDavid Pogue:The Samsung is infinitely more customizable [than an iPhone]. You can control which status icons appear at the top (Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, clock and so on). You choose which of the camera's 40,000 options appear on the viewfinder screen. You have a choice of text-input systems, including one where you drag your finger across the on-screen keys. A bar-graph screen reveals exactly how much battery charge is being gulped by each app. And so on.Of course, with great flexibility comes great complexity. The phone bombards you with warnings and disclaimers - sometimes upside-down. You really need a Learning Annex course to master this thing.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The Texas attorney general is accusing Google of improperly withholding evidence to stymie an investigation into whether the company has been abusing its dominance of web search.The allegations surfaced in a court filing earlier this week as part of Texas' probe into Google's business practices, now in its second year.Texas is one of at least six US states examining whether Google manipulates its search engine's influential results to stifle competition and drive up online advertising prices.The US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and Europe's antitrust regulators are conducting their own investigations into the same issues, with anearly July deadline for responses in Europe.As regulators and other government authorities pursue their inquiries, Google is being asked to turn over reams of internal emails and other records that could illuminate the company's strategy and provide insights into the mindset of its top executives.However Google has refused to hand over more than 14,500 documents covered in formal demands issued by Texas attorney general Greg Abbott in July 2010 and May 2011.Abbott filed a petition on Monday in a Texas state court seeking an order that would require the company to surrender more of the requested material.News of the filing broke in The Wall Street Journal a few hours before Google's annual shareholders' meeting on Thursday at its headquarters in Mountain View, California.The uncertainty posed by Google's legal battles with government regulators and authorities around the world is one of the reasons the company's stock has been lagging the rest of the market since co-founder Larry Page became chief executive more than 14 months ago.Page himself was not present at the annual meeting because he has lost his voice, executive chairman Eric Schmidt explained at the event.The affliction means Page will also have to miss Google's I/O event for developers next week, at which the company is expected to unveil its own branded tablet to compete with Apple's iPad andMicrosoft's Surface, announced earlier this week.The meeting saw shareholders vote in favour of a new stock structure which will split the stock but will not give voting rights to newly created shares – an outcome that had always been certain because Page, and his co-founder Sergey Brin, control the majority of the voting stock.Google shares fell $12.30 (£7.87) on Thursday to close at $565.21. The stock has declined by 4% during Page's reign, while both the technology-driven Nasdaq composite index and the Dow Jones industrial average have gained 2%.This isn't the first time a government agency has criticised Google for perceived stonewalling.In April, the USFederal Communications Commission (FCC) fined Google $25,000after concluding the company deliberated impeded an investigation into a Google project that scooped up emails, passwords and other personal information transmitted over unsecured wireless networks in homes located around the world.In its report, the FCC noted that despite being a world leader in search, Google had said that providing the emails that the FCC wanted to carry out its investigation would be too time-consuming, and only offered five emails in its first response to the complaint.Google denied it did anything wrong, although it paid the fine.In a statement on Thursday, Google cast itself as a good corporate citizen – an image that it seeks to cultivate as part of its "Don't Be Evil" motto."We have shared hundreds of thousands of documents with the Texas attorney general, and we are happy to answer any questions that regulators have about our business," Google said.The Texas dispute hinges on whether the documents in question are legally protected communications between Google's lawyers and the company's employees.Abbott contends Google is trying to conceal documents that don't fall under the shield known as attorney-client privilege, which covers conversations between a lawyer and a client.The Texas attorney general reached that conclusion after reviewing Google's justification for withholding the requested documents.In many instances, Google is asserting the attorney-client privilege on communications between non-lawyers, according to Abbott's petition. The disputed records reflect but don't contain advice directly from a lawyer, according to the petition.Abbott says Google is withholding other records that don't appear to have been prepared by lawyers.To prove his point, Abbott wants a Travis County court judge in Texas to review a sampling of the documents that Google is trying to protect to determine if they fall under attorney-client privilege.The review would be done in the privacy of the judge's chambers, a process known as "in camera"."The attorney general's office believes an in camera review of these examples will likely demonstrate that Google has significantly overreached in its effort to prevent disclosure of documents," lawyers on Abbott's staff wrote in the petition.Google, meanwhile, is asking Abbott's investigators to return or delete 12 documents that the company had previously turned over, according to the petition.Abbott wants a judge to look over those records to determine if they fall under attorney-client privilege.
At last! Friday! For heaven's sake, tell us your weekend gaming plans!
Games tend not to borrow stories from literature. Not explicitly, at least. I'm sure some wishful academic has argued at one time or another that Lara Croft is a modern-day Emma Bovary, Resident Evil a metaphorical Bleak House and Just Dance 4 a physical interpretation of Joyce's  Ulysses. By and large though the worlds of literature and video games remain separate, and where the two do meet the results are often half-hearted and unsatisfactory. Successful games spawn hasty tie-in novels, while books successful enough to become films spawn just as  hasty tie-in games.Why the reluctance of game designers to plunder bookshelves? In part, perhaps, because games are designed and built by scientists more than artists. Logical left-brain programmers will outnumber right-brain readers at any studio you care to name. Rightly so, of course, considering the vast, invisible nuts and bolts of games are code and calculations. Try as they might, a team of literature graduates will find it difficult if not impossible to build a physics engine out of feminist approaches to the work of Dickens and a critical response to Webster's The Duchess of Malfi.Games designers may also be put off by the novelist's focus on the internal lives of their protagonists. With their relentless emphasis on action and reaction, games just don't have time or space for the inner workings of the human psyche. A crippling fear of social isolation or an unwillingness to come to terms with having aged won't exactly make for thrilling boss battles. That's why the platform game ofThe Great Gatsbymocked-up to look like a NES title by a pair of enthusiasts features the novel's recurring motif of watchful eyes in a pair of spectacles as a hovering, laser-armed final boss.It's odd, bold and really quite commendable then that the makers of third-person squad-based shoot-em-upSpec Ops: The Line(Xbox 360/PS3 /PC) have chosen to base their story both openly and heavily on Joseph Conrad's Heart of Darkness. Albeit a version updated for the Modern Warfare generation in which, instead of the Congo, events take place in a disaster-hit Dubai, half-sunk after six months of sandstorms and peopled by refugees and rogue militias. Our hero is Captain Martin Walker, of US special operations team Delta Force. Walker's here with his buddies Lugo and Adams on a mission to find the commander of a lost rogue battalion. Where Conrad's Charles Marlow seeks out the elusive Kurtz, Walker's target is a Colonel John Konrad. No one's claiming it's a subtle homage.Comparisons with Apocalypse Now are inevitable, and the game is rich with at least as many references to the film as to the novel: in its opening movie, Walker relates the story so far in voice-over as he rises from a sun-soaked bed in a sparse hotel suite. He speaks from a penthouse overlooking the desert rather than a dusty Saigon hotel, but it's otherwise near identical in both tone and content to the film's famous opening scene.The three main characters are well-written and voice-acted, and put to good use in the game's many fire fights. You control only Walker directly, but Lugo and Adams can be commanded to chip in by hurling stun grenades, focusing their fire on tougher enemies or sniping distant gunmen beyond the reach of the hero's rifle. They're also capable of being injured by enemy gunfire, making them feel more like human-controlled allies than mere programmed escorts, although they can still be revived a little too easily with an injection of bullet-reversing video game medicine.Combat in the game lies somewhere between Mass Effect's cover system and a conventional first-person shooter. Sadly it's not quite a happy medium. Aiming can be a pain, particularly in confined spaces, and there's a lack of tactical depth to most gunfights, which boil down to shooting whichever bad guy's closest, reloading and then shooting the next.Dynamic environmental conditions – notionally one of the game's other major selling points – add only a little more depth to the game's bigger battles. Infrequent sandstorms force your team to seek shelter indoors, and a handful of fights require you to  riddle a window or door with bullets so that an avalanche of sand engulfs your enemies from above, but this is quite a bit less satisfying than it sounds. There's a reason, after all, why no one has ever made a game called Window Slayer, and it's nothing to do with the challenges of conveying a window's complex inner life.
European lawmakers rejected the global Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (Acta) on Thursday, signalling that the European Parliament may soon use new-found rights to derail an international agreement for the first time."This vote is the penultimate nail in Acta's coffin," Jan Philipp Albrecht, a German Green politician in the legislature said, after the European Parliament's International Trade Committee (Inta) recommended 19-12 that the European Parliament reject the treaty in its upcoming vote on 4 July.The decision was the fifth European committee in a row to recommend against Acta.The Acta deal, in the pipeline since 2008, aims to reduce intellectual property theft by cracking down on fake consumer goods and medicines and digital file-sharing of pirated software and music.The European Commission has said the agreement would target large-scale operations which enable illegal digital file-sharing, but the movesparked protests from citizensand also from some governments, who said it would criminalise people downloading files for personal use.It alsotriggered the resignation in January of Kader Arif, a French MEP, from his role as the lead negotiator for the EU on Acta: he complained that it could cut access to lifesaving generic drugs, and would restrict internet freedom.Arif told the Guardian in February that the only remaining options were to accept or reject the treaty, because no further change to the text was then possible.A handful of EU countries, including Germany, have held off signing the agreement while others have expressed concerns about its impact on their citizens. The US, Australia, New Zealand, Canada and Japan are among countries which have signed Acta, but none has yet ratified it in national legislation. A number of countries, including India and some African nations, have been uneasy about the implications of Acta's effect on shipments of generic pharmaceuticals – which have the same structure and action as branded versions – to their countries.Lawmakers said the cross-party vote is a signal the legislature will reject the Acta in a final vote, the first time the European Parliament has written off an international agreement since an increase in its powers in 2008."This is about much more than just Acta. It's about the European Parliament acting as an independent and democratic institution," said Joe McNamee from the European Digital Rights lobby, EDRi.Peter Bradwell, of Open Rights Group, said: "MEPs have listened to the many, many thousands of people across Europe who have consistently demanded that this flawed treaty is kicked out. This is the fifth consecutive committee to say Acta should be rejected. It now falls to the vote of the whole European Parliament in July to slam the door on Acta once and for all, and bring this sorry mess to an end."The 31-member trade committee in the European Parliament agreed that the proposed agreement risked criminalising individuals who download files like music or films from illegal torrent websites.The European Commission, which negotiated the deal on behalf of the EU, has asked the highest European Union court to decide if Acta infringes people's privacy. A ruling could take up to a year."By recommending the rejection of Acta, the INTA committee today has said yes to democracy and fundamental rights", said Raegan MacDonald, senior policy analyst at the US pressure group Access. "This is a crucial step forward in this long fight, and now we're closer than ever to burying this agreement once and for all."She added: "The movement against Acta has been a defining moment for the future of the open and universal internet. We're very excited about today's decision, but it's not over yet. Access will continue to work up until the very last hour until there is no more Acta left."Corrected: Raegan MacDonald is female, not male.
British publisher NaturalMotion Games has raised $11m (£7m) in Series B funding from Silicon Valley venture capital firm Benchmark Capital, as it expands its San Francisco office and looks to scale up to compete with the biggest guns in the mobile social gaming industry.Benchmark's general partner Mitch Lasky will join NaturalMotion's board as part of the funding. Lasky made his name in the mobile industry taking US publisher Jamdat public in 2004, before selling it to Electronic Arts in 2006 for $680m. His involvement is a sign of NaturalMotion's ambitions."Speed of execution is really important right now," says chief executive Torsten Reil in an interview with The Guardian. "To some extent, there is a land-grab going on, so we're trying to get to scale very quickly. We are looking to become one of the leading companies in the mobile games industry, if not the leading one."NaturalMotion's roots are in Oxford, and animation technology for console games – its engine was used by Rockstar Games for Grand Theft Auto IV, for example. After success with iPhone game Backbreaker Football, the company split its technology and publishing divisions in November 2010, with the latter focusing on iOS.The publisher had hits with paid games Jenga, Icebreaker Hockey, Backbreaker 2: Vengeance and NFL Rivals, before pivoting towards free-to-play social games in September 2011 with My Horse. It's that free-to-play model that Benchmark is betting its $11m on."We're trying to scale up our investment in development capacity more than anything else: the number of games we're doing and the number of internal teams we have," says Reil."We've found this really powerful combination of really high-end visual quality for games – console-quality, we think – with mobile play patterns where people play in short bursts several times a day."Reil also thinks that NaturalMotion is moving beyond the first wave of mobile social games, which took their cues from the mainly-2D Flash-based titles that built the social games industry on Facebook.My Horse has been downloaded more than 10m times on iOS. Reil says the game surprised some industry observers, who hadn't expected NaturalMotion to make a casual, female-slanted game."Its been a huge learning experience for us, particularly when it comes to monetisation," says Reil. "We worked very hard to make sure people didn't feel nickel-and-dimed. We didn't want to put a hard limit in where if you don't pay money, you don't progress any more."Reil says NaturalMotion has genuine hopes of going toe-to-toe with bigger fish like Zynga, EA, Gree and DeNA in the mobile social gaming market, although he accepts that there is inevitable consolidation ahead – those companies have been snapping up talented independent studios left, right and centre."It's quite a lot more diversified as an ecosystem than Facebook," he says, of the App Store. "On Facebook, through virality one company – Zynga – got big very quickly, and then cemented its dominance. The virality isn't quite there in the same way on the App Store. Most downloads come organically – through people recommending the game to friends – or through visibility on the store through charts and Apple features."NaturalMotion is certainly in Apple's good books: its upcoming game CSR Racing was demonstrated live on-stage during the company's WWDC keynote earlier in June.Reil says the publisher will be revealing more details soon – for now, we know that it's a free-to-play racing game, which will be playable cross-platform between iOS devices and Mac computers. It's currently being beta-tested.Is NaturalMotion focusing on Apple devices alone? "The user numbers are amazing, the install base is large, and it's a very high-quality platform so users are looking to spend money," he says."There are other platforms, of course. We take Android seriously, definitely, but it's not at the same level on our radar as iOS is right now. And then other platforms like Windows Phone that are even further away."What about NaturalMotion's roots, though: the console market? If the free-to-play business model becomes more popular (well, possible, in truth) on console, would NaturalMotion look to take its mobile games back to those platforms?Reil would rather focus on smartphones and tablets, and he thinks consumer shifts will back up this decision."There has been a fundamental shift in terms of people's mindshare. If you are an eight, ten or 12 year-old kid, you're probably more excited about the next iPhone or iPad than you are about the next-generation console," he says."That shift isn't necessarily clear to anyone over 25 or 30, but from what I can see, it's fundamental. There is still the idea that console gaming is 'the real gaming'. I think that may flip, and mobile gaming will be seen as the real gaming."
(Yes, Android fans, I'm sure you're all complaining already about the four stars out of five rating. Actually, it's not really a 4/5. It's 4.5/5, or 9/10 in decimal; but our system doesn't give us the capability to award half-stars. You'll see where the missing point went. Now read on.)Samsung's Galaxy S3 is an important product: given that smartphones now outsell PCs, and that Samsung has about a quarter of the entire smartphone market (spread among various products), it's entirely likely that the S3, its top-end product, will be the computer acquired by more people than any other in the next six months. More than HP or Dell. Word of 9m ordered (that's by carriers, but they should know their market) indicates that the S3 is expected to sell really well.Partly that's because Samsung has acquired a giant following outside Korea.According to ComScore, in the US its phones (feature- and smart-) now make up the largest single supplier, with 60m of the 234m in use among those aged over 13.The S3 is also interesting: Samsung really, really wants to be the alternative or equal to Apple – distinguishing itself from Android rivals through not just high-class hardware, but also through software and services. The S3 includes S-Voice, a voice-driven service that was available in the S2 (rather as Siri was available on all iPhones until Apple restricted it to just the 4S in October), and its marketing makes much of the potential of S-Voice.I used an SGS3 (as I'll call it) as my mobile phone for slightly over two weeks. (I've used Android phones in the past, so I have accounts set up, and plenty of experience with it; see thisreview of the Nexus S, for instance.) A lot of comparisons here are to the iPhone because it's the only really high-end phone with comparable features that isn't running Android.So let's start.Appearance: taste thatScreen size: watch thisSetup: not quite down patAs a phone: receiving you nowBattery life: excellentDefaults: the soul of the machineNotifications: say what?Touchscreen and scrolling: mixedTpying^H^H^H^H^HypingUser interface: more than one way to skinWeb browsing: read onCamera: hold it thereServices, S-Voice and So OnConclusionAppearance: taste thatThe phone comes with Android 4.0 with Samsung's own TouchWiz overlay, which means that it's not a "pure" Android 4.0 experience. (I was able to compare it on various points with the Nexus S, which had updated to the "pure" 4.0.) I used it with the default settings as far as I could (obviously there's no default for signing into an account) because that, in general, is how people use these devices. For example, most people won't change the keyboard. (Yes, I know there are tens of millions of downloads of keyboard apps from the Google Play store. Contrast: there are about 400m Android devices in use. Most people don't change defaults.)Samsung supplied a fresh white model; it looks as tasty as an ice cream. Some people have complained about it being plastic, and about how thin the backplate is when you take it off. Clue: you don't operate it with the backplate off, and it fits on firmly. There's no torsion; it's a very solid, yet thin, device. I don't see the complaint myself. The metal rim gives it a solid feel.There's a camera on the back at the top, and one on the top of the front, plus two little ones on the front beside it: these are used to detect whether you're still looking at the screen if you have a lock set, or for dimming it to save power. The SGS3 (as we'll call it) is very keen on saving power.There's a physical home button in the middle of the bottom of the body. This goes against Google's idea that4.0 should have virtual buttons only. Samsung isn't going to listen on that one. It also has backlit touch-sensitive buttons (settings on the left, the "back" button on the right), which also goes against Google's instructions. Given Samsung's position in the Android market, Google might have to just lump it.Similarly, the back button is on the right (as it was on the SGS2), but a perplexing difference after the Nexus S and Galaxy Nexus (where it's on the left). Thewandering back buttonis one of those Android things. At least Samsung manages to standardise on it. (Windows Phone standardises the buttons' position.)Screen size: watch thisThe screen measures 4.8in (diagonally) – nearly a tablet by the official measure of some analysts (5in and up), but doesn't feel overlarge. Perhaps I'm just getting used to screens of all sizes, but it didn't feel gigantically bigger – even though the length of a whole iPhone (screen and body) fits into its screen. In terms of content, I could display five tweets on the S3 against four on the iPhone; seven emails on the S3 v four on the iPhone, so it's substantially better there. The screen is very bright.It's also pleasant to use compared to the HTC Titan (see my review) because the power button (which also gives quick access to the Airplane, sound, and data connection modes) is on the right side, rather than the top. If it were on the top, this would be an unmanageable thumb-breaker of a phone. As it is, the button sits neatly under the thumb or index finger.Samsung has built so many things into this device that on your first use you'll be overwhelmed with dialog boxes showing you how to use them, including things you might never want to use (tilting, shaking ... it smacks of "these elements can't be discovered, so we have to tell you about it now". I ignored most of them). You'll spend a fair amount of time ticking "never show me this again". A "guided tour" app would be preferable.Setup: not quite down patThe Android fresh setup experience (when you move from an old phone to a new one) isn't quite sorted yet. Manual downloads, install, approve and download – it's really rather a slog. And it emphasises again that while Apple tells you pretty much nothing about what an app will access, Android tells youeverything– and it's pretty much impossible to know if an app needs all those accesses, and whether that's bad.In both cases, you can usually be sure there's nothing amiss. But both platforms have been burnt by apps which have accessed too much (address books by oversharing apps on iOS, address books and text messages by malware on Android).As a phone: receiving you nowCall quality is clear, and reception is very good – better than the iPhone: I live in an area with marginal reception indoors, and it could generally get a call where Apple's wouldn't, and send text messages where the iPhone couldn't. You do have to get used to the Samsung way – a little quad-tone plays when the call begins connecting (but ahead of it ringing).Battery life: very goodYes, it is. It lasted more than a day on a charge with power-saving mode on (as it is by default), far more than the iPhone, which is gasping after a day's heavy use. The iPhone 4S charges faster – which it needs to. Samsung's long experience making mobile phones shines through here. Plus the battery itself is replaceable, which is always handy.Defaults: the soul of the machineDefaults are the core of any device's experience. Most people don't change defaults. They use the default browser, default email program, default sounds, default keyboard. If you choose good default behaviours and settings, your device will be great. If you have a ton of options where the good settings are buried beyond the defaults, the device's greatness will be hidden, and it will be frustrating.There are four defaults on the unlocked home screen: phone, chat, internet and camera. Swipe them and you go directly to the relevant application. Neat.However, unlike "pure" ICS, which offers a camera icon on the lock screen (choose it and you go straight to the camera), Samsung complicates things. If you use a lock on the screen (and you should, whether pin or pattern), there's a direct-to-camera setting which says: "Tap and hold the screen while rotating the device to open Camera." I tried, but couldn't solve this puzzler from the lock screen. Contrast that to iOS and Windows Phone and, er, pure ICS, where you can go directly to the camera (Windows Phone is fastest in my experience) and you start to wonder whether Samsung isn't being too tricksy for its own good.In fact, some of Samsung's defaults are a bit maddening. There was an occasional little tinkling bell to indicate the arrival of – who knows what? I couldn't figure out if it was calendar invitations, emails, "urgent" emails, text messages, tweets or what. This noise plagued me; no amount of searching through settings turned it up. It seemed to sound randomly, which meant that my options at night were: turn the sound off (and with it the alarms – not useful because I wanted to use the phone as an alarm) or turn the phone to Airplane mode (and don't forget that when you get up). Not ideal. Here was another one:The little icon at the top tells me all my video calls are being forwarded. I never get any, and the icon wouldn't go awayVideo calls, apparently, were being diverted. This couldn't be turned off, and so a diversion icon sat in the notifications bar, insistently telling me that the video calls which I've never had a single one of were being diverted. I've no idea where they were being diverted to, either. Such distraction isn't helpful if you might also be diverting voice calls (which I do regularly).Sometimes the SGS wanted me to select a keyboard. But I was already using a keyboard – its own. This was "ongoing", apparentlyAnother puzzle: from time to time I'd be asked to choose a keyboard. I've no idea why, since there was only one keyboard that I knew of installed. Yet this was "ongoing".The SGS3 has three – count them – brightness settings for the browserPower saving is on by default, which is a good idea – it's part of what helps the phone get well over a day's use. However, the power saving is also applied to the browser, which gets a dimmed screen with three brightness settings; the browser's brightness settings are separate of the broader phone's, which must be an indication of where they think – hope? – you'll spend your time. It can be puzzling, though, to set the brightness in one place and then find the browser much dimmer (its default). Seek in the settings and you'll eventually find it.Notifications: say what?When iOS was on 4.x, and Android was on 2.x, it was quite obvious: Android's notifications were miles better than Apple's. With iOS 5.x, Apple has now overhauled Android: iOS's pull-down list from each app (you choose how many, from which app – eg, mail, calendars, Twitter, Facebook) compares favourably against the lack of individualised info in Android. Android's brief list (emails, "interactions" on Twitter) means you can't triage what to do so well. I also like iOS's weather notification widget (the finance-happy can replace it with stocks). Android's seem a bit ... blah. They're just not informative enough.SGS3 notifications: a help, but not as at-a-glance informative as those on iOS 5(Just as a reminder,here are iOS 5's notifications.)Android definitely still has the lead in the quick access to settings such as Wi-Fi, mobile data and GPS in the top banner, plus from the power button on the side (to set Airplane mode, data connections, restart or power down). Being able to see in the notifications what settings are applied, and change them, is a plus – iOS and Windows Phone lag there.Touchscreen and scrolling: mixedI liked the brightness of the display, and the depth of the colours; the length of the loan didn't let me find out how well the screen resists everyday scuffing. The touchscreen was sometimes unresponsive; I couldn't say whether this was due to something in the software, or the touchscreen itself, though I'd guess it was the software.Why? Because Android still has flaws in how it handles display output. The SGS3 has a quad-core 1.4GHz processor. Yet if you give it a long list of entries (perhaps Twitter, perhaps a load of emails) and flick-scroll them, the list stutters – seeming to stick at points before flowing on. Yes, really. iOS and Windows Phone, with far less powerful processors, will give you smooth scrolling; but because of the way Android handles screen display, even a monster CPU like this still moves as though there's sand in the system.Alternatively, if you put your finger on a list and waggle it up and down, you'll get hysteresis – the scroll view can't react fast enough and soon it's scrolling down while you're moving your finger up, and vice-versa. This has beenthe subject of a lot of discussion. Google suggests it's fixed. Not in my experience. Oddly, I never used to notice it in the (Samsung) Galaxy Nexus S. I really noticed it here.A deal-breaker? Not really, but a painful flaw in a top-flight smartphone.Tpying^H^H^H^H^HypingOn touchscreens, I'm a two-thumb typist (the legacy of having used a BlackBerry back in 2003), and I like to type at speed – which means a touch keyboard has to keep up on the corrections, because touchscreen typing is hard to do accurately; and any delay rapidly becomes a bugbear, especially if it happens because of something that is built in to the device.The generic ICS keyboard is better than the Gingerbread one, though having used all three extensively, I still think the iOS keyboard has better error correction and other behaviours..The Samsung one doesn't switch back to letters when you hit space bar after hitting a number. Generally, though, in such cases, letters rather than numbers are what's coming up; this means you're forced to type an extra character (the symbol-&gt; character button) each time, slowing you down. The iOS keyboard has its annoyances, but the Samsung keyboard still feels cramped despite the much larger screen size.The worst of it was that my mistyping became glaringly obvious. I also found that the screen seemed slow to react to my attempts to prod it to shift the cursor to correct a misspelling.Yes, I know – Swype, SwiftKey, you can change the keyboard to what you want. I've tried others and not greatly enjoyed the experience; other people differ. So I do recommend that you try other keyboards if you have your heart set on this phone. It's almost certain to improve the experience. I didn't even find that my typing improved with longer use; if anything, it got worse.User interface: more than one way to skinThere are some truly maddening errors in this. Samsung has skinned Ice Cream Sandwich pretty extensively, so it's hard to know without delving into geekish detail whether a flaw is Google's, or Samsung's. But let's treat the device assui generis– an item to be considered on its own.The Back button is on the right of the Home button, rather than on the left as it was with the Galaxy S. This in itself isn't a problem, since you accommodate quickly enough, though if you're changing from another Android phone, be prepared to re-learn some music memory. Similarly, if you're on a 2.x machine and haven't used ICS before, then prepare for some re-learning: the apps folder scrolls sideways, rather than down; the list of open apps is a big list with screengrabs, not a set of small icons.The Android Back button's roulette-ish behaviour – will it take you back through every app and every action you've ever made, or just back to your starting place in the app? – is a separate question. That hasn't changed. In general, the Back button is a very useful thing, but sometimes (and it's unpredictable when, but generally when you're in a hurry and want to get something done) you'll press it in the wrong context, and get thrown out of one action into another, or to the home screen. Frustrating, it is, at those times.Web browsing: read onSince Samsung clearly thinks you'll spend lots of time in the browser, what's it like? It's still the stock Android browser (Chrome isn't yet the default). One thing that any mobile browser needs is that a double-tap will reflow the text to a readable size on the screen.The SGS3 showing a page that hasn't been reflowed for reading. Double-tap and ...Double-tap and ...... you get this text reflow on the default settingsHmm. The default setting often set the text to overflow, so that the page would spill either side of the screen.There is a setting which does fix this, though, so that text will reflow neatly. The browser is fast, though I think the limit has been reached; we're now bound by the speed of the connection, not the machine. And while the text reflow is very good, it lacks iOS 5's "Reader" system which reformats web text into plain text for reading.Sometimes the text rendering was very good.SGS3: sometimes the browser display is very goodBut I also found that sometimes the text rendering was – what's the word? – rubbish.Here's a large example. That's really not good rendering.Even on a mobile site (such as AdAge, here) it could render text completely illegible. Here's how it came out when I visited the site: note that it has gone to the mobile version of the site.SGS3: some mobile sites were just unreadableHere's how it came out on the iPhone:The AdAge page, as it displays on the iPhoneHere's how it came out on a Lumia 800 (sorry, no screenshot capability, so it's a photo):The AdAge page, displayed on a Lumia 800Andhere's the link, if you want to see how it looks on your own mobile device. Clearly, it's not AdAge favouring the iPhone.Camera: hold it thereThe main (rear) camera is good – it has a macro setting for closeups.  There are tons of settings; camera geeks can get lost in them, or you can just use it (as most will) as a point-and-shoot.An apology: I was convinced that the SGS3's macro setting would punt the iPhone 4S into the distance, because viewed through the screen, it looked in focus, sharp and detailed. Having actually viewed the pics, though, it turns out that the iPhone took the better closeups.Here they are on Flickr, as a slideshow; select "show info" to see which was taken with which device.Anyhow. The latest must-have in camera access on smartphones, though, is direct access from the lock screen. Windows Phone did this first in 2010; Apple leapt in next with iOS 5 in October 2011; ICS followed at about the same time (if you could get it) with a camera icon direct from the lock screen, even when you have a pin or pattern lock set upHowever on the SGS3, if you want rapid access to the camera from the lock screen, you have to "tap and hold the screen while rotating the phone", according to the setting I ticked. Whatever this magic gesture is, I never managed to perform it, despite plenty of tries.Services, S-Voice and So OnSamsung seems to be edging very carefully away from a core Google experience. It offers its own Samsung Music (a per-month paid offering) and also AllShare Play, which offers the chance of sharing your music and videos across multiple devices, as Apple does with music via iTunes Match, and for photo and limited video on iCloud. (AllShare Play's page says that: "For computers, you can add any computer regardless of computer manufacturer or model." What they left off was "unless it's made by Apple"; there's no Mac client, and no timetable on getting one.) Samsung clearly sees services as the way forward, and especially as the way to differentiate itself from other Android handset makers.The most visible example is its use ofS-Voice, its own voice-controlled assistant, accessed via a double press on the home button. (As with the iPhone, that button gets a lot of uses: here it's double press for S-Voice, long press for the list of running or recent apps, short press to return home. The iPhone's are different, but equally at risk of overload. That's partly why I think Samsung is ignoring Google's desire that the 4.0 home button should be virtual; it couldn't distinguish itself, and long/short/double pressing on a virtual button is comparatively hard to detect.)S-Voice has been around longer than Apple's Siri (it arrived in the SGS2 last year), though both seem to be driven by Nuance's technology. I tested the two side-by-side over Wi-Fi, and consistently found that Siri had better speech-to-text translation, and a faster response – by some seconds for the initial speech-to-text translation, and then again for generating responses. (Unlike Siri, I couldn't find a setting to let S-Voice work from the lock screen, though no doubt it's in there somewhere.)Of course, transcribing voice can be tricky. See if you can manage this one (S-Voice couldn't):"Who was the millionaire heart?" would be a good title for a book. It's a bad interpretation of a spoken question though by S-VoiceSiri could:Siri managed to puzzle out who the "millionaire heart" wasSince you're wondering, I was holding both phones side by side.S-Voice also has a tendency to become obsessed with a topic – if you start looking for a contact, then it will believe you want a contact, no matter what other question you ask.SGS3: S-Voice could get a bit obsessed about particular things – such as contacts – even when the question obviously wasn't on that topicSo S-Voice doesn't outpace Siri, which – given that they apparently have the same back-end – is odd. Sure, you can reckon that voice is a trivial frippery, though Samsung, Google, Microsoft and Apple don't seem to agree with you. It will be interesting to see how S-Voice improves in time.Note also though that by using Nuance and feeding the results through to Wolfram Alpha, Samsung is edging away from Google in exactly the way that Apple is for voice-driven search results.If S-Voice, rather than the built-in Google Voice, is what Samsung wants to push, what does that say about its view of Google?Samsung is fascinating, because it has that special combination of so many possibilities – and so much heft. It's the world's biggest in both featurephones and smartphones, it's the only real rival to Apple in tablets, it designs and sells PCs, it's pushing into Smart TV, and now it's adding its own services on top. For now, Google is the dominant partner because of what it does in search and email. But the people at the top of Samsung have shown they're anything but passive. Watch this space.ConclusionsThe SGS3 is a great phone in many ways; it's a perplexing one in others. Having a million settings isn't always a good thing, and if you're used to Android 2.3 then prepare for some mental readjustment in shifting to 4.0, and especially Samsung's TouchWiz implementation, which brings yet more differences. Samsung has thrown the kitchen sink in here with the number of features, so that you're actually unlikely to use them all."I can like something without wanting it," my wife remarked about some object the other day. That's really how I feel about the SGS3. I liked it as a phone, but I never felt the tactile pleasure that I get from simply picking up a Nokia Lumia 800, nor the uncluttered sharpness of the iPhone's display and user interface. The typing frustrated me (you can fix that) and the list scrolling juddered (you can't), and the browsing is sometimes poorly rendered (you can, with a different browser) which is where the half-star (or 10%) is lost for me.Still, if you like having a setting for everything, Android's for you. If you like having even more settings than that, seek out the SGS3. It's a very good phone in many ways. If you're in the big-spending bracket, it's one to consider very carefullly.Buying informationSamsung Galaxy S3:£489 (16GB, white)or£499 (16, blue) from Amazon, or on contract (typically £36 per month, 24-month contract) from various carriers.Other reviewsDavid Pogue, New York Times: "A phone bristling with extras"Wallt Mossberg, All Things D: "Galaxy Quest: a phone aimed at all networks"Matt Warman, Daily Telegraph: "Samsung Galaxy S3: full review"Natasha Lomas, Cnet: "Samsung Galaxy S3 review"
After a day off, here are 25 new and notable apps for you:Magic TownMindshapes made its name with a series of individual apps for children, but Magic Town is an ambitious leap: a virtual reading world offering stories from publishers including Penguin, Hachette and Simon &amp; Schuster. Available online already, it now has an iPad app with 20 free stories, and a £7.99 monthly subscription to get more.iPadLondon 2012: Official Mobile GameDeveloper Neowiz scored something of a coup by bagging the rights to make an official London 2012 Olympic Games game, through the IOC. It offers nine events, lots of athlete customisation, and virtual venues modelled on the real things in London. The link above is for Android buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPadSwiftKey 3It's been freely available as a beta for a while now, but Android replacement-keyboard app SwiftKey 3 is now properly available. New features include better auto-correction, new themes, an improved user interface and more languages to type in.AndroidBizzy Bear Builds a HouseBritish publisher Nosy Crow has released a string of critically-acclaimed apps for children, with this latest the second to be based on its Bizzy Bear books. Kids have to help Bizzy build a house, accompanied by child voice narration, music and word-tracking to help them learn to read.iPhone / iPadOcarina 2Music apps developer Smule returns with a sequel to its flute-like instrument app from 2008. The idea is still to blow into the mic while tapping orbs on-screen to make beautiful sounds, but now songs from Lady Gaga, Justin Bieber and Coldplay are also available for pan-pipe-esque covers.iPhonePyroPainterThis had me at the "Make a fireball come out of your hand. Make a shark swim round your kids" lines in its App Store description. It's an app for adding movie-esque digital effects to photos and videos: fireballs, arrows, snow, explosions, butterflies and so on. Oh yes, and sharks. Additional effects come with expansion packs sold in-app.iPhoneSamsung Hope RelayMore Olympic fever here, with Games sponsor Samsung's Hope Relay app. It's encouraging people to get out and about: for every mile you walk, run or cycle using the app, the company will donate £1 to charities.Android / iPhoneThe ActChillingo and React Entertainment's The Act isn't a game, as such: it's billed as an "interactive comedy", using traditional cartoon animation. It focuses on a window-cleaner called Edgar, whose actions and emotions are controlled by swiping on the screen.iPhone / iPadQVC UKHome-shopping network QVC has launched an official Android app, offering more than 15,000 items for sale across all its categories. Its homepage points you to recently-aired items, and the app can also stream QVC's TV channel live.AndroidHotel TonightHotel Tonight is one of the companies helping people book last-minute hotel rooms – mainly in the US so far. Now it's available in the UK too, promising up to 70% off published rates, with all the booking handled on a smartphone or tablet.Android / iPhone / iPadGoogle I/O 2012Exciting times for Android, as Google prepares for its I/O conference on 27-29 June in San Francisco. Naturally, there's an Android app for that, offering conference agenda, session and speaker information, Google+ integration to chat about the content, and the ability to play video streams from the event.AndroidWinZipZip utility WinZip has launched an official Android app, helping people extract and access zip files on their smartphone or tablet. It can work with files attached to emails, downloaded from websites or stored on memory cards.AndroidWiktionaryThe Wikimedia Foundation has published an Android app for the Wiktionary project – a web-based dictionary in more than 150 languages that users cam edit. In this case, the app is for reading it, saving articles to read offline, and sharing them with friends.AndroidAvocadoThere will soon be an individual 'two-person social networking for couples' app for every couple in the world. Following Cupple, Pair and Between comes Avocado: "a super private, fast, reliable and fun way to stay connected to your partner when you're out and about".Android / iPhoneBloomberg Markets+Bloomberg's latest iPad app is based on its Bloomberg Markets magazine, digitising the print issues while adding interactive features and videos. The company is charging a monthly/annual subscription under Apple's Newsstand.iPadFlingAcclaimed puzzle game Fling makes its way to Windows Phone, complete with Xbox Live features. The 30 levels promise tens of thousands of different puzzles, with four game modes all involving bumping furballs off the screen.Windows PhoneAsphalt 7: HeatGameloft's long-running racing franchise returns for its seventh iteration, promising 60 cars to drive on 15 tracks around the world, with local and online multiplayer features, and six game modes when playing alone.iPhone / iPadCentipede: OriginsWhy would anyone play Centipede on an iOS device in 2012? That's the question Atari hopes will be answered by Centipede: Origins, much as it did with previous retro remakes Asteroids: Gunner and Breakout: Boost. It's about more than colons, too. Here, you're protecting a garden against bugs, with upgradeable weapons and gadgets, and coins to buy upgrades for the garden itself.DropcamDropcam's Android app ties in with its home video-monitoring cameras, providing alerts when motion is detected (e.g. burglars), as well as video-chatting (e.g. kids, or friendly burglars). It joins the existing iPhone version.AndroidGolf GameBookGood news for golfers: this live scorecard app has just launched in the UK, tracking your score around the course, as well as creating tournaments among friends and bragging on social networks.Android / iPhoneBeatsurfingThis is one for musicians who know what they're doing. Beatsurfing is an "organic MIDI controller builder" that enables you to draw a controller on-screen and then use it to control MIDI-enabled software or hardware.iPadTune AppThis is quite interesting: an app using visual recognition technology to play music, with the music itself coming from streaming service Rdio. "Take a picture of anything, and get a music related to that item," explains its App Store listing. Arguably a better feature for the main Rdio (or Spotify) app than a paid app in its own right, though.iPhoneSoccer Superstars 2012Released on Android earlier in the month, the latest in Gamevil's fun football franchise makes it to iOS. It involves training and managing a team, levelling players up RPG-style before taking on the rest of the world.iPhone / iPadRodman FTDennis Rodman doesn't just buffoon about on reality TV shows: he still knows his way around a basketball court. This new iOS game stars Rodman, and makes a feature of its photorealistic graphics. Its free-throw-focused gameplay is reminiscent of Paper Toss.iPhone / iPadSnooki Bling BlingAs app-related questions go, "Are you looking for a Snooki themed explodey matchey puzzle game?" is one of the more easily answerable. One for hardcore Jersey Shore fans only.iPhone
I needed to see what a recruitment agency job description looked like last week, because the company was offering less than the advertised salary. I managed to find the information using Google's cached copy of the page, but that isn't going to last forever, is it? If you consider mobile phone terms and conditions, or banks', how can you prove what was displayed one month ago, one year ago, or even 25 years ago?JohnGoogle keeps a cached copy of the pages it indexes (unless told not to in a site's robots.txt file) and you can view these very easily by typing cache: in the search box, followed by the page's web address. Google will keep the cached page until it the next time its spiders visit the page, when it will be replaced by the new version. This could be within a few hours, or it could take a few months. Sites that Google thinks are important usually get more frequent visits.However, the Internet Archive, an independent organisation, also takes snapshots of web pages and stores them forever. You can use itsWayBack Machineto see what a particular page looked like anything from one day to 16 years ago. The system's earliest page for Yahoo.com is dated 17 October 1996, and it has 7,843 records of Yahoo's front page. Of course, not even the WayBack Machine captures all the pages on the web, so it would be a very bad idea to rely on it.When you need to keep a record, there are at least two things you can do. First, you can save a copy of the page to your PC's hard drive. Internet Explorer provides the handy option to save a web page as a single file in the internet standard .mht (Mime HTML) file format. Go to File, select Save As, and use the default option "Web Archive, single file (*.mht)". (The Opera browser also supports *mht files. Apple doesn't, but you can save web pages as PDF files instead.) Second, you can take a snapshot of the page using any of the popular screen grabbers, or the Snipping Tool built into Microsoft Windows 7 and Vista. This is simple and, in many cases, the best approach.Most web content is transitory, and Google is mainly interested in finding things that have been posted very recently, regardless of quality. If you think you will ever want to see something again, it's best to save it. There are a few applications to save and organise web pages, such as AskSam'sSurfSaver($19.95),CyberKeeper($14.99),iMiser Research Assistant($39.95) andSurfuLater($79). Sorry, I can't find a free alternative to SurfSaver, but it's good value for business users and students.Translating web textsI used to useClient for Google Translatefor instant translations on web pages, but this now operates as a paid service. Can you recommend a similar free service that does not require the cut and paste malarkey to Google Translate?AndrewGoogle changed its terms of service last year when it announcedPaid version of Google Translate API now open for business. Basically, companies that were using Google's translation API (applications programming interface) for nothing now have to pay $20 (£12.75) per million characters, so Client for Google Translate – a Windows program – stopped being free.However, if you browse foreign language pages with Google Chrome, it will usually pop up a bar asking if you want them translated. If not, you can copy and paste either the website address or the text intoGoogle Translate.Microsoft has a similar service,Bing Translator, which is used for Facebook translation. From 31 May, it has also replaced Yahoo's long-running Babelfish (babelfish.yahoo.com) service.Prompt Translatoris similar free alternative.There are a few Firefox add-ons that you could try.Quick Translatorappears to do what you want, but also uses the Google API. Possible alternatives include theimTranslatortoolbar andFox Lingo, which use many different online translation services.Adding a signature to emailsI would like to have my business information at the bottom of my Gmails. Please tell me how to do this in very simple terms, as I am not a computer whizz.KarenYou can add your name, address, phone number, and other details to the end of each email by using a "sig" or signature. Most email programs provide this feature. In Gmail's case, click the cogwheel aka "gear icon" in the top right of the screen, and select Settings. Scroll down the new page (which is under the General tab) until you reach a panel that says "Signature: (appended at the end of all outgoing messages)". The default is "No signature" but clicking inside the empty text box will change that.The simplest type of sig is plain text. If that's what you want, create your sig in a simple text editor such as Notepad and paste it into the box in Gmail labelled "Plain text". To complete the process, scroll down to the bottom of the page and click the button marked Save Changes.There is a great FidoNet/Usenet/internet tradition (from long before this new-fangled web appeared) of using plain text sigs with ASCII art and a quotation. There used to be dozens of online collections of such sigs. Most of them have gone now, but you can still find them on the WayBack Machine, including thisThematic collection of ASCII-art signatures.If you have chosen to send Gmail emails in "Rich text" using bold and italic text, rules etc, then you can compose a "rich text" sig. It's best to do this in the online box provided. In this case, you can also add an image by clicking the "mountain range" icon and pasting in a URL (web address) for the picture … but make sure it's small. Again, click Save Changes.The worst kind of sig is a single image. It might look nice, but it means people can't copy your details and paste them into their contacts book. The best kind of sig is a standardvCardvirtual business card. You can create one by saving your own contact details from an address book as a vcf file. The recipient can simply double-click it to have those same details loaded into their own contacts book, without any retyping. However, I've been recommending vCards with zero success sinceApril 1999, so I've given up now.
Since our primate ancestors began to band together to collectively share hunting, child care and sentry duties, every one of us has been subjected to an invisible, crushing tax. That tax is what economists call "transaction costs" and it is the friction that arises when two or more people set out to do something together.It was once the amount of time our monkey forebears spent checking in on their "friends" to make sure that the one who was up the tree "watching for predators" wasn't actually taking a nap.Today, it is the hours spent in meetings, filling in forms, synchronising our diaries, issuing memos, reading memos, standing in queues, agreeing on the procedure for redress arising from misunderstanding, implementing that procedure, auditing the implementation, arguing about the audit – the endless litany of stuff that isn't getting stuff done, but is the stuff you do so that you can get stuff done.You might ask why we even bother? It's all such a crushing bore, half-Kafka and half-Solzhenitsyn. The short answer is that doing stuff together makes us super-human. Literally.The things that one person can do define what is "human". The things that transcend the limits of an individual – building a skyscraper, governing a nation, laying a telecommunications network, writing an operating system – are the realm of the super-human.The most profound social revolutions in human history have arisen whenever a technology comes along that lowers transaction costs. Technologies that makes it cheaper to work together lower the tax on super-human powers.Language (which allowed for explicit communication), writing (which allowed for record-keeping), literacy (which allowed for communication at a distance and through time) and all the way up to assembly lines, telegraphs, telephones, cryptography (which lowers transaction costs by reducing the amount of energy you have to expend to keep attackers out of your coordination efforts), computers, networks, mobile phones and beyond.Decreasing transaction costs means that the powerful can do more. If you've already organised a state or criminal enterprise or church with you at the top, it means that you've figured out how to harvest and distribute resources effectively enough to maintain your institutional stability.When transaction costs drop, you develop an institutional surplus – you can make your middle-management layer redundant, replace them with automated monitoring systems, and pocket the rest, or invest it in more ambitious projects.The tendency of technology to increase the power of the powerful is at the heart of stories like Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four – take a totalitarian state, add technology and you get hyper-totalitarian state, something capable of reaching into every corner of human existence, to know each person's every move down to the fleeting thoughts that show themselves on their faces.But technology lowers transaction costs foreveryone, not just the well-organised. The past 20 years has seen radical shifts to the job of activists, which formerly meant spending most of one's time addressing and stuffing envelopes (or distributing handbills, or putting up posters), and using a few stolen moments around the edges to figure out what the posters, letters and handbills should say.Now we get the dissemination for free – thanks to technologies such as Twitter, mailing lists and social networks – and the major role of activists has shifted to figuring out why and where to mobilise, not on mobilisation itself.As the cost of working together falls, tasks that once required enormous (and expensive) bureaucracies now make do with much less administrative overhead. The stories of the GNU/Linux operating system and Wikipedia are first and foremost stories about plummeting transaction costs that make it possible to replace large, hidebound bureaucracies with nimbler, less-formally constituted institutions.Some tasks (like stuffing envelopes) have disappeared as institutional jobs altogether – having all your activists buddies over for an envelope-stuffing party is as weird and unnecessary as inviting them over to help make the paper and set the type for your handbills. We get the word out today in a fashion that is so automated and effortless that it has faded into invisibility.The same fate has befallen all but the most complex acts of travel-planning, and many other formerly complex industries. It's not relegation to history's scrapheap, rather it's the ultimate vindication of your usefulness – being turned into a utility, as vital and invisible and boring as the forces that lurk behind our water-faucets and light switches.Computers and networks keep lowering transaction costs. Being turned into a utility is the destiny of many more of our great institutions. Projects such as Wikipedia that are vastly more automated and less formal than their predecessors will have successors that are so automated that they won't even feel like a thing at all. Projects that are still centralised will find automation that makes them as lightly constituted as Wikipedia – Wikipedia skyscrapers, Linux space-programs.Throughout human history, we have had well-organised, effective institutions – powerful governments, disciplined armies, efficient corporations. We have had well-organised,ineffectiveinstitutions – hidebound bureaucracies, corruption-riddled basket-case police states, rigid military units that are cut to ribbons by nimble guerrillas. We have had disorganised, ineffective groups – unruly mobs, playtime at kindergarten, panicked people fleeing disaster.But there is a new kind of institution that has quietly come into being. An institution so weird that it sounds like an oxymoron, like "jumbo shrimp" and "military intelligence." That institution is the "disorganised, effective" group."Disorganised, effective" is groups like Anonymous and Occupy, groups that have no command structure at all, not even an articulated set of goals, no formal membership structure, and in Anonymous's case, no formal deliberative process.These are groups whose organisational structure is almost entirely automated, more like a queuing system and a repository and a mailing list than a political movement or even a street-gang.This is, to my knowledge, something new upon the land,sui generisto a world with the internet as an established fact. There have always been dissident bohemias, but there have never been dissident bohemias that could act as a mass. The action isn't precision manoeuvres, and there is plenty of doubling-back and missteps. Nevertheless, this is a remarkable thing.When I'm wondering about the future, I try to imagine moving today's institutions down the formality ladder. What technology would let us govern nations the way that ants build hills or Occupy runs its general assembly? What technology would make it possible to build and run a tramway the way Wikipedia manages its collective editing process? What would it mean to have networking fade into the background, become so commodified and automated that it more or less built and maintained itself?Most of all, I try to imagine what "disorganised and effective" groups would do with every area of substantial human activity, from public health to education to astronomy. It's a wonderful and mindwarping sort of exercise – I thoroughly recommend it.
Twitter has unveiled an aggressive expansion of its advertising products, with a rollout planned to 50 countries by the end of the year.The expansion marks the next stage for the six-year-old tech startup's development, with Twitter seeking to turn its 140m users into revenue.Asked about the next stage of development for the company, founder Jack Dorsey left the door open for a flotation, or potentially a sale to a technology giant such as Google."I'm extremely humbled by how quick and broadly Twitter has taken off an how we've done building something independent and timeless – this is a company that will last," he said, speaking at a press conference at theCannes International Festival of Creativityon Thursday morning."The company has always put itself in a position to choose when it is ready [to make strategic decisions such as an IPO or sale]. We do things when we are ready. We have a good understanding about pacing and have the discipline to make the [right] choices ourselves."Twitter, which currently offers its advertising products in just a handful of countries, intends to roll out them out to 50 territories by the end of the year with certain markets the top of the list.Latin America, particularly Brazil, and west European countries such as Spain and Germany will be the first to get Twitter's three advertising products – promoted tweets, promoted trends and promoted accounts."There is a ton of demand but we don't have dates as yet," said the Twitter chief executive, Dick Costolo, who refused to comment on the company's financial position or targets. "That is one of the great things of being private, I don't have to discuss these things," he said.Twitter provided some interesting insights about its usage, including that 60% of users access via mobile – 80% in the UK – and that there was no sign of a slowdown in growth rates, a problem that is starting to weigh on the other big social media company, Facebook."Growth is still broad-based and global," said Costolo. "We are still growing quite fast month on month in the UK, Mexico, Spain, Italy, France … Saudi Arabia is our fastest-growing market percentage-wise month on month."The company said it is not struggling with the shift to portable devices, which Facebook is finding a problem."We were born mobile," said the Twitter director of revenue, Adam Bain. "Tweets are like water, they work whatever you put them through."Costolo added that the company launched ads on mobile a few months ago and that it is "growing delightfully well". "We have had days when mobile revenue has exceeded non-mobile revenue," he added.When asked about Twitter's corporate responsibility to monitor and censor tweets – abusive tweets have become an issue for the service in the UK recently – Costolo said that the community of users can police itself effectively."We like to say we are the free speech wing of the free speech party," he added. "The beauty of Twitter is that it is public, unless you have a protected account, when you tweet it is broadcast and everyone can see it. We operate on the assumption there are more good people than bad."Costolo said that often it is a case that good Twitter users will "rain down" on bad users and that hate speech in particular is not tolerated.He added that there are increasing examples of bad users apologising, deleting offensive comments or even closing their accounts after a backlash."We do have a per country takedown facility as well," he said. "In cases where we need to abide by a local law we can make a tweet not visible in that country but available to others."Speaking to MediaGuardian after the press conference Dorsey, who is following in the footsteps of Mark Zuckerberg in receiving the media person of the year award at the Cannes advertising event, said that the European startup scene was hampered by fear of failure."Europe is very different from Silicon Valley," he added. "There it is a whirlpool of technology conversations. I do wish some of that energy and attitude would spread. For some European startups there is a barrier to entry, there is not a large enough ambition to take risks and a fear of making mistakes in public."It is Twitter's second year at the Cannes festival – the company not would reveal how many executives it has brought over but said that it has "five times" its 2011 team. Twitter said that in 2011 it struck most of its strategic advertising deals for the year while in Cannes.
Oops, a little late this morning, but what are you up to?
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamNokia's Hopes Rest on New Windows 8 &gt;&gt; WSJ.comIf your home PC looks like your work one, then when you look at a Windows Phone device, rather than it being strange, it will look comfortingly familiar. "We are really making a big bet on immersing the user experience on any device, anywhere, any time," said Mr. Courtois. "Doing that seamlessly as a consumer or a business person... It is not just about one device, it is about an end-to-end experience which is going to be unique in the market."For Microsoft to succeed it has to do two things: Stem, and then reverse, the tide for executives bringing their own devices into the enterprise; and secondly leverage its dominance of the PC at exactly the time that PC sales have been outstripped by mobile devices, very few of which are running any of their operating systems. Nokia--the largest manufacturer of Windows Phone devices--shipped 2 million [Windows Phone] units in the first quarter of the year.Oracle accepts $0 in damages from Google, moves toward appeal &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaOracle has agreed to accept zero dollars worth of damages from Google, three weeks after losing the major portions of the case in which Oracle accused Google of violating Java patents and copyrights in Android.After one partial victory on the issue of whether Google infringed copyrights, Oracle lost its argument that Google violated patents. Oracle then lost a ruling that held that the structure of the Java APIs asserted by the company couldn't be copyrighted at all. The rulings left Oracle little room except to appeal, and today in court the two sides agreed to a damages total of "zero." That's only a few billion less than Oracle originally sought.Wonder if Google wrote it on a cheque with a flourish.What happens after you click "report" &gt;&gt; FacebookYour handy download-and-stick-on-wall guide:There are dedicated teams throughout Facebook working 24 hours a day, seven days a week to handle the reports made to Facebook. Hundreds of Facebook employees are in offices throughout the world to ensure that a team of Facebookers are handling reports at all times.How Apple Stores seduces you with the tilt of the laptops &gt;&gt; ForbesCarmine Gallo:The first time I brought my two young daughters into an Apple Store, a sales associate (Apple calls them 'specialists'), encouraged my girls to touch and play with an iPad. Once he showed them how to use a Disney Princess coloring app, it was over. My girls didn't want to leave and to this day they want to go to the Apple Store every time we visit the mall. The Apple Store made a connection with my daughters because they made it easy for them to touch the products, encouraged them to do so, and let them play with the products for as long as they wanted.Walk into a 'big box' retailer and you often find the opposite scenario. The devices are turned off and the screens are black. It should be no surprise that some of these retailers like Best Buy are in financial trouble and looking for ways to improve the customer experience.Have you ever chatted with a Hacker within a virus? &gt;&gt; AVGHacker: What are you doing? Why are you researching my Trojan?Hacker: What do you want from it?Conversations that antivirus people don't expect. More worrying is the capability of the backdoor.October 2009: Android to grab No. 2 spot by 2012, says Gartner &gt;&gt; ComputerworldNote the date, of 2009:While the Google-backed Android mobile operating system currently runs on less than 2% of all smartphones, Gartner Inc. predicts it will surge to 14% of the global smartphone market in 2012 - ahead of the iPhone, as well as Windows Mobile and BlackBerry smartphones.Well, sorta correct. (The forecast was made by Ken Dulaney, who's still at Gartner, though not forecasting smartphone share any more.)Editorial: Android tablets still suck, and Google's running out of time to fix themSo if the iPad is just a big iPhone, and an Android tablet is just a big Android phone, why aren't Android tablets flying off the shelves like iPads? Let's take ad hominem attacks about "fanboyism" and "branding" off the table here. They're tired, stupid, and unproductive arguments lobbed like burning sacks of metaphorical dog shit across the lawns of tech blogs all over the web. And saying it's "because of the apps," while partially true, is not the sole factor here by any stretch of the imagination.Ah, such imagery. We've intentionally left off the name of the site here. See if you can figure it out before you click on the link.Surface: Microsoft, What the Hell is Wrong With You? &gt;&gt; ZDNetJason Perlow:So let me get this straight, Microsoft. You made journalists schlep across the country, no, the planet, for a product that might not ship for months? You're lucky they didn't burn the venue down.Okay, no ship date, no prices and... no compelling 3rd-party applications or even Office to show on it whatsoever. So we have no idea how well it performs, and how well supported it will be by 3rd-party software developers. No partnerships to speak of. Nada. No demonstration or even any claims of how good the battery life on each model is.Nothing to say whatsoever about the nature of what display technology they are using, whether it is OLED or LED/LCD backlight or something else. Great, so one is a 720p and the other is a 1080p. Details, please.Gee, that doesn't exactly make folks want to stop in their tracks from buying iPad 3s, does it?Actually, isn't that precisely the aim of vapourware - even vapourmagnesiumware? Promise something great in the near-ish future to stall rivals' sales? (Thanks @jseths for the link.)Sharp AQUOS Android Smartphone: Feel UX &gt;&gt; VimeoAn interesting rethink of the Android UI by frog, the designers. Very attractive: note how it's using Microsoft typefaces in the video, and Windows Phone-like tiling. Get used to competition in how Android UIs look as smartphone penetration explodes.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Microsoft has brushed off an offer by Motorola Mobility (MMI), the phone maker bought by Google, to settle patent disputes that are threatening to halt imports of Motorola's Android devices and Microsoft's Xbox 360 game consoles into the US.The patents at issue relate to a Microsoft technology called ActiveSync, which updates calendars automatically on some Android phones.According to Microsoft, MMI has offered to pay the software giant 33c (21p) for each Android phone using ActiveSync, and asked for a royalty of 2.25% on each Xbox's sale price, and 50c per copy of Windows for using its patents.The decision could take the row to the brink. In May, the International Trade Commission, which oversees imports to the US, recommended an import ban on infringing Android devices and Xbox consoles unless the patent issues were settled.That could seriously affect MMI, which has seen its share of the Android smartphone market which it once led eroded seriously in the past two years.Meanwhile, Microsoft has built up a commanding position in Xbox 360 sales in the US over the past few years.Microsoft is demanding royalties from all companies using Google's Android system in their devices, and has settled with most major manufacturers – except, crucially, MMI.Instead, MMI, a full subsidiary of Google since May, is demanding royalties on some of its own video and wireless technologies – specifically H.264 video decoding and some Wi-Fi code – used in the Xbox 360 game console and the Windows operating system, on pain of an import ban."While we welcome any good faith settlement effort, it's hard to apply that label to a demand that Microsoft pay royalties to Google far in excess of market rates, that refuses to license all the Microsoft patents infringed by Motorola, and that is promptly leaked to the press," said Horacio Gutierrez, Microsoft's deputy general counsel.Representatives of Motorola and Google did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
Matt Inman is an acerbic enough character when idle. When roused, the creator of popular online comicthe Oatmealcan be downright cutting.The person at the pointy end of his petard this month wasCharles Carreon, the lawyer for image sharing siteFunnyJunk.com, which just sued Inman, crowdfunding site Indiegogo, and two US charities. The lawyer is now at the bottom of an internet shame pit so deep it will take a JCB to get him out.Started in 2009, The Oatmeal is a quirky and often crudely-drawn comic that features dolphin brutality, pelvic thrusting cats, and sexual congress between koalas and goats. It's also often very funny.Inman is fiercely protective of his comics; when Forbes recentlycritiqued his Edison-bashing diatribe lionising Nikola Tesla, herespondedwith a comic picking apart the magazine's article. Its readers love his biting, surreal humour. They flock to Inman's site each month in the millions.Inmanoriginally targeted FunnyJunk with a pithy blog posta year ago. He criticised the site for hosting his comics, often without attribution or backlinks. A panicked FunnyJunk admin took down some of the comics, and after some more barbed commentary, Inman let it lie.Then, on 3 June (a Sunday), FunnyJunk's recently-appointed lawyer Charles Carreonhad Inman served with a letter. The letter accused him of defamation, before demanding that he take down all reference to FunnyJunk and pay Carreon $20,000. Inman flipped.Wrong approach"If he'd have emailed me politely and asked me to take the post down, I would have considered doing that," Inman says. But riled by the letter, he instead blogged about what had happened. Helaunched a charity campaignto raise the $20,000 that Carreon wanted – and pledged it equally to the National Wildlife Federation and the American Cancer Society. So far, it has raised more than $203,000; it ends at 11:59pm on 25 June.Dig a little deeper, and you discover quite why Inman is protective of his online comics. He says that the three-year-old business makes him about $500,000 (£318,000) annually, of which 25% is from advertising, and the remainder from merchandising. Inman monetises his content via mugs, T-shirts, posters and bumper stickers. Family members work for him, dutifully shipping his wares to dolphin haters across the globe.(Is that revenue figure feasible? The product prices range from $5 to $45; the average is about $20. To get $375,000, or 75% of the total, in merchandise revenues requires selling 18,750 products (375,000/20) each year. That's 1,530 products per month, or 51 products every day. Given a reader base of about 7m, he only needs convert 0.02% of visitors to buy a product. The advertising revenues, of $175,000 per year, are reasonable given the visitor numbers.)Not everyone is so successful, however. Most web comic creators are hobbyists, says David Malki, spokesperson forTopatoco, a company that helps to create and sell merchandise for web comic creators."It can evolve into a side gig for some, and a career for very few," Malki says. "The people who derive 50% to 75% of their income from web comics, which includes merchandise and advertising, are probably in the hundreds." For a modicum of creators, comics pay the rent. Rock stars like Inman are far rarer.Advertising generally makes a smaller percentage of revenues for web comic creators.Project Wonderfulis an advertising network that sells advertising to 76,000 advertisers. They bid to be placed on any one of the 4,000 web comic sites that it works with; content owners are paid on a per-day basis. The highest-earning comic site this week (Andrew Hussey'sMS Paint Adventures) was earning $108 a day in advertising – nice, but hardly life-changing.Web comic authors seem to be mostly laid back when it comes to pirated works. Even Inman let FunnyJunk's use of his content lie, until the lawsuit threat arrived. He says he even sometimes ignores people merchandising his ideas. "Every now and then someone will take some of my artwork and sell it on a T-shirt. Most of the time I let it fly," he says.However, Inman (who has a background in search engine optimisation) does get irked when sites host copies of his work without any backlinks to his website, and with copyright notices specifically removed. So does Zach Weinersmith, creator of the popular web comicSaturday Morning Breakfast Cereal."Many sites do this. It's bad because aggregators end up getting paid for the work of artists," says Weinersmith. "That image might be seen 100,000 times. If those views had been on my site, I might have reaped a hundred or more dollars over time from the initial traffic bump and new readers."Stop, online pirateOne thing that could have helped Inman is the Stop Online Piracy Act (Sopa). This legislation, which was effectively abandoned in January, would have allowed copyright holders to force search engines and payment processors to stop supporting sites that allegedly breached copyright."It would have afforded me more rights," Inman says of Sopa. But he doesn't like the way that Sopa would have put the onus on sites to prove their innocence, and he joined a global day of action against the legislation in January. "I can do the same thing without Sopa, using a DMCA [Digital Millennium Copyright Act] takedown notice," he argues. "But it's simply not worth the energy." Why not?Traditionally, sites that rely on their readers to post images can claim innocence underSection 512c of the 1998 Digital Millennium Copyright Act. This "safe harbour" provision protects them from being sued for money if they take down the material "expeditiously" when asked."It says that they don't have to pre-screen content, and that they won't be liable for the copyright infringement of their users, so long as they have identified an agent," says Wendy Seltzer, another Sopa opponent who is also a fellow at the Harvard Center for Internet and Society, where she runsChilling Effects, a clearinghouse which addresses takedown requests by copyright holders.The downside to the DMCA is that it places the onus on web comic creators to spot where their work is being hosted without attribution. That's not only a lot of work, but "it would also make you look like a douche", says Inman.Faster, pussycat! Draw, draw!Creators' salvation lies in their talent, says Malki. "Your job is to be more popular that the pirate," he says. "The pirate has the disadvantage that they have to steal. You can come up with more ideas."Could social sharing sites be more responsible in their handling of user-generated content? Pinterest, the social network that allows people to share images and group them under themes, has been working through the issues carefully, and recently published guidelines encouraging users to link to the original source of pictures or other content.In February,Pinterest introduced a "no-pin" tagthat website owners can use to stop any of their content being shared using Pinterest. It followed this up in May by signingattribution deals with Flickr, Behance, Vimeo and YouTube.These automatically build attributions into anything "pinned" from these sites. And the company also features a flag that lets you report a policy violation with a single button, linked to the item that was shared.FunnyJunk wouldn't return calls from the Guardian to tell us about its own policies, but Carreon has now effectively abandoned the threat of a FunnyJunk lawsuit, stating that he was misinformed by his client. His letter claimed that all the comics had been removed from FunnyJunk, but Inman pointed out dozens that were still there."I did not know those links were there. According to my client, he didn't know about it and there was no way for him to discover it," said Carreon, still smarting from a torrent of abusive mails from angry netizens.Carreon's public relations self-immolation reached new levels on 15 June, four days after Inman launched his charity campaign and publicly told Carreon and FunnyJunk to fuck off on his blog. Carreon's personal lawsuit claims that Inman incited others to cybervandalism, argues that Inman wasn't authorised as a commercial fundraiser for the charities, and was disparaging their names. His suit also pressed the charities to police who was raising money in their name.Indiegogo dismissed the claim, while Inman has now encouraged everyone to stop hounding Carreon, and has also suggested in an open letter to the lawyer that he stop digging himself any deeper.In the meantime, his fundraising campaign has topped 10 times the original target – and it's still going. As of presstime: The Oatmeal's charity call has raised more than $203,000. Carreon: 0. Meanwhile, those Oatmeal comics may still be on Funnyjunk – though the site has disabled its search function, and Inman said that it had removed the many copied ones he has complained about.So everything is at status quo ante – apart from the money going to the National Wildlife Federation and the American Cancer Society. Let's hope the sick dolphins appreciate it.•Danny Bradbury is a freelance journalist
An Australian judge has fined Apple A$2.25m for misleading customers that its latest iPad is compatible with 4G broadband internet.Justice Mordy Bromberg of the federal court ruled Apple misled the public for two months of 2012 with claims in its advertising wrongly implying that the "iPad with WiFi + 4G," could connect directly to the  mobile data network operated in Australia by Telstra.Bromberg fined Apple A$2.25m (£1.45m/US$2.29m) and ordered it pay A$300,000 in costs for contravening consumer law.Apple admitted to the misleading advertising.The same "iPad with WiFi + 4G" advertising campaign was used worldwide, the judgment said."Apple's desire for global uniformity was given a greater priority than the need to ensure compliance with the Australian consumer law," the judge said. "Conduct of that kind is serious and unacceptable."The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) took legal action against Apple in March after it rolled out the first wave of new iPad tablets in the Australian market.The court had determined Apple had implied "that an iPad with WiFi + 4G could connect directly to the Telstra LTE mobile data network in Australia, which it could not do", the ACCC said. Apple had "engaged in conduct that was liable to mislead the public".Apple had already promised to email all buyers of its new iPad in Australia to offer them a refund and agreed to post warnings that its new iPad "is not compatible with current Australian 4G LTE networks and WiMAX networks".Telstra's 4G network in Australia uses a different frequency from the new iPad.
Neo-Nazis may be using YouTube's revenue-sharing system on adverts to obtain payments from companies such as Virgin Media, BT and O2 without their knowledge or consent.By putting videos on YouTube, extremist groups including Blood &amp; Honour and Combat 18 have been benefiting from the automatic addition of ads to their videos. Revenue-sharing agreements under Google's Adsense programme allow YouTube members posting non-copyrighted videos to benefit from ads that appearin a panel to the right of the videos.Some of the ad revenue is paid to the video owner and extremist groups have used this aspect of Google's business model to generate funding. When it was alerted to this, Google deleted the videos – but there is no indication it has put in place any protections to prevent a repetition.Videos uploaded to neo-Nazi channels often appear to have the intention of rallying support by inciting hatred against minority and ethnic groups, despiteYouTube's rules stating: "We do not permit hate speech (speech which attacks or demeans a group based on race or ethnic origin, religion, disability, gender, age, veteran status, and sexual orientation/gender identity)."Google said the volume of uploads – with 60 hours of video uploaded every minute – meant nearly 10 years' worth of content was uploaded to the site every day. It does not screen content; instead it relies on users of the website to flag inappropriate videos as a form of self-regulatory crowd-sourced control."YouTube's community guidelines prohibit hate speech, and we encourage our users to flag material that they believe breaks the rules," a Google spokesperson said. "We review all flagged videos quickly, and we promptly remove material that violates our guidelines."Videos with ads showing because of content claims created by YouTube's automated content ID system are subject to the same removal policies after they've been flagged by users."However, Combat 18 members or sympathisers who view the video would have no incentive to flag the content, so repeated viewings would benefit the group through revenue sharing. Under the terms of AdSense, if non-copyrighted videos prove popular the user is invited to joinGoogle's partner programme. YouTube channels are used to provide links to extremist materials and neo-Nazi websites, where discussion groups and literature can be accessed.Included in these links are: the Turner Diaries, linked to a number of hate crimes such asthe Oklahoma City bombing in 1995 by Timothy McVeigh; and the diaries of the white supremacist Kevin Harpham,sentenced to 32 years in prison in Decemberfor planting a backpack bomb on the route of the Martin Luther King Jr Day parade in Washington.German police have beeninvestigatingthe YouTube account of one of the National Socialist Underground members arrested in February concerning the murder of 10 Turkish immigrants in a series of racist killings spanning almost 10 years. David Copeland, theLondon nail bomber, and Anders Breivik, whocarried out the 2011 Norway attacks, are known to have sourced ideas and suspected to have received support from online communities.When told its ads were being associated with neo-Nazi content, Virgin Media said: "Virgin Media has a strict policy on its ad placement, so we are concerned about ads appearing against unrelated and unsuitable content on YouTube. We are currently engaged with our advertising partners and Google to understand what measures can be put into place to prevent these occurrences going forwards."In December, the actor and TV presenter and writer Stephen Fry – whose mother's aunt and cousins died in Auschwitz –tweeted: "Disturbing that such blue chip companies are, in a way, supporting neo-Nazi YouTube content."Robert Levine, the former executive editor of Billboard magazine who writes about copyright technology, says it is an ethical problem: "I've looked at these videos. It's very disturbing stuff."Like Google in general, YouTube hides its corporate irresponsibility behind freedom of speech. But there are times when it seems more interested in its own freedom to sell advertising."The science fiction author and columnistCory Doctorowargues against intervention. "I don't know if I agree with the underlying 'dangerous and irresponsible' premise. I'm a free speech advocate, and I believe that the answer to bad speech is more speech," he said."Despite having hailed from Canada, where we have hate speech laws, I've concluded that they're generally worse than their alternatives, and are generally used by powerful people against people with less power and that actual 'hate crimes' are generally crimes per se and don't need further 'supercrime' status in order to successfully prosecute them."A YouTube spokesperson said: "Seeing ads next to videos on YouTube does not indicate that those content providers are making money as a member of our partner programme. Ads can also be shown next to videos if they contain material that rights holders like the music industry have registered through YouTube's automated Content ID system."• This article was amended on 22 June 2012 to change the headline, which originally said "How neo-Nazis are making money from YouTube advertising" and the first paragraph, which began "Neo-Nazis are using YouTube's revenue-sharing system…", and to append a quote from a YouTube spokesperson received after the article was originally published.
Microsoft has shown off the next version of its mobile phone operating system, Windows Phone 8 – but admitted that it will not work on existing Windows Phone handsets such as Nokia's Lumia range.The company unveiled the new software at an event in San Francisco on Wednesday, explaining that it will be built on the same core code as its upcoming Windows 8 tablet and PC operating system, expected to be launched in autumn, when the new phone software will also be available.The new phones – from handset makers Nokia, Samsung Electronics, HTC of Taiwan and China's Huawei – will feature voice commands, Skype calling, near-field communication (NFC) for wireless transactions and built-in Nokia maps with turn-by-turn navigation.Dual-core and moreThey will also run on dual-core processors, which should improve video and other playback capability. The phones, which will be available in three screen resolutions, will have an updated, customisable start screen in Microsoft's new "Metro" style, which centers on touchable "tiles" – large icons – to represent people, applications and services which update in real time, for example showing Facebook posts or new email. Metro is also the interface for Windows 8.Windows Phone is struggling to keep up with the runaway success of Google's Android mobile software, for which more than 900,000 devices are being activated every day. The research company Gartner said that in the second quarter Android sales were 56% of the world smartphone market, while Apple's iPhone had 23%. Rivals such as Windows Phone, RIM's BlackBerry, and Nokia's now-outdated Symbian had single-digit shares.However, the success of the phones partly depends on the marketing support they get from carriers, especially in the US where pricing plans minimise differences between products. The largest US mobile operator, Verizon Wireless, said in April that it expected to have Windows Phone 8 devices in time for the Christmas shopping season, as it wanted a strong competitor to the iPhone and Android.The second-largest US mobile operator, AT&amp;T, and fourth largest, T-Mobile USA, said they planned to carry Windows Phone 8 smartphones later this year. The third-largest US operator, Sprint, declined to comment.Microsoft said that the use of a common core meant customers would have a greater choice of phones and applications, and be able to switch between multiple machines more easily. The move follows thelaunch of the Surface tableton Monday, Microsoft's effort to join the fast-growing mobile computing market and to tackle Apple's iPad head on.No upgrade pathBut existing devices such as Nokia's Lumia range, which run the current Windows Phone 7.5 version, won't be able to update to the next version – and apps written exclusively for Windows Phone 8 won't run on older handsets. However, existing apps will run on the new platform.It is common on all smartphone platforms for newer apps not to run on older operating software – but it's unusual for handsets less than two years old to be unable to upgrade to new software. Apple's iOS 5, released last October, and forthcoming iOS 6, expected this autumn, will run on the iPhone 3GS, released in summer 2009. Android handsets bought in the same timeframe can usually be upgraded to the latest Android 4.0 software.Greg Sullivan, senior product manager for Windows Phone, said that existing phones would not be able to make the full upgrade because the new software was built to take advantage of certain hardware capabilities – such as dual-core processors – which existing Windows Phone handsets did not have.Instead, there would be an "interim" version of Windows Phone – 7.8 – which would bring a number of core elements from Windows Phone 8 to older devices."The underpinnings of Windows Phone 7 are the primary reason we haven't had support for multicore chips … it's why we haven't had LTE [high-speed mobile broadband] on CDMA [the data system used by Verizon], which requires [the next-generation internet protocol] IPv6, and why we haven't taken advantage of the latest generation of SOCs [system on chips]," Sullivan said.Stall at the stall?Analysts were nonplussed, seeing the break between the existing Windows Phone and the still-unclear release date of the next software as imperilling existing hardware partners – particularly Finland's Nokia, which has staked its smartphone future on Windows Phone."If Nokia does its job right, consumers will want to upgrade to the next Lumias anyway, so those models [had] better come fast, as [sales of] the [Lumia] 800 and 900 will stall," Carolina Milanesi, Gartner's smartphone analyst,observed. "It is certainly not good news for the Lumia 900."Nokia, which until the start of 2011 was the leader in both the featurephone and smartphone markets,launched its Lumia 900 smartphonein the US in April in an attempt to regain a foothold in that crucial market. But eager buyers who rushed to buy them may be disappointed that their phones will not run the new software.Windows Phone 8 includes a new Wallet hub designed to support NFC payments and the ability to store credit card information, member cards, and frequent flier cards. "Google has the NFC payment part, Apple has the Passbook thing, we'll have both," said Sullivan. SD cards can also be used as additional storage, and can be transferred between devices – giving the phones a capability that Android phones have long had, and which the iPhone lacks.Microsoft's Windows phones have been well reviewed but have not caught on in the market. Partly that has been unfamiliarity, and partly bad timing: the launch in November 2010 came just as Android handset makers and Apple were hitting their stride, leaving Microsoft – then without Nokia as a partner – to try to push the first version of its software with companies which then saw more opportunity in Android.Another factor that has been blamed is that there are only 100,000 or so apps available, compared to 500,000 or so for both Apple and Android devices. Nor has there been the capability to buy add-on functions within an app – though that will be rectified in Windows Phone 8.
Google launched its Google+ initiative in June 2011: part standalone social network and part social layer for existing services like Gmail and YouTube and its search engine. A year later, how has it done?In April 2012, the companyannouncedthat "more than 170 million people have upgraded to Google+" – carefully-chosen words amid criticism that while people are enabling Google+ in their tens of millions, many less are actively using the standalone social networking part.I sat down with Google's vice president of product Bradley Horowitz, in the UK for the LeWeb London conference, to dig into what Google+ is for, what impact it's really having, and how it might evolve.Horowitz stresses the two-pronged nature of Google+, and the idea of the social layer as a way for "users to upgrade their relationship with Google". But what does that mean?"People have had a pretty ephemeral relationship with Google: they typed in their query, hit enter and we sent them on their way. It was a pretty light touch, and we don't know a whole lot about those users," he says."If we get to know our users – have them introduce themselves: 'I'm Jeremy, I'm living in this zip code, I have these friends and these interests…' – we can provide an amazing quality of service. A better phone, better browser, better YouTube, better Gmail… Everything will get better if we understand our users better."This hasn't historically been the corporate strategy, of course. Sending users on their way as quickly as possible was the reason Google's search engine first came to prominence."We've gone 10-plus years not really developing the infrastructure that would allow users to declare who they know and what they care about," says Horowitz.Google+ is the company's big bet on making up for this lost time, along with that standalone social network element. Late to the party given Facebook's 900m+ users, Google is hoping features like its Circles for easier privacy; Hangouts for video chatting and its recently-revamped mobile app will make it a contender.Back to the stats, though. "170m users have upgraded their Google relationship into a Google+ account – it's quite a lot more than that, but I will let our CEO announce that when he's ready," says Horowitz, who goes on to refer to "several hundred million users" having made this step."How is our social network doing? We're seeing record-setting days every time we look at the graphs and metrics, and the launch of our mobile apps has driven huge amounts of mobile usage and engagement."Waiting for metricsThis is the problem for an outsider trying to judge the success of Google+ so far. The key metrics are clear for its social network – number of active users, and how active those users are – but Google is keeping those to itself. Unsurprising, given the inevitable comparisons with Facebook.But the success of Google+ as a social layer across all of Google's services is harder to define. Are people finding more relevant search results? Sharing more YouTube videos? Using Circles as a key filter in their Gmail? "We're not sharing that level of metrics," says Horowitz.Another area of scrutiny for Google+ has been its status as a platform for developers. With applications a key element in the growth of Facebook, you might imagine the pressure is on for Google to catch up on the APIs side of things. Google itself is resisting that pressure."We have been very thoughtful and deliberate in how we have rolled out our APIs," says Horowitz. "We have been working with a handful of named partners to learn what they want in the APIs, and to learn how users react to the content sharing using those APIs."The latest partner is Flipboard, announced at LeWeb London. Horowitz says Google+ integration was the "number one most-requested feature" for the personalised magazine app, and praises its deep integration, which goes beyond just a button to share articles to Google+."It's another step in our journey of being more open with the APIs that we're creating," he says. However, Google is also portraying this slow-but-steady rollout as a contrast to Facebook, and some of the challenges that social network has faced in balancing the interests of developers and users."One factor is doing right by users," he says. "Sometimes the agendas of an application developer might be misaligned with the agenda of users. A game might want to get viral, explosive distribution and reach as broad an audience as possible, but some users might find these efforts annoying – or worse, spam."Is being more cautious about its API rollout the best way for Google to maintain a balance between these interests: developers looking for distribution and users trying to control their streams? Horowitz hopes that safeguards in Google+ will succeed where Facebook has occasionally run into difficulties."They're not necessarily at odds: they just need to be put in balance, but we have seen from our competitors in the market that it's very easy to get these ecosystems wrong" he says."Changing the rules about how these systems work, or yanking developers around is very annoying and unfair to them. We want to ensure we roll it out in a way that's not only good for users, but for developers. Unfortunately that means asking most of them to wait for now."More friction, not lessWhile on the subject of signal-to-noise ratio in social network streams, what about frictionless sharing? It's a key part of how Facebook sees its users interacting with applications and external services, but it's also sparked lots of debate about over-sharing.Is sharing every song streamed / movie played / meal cooked / etc in Google+'s future?"Friction can be a very good thing. We've introduced quite a bit of friction on our system," says Horowitz, noting that to share something on Google+ requires specifying which Circles to share it with."That moment of pause gives people the security of ensuring that their privacy isn't violated. We think that's the trade-off people want: considered, thoughtful and authentic, as opposed to everything shown to the least common denominator of 'public'."He goes on. "We've introduced friction into the system as a design constraint that forces people to be thoughtful and considered. As a philosophy, it's unique."The final area of discussion with Horowitz concerns mobile – hugely important for Facebook and Twitter already, and clearly high on Google's agenda for Google+ too.The redesigned mobile apps have been widely praised for their striking design – not traditionally seen as a strength for the company – while features that were missing from the initial versions like Hangouts have been added quickly.A question about Apple's integration of Facebook in iOS 6, and how Google might tie Google+ deeper into its own Android OS in response, leads Horowitz to talk instead about Google's commitment to iOS itself."iOS is a hugely successful platform, users want us there, so we'll be there. But that's not at the expense of having an incredibly awesome and great Android experience. There is more work to be done there, but nothing specific to announce at this stage."Earlier comments about how smartphones should work hint at Google's determination to make Google+ a critical part of Android, however."My phone should understand Circles, and it should know that if my wife calls me, the phone should ring at any hour, but if a headhunter or someone who's not in a Circle calls, send the straight to voicemail," he says.In the meantime, more features will debut in the Google+ mobile apps, rather than the web version. One example already is the ability for a user to choose to see only Google+ posts from their surrounding area, but more will follow."Increasingly as we see usage of mobile skyrocket, the proposition of mobile-first – developing features first or exclusively on mobile – becomes even more viable," he says. "It's where our users and usage is. You will see us really double down on mobile… We're good listeners at Google, and we have the advantage of a very vocal base."
LG Electronics, South Korea's second-largest conglomerate, is losing ground in the mobile phone stakes even as it goes head-to-head with Samsung in the battle for the living room.In 2011, LG's mobile devices business accounted for 22% of overall revenues, which totalled almost $49bn (£31bn). Late to the game in the development of smartphones, its mobile phones division ranked third globally in total phones sold in 2010 behind Nokia and Samsung – then in 2011 fell to fourth place behind Nokia, Samsung and Apple.Kenneth Hong, the global director of corporate communications for LG, spoke with us about how and why LG is sticking with the mobile phone business despite a series of tough quarters.An American living in Seoul, Hong has held this position since 2008.LG's mobile phone division has been losing money for a while, but you keep at it. That's quite unusual.KH:Not for Koreans. When was the last time you saw a Korean company give up on something? Seriously, I can't think of any.So is that why LG is so persistent with the mobile phones?KH:Well, we think it's a blip. We think it's a blip in our history. We don't think it's a trend of any sort. A lot of companies will have stumbled in one particular product line and recovered. At no stage of the five difficult quarters was there any ever talk of us getting out of the business.Never?KH:Never. It was just like, we stumbled, let's get back on track. I mean, it's such a huge part of our business that I don't think people even want to talk about it. It's not even part of the vocabulary to get out of the phone business. It's a huge driver for innovation. Because there are new phones every three months. There's a new TV every year. If you want to be an innovation company, you've got to stay in a business that requires constant development. That's the phone business. We're not developing new washers and dryers every month.It's a leadership kind of area to be in. We want to be in it because we do consider ourselves to be an innovative company and to not do phones would make us slow.So you think a lot of the innovation at LG is happening in the phone division?KH:Absolutely. No question about it. Just because of the short time span that you are given to develop something new. In terms of displays, in terms of materials, composite materials, in terms of wireless technologies like LTE [for high-speed mobile broadband].That stuff – you've got to come up with something new every couple of months. You've got to always stay on your toes. With TV we developed our new cinema screen TV for this year and we'll spend nine months marketing it. That's not the same thing. So yeah, it's critical for our long-term development.What happened with the Optimus 3D phone?KH:Still going. We actually introduced a part two this year [Optimus 3D Max]. Usually when you develop a sequel that means you're happy with the first one. But you see a need to keep developing it. That's similar to what I just said. 3D may not be our bread and butter, in phones, but it's a huge innovation driver. Go back to Apple, the Newton. They were the first company to have the tablet. And now who's the leader in tablets?So it doesn't matter if nobody buys it right now because it's a driver for innovation down the road?KH:There are people who are going to have this advantage just having been in this field for the future. That's kind of how we see 3D. It may not be mainstream today, but it will be. We're betting the entire TV division on it.But part of that, we're carrying over and trying to leverage that knowledge over on the phones. And right now, as far as I know, we're the only company in the world that has two 3D phones on the market. One of our competitors tried it [HTC with the Evo 3D, which went on sale in June 2011], but I guess they didn't like the outcome, because they haven't said anything else about it this year. [The Evo 3D was discontinued in April 2012.]We want to keep pushing. We sold a million 3D version ones. To us that's good enough. There's a million people who were interested; we're going to keep building on that number. People think it didn't sell very well – it was never meant to. It was a flagship in glasses-free 3D. It's an innovation driver for the future of 3D, which we already have assumed will not require glasses. How do you develop that no-glasses technology unless you're playing around with it at a smaller size?I assume the division is trying to turn things around, trying to increase market share. What is going to do that?KH:Right now the bread and butter will be LTE. We're in a great market for LTE, Korea being one of the first four countries to roll it out [the US, Japan and Canada are the others]. So we're in a really good position to be developing this technology. Plus we've been working on LTE technology for many years beyond just cell phones.But LTE for now is the big driver. Two years down the road it will be something different. We don't know. But right now there are three things that we're really pushing hard on. One is the LTE speed. Number two is the display. Our phone displays are really high-end, even better than Apple "retina". The third area that we're really focusing on is redoing all our design. We want our phones to have a certain look to them. Not like in the past where every phone had a different look. They all are going to start looking similar to the LTE 2 that we just announced.Let 's talk about that phone, the Optimus LTE 2. It came about three weeks ago. It's sold about 150,000 in Korea in the last couple of weeks, is that right?KH:That's including preorders. This is the version two of our first LTE phone. As far as we know, no other company has a version two of an LTE phone yet. If you look at the numbers in Korea, there's no question that LTE has taken hold. All our phones, starting this year, are going be LTE in Korea. We're not going to offer any phones that aren't. We already made that decision.What about the rest of the word? What about Europe?KH:It depends, because Europe doesn't have LTE region-wide yet. In markets where they do have LTE, it will be predominantly LTE phones, starting whenever they get LTE.In the US?KH:Not yet, because in the US LTE [coverage] is still spotty. It's not country-wide. I think in Korea it's 100% coverage already, but in the US with thethreefour carriers, they're not compatible. If you have Verizon LTE it doesn't work on AT&amp;T's LTE. They're totally different 4G services. At least in Korea we've got coverage nationwide. In the US it'll take a little bit longer.So basically, when you're talking about the mobile phone division, the push is LTE. That's the plan going forward?KH:LTE and display – the display is a big driver for us as well because, to be honest with you, when it comes to components, that's the one component that people have to look at every day. They don't have to look at the memory every day, they don't have to look at the battery every day, but they have to look at thedamnscreen every day. It's really an in-your-face kind of component.•This interview has been condensed and edited. Corrections: four, not three carriers.
Remember thatMay 1995 memo that Bill Gates sent to every Microsoftie about the threat of the internet? The iPad is a bigger threat than that, and you can see Microsoft's chiefs thinks that too from their behaviour. However, all they had to do when they realised the internet was a big deal was scale back MSN and rejig their browser play. The iPad made them rebuild Windows.To understand this threat, don't think about the paltry money that tech makes – think about real, proper, big, old money. Imagine – and (stand down, lawyers) this is just an impossible fantasy – imagine that one day the board of Coca-Cola wakes up and discovers that any form of flavoured water has been found to be as lethal as tobacco. That's not just a bad day in Atlanta. That's a bad day for the world economy.That's what's happening to Microsoft. This isn't just "oh, we're going to lose some sales – we feel a bit sad". This is total, utter, "oh, it turns out we can't sell anything at all". If Windows fails, Office fails, then the server products fail because there's no money. The online offerings don't stop failing; but because there's no money, the tools fail because there's no adoption, nor for that matter, any money. Screwing up the transition from PC to post-PC will make RIM's current market position seem like winning the lottery every single day.Hence why Windows 8 is so … weird. It's not an incremental update, it's a pitch into the future of what the world of computing might look like in 2017 to 2022. (After all, Windows XP is still going strong 11 years after its launch; why shouldn't Windows 8?) That world won't be based on WIMP (Windows, Icons, Menus and Pointers), it'll be centred around touch and being mobile. The industry shift from WIMP to touch is the same as the shift from the minicomputer to the microcomputer.But this article isn't about what Microsoft is doing, it's about why on Earth we developers are just blithely ignoring this shift..NETBack around the time that .NET was being introduced I built a website that was pretty popular. I sold advertising on it and managed to make enough money from it each month to cover the payments on a new and shiny Audi TT. And it was pretty nice one. Point is though, no matter how hard I worked that site it paid for the car, but it didn't pay for the mortgage, or holidays, or food, or clothes for the kids, or new computers, or washing machines when they broke. I personally feel that site was hugely successful, but I still needed a day job in order to actually do anything useful with my life.This thought was prompted, by the way, by yet another conversion with a Windows Phone dev saying that he wasn't going to do any Metro-style development because he hadn't got enough sales on on Windows Phone. This isn't the first time I've heard this; it comes up again and again. There is a lot of reticence out there with the Metro style because of this perceived problem with money.Hey, let me tell you – this industry of ours isn'tall about the Benjamins. We all need to be ignoring the money issue. You're probably not going to get paid enough to fund yourself full-time by developing mobile apps. (Remember:most consumer apps sink.)ChangeCertainly, most of you are not going to walk into the office today and find your boss standing next to a pile of money with which to encourage you to move all their ASP.NET applications to Metro-style, touch-centric apps.What you're really trying to do is time this so that you don't end up being 2022's equivalent of a Cobol programmer.And there are ways you can do that. For example, spend some time doing some Metro-style development out-of-hours so you'll understand touch better. You can then use that understanding to drive a programme of works to make your internal ASP.NET apps more touch-friendly. That's a step away from COBOL-2022, and actually can happen without too much heartache or controversial business plans. There's loads more examples like that where you can borrow new world thinking and apply it to current world projects.As developers we all know that we have to react and change. We have to be autodidacts, consuming blogs and tweets and building up our internal understanding of an external dynamic picture.What's harmful is when we confuse this with fantasy about being able to reap some sort of direct commercial benefit from the app stores. Dismissing doing any work at all on these new platforms out of hand is flawed thinking. The value from "playing with" this new stuff isn't money. It's knowledge, and fun – and perhaps some recognition for a job well done either from building something people like that's sold, or building an open source framework that genuinely helps people of which there are loads of fantastic examples.And the story is no better over on the App Store side. A figure of$5bn (£3.2bn) paid out for developerssounds huge. But it's not – Apple's App Store has been going for 47 months. That's just £66.5m per month. A commercial software venture needs a minimum of £500k to be both surviving and interesting. That means the App Store – the biggest game in town – can only support 1,596 software companies with £500k a year in revenues. And that's globally. It's too small a market to support you, regardless of how fantastic you are.And just how cool is Surface anyway?Look at this teaser video – it's like a bad-ass Microsoft from a future dystopian world came back in time to lay some smack down on the guys from Cupertino.(And it's fascinating to compare it,as the Seattle Times does, with past Microsoft ads, and the latest iPad one.)Are you honestly telling me that you don't want one of those? Because if you write software for it in your spare time, busting out the credit card for that bad boy is eminently explainable to even the hardest hearted financial controller and/or spouse. (Mind you, that's where I was with my Lumia, andlook how that panned out.)ConclusionPost-PC is the biggest thing that's going to happen for the next 10-12 years. Microsoft (can we say Steve Sinofsky? Of course we can) has done a great job with Windows 8 in lining up the whole platform to survive a shift to post-PC. (Of course, their mileage may vary.) Sinofsky would not have laid waste to Windows 3.11 through Windows 7 unless this was a big deal and the writing on the wall was very, very obvious.It doesn't matter how good you are –youare not (on average, lightning strikes excepted) going to make money out of mobileanywhere. Don't start getting into Metro for that. Make a change because learning new stuff is fun, and you might get some recognition out of something cool. More than that, do it so that you're not spending 2022 hacking around in tomorrow's COBOL. Web apps and desktop WIMP stuff will not remain sexy or relevant for much longer.It doesn't matter whether you choose to align yourself with iOS, Cocoa Touch, and Xcode, or whether you align yourself with Windows, Metro-style, and Visual Studio, although I know which I'd pick. Just do something. Carpe diem, and all that.•Matthew Baxter-Reynolds is an independent software development consultant, trainer and author based in the UK.  His favourite way to communicate with like-minded technical people is Twitter:@mbrit.
You get the impression that it's been a while since Mark Lamia sat down to write any code. Even though the Treyarch studio head is this year's keeper of the Call of Duty flame, as his company beavers away on Black Ops II, he doesn't come across like a typically geeky, eye-contact-shunning developer.Instead, he bounces around with the enthusiasm of a puppy, and speaks articulately about his latest progeny. He must have a steely side, though, since he has overseen Treyarch's rise from the least fancied of Call of Duty's twin developers to the franchise's saviour: Treyarch rallied around when Infinity Ward self-destructed, 2010's Black Ops is still viewed by many as superior to Modern Warfare 3 and, with Black Ops II, Treyarch is bringing a long-overdue refreshment to the insanely popular franchise.As is always the way with Call of Duty, publisher Activision has leaked few details of Black Ops II, even with the game's November launch looming. Just two single-player levels were on show at E3, and Treyarch and Activision are refusing to talk about multiplayer and the game's Zombies mode until a later date.However, a six-minute trailer made for the giant panoramic screen overlooking Activision's stand at E3 showed that Black Ops II's story takes place in 1986 (in places including Angola and Afghanistan) as well as 2025, and that helped us to coax some further details from Lamia."I think it will be about two-thirds set in 2025," he says. "But there are missions that occur in the late 1980s, during the first cold war. There are many things going on there. There's a generation story. There's a juxtaposition of warfare, which is very different, and which is interesting to do in the same game."There's a narrative arc of the villain – you get to learn about him and his motivations, and how he came to be the villain during that first cold war; he's called Menendez. [Your squad-mate] Woods is going to look at you and tell you: 'Your father and I, we first met Menendez back in the 80s.' And then you're going to go into those missions."It's a true sequel in that you are going to experience part of the game through the eyes of Woods and Mason. You'll go back and forth in time, with your memories, which are all things that we like to do in our fiction. It's a good narrative device, I think."Lamia did confirm, though, that the late-80s narrative thread won't feature in Black Ops II's multiplayer, at least at launch: "The multiplayer game is exclusively focused in the 2025 period. So, the themes, the technology, what it means to hack a networked battlefield, the weaponry, the technology on the weapons – it's all 2025."Branching and sandbox playOne aspect of Black Ops II that was aired at E3 – and which grabbed a lot of attention – was the way in which Treyarch has introduced a branching storyline, gameplay choices and even sandbox-style (known as Strikeforce) levels to the previously rigid, single-path Call of Duty campaign blueprint.So, was Lamia looking to shake up the franchise? "Absolutely. Directionally, we wanted to shake things up and push the boundaries of the franchise – literally; that was a stated goal of ours. We haven't gotten into multiplayer and Zombies, but on all fronts, the attitude was that not only have we made a lot of Call of Duty games, but the players have played a lot of Call of Duty games, and we knew that there are things people love about the franchise."So we had to figure out how to retain the core that people loved, but also to give them new experiences. And to do some things that we've been wanting to do that take some time to develop, and that the team was up for doing this time around."So how will those new elements work, and what will they bring to the Black Ops II gameplay experience? "Strikeforce levels are about how you introduce non-linearity to the campaign structure," Lamia says. "That's our answer to maintaining the integrity of that cinematic gameplay that you have with, for example, the experience of the Los Angeles level, but opening up the gameplay with some choice, which we think is a good thing for the game design."But then, there's the geopolitical arc of the narrative, and that's what the Strikeforce levels are going to touch and affect: the cold war that's going on in 2025, and its hot-spots. Depending your success or failure in those, that will shape the geopolitical tensions and relationships that are going on in the world."So it sounds as though that should add replay value to Black Ops II's single-player game – recent Call of Duty games have universally been criticised for the shortness of their solo campaigns. Lamia, not surprisingly, agrees."There is something that multiplayer has, but the campaign hasn't had so much of: replayability. If you look at the Strikeforce levels, and you look at us going after choice and sandbox gameplay, what it does is put replayability inside the campaign."Look at the branching storylines: all these things, I believe, will drive people who enjoy the campaign experience to go back and play it again, because you're going to have some new paths that you didn't experience, or even in the case of Strikeforce levels, levels that you didn't even play: it's possible that you might not play all the Strikeforce levels on your first play-through. And then there are the story-endings. I think the goal at the highest level from a design perspective was accessibility plus depth of gameplay plus replayability. To me, for a campaign, that's the Holy Trinity."Near-future weaponryAnother aspect of Black Ops II that exists outside of Call of Duty's comfort zone is its futuristic weaponry. Iin the various demos at E3, we saw a mega-powerful sniper rifle that can see and shoot through concrete; auto-locking missile batteries; armed battlefield quad-copters; and the FA-38, a Harrier-influenced hover-jet.Treyarch appears to have had fun with that aspect of the game, and Lamia claims its vision of the battlefield of 2025 is more realistic than you might think."We always try to justify our technology. So now we're going 13 years out, we've got Moore's Law that says every 24 months, processing power is going to double. And the only way we can conceptualise that is to go 13 years back."So, 13 years back, the CPU of a multimillion-dollar piece of hardware that they would use to run the military is now as powerful as the Xbox 360 or PS3 that you're playing Call of Duty on. Now go 13 years forward with that in mind. Having that mindset, knowing how advanced technology can be, and knowing that form-factors get smaller, we've tried to craft our own plausible weapons."Every single time we come up with something, it has to have a justifiable story that people can believe. I actually think that at times, we're being a bit conservative, because it's hard for people to conceptualise the advancements that are going to occur over the next decade."Multiplayer hintsLamia wouldn't be drawn on specifics regarding Black Ops II's crucial multiplayer side, but we did manage to coax some broad hints about it from him"The ambition that the team has with the campaign is just as large for the multiplayer and for Zombies," he says. "So you can expect that you're not going to get the exact same thing. We want to make sure people get what they love, but we're going to give them some new stuff."And I think we're doing it in a way that's going to appeal to the hardcore, but also to allow new entrants into the franchise, but without degrading from either experience. It's a very delicate balance, but we've been doing this for a long time, and I think we've got a great offering for everybody."And, of course, this will be the first Call of Duty game developed with the Elite online service up and running."We have the benefit of seeing how Elite is being used out there, and listening to the community. There are a couple of things emerging that I'm hearing: people would like it to be more accessible when they are playing the game, so that they don't have to go to another device. And I just think, in general, having it more tightly integrated is a good aspiration."As November approaches, Activision and Treyarch will carefully drip-feed us with details about Black Ops II's multiplayer and Zombies, as well as a greater insight into its campaign. All of which will inevitably build up to a crescendo of hype as the game prepares to launch.But the early indications, at least, suggest Black Ops II will be more deserving of that hype than any iteration of Call of Duty has been for several years.•Steve Boxer travelled to E3 2012 with Activision
It's the emotionless of so many violent movies that I'm becoming anxious about, not the rare violent movies (Bonnie and Clyde, The Godfather, Mean Streets) that make us care about the characters and what happens to them. A violent movie that intensifies our experience of violence is very different from a movie in which acts of violence are perfunctoryPauline Kael, 1974The guy comes at Joel with a shotgun. There is nowhere to run, and cowering somewhere nearby is Joel's 14-year-old accomplice, Ellie. The two men wrestle, each trying to get a clear hold of the weapon. But Joel wins, takes aim and blasts the stranger in the face at close range. He dies in a seeping pool of blood. This scene plays out on a huge screen at Sony's pre-E3 press conference. As the shot rings out, the crowd roars its approval.In the week that followed E3, Dean Takahashi of US tech site Venture Beat began to research the tweets and news stories emanating from the news conferences that foreshadowed the event. He found that this moment of extreme violence created more online buzz than anything else shown by Sony, Microsoft or Nintendo. "One could say that The Last of Us 'won' E3,"he writes.But it was also part of a trend that troubled some insiders. Veteran designer Warren Spectorrecently told GI.bizthat the ultraviolence has to stop, claiming that mature games are fetishising bloodshed for an adolescent mindset. And then there was the controversy surrounding the Hitman: Absolution trailer which saw Agent 47 slaughtering a group of women wearing nun costumes.So is The Last of Us representative of this new wave of ultraviolence – an empty, half-witted celebration of super-detailed gore effects? Or does the developer have something to say about humans and violence? I think, I hope, it's the latter.In development for more than two years, The Last of Us is the latest game from Santa Monica-based studio Naughty Dog, creator of the famed Uncharted series. It's a post-apocalyptic survival adventure, set at least a decade after the outbreak of deadly plague. Most of the human race has fallen victim to a parasitic fungi that turns people into demented monsters – it's a scenario inspired by the real-life Cordyceps sinensis, which infects an insect host, replacing its tissue and even controlling its behaviour. The debut trailer for the game shows lead characters Joel and Ellie fighting off a couple of fungal victims, their heads hideously swollen and mushroom-like.Although news of the game started trickling out late last year, little is really known about the story. Joel is a middle-aged survivor, determined and alienated, while Ellie is a girl who has known nothing but this endless battle to stay alive. Together they form an alliance that becomes something of a father-daughter relationship. This, claims Naughty Dog, is the central focus of the game.In the mission shown during the Sony press conference, we see Joel and Ellie running through the overgrown streets of Pittsburgh, trees sprouting through the Tarmac roads, luscious vines hanging from the crumbling facade of skyscrapers. They enter a once lavish hotel, marvelling at the ruined beauty of its architecture before getting down to the matter at hand – escape. They're trying to reach bridge in the distance, they know they're not safe while they're still in the city, but the route is blocked by overturned traffic and stagnant flood water. The hotel is the only way through.But they're not alone. Clambering out onto a balcony, they hear the voices of other survivors. "Joel recognises them as hunters," explains creative director, Neil Druckmann. "These are people who'll kill other survivors to steal their equipment. They'll shoot Joel or Ellie just for bullets or alcohol, anything they can get. The danger is so real, Joel is not going to take any chances, he's going to take them down."And that's what he does. Through the next five minutes of the trailer, he stalks the hunters, shooting one, strangling another – the action appears highly choreographed, like the fight scenes in Uncharted, but many times more brutal. Ellie plays a role too."Both Ellie and the other NPCs are using a brand new AI system that we developed for this game," says Druckmann. "We wanted all the human characters to feel much more believable in their actions. If the conditions are right and Ellie has a weapon in her hand, she can get you out of situations. Likewise, when you're stealthing, Ellie can point out where enemies are." In this sequence she manages to stick one assailant in the back with her knife, giving Joel valuable recovery time.Is this gratuitous? Amid the madness of E3, where graphic violence can often be a key selling point, it feels like it. But then, The Last of Us feels like a very different game to say, Black Ops 2 or Medal of Honor. It's not a game about beating the enemy, it's a game about surviving, and keeping a relationship alive.While many have pointed to obvious influences such as I Am Legend and The Walking Dead, I think the most important reference point could be Cormac McCarthy's astonishing and heart-breaking The Road, about a man and his son wandering a scorched America after some kind of fiery armageddon.There, like here, the violence is stark and shocking – there are gangs of hunters who cannibalise their prey. But, certainly in McCarthy's novel, the violence has moral weight: it shows  the scale of the threat, the sheer horror that the characters face. It also contrasts with the love they carry – the last vestiges of human light amid the nightmarish squalor.This, ultimately, is what Naughty Dog is getting at in The Last of Us. "We're intrigued by this idea of extreme contrasts," says Druckmann. "Thereisextreme violence, we wanted the violence to be realistic and believable so the stakes are real. But this also contrast with the extreme emotions of loyalty and love, and the sacrifice that these characters are willing to make for each other. Also, we're exploring this dark theme of mankind being decimated, but it's juxtaposed with the beauty of nature reclaiming our society. We find that stuff gorgeous and inviting. We want to explore it."In many ways, then, the game is a more honest comment on the Uncharted experience. It has the same engine (albeit updated) and many of the same mechanisms – it is about exploration, about working out how to progress through densely detailed environments, using objects such as ladders and planks to access new areas. It also has that same sense of co-operation: Joel and Ellie often have to work together to solve puzzles, just as Nathan and Sully do.But always in Uncharted, the violence perpetrated by Nathan is held at arm's length from the narrative. Drake is depicted as a charming rogue, but his actions are essentially psychotic – he kills hundreds without flinching. I wrote aboutthe narrative dissonance of violencein May, in relation to Max Payne, but also brought up what Uncharted creator Amy Hennig admitted was an uncanny valley of narrative in her game – the story conflicts with the player interactivity to a degree.This is partly what Pauline Kael was saying about violence in movies. In many games, violence is a casual act, an unquestioned mechanic in an interactive slaughter house. But here things seem different. When Joel throws a Molatov cocktail at two enemies, burning them to death, Ellie shrieks, "Joel?!" in disbelief. After every confrontation, the duo are shocked and breathless until the survival instinct kicks in again.This, we're being told, is no production line of choreographed assaults. Metal pipes, rusty guns and brute force are the weapons; death, mutilation and horror are the consequences. Gone is the fetishised military action of Call of Duty and its ilk – replaced with raw, improvised violence. It is the stuff of desperation rather than professionalism. It is the stuff of Mean Streets rather than Rambo V.And, as Naughty Dog keeps telling us, violence is not the focus. For a start, the game seems to be open enough to allow different player tactics. At a more intimate demo of the game the following day, journalists were shown the same mission again, only this time, Joel is able to use stealth elements, distracting hunters by throwing objects, then creeping past as they investigate the noise.There is violence here, too – we see a man battered with a metal pipe and another shot while he's trying to throw a molatov. But Druckmann insists there are much more peaceful approaches. "We're really trying to push player choice with this game. You don't have to go in all guns blazing, you can use stealth and take enemies out one by one or by distracting them, you can avoid them altogether. Exploration is also a big element – we want you to go off the beaten track and into rooms to find items – and then, depending on what you find, you can craft med kits, molotov cocktails, etc. You can become more offensive or defensive depending on your style of play."Within the distorting confines of E3, The Last of Us appeared to be the latest title to exploit the knee-jerk pleasure of graphic violence. But the game itself cannot be blamed for the unsettling howls of pleasure that accompanied the bloody climax of its E3 demo. Context is the key."Everything we're building is about this bond between Joel and Ellie," reiterates Druckmann when we approach the subject of violence and catharsis. And it could be that outside of these moments of peril, we'll get what The Road gives us – a study of characters surviving together and learning, and keeping humanity alive.This is important. We are entering an era both of photo-realism and of pervasive gaming, with multiple screens and seamless cross-platform narrative experiences. Developers will have to ask themselves vital questions about representation and reality, about what we'll accept as fantasy, and what needs to become figurative and guarded. With every generation of games technology, the responsibilities stack up, and the issues become more complex – especially for those whose darker content has no bearing, and no counter, in compassion.•The Last of Us is released on PS3 in 2013
Billed as "All-Star Entrepreneurs", Chad Hurley, Kevin Rose and Niklas Zennström shared the stage for a spot of technology futuregazing at the LeWeb London conference.Their credentials? Hurley was one of YouTube's co-founders, and is now CEO at AVOS Systems. Rose co-founded technology news aggregator Digg, but is now a partner at Google Ventures.Zennström's entrepreneurial career, meanwhile, has taken in Kazaa, Skype, Joost and Rdio, although his central role now is CEO and founding partner at Atomico Ventures. The discussion was moderated by blogger-turned-investor Michael Arrington of CrunchFund."Today there is so much more exciting stuff, opportunities on the internet and in the tech landscape than there was even five years ago," said Zennstrom. "Because of these growing platforms, the social graph, the mobile internet. There are more and more opportunities for new companies than there ever was before."He thinks the next five years promises another step up, despite economic woes around the world, and said that he's motivated by a chance to "give back" to the community with new technology ventures.And Hurley? "I'm here to have fun... I just like building new things. I like exploring and creating and working on problems." Hurley described AVOS as an "internal development platform" which helps the company launch new products quickly.It acquired social bookmarking service Delicious, has launched a Chinese version of it called mei.fm, and is working on Zeen, which "in essence allows people to build online magazines in a more visually rich way to present information".Zennstrom was asked about copycat technology startups, and said no, although he drew a distinction between "evolution and copying" – Skype didn't invent internet calling itself, but it developed its own proprietary technology to innovate within the category. "We had a lot of companies copying us!"Rose claimed that he gets the same feeling at Google Ventures when seeing an exciting new idea from an entrepreneur that he did as a startup himself. Arrington noted that Rose – unlike Hurley and Zennstrom – has not founded a startup that has achieved a "billion dollar exit" – but that he has invested in companies like Twitter, Zynga, Square, Chomp, Foursquare and other companies."Why are you so good at picking companies when you haven't been able to..." asked Arrington. "I think it comes down to execution," replied Rose, pointing out that he was still very young when running Digg. "I made a ton of mistakes... I put it a lot on me, and a lot on the competition coming up around it."He's bugged by this though: "As an entrepreneur you want to make something massive that changes the world, it's not about the dollar amount [of an exit]," he said. "I don't know if I'll ever get out there again... It's going to be a few years. I'm really enjoying what I'm doing now at Google Ventures, and I'm going to stick at that for a while."The panel were asked what their tips are for the next big thing in technology. Rose said the one idea he'd really like to see built involves TV-commerce, based on the much-anticipated launch of apps for TVs by Apple."Commerce is going to change, I'll be able to look at the TV and see the actual size of the garment," said Rose, saying he'd love to see "a QVC/gaming component of an application that is on the television that has to do with purchasing things".Zennström talked about the opportunities in "so many more people being connected" in the next five years, and the shift from 10 years ago, when companies focused on building technology, to the present day when they're focusing on building products.Big sectors? "Health and education, those are the areas that still need to be disrupted... I don't know anything about life science, but from an internet big-data, mobile devices – that part there is a great opportunity."However, Zennström also suggested that technology startups should be attacking the big, global problems like the financial crisis and climate change. "What about mining space asteroids?" chimed in Arrington. "No, not at all," replied a deadpan Zennström.Hurley said social networking itself needs a bit more disruption. "In general today, technology asks too much of people. I'm tired of tweeting, Liking, updating statuses," he said."Right now the positioning is that everything's going to be social, we're going to share everything with everyone. But I don't necessarily wanna see everything my friends are doing." He suggested that "passive personalisation" may be the solution to all this social noise.Rose suggested it's still early days for mobile apps, too. "There's gonna be 8-9 apps that we use every single day... Right now we probably know three or four of those apps." He cited person-to-person payments as potentially one of the others, with a clear winner yet to emerge.
Some heartening news from Capcom this morning. The publisher is set to release a new version of its absolutely lovely adventure game Okami, a tragically overlooked PlayStation 2 title with astonishing cell-shaded visuals.The game follows Japanese sun goddess Amaterasu as she returns to Earth in the shape of a wolf in order to defeat a demon who has turned the planet into a wasteland. It's essentially an action adventure, based around mythological themes, but players can also use a "celestial brush" to battle enemies as well as paint in the landscapes and return Earth to its former natural beauty. The watercolour visuals are designed to resemble the Japanese ink illustrations known as sumi-e, and they are breathtaking at times.The game was designed by Capcom's now defunct Clover Studio, which also worked on Viewtiful Joe and the offbeat fighting game, God Hand. Key members of the team went on to found Platinum Games, the creator of Vanquish, MadWorld and Bayonetta. Indeed, Okami designer Hideki Kamiya is now overseeing Platinum's E3 hit, Project P-100.The new version of the title, set to be released this autumn via PSN, will support the PlayStation Move controller, allowing player to paint with gestures – however, the Dual Shock pad is also supported.Meanwhile, any Nintendo owners reading this should check out the Wii conversion of the original game as well as the interesting DS sequel, Ōkamiden, a smash hit in Japan that was, again, rather overlooked in the West.
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy Microsoft's Surface tablet shames the PC industry &gt;&gt; BusinessweekAshlee Vance:With the release of Windows 8 looming, Microsoft was indeed desperate for a hardware company to do something to blunt Apple's runaway tablet machine. The Surface tablet represents an indictment of the entire PC and device industry, which has stood by for a couple of years trying to mimic Apple with a parade of hapless, copycat products.Rather than complaining, PC makers ought to take note of what Microsoft has produced.BlackBerry 10 hands-on (video) &gt;&gt; EngadgetRIM's principal architect, Gary Klassen, was kind of enough to furnish us with two devices running BB 10 and walk us through a short, intimate demo. To say that the OS we saw was anything but final would be a gross understatement. So far, the three key features the company's been confident enough to make public - camera, keyboard and app switching - are only mere elements of the still in-development UI and, as such, can't truly be relied upon to paint a complete picture of what the finalized end-user experience will be.Excited now?Mark Zuckerberg Is worth more than Nokia &gt;&gt; WiredWith graphs. Scary. (He's also worth more than RIM.)Microsoft Surface just made the MacBook Air and the iPad look obsolete &gt;&gt; GizmodoAfter yesterday's Surface event -- assuming they don't fumble the execution -- Gates' children may have found the weapon to stop the heirs of Jobs and turn the tide. Or at least make things exciting for everyone again.That weapon is Microsoft Surface. And it is beautiful. Beautiful and functional and simple and honest. Surface just bumped the MacBook Air and the iPad to the back seat, and it did so by hewing tightly to everything that Apple's Jonny Ive holds dear, according to the Ten Principles of his Jedi design master, Dieter Rams.Want to disable Facebook facial recognition? Read this &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityMany people feel distinctly uncomfortable about a site like Facebook learning what they look like, and using that information without their explicit permission. Although Facebook's motivation may currently be to interconnect more of its users, and make photo tagging a more seamless process, the idea of there being a database built of 900 million people's faces, with knowledge of who and what they like, and their personal relationships and conversations, puts a chill down the spine of privacy advocates.You too can be chilled; read on.Google+ chief: "I don't think we've hit hyper growth yet" &gt;&gt; FT Tech blog"I don't think we've hit that hyper growth phase," [Google vp Brad Horowitz] said, while pointing out that Google+ had still managed to reach the scale it had faster than many social networks."While I'm stunned at the growth... I do think our best days our ahead of us. A lot of the things I know we are yet to launch will make dramatic difference in usage."Google said in April that 100m of those 170m users logged in during the last month but Mr Horowitz gave little further information about how active its users really are today.The evolution of the computing value chain &gt;&gt; asymcoThe history of personal computing has come to be defined as the history of Microsoft. At least since 1981 Microsoft's operating systems have been the consistent market share leaders, and by a very large margin. That is about to change. This year Android will be on more devices sold than Windows. iOS is also set to also overtake Windows next year.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Apple will try to salvage a high-profile lawsuit against Google's Motorola Mobility unit on Wednesday at a crucial hearing in the smartphone patent wars between the two technology companies.Sitting in Chicago, federal judge Richard Posner will hear Apple argue that it should be able to seek an order barring the sale of some Motorola phones. Posner's decision could affect the iPhone maker's ability to negotiate favourable licensing agreements in its legal fights against Motorola and other competitors including Samsung and HTC.Apple has waged an international patent war since spring 2010, part of its attempt to either limit the growth of Google's Android or to restrict the number of iPhone-like features that it offers. So far it has had little effect; Android has gone in that time from around 100,000 phones being activated every day to more than 900,000 a day, and from less than 8m devices in use worldwide to more than 390m. Opponents of Apple, meanwhile, say it is using patents too aggressively in its bid to stamp out competition.Motorola was first to move, suing Apple in October 2010, a move widely seen as a pre-emptive strike. Apple filed its own claims against Motorola the same month. Among the patents being asserted are some originally filed by NeXT Computer, the company set up by the late Steve Jobs which was then bought by Apple in 1996.Posner issued a series of pretrial rulings that eliminated nearly all of Motorola's patent claims against Apple, while maintaining more of Apple's claims against Motorola. That meant Apple had more to gain at the trial, which had been set to start last week.But earlier this month Posner cancelled the trial, saying in a tentative ruling that neither side could prove damages. An injunction would be "contrary to the public interest," he wrote.Last week however Posner granted Apple's request for a hearing on a possible injunction, and ordered both sides to submit legal arguments in advance. Those documents were filed under seal on Monday.Motorola may also ask for an injunction on the one patent in the case that it can still assert against Apple.A clear victory in one of the US legal cases could strengthen Apple's hand in negotiating cross-licensing deals, where companies agree to let each other use their patented technologies, or to apply for bans on sales or changes to how devices which infringe its patents function.So far, though, Apple has shown little inclination to license its patents to Android device makers, although it signed aApple cross-licensing deal with Finland's Nokiain June 2011 in an out-of-court settlement after a protracted battle between the two over patents.By contrast Microsoft has persuaded a number of Android handset manufacturers to sign cross-licensing deals which in effect mean that it gets paid a stipend every time one of the handsets is shipped.Apple and Samsung are scheduled for trial on 30 July in federal court in San Jose, California.
So what are you doing so far this week, apart from drawing up fake Xbox 720 documents?
I wasn't sure about Doom 3 when it first arrived. The game's shonky AI, manipulative spawn points and dozy story seemed at odds with its astonishing id Tech 4-powered visuals. The title shifted over three million copies, though, so I was clearly in a minority.Soon, we'll all get a chance to reassess the game, though. On 19 October it's being re-released on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360, complete with the Resurrection of Evil add-on pack as well as several previously unreleased levels, packed together and entitled, The Lost Mission. The visuals have been optimised to support 3D, there's 5.1 Dolby sound and improved rendering and lighting. Other additions include optimised controls, a new checkpoint save system and a mounted flashlight – so you don't get scared of dark corners.This is all reasonable stuff, and it will be interesting to see what's in those new levels. Plus, for those who haven't already bought them a hundred times before, the first two Doom titles are included in the package.It's an interesting time to re-assess the Doom phenomenon. The series' run-and-gun gameplay, health packs and vanilla multiplayer looked dated for a while, but elements of old school design may well be coming back into favour, especially with Counter Strike also making a return this summer, courtesy of Valve's Global Offensive.Also, horror shooters were very much on the agenda at E3, with Dead Space 3, ZombiU, Resident Evil 6 and Metro: Last Night all pulling in plaudits. The influence of Doom 3 lurks over them all like a cursed spirit. This Halloween may be the perfect time to allows the demons to surface once again.
A last-minute invitation giving journalists and analysts just four days' warning; a US West Coast unveiling of "a major product" touted as "something you won't want to miss"; a presentation of an own-brand device by the company's chief executive, touting its design aesthetic and magnesium-sintered parts in exploded view. You could easily have mistaken Monday night's unveiling of Microsoft'sSurface tabletrange for an Apple event – though you would never mistake Microsoft's bombastic Steve Ballmer for a charismatic Apple executive.Yes, Microsoft is getting into the iPad space; after sitting on the sidelines for years, it has now started running after the fastest-growing sector of the computing market with itsSurface.The fascinating thing about the announcement, though, was how dramatically it shows the Apple-ification of Microsoft. The company that brought the world Windows, and got rich on it, has for years had serious Apple envy. When Bill Gates was still working full-time at the company, he would fume during visits to London at Apple's Regent Street store, opened in late 2004. "We need to have those!" he would complain, to the despair of his minions, who would forbear from pointing out that Microsoft didn't really makethingslike Apple did; it made software. Apart from the Xbox, a Microsoft store at that time would have been a showcase of lots of boxes of software, and a few mice and keyboards. The laptops and desktops on which Windows ran were all made by other companies, such as Dell or HP.And that was a good arrangement for Microsoft: software is wonderfully profitable, because once you've made one copy, the next billion or so cost nothing to copy. It made Microsoft the most valuable company in the world by the end of 1999.Yet now Microsoft is not just snubbing those companies that made it rich by making PCs that ran Windows; it's positively apeing Apple, making something the same size as an iPad, putting its own name to it, deciding the price, and selling it through its own stores, both physical and online. (Gates will be happy.)But is this just some bizarre financial bromance? Or something deeper? "Why would Microsoft hedge against what it has, the most brilliant business model of the 20th century?" muses Horace Dediu, a former Nokia executive who now runs theAsymcoconsultancy. "Because," he answers, "it doesn't work any more."He says that's because of the rise of mobility – the fact that increasingly we use smartphones and tablets to work anywhere and any time, where just 10 years ago we would have had to sit in front of a desktop, or unfold a laptop. Now iPads are used to create art or hold flight manuals for pilots; meanwhile, nearly a million Google Android smartphones are being activated every day.Mobility is big. Smartphones have been outselling PCs since autumn 2010; and though the tablet business is only two years old, a total of 108m are expected to ship this year (against about 400m PCs); theresearch company IDC upped its forecastahead of Microsoft's announcement. IDC has consistently lowered its forecast for future PC sales while it keeps pushing it up for tablets."The rate of growth in these platforms is almost vertical," says Dediu. "Microsoft's for Windows is pretty much flat."Google is following the same path: it has bought Motorola Mobility, the US smartphone and tablet maker, and later this month is expected to announce an own-brand 7in tablet. (Larry Page et al won't be pleased at Microsoft stealing their thunder; Ballmer, who hates Google, will be delighted; it might also explain the last-minute nature of the announcement.)The Appleification of Microsoft is happening because the company has got no choice. The smartphone and tablet pose what Benedict Evans, an analyst atEnders Analysis, calls "an existential threat" to Microsoft: if it can't get a credible foothold there, then its growth just stops. So far it hasn't managed it in smartphones. Tablets suddenly look like a necessary product.Of course, this adventure could go horribly wrong. Think of the Zune – a Ballmer-ordered product (he literally snapped his fingers in a top-level meeting and said: "We need one of those!") that came far too late in 2006 to compete with the iPod, which had already passed its glory days; Apple already had its eyes then on the iPhone, which has supplanted and far exceeded it for profitability. Zune never went anywhere (literally; it was never sold outside North America) and was quietly killed last year.Then again, the Xbox 360 games console has done well, cementing the company's position in millions of living rooms around the world. Except when you look at the numbers: total sales are put at67.2m since 2005. Next year is expected to see a new generation – the Xbox 720 – for which a leaked internal document forecasts 100m sales in 10 years. Dediu laughs: "A hundred million? That's equivalent to a hundred days' of Android activations. And that's their ambition for 10 years?"Nobody's expecting that Microsoft is going to stop Dell or HP selling Windows computers – or that they're going to stop doing so immediately. But the signs of strain are there already. Last summer, HP said it would quit the PC business because the margins are razor-thin (it dumped its chief executive and recanted); Dell keeps trying to push into services, and makes nothing on consumer PC sales.But in making the first big move into the Windows tablet market, Microsoft has shown that it realises the need for reinvention. The old Microsoft would have let a thousand PC makers build tablets – big, small, great, awful, pricey, cheap. The new one will control the apps that run on the Surface, via an online store, will decide the price and the models. It's a long time since 2004, when an ebullient Ballmer came to London and told an audience of journalists (then prodding him about the iPod): "With great respect to Apple, there's no way anything gets to critical mass with Apple, because Apple just doesn't have the volumes."Even then, the iPod was outselling Microsoft's then mobile offering, Windows Mobile. If you can't beat them, join them – and ideally, steal their clothes too.
Facebook's acquisition of Israeli facial recognition firm Face.com, which follows its swoop on photo-sharing service Instagram, suggests the world's largest social network is collecting the tools to control our personal photo archives.With smartphones doubling as high quality digital cameras, taking pictures and sharing them has become a daily event, leading celebrity photographer Annie Leibovitz to describe her iPhone as the "snapshot camera of today".Technology which makes it easier to caption, share and organise our ballooning digital photo albums will play an increasingly central role in social and family life, and Facebook is positioning itself to take advantage of these trends.The Face.com cash and shares deal was reported to be worth up to $100m – although the sum could be lower now due to Facebook's share price drop.Announcing the deal on his blog, Face.com founder Gil Hirsh said his team used Facebook every day. "We keep up with our friends and family, share interesting (or mundane) experiences from our daily lives, and perhaps most importantly for us, we share a LOT of photos."Hirsh's technology is already integrated on the Facebook site. It is used to auto-tag friends in photos uploaded by users, and can guess the subject's age, gender and even mood. Not surprisingly, such advanced information sharing has already privacy concerns. But Face.com will now give its new owner the ability to offer these services not just on the website but direct from the mobile phone.Face.com's smartphone app lets the user take a photo and improve it with filters. It then scans photo archives to suggest the name of the subject, and uses geo-positioning to suggest the location. Labelling happens at the touch of a few buttons, rather than by laboriously typing on a touchscreen keyboard. It then uploads the tagged snaps to a Facebook page.Tagging is important to Facebook because it triggers notifications to those featured in the snapshots. Most people's response to these messages is to immediately visit Facebook and check whether the camera has been kind.Facebook is now centre stage in the smartphone photography craze. Instagram's user base had rocketed to 30 million users in 18 months thanks to the ability of its filters to lend a professional appearance to the most amateur snapshots and then share them with like-minded users.Zuckerberg's ability to integrate acquisitions by retaining talent and expanding rather than suffocating the fledgling businesses he takes possession of is largely untried. His success will determine whether Instagram and Face.com retain their gloss.
More gadget makers will follow in Pebble Technology's footsteps by using crowdfunding site Kickstarter to raise money to make their products, according to Eric Migicovsky, the company's founder and lead designer.Pebbleraised just under $10.3m on Kickstarterearlier in 2012 from nearly 69,000 backers, having initially sought only $100k. Its success has sparked similar ambitions among other startups and inventors."Kickstarter is a great platform. We weren't the first people to use Kickstarter as a fundraising platform for hardware, and we won't be the last," said Migicovsky, speaking at the LeWeb London conference. He suggested that crowdfunding can work for companies in their earliest stages making prototypes, not just those with a near-finished product.The idea to make a smart-watch from a stint studying in the Netherlands while cycling everywhere, and trying not to drop his smartphone in the nearest canal. "I wanted to just be able to look down at my wrist and see who was emailing, texting and calling me," he said.Migicovsky graduated in 2009, and by late 2010 his company was shipping a watch called inPulse – the precursor to Pebble, with its first run of 600 units actually made in a garage. It worked with BlackBerry smartphones.A change came at Apple's WWDC conference in 2011, when it announced that iOS apps would now be able to run in the background and pair with hardware devices.At this point, Migicovsky shifted his attention towards iOS, and having been backing projects on Kickstarter since 2010, decided it might be a good platform to raise money to make a new smart-watch – which by the time the project launched, would also work with Android smartphones."We tried raising money from institutional investors, and we were unsuccessful," he said. "We took some meetings and chatted to some people, but unfortunately it's quite hard to get funding." Migicovsky said that investors' key concern had been the lack of proof that Pebble would appeal to a large enough audience.They were wrong. It took around 28 hours to raise the first $1m on Kickstarter, but 30 days later Pebble ended up with just under $10.3m. Now the company is setting its sights on getting external developers to make apps for it."We're planning for the ability for people to write applications. We're launching a software development kit to write games, watch faces... It's pretty cool," he said, adding that sports and fitness will be key app categories for Pebble too. Pebble already has a partnership with fitness app RunKeeper along these lines.Migicovsky suggested that the new breed of taxi-hailing apps like Hailo could also work really well on Pebble. "It'd be really cool if you could get a notification that your cab was waiting, on your watch," he said.The watch goes on sale in August, with 85,000 already ordered through the Kickstarter campaign.Asked for tips on Kickstarter fundraising, Migicovsky said that Pebble pitched its initial video at a wider audience than just hardcore technology fans, while honing down its message to three key use cases: running, cycling and using it around the home."With Kickstarter you have to make it very clear: it's a short pitch and you're trying to convince someone to buy your product before it comes out," he said.As for future features, Migicovsky said Pebble is looking at Windows Phone, and is interested in what might be possible with Siri, as Apple opens out its voice control technology in future iterations of iOS.And the biggest challenge now? "Building 85,000 watches is quite a challenge!" he said. "We've got a lot of expectations to deliver on, so we're working to manage those expectations and deliver what we promised."This post has been updated to correct Migicovsky's quote: "We weren't the first people to use Kickstarter as a fundraising platform for hardware" rather than "We were the first..."
Spotify is rolling out an updated version of its iPhone and iPad apps that will include the revamped radio feature that launched in its desktop application in December 2011."Mobile radio" will be available in the coming days on iOS, enabling users to create stations based on individual artists, albums and playlists. As on the desktop, Spotify is using technology from US music startup The Echo Nest to provide the recommendation engine driving the stations.Outside the US, mobile radio will require a Spotify premium subscription, just like the apps do. However, in the US, Spotify is taking advantage of local licensing laws to offer the feature as a standalone free version.This is a hugely disruptive move, calculated to strike at the heart of Pandora, currently the largest digital music service in the US with52m active listenersaccording to its last set of financial results in May.70% of Pandora's listening is on mobile devices, but now it will face its most potentially-threatening rival yet in the form of Spotify. Potentially, because it's unclear how many Spotify users there are in the US already.Pandora is also under attack from radio giant Clear Channel's iHeartRadio service, which blends streams of traditional stations with personal radio features, andsigned up 10m usersin the eight months following its relaunch in July 2011.Analysts have also been suggesting that Songza, whose iPad app has generated1.15m downloads in the 10 dayssince it launched, could also cannibalise Pandora's business.A standalone, free radio app could also drive Spotify's business in the US, though – providing a new funnel of potential customers to upsell to its premium on-demand service. What about the rest of the world, though?"We aim to bring a free mobile radio service to Spotify users in all countries over time, subject to licensing," says Spotify. In the meantime, mobile radio will be accessible to users who sign up for a 30-day free trial of its premium service.For now, the feature is iOS-only, but Spotify says it will be added to the company's Android app "in the coming weeks". It remains to be seen when it will be added to the company's Windows Phone, BlackBerry and Symbian apps, however.
On Monday evening, Microsoft unveiled its Surface tablet – a own-branded 10.6in device with a keyboard that doubles as a cover, which will come in two forms: one with an ARM chip ("WinRT"), and another with an Intel chip ("x86"). Software can be written to run on both, but unlike Windows PCs, it won't be exactly the same software on both.The price hasn't been announced; nor has a delivery date.Here's what the analysts say:Michael Gartenberg, consumer analyst, Gartner''This was clearly a referendum on Microsoft's partners. Microsoft felt they could not rely on others to deliver on their vision for Windows 8 in mobile computing."Francisco Jeronimo, IDC Research"At the centre of CEO Steve Ballmer's presentation was a single message: the integration between the hardware and the software is key to deliver better experiences to end-users. The hardware designed by Microsoft tries to capture the interest from users for a device that combines a PC-like and a tablet experiences. Therefore, this tablet is clearly targeted to professional users in the first place."The physical keyboard, the lack of a camera and the focus on the MS Office environment shows that Microsoft is targeting the business segment, where it can differentiate and take some share from Apple. Microsoft's tablet will probably come with the best MS Office experience, the killer application of the device. The keyboard is also a very important accessory for a professional usage."Despite some interesting hardware features, almost nothing was mentioned about the software, the user interface, the user experience and the ecosystem, Some of these points were previously introduced by Microsoft on previous presentations of Windows 8. Microsoft needs to start bringing together the different pieces of the Windows 8 story."What makes the iPad the most successful tablet on the market is the software, the applications and the added value that end-users perceive from that. The reason why Android tablets need to be cheap is because they do not deliver value. Besides Apple, no other manufacturer has captured a relevant market share in this segment. The main focus has been on the hardware and specs only."What I was expecting to hear from Microsoft is how the Surface delivers an integrated experience with the PC, what additional services or features are available and how the Microsoft ecosystem is growing to be a real alternative to the iPad or any Android tablet. Hardware-wise, Microsoft did a very good job by launching a device that can really be exciting and different. But it needs to deliver what has been promising with the new Windows 8 strategy."Consumers will not buy, and specially not pay a premium price for the Surface until they understand what additional value they can get compared with the iPad and how the device integrates with their PCs, gaming console, Windows Phone, etc. The entire ecosystem is what will make Microsoft proposition attractive, not unlinked pieces of it."Microsoft has also showed how serious it is about controlling the hardware. This tablet could had been announced with any of its partners (or several). But by designing and launching its own branded tablet, Microsoft is clearly refocusing its approach to a more closed strategy. And if that is the case the company will need to take a different route and to acquire a manufacturer that knows and controls the entire supply chain."Carolina Milanesi, tablets analyst at researchers Gartner"I think Surface serves three main purposes. It allows MS to evangelise on Metro [the Windows 8 interface] in their stores and control their end-to-end message; allows them to bring some sexy back to their brand, and prove that they know what it takes to succeed in the post-PC era; they nudge the [hardware] partners to up their game, either by delivering better specs or lowering their prices."I do not believe Microsoft see Surface as a big volume driver device in either version, but they establish the benchmark, sell a few at decent margins, and then let the ODM [original device manufacturer, eg HP or Dell] partners drive prices down. Not having 3G [mobile connectivity] makes things easier from a channel perspective [ie, it doesn't have to be sold with mobile contracts] and considering that the majority of users have been buying Wi-Fi [iPads] it will not be a limiting factor."Price will be a factor, but as I mentioned, I think these devices are not intended to be big volume drivers, so i would expect them to be competitive with the high-end iPad. Microsoft needs to deliver on time in time for the [Christmas] holidays, if not for back-to-school [early in September] as that might still leave a little time to the ODMs to fine-tune their designs."I am sure partners are not happy about this, but it is not like they have much choice. [Google's] Android has so far not helped them, and they do not know yet what Google will do as far as its own hardware goes. At least with Microsoft they know a lot of money will be spent on developers."Sarah Rotman, Forrester Research"This product line marks a crucial pivot in Microsoft's product strategy. It blends the Xbox first-party hardware model with the Windows ecosystem model. It puts the focus on the consumer rather than the enterprise. And it lets Microsoft compete with vertically-integrated Apple on more even ground."I am excited about this product, but it felt like Microsoft was pulling punches with this announcement. Hardware is only part of the dynamic. They need to explain how Microsoft manufacturing this device will change people's experience with a tablet. Microsoft will be its own worst enemy in this market. More so than Apple or Google, the worst thing that could happen to Microsoft's Windows RT tablets [with ARM chips] is Windows 8 on [Intel's] x86. Selling x86-based tablets in the same retail channels as Windows RT tablets will confuse consumers and sow discontent if consumers buy x86 and think they're getting something like the iPad."Microsoft and its partners need to articulate a compelling strategy for how they will manage consumer expectations in the channel. Consumers aren't used to thinking about chipsets. Choice is a key tenet of Windows, but too much choice is overwhelming for consumers. Apple gets this, and limits iPad options to connectivity, storage, and black… or white."Rick Sherlund, Nomura Securities"Microsoft will need to assure other hardware makers that it's a level playing field. I think this sets a high bar for their partners."The Windows Surface tablets are both different from iPad in that they have kickstands built in and come with a detachable cover that also serves as a keyboard (albeit probably not ideal). The response to these tablets has been cautiously favourable and the view is that they do a good job of showcasing what Windows 8 has to offer and have the scope to function as both tablets and laptops."The question on everyone's lips is: 'Well it looks very nice, but how much is it?' We are estimating that the the WinRT tablets will be around $400-500, which could see good volumes, as these tablets are highly differentiated from the iPad and offer functionality to compensate the user for not having access to the highly desirable Apple application ecosystem."The devices are expected to be made available in the September/October time frame as Windows 8 becomes available on other devices. This is positive for Nvidia [which makes the Tegra chip that powers the ARM-based version] where our best guess is that a pre-build of 4-5m units would drive an incremental $80-100m [revenue] in the back half of the year. Our estimate of $550m from [Nvidia's] Tegra does not assume any contribution from Win RT in 2012. [Nomura has a "buy" recommendation on Nvidia.]"This will raise questions for the PC makers, which are Microsoft's biggest customers and who would now seem to be potential competitors. However, tablets are only a tiny fraction of their revenues, and Computex [the computing trade show in Taiwan] was very disappointing when it came to Windows RT; thus it would seem likely that Microsoft has made these launches to demonstrate what is possible with Windows 8, rather than as a virtualisation move."
A selection of 11 new and notable apps for you today:WhoSampledBritish website WhoSampled has a database of 150,000 tracks, detailing where their samples came from. Now there's an app for that, which scans your own music collection and matches songs to WhoSampled's list, helping you dig back into the sources of your songs. It streams full tracks from YouTube, as well as including iTunes purchase links.iPhone#smilesfilmBack in 1967, Yoko Ono said she wanted to make a film "which includes a smiling face snap of every single human being in the world". In 2012, she's still trying, except this time through an iPhone app called #smilesfilm. If every human being in the world had an iPhone, it would be an excellent idea. UK firm Somo created the app.iPhoneSoccer Superstars 2012In this household, it's been all about New Star Soccer for mobile footballing thrills in 2012. Soccer Superstar 2012 has a shot at dethroning it though: developed by Gamevil, it's a deep football game with elements of RPG games in the way you level up your team.AndroidPoker HD by ZyngaPoker by Zynga is one of the most popular (not to mention lucrative) iPhone games on the App Store. Now it's gone HD for iPad, complete with jazzed-up graphics for the latest model's Retina display. As before, the gameplay is multiplayer poker over the network, with chips bought through in-app purchases.iPadGP RatingsA good example of open data in action, this: FineFettleApps' GP Ratings has drilled into the Department of Health's national GP patient survey, and turned it into ratings for all 8,344 GP surgeries in England.iPhoneJustBookHotel-booking app JustBook promises "first class hotels, last minute prices", and has just gone live in London, with other UK cities to follow in the coming weeks. Its focus is on three hotels a day, offering rooms for that night at discount prices.Android / BlackBerry / iPhoneFilterMania 2Think there's just not enough filters in Instagram or other photo-sharing apps? Try FilterMania 2 on for size: it promises more than 300 filters across 20 categories, to play havoc with your photos. For now it's free, too.iPhoneStyle Me GirlA few weeks after raising $1m in funding, startup Frenzoo has released its first Me Girl mobile game: Style Me Girl. Aimed at female gamers, it sees you playing an intern at a fashion magazine, aiming to rise through the industry ranks as a celebrity stylist. 3D avatars and in-app purchases feature.Android / iPhone / iPadRed Bull Mission ControlRed Bull's latest app wants to get people to "get out and do something creative, challenging and adventurous". That translates into a social location game with check-ins, team missions and other social features.iPhoneDark Nebula – Episode OneDeveloper Free Lunch Design says its Dark Nebula game has been downloaded more than 6m times on iOS, giving it a good base for its expansion to Android. It's an "extreme labyrinth" game, as your character pinballs through mazes using tilt controls.AndroidTrippy for iPadNothing to do with flower power, this. Instead it's the iPad app of Trippy, a travel service that shows off photos from around the world, synchronising with users' accounts on the website.iPad
