Bookmark backupsI have built up a long list of carefully organised bookmarks in Firefox and Internet Explorer. In terms of sheer time and effort, this is now one of the most valuable bits of data on my computer. How can I back it up?Paul SoferJS:The simplest way to back up bookmarks is to export them to a file held in web format (html) on your hard drive, which you can then copy to external storage. In Internet Explorer, go to File, choose Import and Export, then follow directions to create a file called bookmark.htm (unless you change the name). In Firefox, go to the Bookmark Manager, click the file tab and select Export to create a file called bookmarks.html. If you double-click either file it will load into your browser and provide a set of clickable links. You could set the bookmark file as your home page to get fast access to your links.An alternative for large numbers of bookmarks is to use a separate bookmark manager to collect, sort and test links. There used to be a lot of these, and you could pick one fromFileheap.com(tinyurl.com/29vh39). Most are not free, but you could try dotBookmark. Today, it's more common to use an online bookmark site so that you can access your links from any PC. The old faithfuls include Backflip (backflip.com) and LinkaGoGo (linkagogo.com). However, the Delicious social bookmarking service is probably now the leading example (del.icio.us), and Furl (furl.net) is also worth a look. I find them a bit tedious for everyday use, but they're fantastic when you're stuck in some out-of-the way office or cybercafe.TV on a PC?I have neither a TV set nor a TV licence. But I do have a web-connected PC that can get live television. Am I a criminal?Peter ScottJS:The TV licensing website says: "You need a TV Licence to use any television receiving equipment such as a TV set, digital box, DVD or video recorder, PC, laptop or mobile phone to watch or record television programmes as they're being shown on TV" (tvlicensing.co.uk/information/index.jsp). The emphasis appears to be on "use" where the Communications Act 2003 mentions "the installation and use". Certainly the BBC's advice is that "you are free to watch archived programmes or downloadable clips without a licence" (tinyurl.com/3yu9hb), so you should be OK as long as you don't use your PC to watch or record live TV from any station broadcasting within the UK. If the authorities intended to take a tougher line, I'd expect them to require retailers to provide details of anyone who sells you a PC, games console, multimedia phone, MP3 player, digital camera, fridge or other device with a display screen and a web browser.Wi-Fi pacemakingShould someone with a pacemaker use a laptop with a Wi-Fi connection on their lap?Jack FreemanJS:That's a good question for your doctor, and I'm not one. However, someone at the Mayo Clinic in the US tested "cardiac devices" against an iPaq Pocket PC fitted with a Cisco Aironet wireless card, and Your Total Health reports that "the PDAs were proven safe" (tinyurl.com/2du2k4). Since Wi-Fi networks operate at very low power levels in a public waveband (it's also used for radio-controlled model cars, cordless phones and so on), I would not expect any significant risks, or else I would expect a warning from the American Heart Association. Its page on pacemakers (tinyurl.com/2l27u9) doesn't warn against Wi-Fi.PDF makerI would like to create PDF files from Microsoft Office documents. Should I feel guilty about using freeware, rather buying something from Adobe? If not, which freeware would you recommend?Stephen ChownsJS:I would never feel guilty about using good freeware, especially if it's open source. In this case, I recommend Microsoft's free Save as PDF add-in for Office 2007, if only because Adobe threw a hissy fit to stop Microsoft from including it as standard: you now have to download it separately (tinyurl.com/y39ave). If you don't have Office 2007, there are lots of free programs to create PDF files. The leading contenders appear to be PDF995 (pop-up-ware), Go2PDF and PDFCreator.BackchatChris Parkins wanted to block Cyrillic spam. Peter Johnson says: "In Windows Mail in Vista, there are options to block both top level domains and encoding so Chris could block everything from .ru domains or encoded in Cyrillic or both. Many more permutations are available." Windows users who don't have Vista can download the Windows Live Mail desktop software to replace Outlook Express (tinyurl.com/2k3jpk). Go to Tools and select Safety Options (Alt-T then F), then click the International tab. This lets you block by country domain and by encoding (Arabic, Hebrew, Thai etc). Windows Live Mail can also collect email from Hotmail, Gmail and other services and displays them all in one mailbox as well as separately (tinyurl.com/25nves).Rachel Elliott wanted software to transcribe academic interviews, which can't be done. Malcolm Stewart says it's better to do it yourself: "You often spot things while you're transcribing, which you may miss by just reading them through."&#183;Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor atJack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
Which key is Ctrl-Alt-Del in?A wonderful music video made entirely from alert and other noises from Windows XP and 98. It's as though the composer Steve Reich were trapped inside your PC. (Thanks, ceeyewenty.)tinyurl.com/235ysk ...#8805;
With Sam &amp; Max doing so well on download, this is a timely release from the developers who brought you Ankh. Using the same engine and bright colour palette, the game charts your eponymous hero's quest to Tooth Island, aided by a cast of jolly racial stereotypes (mainly British, thankfully). And despite sometimes dodgy translation, the game adds ample charm to the usual point-and-click gameplay. The storyline is packed with unexpected twists and the dialogue is more amusing than you might expect. It's clear the debt all this owes to Monkey Island and Pirates of Caribbean, but for a rollicking high seas yarn, you could do a lot worse.
Want to change the world?The 48-hour Social Innovation Camp will put some of Europe's best developers to work on your society-changing ideas for the web. Got plans for the next Freecycle or Fixmystreet? Then submit your idea now.blogs.guardian.co.uk/digitalcontentNext-gen broadbandThe British government has announced an independent review of how to get next-generation high-speed broadband.tinyurl.com/24sjppLocal govbookI&amp;DeA has launched the Communities of Practice website, described as "like a Facebook for local government".communities.idea.gov.ukWorkBook for FacebookWorkBook provides a "corporate overlay" that enables employees to interact securely with Facebook.tinyurl.com/yurh8qMum's green cardUK charities are suggesting eco-friendly email cards for Mother's day, with &pound;1 of the &pound;1.99 cost going to charity.charitygreetings.comMost pirated softwareThe Software &amp; Information Industry Association's anti-piracy division has released its 2007 report, including top tens of most-pirated programs.siiaa.net/piracyGoolag for hackersCult of the Dead Cow has released a beta version of the Goolag security scanner, based on "Google hacking".goolag.orgBig-screen WalkmanSony has launched the NWZ-A820 portable MP3/video player range with a 2.4-inch QVGA screen and Bluetooth.tinyurl.com/34hrxk
No right to rip off artistsIllegal downloading and freedom of speech are unrelated topics, and it is misleading to draw parallels between the two (Unease at filesharing crackdown, February 21). The music business has no wish to restrict free comment, but it does want to protect creators and there is no human right to enjoy creators' work for nothing.The internet has allowed the music business to develop new models that provide immediate low-cost access to millions of songs at the click of a button. But too little has been done to address the unlawful downloading of music that infringes creators' rights and damages these new models that increase consumer choice. It is encouraging that government and the ISPs themselves are in agreement with us that this must change.Matt Phillips,BPIAm I the only one who points the finger of blame for filesharing at groups like the BPI, RIAA and MPAA? Funny thing about free markets is if you don't provide what the consumer wants, someone else will, and so they did.Chad Henshaw,GlasgowIf the entertainment industries really want to stop filesharing, they need to negotiate changed business models and create a legitimate market. Many people would be willing to pay a reasonable price to download TV shows and music if they could get in return reliable, fast, advertising-free, DRM-free downloads at or soon after the time of the initial release.pelicancrossing.netPassword banditsVirgin is not the only ISP doing this. A caller from Pipex asked for my address "for security reasons" (Newly asked questions, February 21) . I declined to give it. The caller agreed with my reasons but said she could not continue the call, or give any reason for it, without my response. Pipex subsequently said they thought it was probably to do with their customer research!Ken Matthews,BrightonA lady phoned me claiming to be from my bank and asked for my mother's maiden name "to be sure it was really me". She identified neither herself nor the bank, and like an idiot I gave it to her. The next day I went to my branch of Barclays and told them what happened, expecting them to be horrified. "This is our standard procedure," I was told. In future I'll ask for some information like that branch's phone number - or politely ask them to write.Joshua Moore,by emailThe solution is obvious. Simply give them the wrong password - if they tell you that it doesn't match their records, then the call is genuine. If they say it does then the call is fake. Simple really.Brian McCaig,by emailIt's a secretI think you really hit the nail on the head with this one (Apple's secretive approach, February 21). They have called Steve Jobs the scariest guy in Silicon Valley and also the best manager in the IT industry.Name and address suppliedUnacceptable broadbandDavid Brown is not alone (Letters passim). The recent deterioration in my BT broadband downstream throughput speeds has been dramatic. I am not surprised, but it is certainly not "within the acceptable range".PL Hayes,AberystwythA tiny irritationYour use of tinyurls is questionable. First, they are not easily remembered. Second, while ordinary urls may take more print space, you forget the information that they carry in themselves as to the background organisation. Third, just by knowing the site url you can usually click through to the information.Peter Douglas,DublinWe use them because they're precise, and convenient for print readers - Tech. EdWrite to: Letters TechnologyGuardian 119 Farringdon Road London EC1R 3ER. Telephone: 020 7239 9925. Fax: 020 7239 9933. Email:tech@guardian.co.uk
Mitchell Baker has one of the best job titles in computing: she's chief lizard wrangler at Mozilla, creator of the Firefox web browser, which has a reptilian mascot named after Godzilla. If I ever had a fancy dress party, I'd invite her to appear in character. And she might. Although she trained as a lawyer, she's also a trapeze artist, so there's clearly more to her than meets the eye.Mozilla started with Netscape Communications, but the company was originally called Mosaic, after the first popular web browser. Baker joined Netscape's legal department in 1994, and has been involved with Mozilla/Firebird/Firefox ever since.Circuitous routeWhen Netscape made its browser code open source viaMozilla.org, it was Baker who managed the operation as chief lizard wrangler. She carried on after she was let go by AOL, which had bought Netscape in 1998; and when AOL shut down the browser division, she helped set up the not-for-profit Mozilla Foundation to look after it.She also became chief executive of the money-making Mozilla Corporation, founded in 2005. That's a job she's just passed on to her former chief operating officer, John Lilly, but there's no suggestion that she'll be less involved.This circuitous route has put Firefox in a different position from, say, the Linux kernel, where Linus Torvalds' team creates code under the GNU GPL (General Public Licence) and leaves other people to package and distribute it.Mozilla has its own licence and packages, distributes and updates Firefox under its own trademark, just like a commercial software company. So why, I ask Baker, did she write a new open source licence instead of using one that was already established.She says that the Mozilla licence "was the first one I know to take a middle ground between the GPL and a do-whatever-you-want licence" such as BSD. "We were in the middle, and we were clear that [Mozilla] was an open-source project that had to work with commercial organisations. Their wholehearted involvement was required and therefore the GPL was a non-starter. That was definitely true then."There are people who take a stricter view of open source, and they are essentially forking Firefox. She knows I mean GNU's Gnuzilla, which has removed Firefox's trademarked logo to produce Ice Weasel, and she laughs."Yeah," she says. "The question of trademark is pretty unsettled in the open source world. The trademark is important in a consumer product, but there are a few groups who feel it's a restriction they can't live with. If you have their assumptions, their conclusions make sense ... it's just that their assumptions don't match the real world."We've had these horrendous emails come in with heartbreaking things like: 'I love Firefox, but I don't really want to pay $30 [&pound;15] a month for it. Will you stop charging my credit card?' They've found a scam site."The name Firefox is not part of the open source licence, and that's why it's important to us. We have some trademark enforcement programs, and when we find these sites, we try to shut them down," she says.Open source licences usually allow anyone to modify and/or sell the software for whatever they like, but Mozilla is trying to protect its product - and its customers - just like Apple or Microsoft.A search deal with Google, which pays per search done via Firefox's toolbar, also means Mozilla has a very big bank balance by open source project standards."Yeah," Baker agrees. "By open source standards we're a giant, and we have an unbelievable amount of resources; and compared to [Microsoft], we're a gnat. We sit in the middle of many things, and finances are clearly one of them."One of the things we do is keep a healthy bank account, so that if something should change, we have the resources to figure out our next plan. Google has been an extraordinary partner and does not try to tie the revenue relationship to what our product is, but I think everyone's pretty reassured that we're not living hand-to-mouth. If something were to go wrong, we have some savings."I ask Baker how she is getting on with Microsoft, because Firefox went to the Vista workshops where Microsoft helps commercial vendors get their code running well."Yes we did," she says. "We have some communications that's far better than in the Netscape era, and that's good. We are particularly eager not to have a repeat of the Netscape-Microsoft interaction of the 90s, which was: introduce a new feature and try to drag as many developers as possible to it. This ended up making life really difficult for web developers."People think of us as very successful, but most people are using something else. So even when we have a good idea about the web, we need to implement it in a way that people using IE don't have a broken experience. It can be an experience that isn't as rich as ours, but it's still got to work. We're trying to move the web forward without getting into a Netscape-Microsoft spiral of breaking it for each other."We don't spend our days thinking about Microsoft, or trying to get revenge on Microsoft. That's a really negative and backward way, and that's not how I want to live. We try to look forward. But of course, since Microsoft had 90% market share when we started, most of our users come from them, so there's no question that there's competition among products."Teasing her, I point out that Firefox can get to an 80% market share by growing at one percentage point a month. "That's only five years, isn't it?"Growth marketingShe laughs again. "We're not really aiming for that kind of market share. We're aiming for enough market share to be able to move the industry towards openness, to be able to bring new things into the platform in an open way and have people be able to adopt them, enough market share to be able to speak with authority. We don't exactly know what that number is. In parts of Europe, we're there; worldwide, we're not so sure."I think if you tossed a number like 80% around even inside Mozilla, some people would start to worry, because if we behaved poorly, it would affect the industry in bad ways. We want to show why having openness is useful, so the market share enables us to move the industry towards a better place. As a project we have values, and there's a core for whom Mozilla acting as a tyrant is no better or only slightly better than somebody else acting as a tyrant."
Microsoft made a modest piece of history last week when the Xbox 360 became the first console to host community-created games. A couple of years ago, the company released its XNA Game Studio package, allowing home coders and very small studios to create Xbox 360 titles without spending thousands on development kits. And last week, several of those games became available for download on the Xbox Live Arcade service. The releases herald the launch, later this year, of a new open distribution service for games created by the community.It's an exciting concept. Consoles have supported home development in the past - notably with PlayStation's Net Yaroze project - but hobbyists have never been able to make the results available to the public; now they have 17 million Xbox 360 owners to pitch at. The coders themselves have also been impressed with the power of the XNA development system. The only downside is that XNA uses a "managed" programming language called C#, which checks elements of the code as it's running, slowing things down.As Jeff Pobst, chief executive of experienced Xbox Live developer Hidden Path Entertainment, explains: "Every time you access a variable in an array, C# has to validate the index. In C++ there are no handrails, so you can shoot yourself in the foot, but it's generally faster. The nice thing is that more and more 'heavy lifting' is done by the GPU [graphics processing unit], and so the impact of using a managed language is less than it has been in the past."Of course, there's much more to all this than altruism and Microsoft's love of community development. Neither Xbox Live Arcade nor the PS3 equivalent, eDI, has proved the hotbed of innovative ideas the console manufacturers had hoped. With downloadable games selling at around &pound;5 each, professional developers are not seeing a big enough revenue stream to take a punt on original releases. So we see a lot of game remakes, such as Bomberman Live, Pac-Man: Championship Edition and Worms.There have been some great original titles on console download - flow, Space Giraffe and Outpost Kaloki X spring to mind. But as all three next-gen consoles want to see themselves as hubs of bleeding-edge creative thinking, they'll need more than the odd experimental download by established developers. They need the same home coders who have turned the Flash-based browser game scene into a ferment of offbeat thinking. It's not the big powerful manufacturers helping out the kids - it's completely the other way around.
Within the Treasury, minds will currently be focused on the annual behemoth of the Budget, due on March 12: there is a lot to explain about capital gains tax, non-domiciled residents' tax and the taxing question of the retail bank that the government has somehow acquired.But there is another Treasury report awaiting publication that could have a substantial impact on the UK economy too: the results of the investigation by a team from Cambridge University into "alternative methods of supply and charging for public sector information specifically by trading funds".Rumours among those involved with public sector information (PSI) say the study contains ideas that are unpopular with some powerful lobbyists, creating a dilemma for a government that has shown many signs of wanting to move towards more openness.Commissioned last autumn for the Treasury and the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform, the study was delivered in mid-December. But two months later, there is no sign of it, and the Treasury could not this week offer any suggested publication date.This has led to rumours within the PSI community that the study has annoyed some of the trading funds, by suggesting that there might be benefits from alternative funding methods - including, as the Free Our Data campaign suggests, making non-personal PSI available for free and reaping the rewards from taxation of private-sector companies that build on it. Trading funds are government-owned businesses, required to be self-sufficient by selling their data and services and providing a return - usually 5% of revenues - to the Treasury. This means they have no direct taxation funding, though their clients almost always include public sector organisations. Ordnance Survey, which makes the most money from data licensing, gets nearly half its revenues from the public sector.The Free Our Data blog acquired and published the study's terms of reference attinyurl.com/2hxpo3(PDF): these showed that the authors were given the task of analysing the cost and benefits of pricing strategies including "market price; full cost recovery; marginal cost of distribution; and free". A key passage also notes that trading funds are expected to "make data collecting in the course of their public task (raw data) available at the marginal cost of providing the data to those who request it". The key question now is: why doesn't Ordnance Survey do that? And is that why the study is late?
The mobile phone company O2 faces having its licence to run 3G services in the UK shortened by the regulator, Ofcom, unless it brings its broadband wireless network within the reach of more of the population by the summer.BT, which owned O2 at the time, paid the government £4.03bn for a 3G licence back in the dying days of the dot.com boom in 2000. Under the terms of the licence, the five companies awarded 3G spectrum had to have networks covering 80% of the population by the end of last year.While Orange, T-Mobile, Vodafone and even new entrant 3 have all managed to get at least 80% population coverage, Ofcom said today that O2's network covers just 75.69% of the population. The shortfall is equivalent to approximately 2.5 million people.The news is particularly embarrassing for O2, owned by Spain's Telefonica, as the company is hoping it will be the exclusive UK network for the forthcoming 3G version of the iPhone.O2 already has a deal with Apple under which it is the only UK network able to offer the current so-called 2G version of the iPhone. There is intense speculation that a 3G version of the phone will be announced later this year and while O2 believes its "multi-year" agreement with the Californian technology giant covers the 3G version of the phone, having the smallest 3G network in the country looks bad.Ofcom warned that if O2 has not met the rollout obligation by the end of June it will shorten the term of the company's licence - which runs out at the end of 2021 - by four months. Based on the cost of the licence that is equivalent to a £40m fine - the highest the regulator has ever imposed.A spokesman for O2 said the company's strategy has been to roll out 3G in areas where there is the most demand but added "we are fully committed to growing our 3G coverage and customer base with the best quality 3G service, and are confident that we will have met Ofcom's requirement before June 2008".
If you're currently loafing about at university wondering what on Earth you're going to do with that game design degree, this might be the answer. The dates have been announced for this year'sGame Gradsevents, two careers fairs aimed at getting graduates together with videogame developers and publishers. Last year, 500 students from 52 universities across the UK turned up for the programme of seminars. You can catch it in Manchester on April 24 and London on April 29. There are further details on the website.Clearly the ties between the higher education community and the games industry have strengthened since I used to write the annual 'how to get a job in the games industry' booklet for Edge magazine. Back then we struggled to include a handful of videogame-specific courses - now a majority of establishments run some kind of programming or design strand aimed at students wanting a career in the games industry. At that time, the industry could be a little dismissive of dedicated games programming courses - loads of developers were telling me they'd prefer staff with a strong pure maths or physics background. It seems though, that the two fields are now working together to produce the next generation of UK talent.To underline this, there's a Games:Edu conference running alongside the Game Grad event, specifically aimed at getting educators together with the industry, presumably to discuss what students should actually be learning. The likes of Rare, Microsoft, Evolution Studios, Foundation 9, Introversion and Blitz Games will be speaking during the event, which is split into Games: Edu North (Manchester, April 29) and South (Brighton July 29). There's more info at the dedicatedwebsite.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
So here's the formal (gleeful?) announcement from Apple that pinged into our inbox overnight:CUPERTINO, California—February 26, 2008—Apple® today announced that iTunes® (www.itunes.com) is now the number two music retailer in the US, behind only Wal-Mart, based on the latest data from the NPD Group. Apple also announced that there are now over 50 million iTunes Store customers. iTunes has sold over four billion songs,…Why is that bad news for record labels? Because they've created a monster which isn't particularly willing to listen to their demands. Apple has become the Golem, Frankenstein's monster: so keen are the record labels to undermine its position that they've entered into arrangements with pretty much anyone else to sell non-DRM-protected music (hello, Amazon!). Universal, led by Doug "a dollar per Zune" Morris, hastorn up its contract with Apple(so although the iTunes Store can sell songs, it doesn't have a long-term contract; Universal could pull them any time).Yet still Apple isn't getting smaller in the music space. And now the analysis company Point Topic saysDigital sales in the USA now account for nearly 30% of the total US music market while in Europe it is around 20%... "Record company revenues from digital sales are estimated at around $2.9 billion in 2007, up 40% on 2006. This is roughly split half and half between online and mobile sales," says John Bosnell, Senior Analyst at Point Topic. According to some estimates there were around 1.7 billion single music tracks legally downloaded in 2007, an increase of 53% on 2006. According to recent data iTunes alone sold around 2 billion songs between January 2007 and January 2008 raising its revenue from track sales in the last year to $1.9 billion.Apple doesn't make much profit on those track sales, but never forget network effects: in these markets, the big tend to get bigger. This of course means that the record labels, which want to introduce (well, re-introduce) ideas like flexible pricing (newer stuff costs more) to the iTunes Store can't get the leverage to, you know,encourageApple to listen to it. Quite the reverse; other music sellers have been dropping off the perch with amazing regularity. (Anyone know of a deadpool of music-selling sites? Coca-Cola, Wal-Mart..)All in all, the music business is not having the very best time of it.Meanwhile, for Apple the only problem might be whether it's set up to sell enough songs. As Jens Alfke, formerly of Apple,notes,I really hope they thought ahead and used a 64-bit int for thenumber_of_songs_soldvariable, otherwise some Bad Stuff might happen in the next few months.(We already know they used anunsignedint, otherwise there would have been a crazy press release a few years ago like 'Apple announces iTunes has sold over -2,147,483,648 songs'.)
Long-time readers of this blog will know that my favourite event at the Game Developers Conference is by far the Game Design Challenge. This seminar talk is so over-subscribed that they really should move it in to Shea Stadium to cope with the numbers turned out to watch top-flight game designers tackle a truly challenging design remit.This year's entrants, Tetris-creator Alexey Pajitnov, Wizardy designer Brenda Brathwaite and Leather Goddesses of Phobos designer Steve Meretzky, were saddled with a real corker: 'to create an interspecies game, is a "riff on opening up new markets," such as the casual gaming audience,' explainsWired. The results? A dolphin-assisted adventure shooter;BacAttackin which the player, armed with a microscope and a 'TrayStation' creates a ripe culture for a real-time strategy; and 'an interspecies Facebook ARG' calledOneHundredDogs.comRead morehere.But I fear that this year's theme lampoons the original ethos of the challenge, which in times past has included the themes 'unusual controllers' and 'the work of Emily Dickinson'. What would you like to see AAA game designers tackle in next year's Design Challenge?
Just a quickie: Ubisoft has officially announced a new release date for Free Radical Design's FPS, Haze. The title was originally intended as a pre-Christmas PS3 exclusive, but... slipped.The company has also released a new trailer. Yes, that's it up there. (There's also a high-res WMV versionhere.)
"Facial coding is not an exact science," saysUSA Today, but nonetheless, it's got "Facial coding expert Dan Hill" looking at YouTube videos "of about a dozen prominent CEOs, looking for personality traits".Nike chairman Phil Knight comes out looking good in a Michael Moore interview:According to Hill, Knight showed 67% positive traits and emotions and 33% negative ones. Knight also shows a fair amount of true smiles, many robust social smiles, appears to be a good sport when under attack and puts his hand over his mouth to hide contempt, Hill says.Bill Gates (73%) and Warren Buffet (69%) score even higher.Slightly on the negative side are Steve Jobs and Michael Dell, but the ones who came out rather badly include Rupert Murdoch (83% negative) and Donald Trump (84% negative). Oracle's Larry Ellison managed an amazing 100% negative:"Ellison is really grim, nervous. He's driven and determined. He shows anger and arrogance on his face," Hill says. "I would not consider this an open person, the opposite of an Oprah. See how his eyebrows are pulled together. This is someone who is not very comfortable in his own skin. "There," Hill gestures at the video. "He brings up his lower chin, a chin raiser, and he pulls his lips together with anger and some disgust and sadness mixed in." When Rose asks a question about the changing world, Ellison's mouth "pulls wide in a quick flash of fear."Of course, Ellison and Oracle have done very well using a strategy of buying or trying to kill the competition and grinding rivals' faces in the dirt. Not all bad, is it?
You may have already spottedthis article on Advertising Age, suggesting that Sony is developing its plans for a PS3 in-game advertising system. From the report:The maker of the PlayStation3 system will offer an open platform, meaning in-game-ad-serving companies Double Fusion, IGA and Google-owned AdScape all will be able to sell ads in games that run on PS3, according to people familiar with Sony's plans. The three companies will strike deals with the major game publishers creating PS3 games, such as Electronic Arts, Activision and Ubisoft. Increasingly, those who score the plum publisher deals will turn out to be the winners in the competitive and fast-growing space.This open approach contrasts with the in-game advertising system on Xbox 360, where ads are all brokered through Massive. But how does it effect gamers? Well, it doesn't. Much. The increased competition between ad-servers will mean better rates for advertisers, of course, but itmayalso mean that the companies will seek to provide a better service. The Advertising Age piece quotes James Belcher, a senior writer at eMarketer who suggests, "Everyone's playing around with the best model - how to charge, what gamers will and will not put up with."It's the latter part that may affect us. Will the likes of Double Fusion and IGA be seeking better ways to implement ads? In most studies, gamers have tended to say they're happy with in-game advertising as long as it's subtle and in context - maybe these factors will come more sharply into play in an open market.This whole issue will become more interesting when Sony finally debuts its Home virtual social environment. Here, without the narrative restrictions forced by games, advertisers could be free to plaster their ad banners, trailers and promo games on every digital surface. What effect will competition have on this unappetising scenario?
China's attempts to persuade people (well, worried westerners) that its $4bn Qinghai-Xizang railway, which goes to Tibet, y'know, might have minimal environmental impact (as well as some impact on people who live in Tibet) found its apotheosis in a picture of antelope running beneath the train track carrying the 60mph (100km/h) train. The picture won an award in 2006 from Xinhua, and the antelope - whose numbers have (it's claimed; can't be sure of anything, as you'll learn) risen in recent years is one of the mascots of the Olympics. They're in China this year - you hadn't heard? (Also, what do mascotsdoat the Olympics? Hold the towels?)Except the picture was faked. Photoshopped. Two different events spliced together. Oh dear. As theWall Street Journal explains(in slightly mind-crushing detail),Xinhua, China's largest news organization, and several other government news organizations published an apology for circulating the photo. The companies said they would delete all of Mr. Liu's images from their databases."We call on the public to work together with us to uphold the authenticity principle of news reporting," the statement said. Xinhua didn't respond to requests for comment.No, I bet it didn't. The blame is being laid on the photographer, but the reality surely is that it was diplomatically necessary for the antelopes to be happy with the train, and for people beyond China to be happy about that. And Y thus follows X.The only encouraging thing about the whole affair is that it was a Chinese blogger who first raised suspicions.Chapeauto you, sir (or madam). Let's hear it for the internet, if not the glorious revolutionary approach to conservation..
Gamesindustry.bizreports todayfrom theCulture, Media and SportSelect Committee hearing on the effects of videogame and internet violence. There was some strange stuff including evidence given by John Carr, executive secretary at the Children's Charities Coalition for Internet Safety. From the article:He raised the argument that there were a number of concerns over videogames, other than the issue of violence - including reports of children "dying at their consoles" - that need to be addressed.I'm really not sure what he's referring to here. Was itthisstory of the Russian schoolboy who died in 2005 after an alleged ten-hour gaming session? Was it one of the many stories -like this one- from the PC gaming scene in South Korea? These stories are rare, isolated cases of extreme addictive behaviour - surely they cannot form the basis of videogame classification decisions in the UK?He later made a more a more grounded comment, suggesting that parents often misunderstand age ratings, believing them to signify the difficulty or suggested skill level of the game rather than a warning of unsuitable content. I hadn't really considered this before, but it makes sense - childrens games often come with skill-based age ratings, and if you're not familiar with the PEGI system, or with videogames in general, you could easily make this error. But surely, when there's a BBFC 18 certificate on the box, even the most Luddite of parents must twig that it means adults only?So what else was achieved during this session, which will contribute toward a report by the Department of Culture, Media and Sport due for release later this year?Much of the rest of the session was taken up with discussion of what actually constitutes harmful material, and how such content could be kept out of the way of children on the Internet.This doesn't fill me with a huge amount of confidence.
There's a dash of politics in this week's Tech Weekly.Aleks Krotoski,Vic Keegan,Jemima KissandCharles Arthurexamine proposals by the BPI (the body that represents music labels) to take action against music file sharers, including the notorious "three strikes and you're out" rule. The government has given the BPI and internet service providers until April 2009 to agree a deal - or legislation will follow.Vic steps up to the mic to discuss the government's lack of vision for the future development of broadband in the UK. He spells out the implications of not upgrading to fibre optics to allow speeds of up to 100 megabits a second.Elsewhere in the news, we explain just how Pakistan managed to turn off worldwide access to YouTube; Facebook's fall in UK users; how eBay is angering buyers and sellers with its new feedback system; and how Microsoft has rejected HD-DVD for the XBox.New web businessAdJugsteps into the lift to make an Elevator Pitch to Jemima. Plus, we have blogs, feedback and entertaining conversation (it says here). Enjoy ...Don't forget to:•Post a message on this week's blog• Tell us what you think attech@guardian.co.uk•Join our Facebook group
I'm a big fan of Lost the TV show which is the only reason I'm persevering withLost the videogame. Well, that and a probably misplaced belief that adventure games - think Monkey Island, Broken Sword etc- can still be relevant in 2008. Despite some nice production - "Previously on Lost" before each chapter, authentic music etc - there are far too many design flaws. In fact playing through Lost is reminiscent of games - albeit graphically improved - from 15 years ago. Instant death, invisible barriers, items that are only "activated" when you have spoken to the correct character - these are just some of the gaming anachronisms included. Instant death is the main offender. Even at the start of the game players are penalised if they get too close to the wrong kind of debris on the beach. The rest of the beach is blocked by - eek - invisible barriers and a small pile of luggage. Nice.Things don't improve when you leave the beach. Enter the jungle - avoiding the "black smoke"- and laugh out loud as the game forces you to restart the section if you hit an invisible boundary by going the wrong way. Progress is made by finding the next piece of debris and pressing the button to point you in the direction of the next item - a clumsy mechanic in a game full of them.And then there are caves. These pitch black areas are only navigable with a torch that needs relighting after about 5 seconds. Stay too long in the dark - say 10-15 seconds - and you "die". Try walking in the dark - in a direction you know is the right way because you could see it when you had the torch lit - and you invariably fall down a hole. Fun? Nope.What else? A fiddly and tedious trading game is included, presumably to encourage you to pick up the coconuts and water battles that scatter the island.But despite all this I am still persevering. The glimpses of back-story are intriguing and the chapters - there are 7 - are quite short so I'm guessing it won't be the longest game in the world (a plus point in my book). Plus big budget adventure-type games are rare, especially on consoles. Most importantly it is Lost and fans are likely to tolerate the clunky gameplay. So I'm sticking with it for now but even a third of the way in it's clear that Lost is not the new dawn of adventure games that I hoped it may be.
The latest Tech Weekly podcast is now live.·Launch audio player·The podcast feed URLAfter last week's strategy document from the UK government - essentially telling the music (and film) industries to figure out with the ISPs how to prevent piracy or they'll legislate - we talk to Matt Phillips of the BPI and Nick Lansman, head of the ISP Association. Do they like the idea? How would it work? And could foreign film studios get your (British) connection yanked?If you have an internet connection, this probably matters. (And if you don't have an internet connection, we'd love to hear about how you came across this ... )Plus, Vic Keegan on next-generation broadband - doyouknow which person - for there's only one in the UK - has fibre to his/her home? And when the rest of us will?New web business AdJug enters the lift to make an Elevator Pitch to Jemima.Plus the news roundup, YouTube vs Pakistan explained, and our favourite comments picked from all the blogs. Was yours chosen? You'll have to listen to find out ...As ever, we'd love to hear your thoughts, and what you'd like to hear in future editions. Over to you.·Launch audio player·The podcast feed URL·Subscribe free to Tech Weekly via iTunes·Visit our Facebook group·the Tech Weekly archives
Apple is rumoured to have delayed the launch of the software tools that will help third party developers produce independent applications for the iPhone and iPod Touch.The Californian technology giant said last October that the software developer's kit or SDK would be ready by the end of the month but bloggers in the US claim that it has been delayed while more work is carried out.Apple is currently updating its US online store in advance of the release later on Tuesday of a range of new products, believed to be upgrades to its MacBook range of laptops. Further details of the SDK are also expected to be announced.Although Apple wants to broaden the appeal of the iPhone and iPod Touch by letting other people design compelling applications which users can put on their devices, it is very mindful of the need to protect consumers - and its own reputation for high security - from viruses and malicious software."This is no easy task," Apple boss Steve Jobs admitted last year. The company has been looking at some of the digital authentication technologies being used by other mobile phone companies, such as Nokia, which allows customers to verify that downloadable software is from a "trusted" source.Apple is also considering using its iTunes store to distribute "official" third party applications.Google, meanwhile, released an updated version of the SDK for its Android mobile phone software system two weeks ago, and still hopes to have the first devices running the Android software ready for the end of the year.Far eastern manufacturer HTC, which made a name for itself producing the first phones that ran Windows Mobile, is still believed to be closest to getting a phone ready for Christmas, with other manufacturers such as LG and Samsung close behind.
Apple has refreshed its MacBook and MacBook Pro (consumer and "professional" laptops), with new machines that start (for the Macbook) at 2.1GHz up to 2.4GHz, with 120GB to 250GB drives and 1 up to 2GB RAM, starting at £699; with the MacBook Pro, it's 2.4GHz-2.6Gz, 200GB-300GB, and an NVidia 8600GT graphics card. The one bit of fun? The MacBook Pro comes with a multi-touch keypad a la MacBook Air or iPhone -read about it; see themovie.Note you'll still pay £60 extra for the BlackBook's paint job. (Still, that's £30 less than when it wasannounced. Paint must have got cheaper. How does that work?)And speaking of the iPhone... the much-promised SDK (that's software developers' kit to you, auntie) is looking overdue. Developers had hoped it would be announced at last year's Developers' Conference just ahead of the iPhone's release, which would allow them to write applications that would run natively on the handheld, rather than creating web pages for a browser, which any noodle can do. (Well, many noodles.) Instead, Steve Jobs offered them... web pages. He said this was so rogue applications didn't crash the phone network, which fails to explain how RIM's BlackBerry and Palm's Treo have failed to bring civilisation to its knees.In October, Jobs said the SDK would arrive "before the end of February". (I'd love to point you to his exact words, but they were in Apple's "Hot News" section, and don't get stored. No matter -someone put it in an Apple user discussion, and he saysWe want native third party applications on the iPhone, and we plan to have an SDK in developers' hands in February. We are excited about creating a vibrant third party developer community around the iPhone and enabling hundreds of new applications for our users. With our revolutionary multi-touch interface, powerful hardware and advanced software architecture, we believe we have created the best mobile platform ever for developers.It will take until February to release an SDK because we're trying to do two diametrically opposed things at once—provide an advanced and open platform to developers while at the same time protect iPhone users from viruses, malware, privacy attacks, etc. This is no easy task.However even with the extra day, it looks like February may prove elusive - as Wired writer Arik Hessendahlnoted.Then again, "a foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds". Will a week here or there really hurt this project? If everyone's champing at the bit to write stuff, they've waited a year since the iPhone's announcement, eight months since its release, more than four months since the announcement they'd get their wish - will a few days make much difference? More important will be precisely how it works - whether code has to be signed (as it seems to be for third-party iPod games, where an official SDK is still not in the wild) or whether anyone can play.That, more than the precise timing of Steve or Phil or Greg or whoever standing up there with their remote control and a projector, is what will really determine its eventual success.Update:Applegazette managed to copy thefull text of Jobs's announcement. (Gee, get the guy a proper blog, can't ya?) Thanks to EMComments for the link.
Yahoo is planning to launch a service it claims will simplify the way advertisers run digital campaigns that incorporate display, video, search and mobile ads.The service is dubbed Apex - the advertiser-publisher exchange - and will be used by buyers and sellers of advertising to simplify the often complex and laborious process of planning and booking digital campaigns.Yahoo compared the concept of Apex with how personal video recorders simplified time-shifted viewing.The Yahoo chief executive, Jerry Yang, and the president, Susan Decker, outlined the broad aim of the platform at the Interactive Advertising Bureau's Ecosystem 2.0 conference in Phoenix in the US."We're trying to revolutionise the online advertising industry," said Decker, reported in a story by Adweek. "It's a lofty goal, but it's our goal."Yahoo's rivals have also been working toward a similar goal to simplify running ad campaigns, Microsoft with its adCenter offering and AOL with Platform A.Yahoo will launch Apex with a consortium of hundreds of newspaper publishers, allowing the papers to sell inventory on their websites as well as target similar audiences on the internet content company's sites and elsewhere."Yahoo recognises that because of the way the web and advertising has developed it has become very complex and requires a platform underneath it," Decker said. "That's the only way we're going to decrease the friction."Last week, Yahoo expanded its network of newspaper partnerships with the addition of four US and Canadian publishers.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Yahoo's frustrated shareholders are piling the pressure on to the company's executives, launching another lawsuit against a management board already grappling with a potential hostile takeover by Microsoft.The latest suit filed by two investment funds from Detroit accuses Yahoo's board of adopting a "Just say no to Microsoft" approach that has led to "improper defensive measures" and negotiations with other firms that would be "destructive to shareholder value".Yesterday, lawyers asked the courts to consolidate the suit with several previous cases that all aim to prosecute Yahoo's board for not acting in the interests of shareholders.The latest legal action, launched on Friday by the Police &amp; Fire Retirement System and General Retirement System of the City of Detroit, claimed that "rather than consider Microsoft's offer in good faith, Yahoo's board has taken various steps to defend against Microsoft, destroying or threatening to destroy shareholder value in the process".Shareholders have been angered by plans for generous severance packages approved by the Yahoo board last week that could cost a new owner as much as $1bn to implement, according to one estimate. The latest lawsuit seeks to invalidate the plans.Yahoo's board rejected Microsoft's February 1 offer, which was 62% above its market value before the takeover bid and worth $44.6bn at the time, because they said it undervalued the company.Microsoft, in the meantime, has not made a higher offer, but has recruited a firm that specialises in hostile takeovers, or "proxy" battles.The move could see Microsoft select replacement directors for the Yahoo board, who would be favourable to the takeover and win shareholder approval.Microsoft has until March 13, Yahoo's annual deadline for board nominees, to put forward candidates.A proxy fight is thought to be a last resort for Microsoft. A hostile takeover battle would be a lengthy process and upset many loyal Yahoo staff, who are used to working in a relaxed, Silicon Valley environment. It would also make integration of the two companies more difficult.Speaking in public for the first time since the takeover offer, the Yahoo chief executive, Jerry Yang, told the Interactive Advertising Bureau conference yesterday that the deal had been a "galvanising force internally and externally"."Our board is spending a lot of time thinking about all the alternatives," Yang said, according to Fortune magazine. "It's something that we need to think through carefully."Yang also yesterday outlined a new advertising platform in development by Yahoo, dubbed Apex, that will centralise display, video, search and mobile advertising in one interface. He also announced the launch of Yahoo Buzz, an aggregation tool for users' favourite content.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
A marvellous new bit of information viaWired: the US has made plans to watch out for terrorist activities in online games like World of Warcraft and virtual worlds like Second Life. That the data mining activities outlined in the Raynard Report have been prepared for Congress isn't the most disturbing part of the story; it highlights the beginning of what I anticipate to be a massive preoccupation over the next 12 months: data privacy, data mining and ultimately, what Big Brother knows about you.But there are so many other terrifying elements to this report. First, are there really terrorists infiltrating our guilds? (Probably not, but come on, let's be knee jerk for the heck of it). Who's collecting our behavioural data? Are my actions on a European server now in some warehouse in the USA, waiting to be sifted by some politico in an ill-fitting suit? If I'm accused of being a terrorist in thefictionalWoW, what happens when I try to get through passport control in the real USA? And if I'm not a terrorist (as far as I know, I'm not), but I'm detained at the border because my actions as a rogue Rogue flag me up, who do I complain to?Data mining by the companies who create these products is disturbing enough, but most of them have realistic policies which require that records are deleted after a period of days. But having a third party - the US government - snooping through my virtual inventory is something I take great umbrage with.Read more about the report, mandated recently in the US Congress,here.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
It's not often you catch a grown man playing with a doll's house, let alone doing it while pretending to be a little old lady. But this is not your average Barbie residence, and it's all in the name of research.The adapted PlayMobil house is in fact part of an experimental platform to explore new ways to bridge the gap between virtual and real worlds. A range of sensors and gadgets inside the house allow it to be monitored and controlled through an exact digital replica inside the virtual world Second Life.If the front door has been left open or a light left on in the doll's house it will show in the virtual version. It works both ways, too. You can control the real house — for example by cranking up the thermostat — via its virtual doppelganger.The point of this elaborate set-up is to demonstrate a new way to monitor and manage buildings from afar, says Goh, a business design executive for Swiss building management company Implenia. "We have created a virtual gateway that allows you to link real buildings to virtual worlds."Reducing costsThere's a growing demand for this, he says, with the company already looking after 4,500 buildings in Switzerland using good old-fashioned humans on the ground. With so many buildings this can get complicated, costly and time-consuming, so by doing it all remotely via a virtual world interface would mean the process can be centralised, requiring fewer resources and ultimately reducing costs.There are already some technologies that make this sort of thing possible over the web, says David Taylor at the National Physical Laboratory (NPL) in Teddington. "But the beauty is that here all the systems can be brought together in one control room in a virtual world. The interface is a lot more intuitive than the flat web," he says.The doll's house is, of course, not a real building. But it is useful as a demonstration of the technology and as a research platform, says Goh. There are in fact six of these doll's houses that are being distributed to research centres such as the NPL and Coventry University's Serious Games Institute, where they can be used to help develop the technology further.But already the rewards of Goh's research are being put into practice. Three of Implenia's buildings can now have their access, lighting, elevators, power, air conditioning, climate control and fire safety systems controlled and monitored remotely via a secure control room in Second Life. Preliminary evaluations suggest that this can reduce management costs by 20%, says Goh.And it's not just business premises that can benefit. About 45% of Implenia's managed buildings are residential. Besides allowing people to keep tabs on their homes, Goh is looking at how the technology can be used to keep tabs on vulnerable people.Precious independenceThere are many elderly people who value their independence but may not feel confident enough about their safety or health to live alone. So Goh has rigged his own home up to see how virtual worlds can help.Thanks to a suite of motion, temperature and heart rate sensors throughout his home, if Goh collapses, has a heart attack, can't get out of bed or just needs help, this can be detected remotely from anywhere in the world. He has now lined up six willing elderly volunteers to put the technology through its paces, and estimates that it would cost about £1,000 to kit out a three-bedroom house.Apart from allowing elderly people to live independently for longer, the ultimate aim is to discover whether this kind of "assistive living" can help extend life expectancy. Goh estimates that the technology could add up to seven years, and along the way reduce healthcare costs.First, however, there are some obvious challenges to overcome. "Privacy and security issues have not yet been solved," he says.Communication bottlenecksSimilarly, the amount of bandwidth required is likely to create communication bottlenecks because of the potentially huge amounts of data the two-way communication will produce, says David Whortley, director of the Serious Games Institute.Ultimately, though, Goh believes these problems can be overcome, and when they have been it will not just be buildings and people that will be bridged to virtual worlds. There is a drive to use virtual spaces for other types of remote sensing, such as monitoring vulnerable natural environments."Remote sensing has been around for quite a while," says Whortley, but through data fusion we are only now beginning to be able to recreate it in a virtual world.In the meantime, most of us would use the technology as an easy way to keep tabs on our homes: to turn off that oven or light you left on, or twitch the curtains while you're away.
It can be used as a keyboard, and it can even be used as a bracelet or an earring - but it's really a phone that Nokia thinks can lead the way in the next generation of mobile technology.The Morph phone has been developed by the Finnish mobile phone company and nanotechnology experts at Cambridge University, and was recently unveiled at New York's Museum of Modern Art as part of the Design and the Elastic Mind exhibition.It looks like a thinner version of the 1980s Rubik's Magic Puzzle toy and can be used as a keyboard when laid flat. While folded either lengthways or widthways, it turns into a typical, though very thin, mobile phone - or into a bracelet that can be worn and connected wirelessly to a headset.The developers say the project is based on real research and is not just an aspirational piece of design."All of the elements of the phone are reflected in real projects that are going on here," said Professor Mark Welland, head of the nanoscience group at Cambridge University and director of the Nokia collaboration."For example, the device's flexibility: we have a project on flexible electronics and can take a piece of electronics and wrap it around your little finger and it still operates."Flexible electronics have been in production for some time, but the research being carried out by Cambridge University and Nokia, which involves 10 researchers from the company and 25 Cambridge scientists, goes much deeper than just making devices that are wearable. Altering materials at their most basic atomic level can, for example, create devices that never get wet - because they repel water so effectively - or can sense their surroundings, being able to tell whether food is off or measure the temperature of the wearer.This ability to sense surroundings is the next leap for mobile phones, according to Welland."The bits that are more challenging are things such as sensing the world, such as being able to interact more strongly with the environment."Another difficulty in producing a viable commercial version of the device is how to power it - battery technology is still too cumbersome to integrate perfectly into a flexible device - but scientists at Cambridge are working on the next generation of batteries under their super-capacitor battery project.
Here'sanother one of those 'the problem with games journalism' pieces, this time from Greg Costikyan, founder of the indie aggregation site,Manifesto Games. Like lots of these pieces he asks, 'where is this industry's Pauline Kael?', while arguing that games reviews arenotgames criticism - they are merely a consumerist shadow of criticism. From the article:Reviews are the inevitable epiphenomenon of our consumer society, writing to help consumers navigate the innumerable options available to them. They can be well or poorly done, but they are nothing more than ephemera. I'm sure the newspapers of early 19th century America ran reviews of the novels of James Fenimore Cooper; they are utterly forgotten, and should be, because by nature they were of interest only to the readers of the newspapers of the time. Contrariwise, Mark Twain's Fenimore Cooper's Literary Offenses is still considered an examplar of literary criticism.I think he's brave to attempt an explanation of what criticism is - I'm not sure even Kael would have comfortably delivered such a definition in a couple of paragraphs; critics tend to obfuscate rather elaborate on such defining topics.What Costikyan doesn't tackle is the presence, or otherwise, of an audience for the game criticism he envisions. Games writing may not have its Pauline Kael, but then neither does modern cinema.
Last autumn Iblogged about artist Emily Allchurch, whose series of works entitled Urban Chiaroscuro featured dark urban environments that closely resembled videogame levels.Well, if you're interested in occasionally viewing art that has some visual and thematic similarities to game worlds (and who isn't?), go and see theMie Olise Kjærgaardexhibtion at the Alexia Goethe gallery in London. From thepreview:"[Kjærgaard] uses deserted structures such as quarry towers, mine shafts, ships and sawmills as the subjects for her paintings. Encapsulating both the function and redundancy of spaces and machines that were once productive, built and designed of necessity; there is a melancholy and sometimes brutality to her depiction of their neglect."Videogames, too, make regular use of wasted industrial and urban landscapes - from the burnt out cities of COD4 to the sci-fi distopias of Gears of War, Bioshock and Resistance: Fall of Man. The piece pictured looks a bit like one of the locations in GRAW. And like the paintings, these games turn architectural degradation into something aesthetically appealing.It's worth checking out the other paintings - they really remind me of some of the sketches I've seen game artists create before 3D modelling begins. I'm not sure the artist would thank me for that.The exhibition runs from 29 Feb - 7 Apr 2008.
Better late than never...
There's another technology take-over battle going on, and one that, at least in the games field, is as important as Microsoft v Yahoo. As our Games blog notes (hereandhere), Electronic Arts is trying to take over Take-Two for $2bn.GamesIndustry.biz has a goodTimeline to Acquisitionif you want to catch up. Gamasutra has a good story,EA's Riccitiello: Rockstar 'Key Part' Of Deal.
"Thousands Return To Unemployment Following End Of Writers Strike" reads the headline, neatly skewering recent industrial action in the film business. The online newspaper that came up with that line was, of course,The Onion, where humour is taken very seriously indeed.The Onion bills itself as "America's Finest News Source", and it does look like a newspaper, at first glance. It has sections for local and national news, sports, entertainment, business, science and technology, an op/ed opinion page, and a weekend colour magazine (cover only). It has columns and cartoons, horoscopes and personal ads, and "infographics" packed with useless facts. It could be your local paper, except that all the stories are made up.At The Onion, the staple joke is a straight-faced headline. Examples include Evangelical Scientists Refute Gravity With New 'Intelligent Falling' Theory; Study Finds Link Between Being Struck By Cream Pie, Diminished Social Standing; and Wikipedia Celebrates 750 Years Of American Independence. After that you can imagine the rest of the story, though The Onion's writers usually manage to come up with a few new twists.Darkness victimsOne classic Onion story read: Rotation Of Earth Plunges Entire North American Continent Into Darkness. It told how these "darkness victims" left work and went home, where they suffered "a slow but steady loss of energy, forcing many to lie down. As many as two-thirds of those believed afflicted have fallen into a state of total unconsciousness." Scary, but true.Several Onion stories have reportedly been picked up and repeated by mainstream media, often overseas. Also, according to Wikipedia, "an article on Harry Potter inciting kids to practice witchcraft was believed by many to be real," and the Snopes Urban Legends site says the made-up piece was quoted by"hysterical religious groups".The Onion has its own fake history, too. It claims to have been founded in 1756 as the Mercantile-Onion by Friedrich Siegfried Zweibel. Actually, it was founded in 1988 by two students at the University of Wisconsin. It still has a print version that is distributed free in 10 US cities from New York to Los Angeles, and the site says the print circulation is 690,000 copies.Dead ringer for CNNToday, however, The Onion is best known for its website, which first appeared in 1996, when there wasn't much competition. More recently, it has added podcasts (Radio News) and videos (Online News Network). As you'd expect, ONN is a dead ringer for CNN. Given the huge growth of interest in online video, evident from sites such as YouTube and Veoh, it's not hard to imagine ONN becoming the most popular part of the publication.The Onion enjoys a somewhat inflated reputation: while its best stories tend to "go viral" — people share them by email, or by forwarding links — it is impossible for the daily fare to match these exceptional hits. But spoofs don't date as quickly as real news, and The Onion keeps its old stories around. As a result, there's always something to raise a smile.
You have to wonder what sort of system allows this to happen, but still. It seems that ISPs in Pakistan tried to censor YouTube ("because of content deemed offensive to Islam." says theBBC) by redirecting users to a different address, and they somehow propagated the blocking to ISPs in other parts of the world.The BBC report quotes Google:"Traffic to YouTube was routed according to erroneous internet protocols, and many users around the world could not access our site," it said. "We have determined that the source of these events was a network in Pakistan. We are investigating and working with others in the internet community to prevent this from happening again."The Guardian has theAPreport.
Adobe has officially released AIR, a run-time module that provides a way of running "rich Internet applications" (RIAs) on the desktop. As thepress releaseexplains, there's also a bunch of early applications. Adobe says:Adobe AIR enables developers to create RIAs on the desktop using the skills and Web technologies -- such as HTML, Ajax, PDF, Adobe Flash and Adobe Flex -- they already employ. Applications deployed on Adobe AIR have the advantages of browser-based RIAs, such as speed of development, ease of use, and access from virtually anywhere. Yet they also have the benefits of desktop applications, such as the ability to read/write local files, work with other applications on a user's computer and maintain local data storage on the desktop.Adobe is starting with Windows and Mac versions, and a Linux version should be out "later this year." It will be propagated just like Flash: when you need it, you'll be prompted to go get it.I suspect that AIR is pretty much the death of Java on the desktop (or, if you prefer, that AIR, Microsoft's Silverlight, Google's Gears etc will be too much forJavaFX, which you might not have even heard of). So I asked Adobe's chief technology officer Kevin Lynch about doing AIR for mobile phones, where Java is still entrenched. He told me:"we see a lot of demand to bring AIR to mobile: that's our next big move. [We want it] so you could install it and have it appear at the top level [on your phone]. We think you'll see a lot of interest from the Java folks."But I wouldn't expect it to appear until next year.....Sadly, I forgot to harangue Kevin about the latest Flash atrocity: Adobe's attempt to foist the Google Toolbar on me. Really, guys, this is fundamentally stupid anti-social behaviour and your nuts should be roasted over a slow fire. If users go to you for Flash, give them Flash, not some other crap they may already have had to uninstall several times.
Just to add to Greg's post, EA has set upa special siteto explain its plans to buy Take-Two. An open letter from the company's big boss John Riccitiello promises creative autonomy for its potential purchase:I like to think that we learn from our experience. When I came back to EA last year, we introduced a new organization model that respects creative cultures and gives developers more freedom. We call it the "Label" model because it treats each of EA's four labels as a sovereign entity responsible for its own creative decisions and business results. We expect each team to operate on a profit plan and, in exchange, we provide investment, infrastructure and a lot of creative freedom.This, of course, reflects hisrecent keynote, where the disastrous purchases of Bullfrog and Westwood were held up to withering scrutiny. There'smore at Gamesindustry.biz, where EA reveals that it waited for GTA IV to be finishedbeforemaking its corporate pass at Take Two. Say what you like about EA, it's a sensitive suitor.
Bioware, Pandemic and now the big one - EAhave bidfor Take Two, publishers of the Grand Theft Auto franchise. Clearly the Activision Vivendi tie-up has focused minds but from a product point of view this makes perfect sense. EA have never created a convincing open world/sandbox game - ever play the atrocious Godfather? - and GTA is obviously the market leader here. Take Two haverejected the initial offerbut this won't be the end of it. Is the end of GTA as we know it? Or will the creative process remain unaffected by potential EA ownership?
When I first used the microblogging platform Twitter - which enables users to publish 140-character-long messages via the web and mobile phones - I thought it was silly. Or rather, the uses to which it was being put were silly: people announcing that they'd just woken up or what they'd had for breakfast. I couldn't have cared less. But then I should confess that when I first used blogs and podcasts, I didn't fully comprehend their impact either. So, when my son and webmaster told me I should take another stab at Twitter, I did. And I now see it is an important evolutionary step in the rise of blogging.I just Twittered this: "I'm writing a column about Twitter and Twittering that." Not everybody on Twitter saw that update on my life, only those people who care to follow me on the site. That is a critical characteristic of Twitter: it's selective, in that users choose whether to follow me. And it's social, in that I choose whom to follow. So we're not publishing to the big, wide world. We're talking with our friends and acquaintances.But at the same time, I can choose to automatically feed my tweet - as an individual Twitter message is called - on to my Facebook profile and also on to my blog page, where more friends can see what I'm up to. That's another key attribute of the service: it creates feeds. I believe we will be seeing more and more news and other content presented as feeds rather than as packaged products.I read feeds of my friends' updates ontwitter.comor on my phone via SMS (that is what sets the 140-character limit on messages). I also read feeds of news headlines from the Guardian and individual reporters. Jim Long, a network news photographer, Twitters from White House trips. Ana Marie Cox, the former Wonkette blogger and queen of the snarky political post, has been using Twitter to cover the US primaries for Time.com. I blogged about that, saying she has found the perfect medium for her bon mots and snipes. She responded that Twitter is the perfect medium for covering a campaign. The format gives us a glimpse into what's happening right now, and cuts to the bone. It's a hack's haiku.Some samples from Cox: "Spin room has already started. Can hear the gentle murmur of BS already sloshing about in the hall ... McCain donor just announced he was footing the bar bill for the night. You can start calling him 'ambassador' now ... Ron Paul compresses coal into diamonds in his mouth ... Mitt has so many things 'in my bloodstream' (cars, Michigan, business) you could make a v powerful vaccine out of him ... First washing-of-underwear-in-sink of presidential cycle 2008!... Enjoying immensely that the pundits got it all, all globally wrong. In most professions, you'd lose your job."Because Twitter opened itself up with an API - a programming interface that enables developers to create new services on top of it - all sorts of new inventions are springing up. CommuterFeed is a Twitter service that lets fellow travellers share alerts about problems on their routes to work. Whenever you broadcast a live mobile video onQik.com, it enables you to send a post to Twitter to alert all your friends to watch. PR people are searching Twitter to find hot topics. I used Twitter to create a tool for collaborative criticism (imagine seeing your friends' snide remarks as you all watch Pop Idol at the same time, each from your own couches). News sites are using Twitter to get witnesses to share updates on major news events, like earthquakes.Says political blogger Patrick Ruffini: "Traditional news operated on a 24-hour cycle. Blogs shortened this to minutes and hours. Twitter shortens it further to seconds. It's not right for every piece of information. But when it comes to instantly assembling raw data from several sources that then go into fully baked news stories, nothing beats it."All this springs from a deceptively simple idea and tool. And that is what never ceases to amaze me about the internet: create a platform, make it open, and people will do things with it that you never could have imagined. Considering that Twitter was cofounded by Evan Williams, who also cofounded the company that created Blogger and popularised personal publishing, I should have seen it coming. I just forgot that, on the web, big things often come in small packages.&#183;Jeff Jarvis is a journalism professor at the City University of New York who blogs atbuzzmachine.com
We don't have room in print for all your letters and blog pingbacks, but we do here. People warmed to cryonics, were annoyed about advertising masquerading as quizzes, and we had a classic Mac rant (but pro or anti? You'll have to read it). Click through and enjoy!CRYONICS&gt;&gt; How far we've come in the past decade, to see respectful, balanced articles on the serious work of the cryonics community as the new media norm.longevitymeme.org&gt;&gt; So, cryonicists speaking to the media have backed away from the I [immortality] word (despite the title of cryonics' foundational text), and they've started to downplay the more extravagant claims about cryonic applications of nanotechnology made just a few years ago. No more talk of keeping people in cryosuspension "for centuries" if necessary until somebody, some time, can resuscitate them, I suppose. If people frozen today make it in that state to the year 2108 or so, and nobody knows what to do to help them, then out they go to conventional interment.transsurvivalist.blogspot.comFREE ADVERTISINGMatthew Inman's abuse ("How to get online advertising for free", 14 Feb 2008) of the HTML image tag's "alt" attribute (not an "alt attribute tag"), intended to make graphical content accessible to people who cannot see images, is akin to an able-bodied person parking in spaces reserved for blue badge holders. Shame on him. Andy Mabbett, BirminghamYour article on the use of widgets to drive links and traffic to commercial sites was an interesting one. However some of the comments you reported fail to highlight the lack of clarity provided by the major engines, such as Google, in this issue; they were also, in some instances, slightly disingenuous. Whilst this is not a technique I would recommend to clients (linking from widgets to sites that have no direct relevance to the widget) it is something that in many ways Google, or at least its employees, have actually encouraged. Matt Cutts, in charge of the team responsible for weeding out spamming techniques, encourages webmasters to create content that people would want to link to, and has even given examples where the linkbait and the site in question are completely unrelated. For example he has praised a Chiropractor who created content that would be of interest to people who work in SEO, which has driven links to help him ranks for terms related to his business (see his post). I fail to see how SEO &amp; a chiropractic surgery have any more in common than a geek test &amp; a dating or finance site. It is this lack of clarity which makes the comments of Danny Sullivan, a man who knows more about search engine marketing than just about anyone else, so surprising. Considering Matt Cutt's comments (which Danny will be aware of), how is what Matt Inman is doing 'pushing it'? If Google is recommending techniques so similar as to be indistinguishable, then why would anyone else complain? It is for the same reason that I find Dan Thornton's comments slightly confusing. Surely someone whose job description, and blog title, suggest knowledge of blog marketing techniques, should be perfectly aware of the reason that widgets like the ones described are provided. With the greatest respect to Mr Thornton, I fear that he has been more than a little naïve and his rather over-the-top comments are a reaction to that. At the end of the day Matt Inman has managed to create very imaginative ways of marketing his, and his employer's, sites. Whilst many may profess not to like his methods, as long as the world's largest search engine encourages people to create content with no relevance to a site's core themes, Matt and others like him will continue to do exactly that. Ciarán Norris, SEO and social media director, altogether, London&gt;&gt; Thank God I am rubbish at these widget things. This looks to be the start of a slippery slope.indigoalison.blogspot.comFREE AUSTRALIAN DATA?&gt;&gt; This encapsulates, to me, the most compelling argument for free data. That getting access to data helps us better solve problems; barriers to data make for a less innovative, less healthy country.datalibre.caDIRECTX GAMINGI'm an avid gamer having played Half Life 2, Team Fortress 2, Crysis and all the rest on my one-year-old Dell PC with Win XP (I could bore you with the exact spec). I'm in my mid 30s, am a professional engineer and have a lot of experience with PCs, I've built several myself, repair them as a sideline at work and advise all close family when they are going to buy a new computer. I recently saw an upgrade version of Vista Premium in a local outlet of a national games retailer for £60 and was vaguely tempted until I considered the following:The PC I've got runs all my games at Very High settings at the native resolution of my monitor (with the exception of Crysis but medium settings on that are pretty special)To run the same games on Vista, I will probably need to get more memory (check out the system specs for Crysis)Upgrades to the OS are never simple, easiest way to do this would be to get a new hard disk and install it to thereChances are that some of my other PC hardware will be non Vista compatible.So really, given the amount of extra expense, hassle and lack of any benefit, I can see no sensible reason to run Vista. I'll wait until they give it away free with my next graphics card upgrade. Jeff Fox, YeovilBROADBAND SPEEDSIn response to David Brown, as one who's previously had a similar letter published, complaining about BT's broadband delivered speeds v claimed speed, it seems only fair to say my recent experience has been the exact opposite: significant improvement. I now routinely get 2-4Mbs - not quite the 8 in the ads, but a lot better than it used to be. Alan Paterson, LondonMy problem is with Tiscali offering an upgrade from 1Mb to (up to) 2Mb which has never been remotely realised. The contract includes free line rental so I have mainly been vainly trying to find out why there is no increase in my speed from 1Mb (average obviously much lower). After endless emails I am still no nearer to an answer of any sort. I am frustrated rather than angry that nobody takes the problem seriously is distance from the exchange a reason and why can they not tell me. Brian Storey, Christchurch, DorsetDRMI am an old fogey with no strong desire to steal music and movies. I subscribe to satellite TV and pay for the videos I rent. The most infuriating part of copyright protection for me is the regional setting on DVDs. I live in North America, (DVD region 1). From time to time, my family in the UK send me DVDs bought in Britain and which are unobtainable in North America. Of course, these DVDs are region 2. They will not play on my DVD player because the player is permanently set only to region 1. This is the equivalent of buying a book printed in English in Britain but being physically prevented from reading it in North America. If the British DVD was available in a North American regional setting, I could understand the desire of the manufacturer to separate the two markets with two regional settings. However the DVDs of interest are not released in other formats. Yes, there are technical fixes like using a second DVD player set to the European regional setting or viewing the DVD on my computer which permit changing the regional setting a maximum of six times. There are probably lots of "cracks" which would put me into the criminal classes, but all I want to do is to view a legally bought DVD away from its region of origin. Setting the DVD regional code to region 0 would solve the problem and make the video universally available. Sometimes necessity is the mother of hacking. Alan Mellors, Guelph, OntarioMAC USERSI enjoyed Andrew Brown's article but as a Mac User over the last 12 years I found it contained a number of inaccuracies. "Whether it is in any other way better than a modern PC is a question with an unobvious answer. It's very hard to think of anything that is possible only on a Mac, and the idea that one interface is more intuitive than the other seems to me palpable nonsense. Both are reasonably consistent, and both rely on conventions that have to be learned." Not really. Has he ever heard of iLife. Even Paul Thurrott uses who is the author of The Windows Supersite uses iLife for his photos and music and he bought his journalist wife a Mac because she never could get used to the faffing about and maintenance for necessary for Windows. The Windows UI lacks consistency: menus, dialog boxes, and appearances can vary widely across applications. The file search system is extremely rudimentary. The way you can tell how a good UI is when someone is unfamiliar with the system. One of the Windows magazines got several of their writers together and they faced off against a 9 year old boy with a new Mac: They both had to set up a computer and get on the Internet . The nine-year-old boy with the Mac beat them to the post. Recently on C5's The Gadget Show had competition between Jason (a new Mac user on a MacBook) and Suzi (experienced Windows User on a Sony Vaio) to do several tasks, WP, photo editing and film editing and see who would finish first. No contest, Jason won hands down. Suzi could not find files and menus were inconsistent with what she needed, buried in submenus. (Read it here.) The UI on Mac Leopard is uncluttered, efficient and logical, provides consistency and searches file metadata. PC Advisor (a Windows magazine) recently rated XP, Vista, Leopard and Ubuntu. They rated the interfaces XP 3*, Vista and Ubuntu 4* and Leopard 5*. They also rated other aspects of the OS's and they came out Vista 3*, XP and Ubuntu 4* and Leopard 5*. I use them all and that is where I would put them too. "But Mac users do pay for the software they use. They even pay for their operating system upgrades." A bit of an Apple and Oranges comparison here. Windows Upgrades tend to be for multiple bug fixes and do not cost, nor should they. Apple has no cost Upgrades within Leopard such as 10.5.1, 10.5.2 which do similar things and often add a few more features. Apple major Upgrades such as Tiger (10.4) to Leopard (10.5) do cost but 300 new features were added to the OS, just not bug fixes. There is an added advantage of a Family Pack that costs about £30 more that lets you put the OS on up to 5 Macs in your house (this represents about 35% of Apple's OS sales and is very popular). Only one version of the Mac OS is offered not 7! The cost of the upgrade was under £100 not £400 and my 2001 Quicksilver can run the latest OS. Try the same with Vista! "Beyond that, there is the imponderable factor of snobbery. Mac users so sincerely believe themselves superior to the rest of us that it's possible that this makes them pay more attention to style and finish." I don't feel that I am superior to anyone. I might think that OSX is better than Windows when I see my my Windows using brethren do a total reinstall every three months because their system gets cluttered. (Not even the data and OS are separate, what dunce designed that?) As Andrew Brown mentions I might feel very good about just having the right application for the right need (ie Scrivener, Yojimbo, BBedit, Mailsmith, Nisus Writer Pro) rather than see someone struggle along with an unsuitable application designed for a clerk at the office. Mac users are not snobs, smug yes - snobs no. I like the Technology section of the Guardian in spite of a severe bias to Microsoft and Windows and all their accompanying faults and shortcomings (DOJ, EU). Try and get more Mac and Linux users on your staff - the bias would disappear. (name and address supplied)
Kevin Johnson, president of Microsoft's platforms and services division, has produced a sort ofmini-FAQto tell staff more about the attempt to take over Yahoo. There are no surprises -- it's just what you'd expect them to say -- but Johnson says:Our proposal includes a thoughtful integration planning process for a Microsoft-Yahoo! combination. It is important to me that this process includes leaders from Yahoo! and Microsoft and is done in a way that enables us, together, to make decisions in a collaborative way. Importantly, this will be an inclusive process with Yahoo! employees as they are a key part of our success as a combined company.The consolidation may not involve many lay-offs:While some overlap is expected in any combination of this size, we should remember that Microsoft is a growth company that has hired over 20,000 people since 2005, and we would look to place talented employees throughout the company as a whole. We have no shortage of business and technical opportunities, and we need great people to focus on them.And there would still be some sort of Yahoo in Silicon Valley:Silicon Valley is one of Microsoft's largest presences outside our Redmond headquarters, with nearly 1,800 employees in a variety of key engineering and business roles. Yahoo!'s campus houses over 10,000 employees and plays a key part in their innovative culture. In bringing the companies together, we would be committed to maintaining Yahoo!'s significant presence in Silicon Valley, and we anticipate that there would be exciting opportunities for a combined Microsoft and Yahoo! talent base in Silicon Valley, Redmond, and many other cities worldwide.How many of Yahoo's best staff will stick around to find out how well Microsoft can execute its plan, if it ever comes to that, is another matter. It would be interesting to know how many Yahoo staff have previously applied for jobs at Microsoft, and therefore might quite like the idea. I suspect not many.
There's been a lot of talk recently about Facebook's traffic being down, some of it approaching the "end of the world, pictures at 11" kind of stuff which has been a net staple for decades. ButAllan Sternhas graphed ComScore's numbers and claims: "The truth is that whatever caused the graph to have the same shape last winter is causing the graph to have that shape again this year."Well, I think the truth is that we don't really know, and it's too early to say....
I mentioned the idea of integrating microelectronics with contact lenses in a Newsbytes item, but ScienCentral now has much more information under the headlineBionic Contact Lenses.As noted: "The research was presented in January 2008 at the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers' International conference on Micro Electro Mechanical Systems and was funded by the National Science Foundation and the Technology Gap Innovation Fund from the University of Washington."
Asos chief executive Nick Robertson is sick of being linked to Lindsay Lohan and Paris Hilton in the newspapers. But the chief executive of the 'celebrity-inspired' fashion website is a victim of sexism in the City - the need for business editors to leaven weighty coverage of sub-prime mortgages and monoline insurers with a spirit-lifting picture of a 20-year-old in a thigh-skimming mini-dress. 'It's like groundhog day,' says Robertson of the media coverage his trading updates attract.But if Robertson is weary of it, there is no sign that women are getting tired of scouring the website to bag the latest celebrity trends, with the retailer reporting sales growth of nearly 90 per cent at Christmas. Analysts are now talking about the company's potential to be the 'Amazon of fashion'.And even if Robertson objects to the fallout, there is no doubt Asos is a business built on skimpy attire worn by glamorous girls. At any one time the website has around 500 dresses to choose from, with the selection changing every six to eight weeks. Shoppers can search by their favourite celebrity as well as by style and currently its teen clientele can snap up a &pound;38 lace dress inspired by one worn by actress Mischa Barton, or a &pound;28 floral number &agrave; la Ms Hilton.After its spectacular Christmas performance, the weight of expectation in the City is high, but Robertson claims he is not nervous about the business's ability to maintain momentum. 'We have grown at this level for six years and there is a lot more riding in our favour now; internet shopping is more exciting and the Asos brand is a lot bigger.'He says the attention Asos has received belies its size - after all, with sales of around &pound;80m, its turnover is only equal to that of Topshop's flagship store at Oxford Circus. 'We are tiny,' he says.The rapid growth of Asos, formerly 'As Seen on Screen', appears to have surprised its management. It has moved warehouses five times in seven years and is now scrabbling for more space at its trendy Art Deco London headquarters. But Robertson says its most recent move should do for several years, as it can handle sales volumes of up to &pound;350m.Robertson is the great-grandson of menswear retailer Austin Reed, but he is adamant he is more of an entrepreneur, like his brother Nigel who founded telephone information group Freepages. 'Retail is product and packaging: my experience is more on the packaging side,' he says.The company's roots lie in product-placement business Entertainment Marketing, which Robertson started with Quentin Griffiths in 1995 with the aim of getting brands such as Carlsberg and Pepsi into films and television shows. The plan was to create an online shop for a variety of products 'as seen on screen', but it became apparent the real opportunity was in clothing.'We decided to be about selling the fashion people see on celebrities, not just in the movies and on TV, but in music videos and in magazines,' he says. Asos was born in 2000 and the following year the business, chaired by Lord (Waheed) Alli, was admitted to the Alternative Investment Market.'We have evolved from 2001 when it was all about products you saw on screen,' says Robertson. 'Celebrity is still at the heart of this business but we've got more authoritative and professional about the way it is packaged.'Robertson gets annoyed if you apply traditional retail logic to his business. When asked about the typically lower margins achieved selling third-party brands versus own-label goods, he says: 'Some analysts are stuck in the Dark Ages. Can I just spell it out? We are not a shop. This is an internet site with more stuff on it than you can shake a stick at.'I don't think Amazon is worried about margin as they are making a smaller margin on a much bigger turnover - and that's the principle we would apply. If I'm a shop I have to make a return per square foot, but the only cost to me is the &pound;4.50 per square foot it costs me to keep goods in my warehouse.'Robertson also becomes agitated when the subject turns to the potential of clothes shopping online - given, it is argued, that some women will always prefer shopping on the high street where they can touch fabrics and try on items. He makes the 'whatever' sign using his thumbs and forefingers. 'Every month 51 per cent of 16-to-24-year-old girls buy clothes online,' he says. 'Get over the f***ing trying-on thing.' Convenience is why people buy on the web, he continues. 'Have you tried queuing up in Zara on a Saturday afternoon?'Such is the demand for internet fashion, he says, that the business would grow at 40 per cent a year even if the site did not evolve. So far it has only scratched the surface: just 1.7 million of a possible 14 million target audience of 16-to-34-year-old women use the site. Kaupthing analyst Matthew McEachran estimates that the company, which has expanded into menswear, is addressing a potential &pound;60bn market.Robertson has described the typical Asos customer as: '23, better looking than average, with Saturday night as her biggest night of the week'.If you were to look in such a woman's wardrobe, he goes on, 'it probably contains some items from eBay, TK Maxx, some own-label clothes as well as premium and luxury brands,' he says. 'So we have been taking all these high street, premium and luxury brands under one roof, because from a customer perspective that appears to be what she wants.'Asos has bolstered its credibility with wealthier shoppers by stocking designer ranges such as McQ by Alexander McQueen and Twenty8Twelve, the range designed by actress Sienna Miller. Robertson says getting brands on board is like a 'domino effect', and the next stage is to add more luxury products to the roster - although shoppers can already buy a &pound;720 Miu Miu bag, as seen on Keira Knightley.As the business grows, he says Asos will seek to create a more personal shopping experience. 'When you visit Amazon you get a completely different home page to me, so apply that to fashion,' he says. 'We will be able to profile the customer through their shopping and browsing habits... so an older person with more disposable income will see more premium product.'The potential Asos has shown in its short life as a listed firm has led to speculation that it could be bought - but Robertson scotches that, adding that between management, Fidelity and hedge fund manager Bill Currie, 40 per cent of the group's shares are spoken for. Instead, he is concentrating on strengthening its position, as rivals move from the high street to fight for sales on the net. Like Lastminute.com's co-founder Brent Hoberman, he sees the potential for internet 'superbrands', with retailers' wares all displayed under one 'roof'.'On the internet, shoppers prefer to go to a smaller number of bigger places and Amazon is obviously the pinnacle of that,' says Robertson. 'A girl walking down Oxford Street may go to 10 or 15 different shops - but she doesn't want that hassle on the internet.'The CVAge40FamilyMarried with one childEducationCanford, Dorset; left school with three A-levelsCareer1987-1991: media assistant to media planner/buyer, Young &amp; Rubicam; 1991-96: media planner, rising to account director, Carat; 1995: co-founder, Entertainment Marketing; 2000-date: CEO, Asos.comInterestsChelsea FC, watching sport
On a brisk October evening in a rundown district of London, two trendy young Americans are getting ready to go on stage. Kevin Rose turns to his partner in crime, Alex Albrecht, with a little trepidation. The duo have come from California to perform in Britain, and suddenly they're looking a little nervous. Will this work? Is anybody going to turn up?An hour later, and all doubts are forgotten. On stage, there is mayhem; in the audience, more than 1,000 baying teenagers, most of them wearing in skinny jeans and black, logo-plastered T-shirts, are yelling and laughing — it's part rock concert, part pantomime. When the event is over, Rose and Albrecht move to a nearby bar where they are mobbed by fans. Many are probably too young to be in the bar, but they're buying drinks for their heroes anyway, posing for photographs and confusing the regulars with their wild excitement.One man — middle-aged, suited, sniffing a glass of wine after a day in the City — leans over to ask what's going on. Are these guys in a band or something? No, I explain, they're the stars of an internet TV show called DiggNation, and they've just recorded a live episode. He shrugs and walks away.Rose and Albrecht may not yet be household names, but they are "internet famous": celebrities among the web-native YouTube generation. The show's premise is simple: the duo sit on a sofa, crack open a beer or two, and discuss the week's news. Their concept came to life when they found themselves cut loose after a couple of years working as cable network presenters in the US. They decided to film themselves mucking around at home, shooting the breeze. Albrecht, 31, is excitable, unceasingly talkative and has a caffeinated bounce. Thirty-year-old Rose, who looks like a floppy-haired college boy (though he dropped out of the University of Nevada where he was studying computer science), usually plays the straight man. The format is reminiscent of Skinner &amp; Baddiel's laddish style, and the humour is a mixture of nerdcore and frat house: a little rude, quite geeky and very American.Their skits started as a way to fill time, but turned into an internet phenomenon. DiggNation is now the biggest online video show, with hundreds of thousands of people tuning in every week. The show has spawned a new web TV studio, Revision 3, that's already drawn $9m from investors. "We just did it for ourselves," Albrecht says. "The fact that people actually watched it shocked us — it's blown up beyond all recognition. Really, it's the Wild West."Rose and Albrecht may be the most widely known web stars, but they are not alone: they are part of a new internet video movement that is fast becoming the MTV of its generation.Three months after the London gig, a group of them gather in a Los Angeles studio. Joanne Colan, the clean-cut presenter of Rocketboom, a show widely regarded as a pioneer of the genre, sits on the floor; Ze Frank, a tall, mesmerising New Yorker, pulls faces in the background. Rose, it turns out, is stuck at home in San Francisco, but Albrecht is here along with BoingBoing TV's Xeni Jardin and Mark Frauenfelder, two LA-based hipsters.The king of this new frontier would be 36-year-old Ze Frank. A New York-based comedian, he already had a number of online projects on the go and had won a number of awards by the time he launched his own web serial in March 2006. He was obsessed with the concept of online video, and how it could be different from traditional TV, so decided to spend a year experimenting. "I just wanted to dive in and see what it would feel like," he says. "It really just started with turning the camera on without any sort of explanation and trying stuff out."The Show — with the motto "thinking so you don't have to" — ran every weekday for a year between 2006 and 2007. Its content was terse and esoteric, using observational, blog-style humour within a stylised monologue. Frank's unblinking, rapid-fire delivery — akin to The Daily Show With Jon Stewart — treated the vagaries of the politics and American society as a theatre of the absurd.Subjects ranged from the surreal — spoof cookery shows about sticking your fingers into fruit ("as we found out last week with the mulberry, size isn't everything") — to songs lambasting anti-intellectualism and political comment. "We've got a great day of TV ahead of us," he said on election day. "It's like watching 24 hours of Texas Hold'em — except the winner gets the deficit. And remember, when it's all over, 50% of the candidates are going to have to go home to their families and explain why they no longer have a career."His smart, funny projects suited intelligent web audiences and was quirky enough for them to feel they'd found something unique.BoingBoing, which is produced by a rival studio to DiggNation's Revision 3, is the newest of the bunch. A spin-off from one of the world's most popular blogs, it's a cabinet of curiosities: recent segments have included steam-powered robots, digital animation and fire-breathing tubas. Jardin — who has fashioned an elfin, cartoonish image for herself — anchors the show. Frauenfelder dons a white coat and thick glasses to present a mad-scientist take on how to build robots from paperclips or make amplifiers using wire and batteries. Their esoteric mix has put the show high in the online charts, and led to a deal to provide in-flight entertainment on Richard Branson's new US airline, Virgin America."We started thinking about BoingBoing TV probably about two years ago, when a lot of the major networks and studios started calling us and saying they were interested in doing something," Frauenfelder says. "We talked to them, but we realised that, in fact, we had an opportunity to do it ourselves, because the costs are so low. You really can do online video for next to nothing, so why not try to do it ourselves first and see what happens?"BoingBoing's launch was a long and deliberate process - other individuals simply stumbled into it. Colan, for example, was between jobs as a traditional television presenter when she was picked to front Rocketboom. She worked for the BBC and as a VJ on MTV Europe. Rocketboom was one of the earliest full-throttle web video outfits, starting late in 2004. Its offbeat news format brought in viewers, as well as mainstream media attention ("edgy" is how Newsweek described it). Without ever being riotously funny or blindingly clever, the show made the original host, Amanda Congdon, internet famous and set the pattern for dozens of copycats. Success, however, brought its own perils and Congdon eventually fell into a mudslinging split with the series producer Andrew Baron. Rocketboom went on regardless and Colan, a former MTV presenter from Lancashire, replaced Congdon on a whim and has ended up staying 18 months."I thought it would be an interesting crash course in what was going on in internet video, just for a couple of weeks," Colan says, "but I got into it and realised that there are a lot of possibilities."In the cultish corners of pop culture, the sense of personal discovery - of being part of a small, exciting movement - has always been a vital element. Frank, Rose and others have been able to evoke the same feeling that draws people to edgy new music - the sense of being a tastemaker cottoning on to the great new idea before anybody else. This is one of the ironies of the internet. The solitary business of surfing the limitless expanses of the web can make people feel individually special, even when millions of viewers are watching the same thing.Frank summed it up neatly in an August 2006 episode of The Show in which he tried to explain the strangeness of the television industry: "They create tourist destinations that don't exist except on TV. Just like any other tourist destination, when you get there it feels like millions of other people have stood where you're standing. Watching things on the internet is different - it's less like a tourist destination and more like that cool, secluded spot you find in the woods... It doesn't always feel like millions of people have been there, it can feel like something you've discovered for yourself."The new wave web stars come from different places and have different aims, but on one thing they are unanimous - the intimacy of the medium. "I certainly learned how powerful this proximity to an audience can be, and what a very, very special situation that is; an incredible closeness comes out of it," Frank says. "Of course, the closeness can also be overwhelming, and it can take a lot of effort to maintain." For the shows can inspire almost fanatical loyalty.After the DiggNation live recording in London, I asked some of the youngsters milling around where they'd come from. One, with a smile, revealed that he had trekked down from Nottingham. A pair of emo kids said they'd come from Cambridge. Somebody else had come from Paris — but the prize went to one audience member who was rumoured to have flown in from Moscow just to see the show.Jim Louderback, chief executive of Revision 3, a former journalist who has the relaxed air of a Californian surfer, says approachability is highly valued by the YouTube generation. "In the US, we had television icons; people you put on a pedestal; gods. I once met Walter Cronkite and it was like meeting the president. When cable came out, it was much more down to earth - MTV VJs who you could go and hang out with in a bar. But still you felt that they'd be the ones doing all the talking." He says the sense of proximity and friendship is easier on the web than anywhere else in the media - especially when "the hosts come out of those communities and they're just like them".A survey by the recruitment company CareerBuilder asked employers what they thought the differences were between workers over and under 30 years old, and found that the main difference was that Generation Y communicates through technology rather than in person. A quarter of employers also said their frame of reference for pop culture was very different.The two findings suggest why online video is popular: it is communication through technology, and a new, niche form of culture that feels individual and liberating. It is not because, as some meagre-minded critics have suggested, young people have some sort of sociopathic fear of human contact. It is simply because the technology is there.Those who decry social networking as an exercise in hi-tech isolationism forget that the stereotype of the uncommunicative teen locked in their bedroom is nothing new. They imagine that, if it were not for Facebook and MySpace, people would be out windsurfing or reading Shakespeare rather than staring at the TV. For the YouTube generation, the web is not a tool that helps them communicate more quickly — it is their native form of communication.Is a sense of connection - either with the web stars or with each other - what viewers find appealing about these shows? Albrecht believes so — at least when the mainstream popular culture is so anodyne and uniform and young people are looking for new tribes."MTV used to be the thing that parents wouldn't let you watch because it was edgy; it was the youth talking to the youth," he says when I meet him again during the filming of another DiggNation episode (this time the location is Rose's down-at-heel apartment in San Francisco). "Then it became corporate and there's nothing left. That's what I think the internet has been able to step up and take: we talk about the things we care about, and it just happens that a large proportion of the population also care about the same things."Louderback has another theory about why it is easier to connect with viewers using internet video. "When you watch TV, you're seven feet away and sitting back. But when you watch on your iPod or your laptop, it's only inches away or you're holding it in your hands. I wonder whether the intimacy of our handheld devices and computers creates more of a sense of intimacy and sharedness and companionship than just sitting back and watching TV."The trend for producing your own video is not a new one. From Super 8 family movies in the 60s and 70s to the pioneering TV video diaries on shows such as the BBC's Video Nation in the early 90s, there have been plenty of people eager to explore camcorder technology. But although the net — unfiltered and often deeply personal — seemed a natural outlet for such material, it took a while for internet shows to take off. The cost of good equipment and lack of broadband availability meant that initially the risks were high and the rewards small, but nevertheless had a swift impact. Rocketboom's early success helped inspire Apple's iTunes to carry video podcasts, which in turn made it easy for people to subscribe to programming they were interested in, rather than having to sift through the farther reaches of the net.When YouTube, the video-sharing website, achieved mainstream success in 2006, suddenly internet video became an accessible medium where anybody with a camera could have a go. The result was startling - and, famously, ended up with internet giant Google buying YouTube, its audience and its momentum for $1.65bn.Of course, web video receives plenty of criticism, too. Much like the wider internet — where you have to fish around for the genuinely interesting — the output of videobloggers and web shows is often dismissed as faddish and juvenile. One of internet culture's pantomime villains, British-born Andrew Keen — author of anti-web polemic The Cult Of The Amateur — calls BoingBoing "a surreal and supremely inane compendium of miscellaneous knowledge": a charge that Frauenfelder and Jardin have proudly adopted as a badge.Undeterred by the criticism and tempted by the YouTube effect, even thoroughbred TV executives have gone online to show their programmes. Last year, a lot of noise was made about a new show being paraded on MySpace called Quarterlife, from the makers of the touchy-feely TV drama of the late 80s, thirtysomething, and My So-Called Life in the 90s. Producers Marshall Herskovitz and Edward Zwick had piloted a show about twentysomethings in the blogosphere several years earlier on ABC, but the show didn't get picked up. But in the end, their old-school contacts paid off: after airing episodes of Quarterlife online, they have now signed a deal to sell it to NBC.Others lured by the low-cost, high-energy possibilities of the internet are opening a string of small, dedicated internet TV production studios - it's somehow reminiscent of the movie industry gold rush in the first half of the 20th century. The most high-profile of the newcomers is Revision, producers of DiggNation and shows such as Ctrl+Alt+Chicken (cookery) and XLR8R (music). We meet Kevin Rose in the company's small studio space in a labyrinthine old factory in San Francisco's post-industrial Dogpatch district. In this darkened room, equipped with cameras and editing suites, Revision 3 hopes to produce at least 15 shows a week. The budgets are far from tiny, but they are still a drop in the ocean compared with those of traditional television.In Los Angeles, BoingBoing's producers, Deca.tv (Digital Entertainment Corporation of America), are also looking to build the next generation of Hollywood. They have just $5m in funding, but lofty ambitions: Michael Wayne, the chief executive, believes that digital studios such as his could be worth billions in just a few years. "I hope we go public one day, and continue to invest in programming - be better than the next person, faster than the next person and that we're the place the best talent and ideas gravitate towards," he says. "That's what studios have done historically, but our DNA is a little different."These mini studios, unabashed capitalists, have benefited from the turbulence created by the recent US screenwriter's strike, as traffic to online video sites rocketed. There is an irony in the non-unionised web industry profiting from the industrial action — the reason writers went on strike was over residual fees when their shows are distributed on the internet.The friendly rivalry emerging between wannabe moguls such as Louderback and Wayne has parallels with the squabbles between old Hollywood film bosses such as Louis B Mayer and William Fox. In the long term, though, the success of this studio system needs wider audiences — not just tech-savvy kids. Is there an audience out there for more mainstream subjects?"Absolutely," Rose says. "I think there's a lot of niches out there that aren't being filled — say, hundreds of thousands of people who want to learn how to cross stitch. I can't say we're going to make that show, but there would be an audience for it online. For us, it's been gradually expanding out from the tech and geek genre; we have a music show now, and we've got a bunch of good shows coming up later this year."The video boom is similar to the growth of young British music, where artists such as the Arctic Monkeys and Kate Nash are often seen as the products of MySpace. But these new TV stars are building their support out of the structure of the internet itself. Things are still in flux, however, and even those who might be the TV stars of tomorrow don't know what tomorrow will look like."Maybe what we are doing," Jardin says, "is less about bringing video to the web, or translating blogs into video, than about creating something that will ultimately be thought of as a new medium: it's not television and it's not a website." She thinks this will all seem quaint and experimental in a few years. "Maybe the way that we access video now on the web will become dated pretty fast. We are just in the beginning stages ..."
As I am a guest geek this week, I have to tell you that my relationship with techie stuff is about the same as my relationship with Scarborough - I know that decent people choose to live there, but I would rather not visit. Yes, I have installed a geothermal heating system at home, and I really like my iPod, but I am not longing for the day when I can programme the oven while on a flight back from New York.So it was with some surprise that the other day I found myself trying to make a video of my cat on two dinky little camcorders that are vying for market share. If, like me, you are currently camcorder-less, but not in therapy about it, you may be tempted to buy the dinky little Samsung HMX10, which retails at between &pound;400 and &pound;450, depending on your shopping instinct.This light, neat, small, simple device is perfect for a handbag. I think it will suit the ladies better than the gents, but for all the right reasons; men are over-impressed by complexity - look at how they design washing machines, which are really just water-in, water-out contraptions that don't need all the buttons and lights of an F111. Whoever designed the HMX10 really understood that less is more.Everything is immediately obvious, the look is sleek not cheap, and the quality is fine for memories of kids and dogs and drunken birthday parties. This is the kind of camera that I would happily just throw in with the mobile phone and the house keys, and take anywhere. You won't notice the weight, and its simplicity means that you can whip it out and use it as easily as the snapper on your mobile phone.I'm not sure it would survive being dropped, though, and it is certainly nowhere near as robust as the superior Toshiba Gigashot A100, which has a rugged, serious, man-up-a-mountain feel to it. There is definitely a his'n'hers war in these rivals, but then the Toshiba you would want, with the big memory, costs twice the price of the Samsung and is also twice the weight. If you are looking to spend around &pound;800 on a new camcorder, or if you want to please your geeky bloke, then the Gigashot A100, with its handsome good looks and brushed steel finish, is the right choice.The picture quality is fantastic - and by that I mean really and truly impressive. It has a translucent clarity that made even the inside of a jar of marmalade look sharp. (I am not completely mad; it's just that I was making marmalade the day I tried it out.) The Toshiba sound is much crisper than the rather touching Bakelite fuzz of the Samsung, too. The whole thing has a serious certainty about it - and if you enjoy all the fiddling about and programming, the choices, options, menus and settings, then everything about this camcorder will delight you. A male friend who came to visit was already getting out his credit card. Me, I just hated having to watch the instruction videos and insert my software disc.The maddening thing about the Samsung HMX10 is that it doesn't come with a memory card. That is like the bad old days when kettles came without plugs. As a woman, I want everything in one box. Yes, I know I will have to upgrade the card later, etc, etc, but that's male logic speaking, not female intuition. We just want it to work. If the manufacturers are serious about interesting women in the toys and gadgets market, then they should lay off meaningless complexity and make sure that, when we take home what we buy, we can use it straight away.The Samsung offers 80 minutes of recording time and takes the same to charge. The Toshiba needs more than two hours to do that, but not only does it last longer, it continues to work well at low temperatures.Yes, the Toshiba is by far the more impressive bit of kit, but the user-friendly Samsung is the one for me.
A secretive Swiss bank landed an apparently novel censorship blow against the internet this week. Anyone who tried to call up wikileaks.org, a global website devoted to publicising leaked documents, found themselves frustrated. The site simply wasn't there any more.The Julius Baer bank in Zurich succeeded in hamstringing the shadowy individuals behind the website by the simple trick of moving not against them, but against a US company that hosted their domain name.Dynadot, the California resellers who collect a few dollars by this internet trade, submitted to a legal injunction ordering the name to be deleted. Yet however wise this scheme may have appeared at the time to the Swiss bank's Los Angeles lawyers, Lavely &amp; Singer, it has now backfired in a big way.The injunction blew up a gale of debate about internet freedom, and sprayed the bank's secret documents all over the net. It has also thrust into prominence an obscure group of dreamers and programmers who want to provide what they call an "untraceable and uncensorable" leaking machine, to be used by dissidents worldwide.Those behind Wikileaks include Tibetan, Chinese and Thai political campaigners, an Australian hacking author, and Ben Laurie, a mathematician living in west London who is on the advisory board.Wikileaks is not the first site of its kind. John Young, a New York architect, has been posting leaked intelligence documents on his Cryptome site for some years. But since its launch in late 2006, Wikileaks has had an impressive record.When Northern Rock collapsed last autumn, print media in London were gagged by a judge's order from re-publishing its leaked sales prospectus. It was Wikileaks that kept the prospectus before the public, along with the text of some threatening "not for publication" letters from the British lawyers, Schillings.In the US, Wikileaks also made headlines last November with the publication of secret documents, including the 238-page manual Standard Operating Procedures for Camp Delta, a document that even the US military grudgingly admitted was genuine. The Guant&aacute;namo document, including descriptions of everything from transferring prisoners to evading protocols of the Geneva convention, was a comprehensive guide to day-to-day operations at the controversial prison.Wikileaks landed an even bigger coup last August with a previously secret 110-page draft report by the international investigators Kroll, which revealed allegations of massive corruption in Kenya. The family of former Kenyan leader Daniel Arap Moi were reported to have siphoned off more than &pound;1bn.The reason Wikileaks has now enraged the Zurich bank is that pages have been posted detailing the bankers' most intimate trade secret: the way they hide the funds of their ultra-rich international clients in offshore trusts. This sort of material is very hot stuff. In Germany, the federal intelligence service recently paid an informer almost &pound;4m for a disc containing similar details from a Liechtenstein bank. That led to raids on hundreds of suspected tax evaders, the disgrace of prominent businessmen, and a diplomatic collision with the tiny tax haven.The person Baer describes as a disgruntled former employee at their own Cayman Islands office has similarly made off with a large quantity of internal records. A handful of these have made their way on to the Wikileaks site, which advertises that individuals can leak with the confidence they won't be discovered, thanks to the site's cryptographic protection.The files tell some interesting stories. One of Margaret Thatcher's life peers allegedly salted away more than $100m (&pound;50m) in a secret trust, for example. The late Lawrence Kadoorie, a Hong Kong millionaire, was ennobled in 1981 by the former British prime minister. He had built up the family's fortunes through China Light and Power, which provides Hong Kong with its electricity, and through a chain of hotels. According to the files, the Baer bank ran an anonymous company, registered in the British Virgin Islands and called Seneford Investments. A nominee director was based in a second tax haven, the Cayman Islands. But the real owner of Seneford Investments, it is claimed, was Kadoorie's family trust. In 1998, the documents listed six bank accounts for the company, in Switzerland and elsewhere. They held a total of $113m. There is no suggestion that this was illegal.Kadoorie's son, Sir Michael, who still has major interests in the Hong Kong companies, did not respond yesterday to invitations from the Guardian to comment.The other bank records posted by Wikileaks describe equally elaborate structures husbanding millions of pounds for Spanish financiers, Greek ship-owners, Chinese expatriates and wealthy New Yorkers. Although the leaker hints that tax frauds and bribery may lie behind some of these other accounts, he does not give enough detail to provide proof.Wikileaks itself admits that some of the documents might be fabricated, and the whole affair might have only been seen as a curiosity, had the Baer bank not called in their lawyers. The federal judge Jeffrey White in San Francisco not only ordered removal of the domain name, but banned further circulation of the documents. As a result, they reappeared on Wikileaks "mirror" sites, hosted in the UK, Belgium and the Christmas Islands. It even transpired that the deleted main Wikileaks site could be accessed, slightly less conveniently, by using its IP number (88.80.13.160) instead of the domain name.Bloggers, online columnists and websites decried the bank's move as they launched a counterattack and lobbied in favour of Wikileaks' right to anonymously publish secrets. Less than a week after the court decision, a Google search for the court case turned up 69,000 hits. Four hours later, the tally was 78,000.A further hearing on February 29 may well overturn the original decision.The Zurich bank says: "It was the sole objective of Julius Baer to have legally protected documents removed from Wikileaks. We brought legal action against the website only after our initial efforts proved unsuccessful. In the course of taking such action, the bank has been made the subject of serious defamatory allegations. Such allegations are based on forged and stolen documents and are unequivocally denied. We have always sought to act in the best interests of our clients and shall continue to do so."Who are Wikileaks? Although the project makes a feature of the anonymity of its volunteers, the minds behind it are not hard to find. One prominent driving force is Julian Assange, a much-travelled Australian programmer and author who has a flamboyant mane of silver hair. Before riding his motorcycle across Vietnam, he co-wrote a book about computer hackers."He's a pretty standard modern geek with a thing about dissidents," says the British encryption expert Ben Laurie, who advised the group on encryption. "He's quite techie and he can write code."One of Assange's early schemes was to develop what he called "deniable cryptography". The idea was to help dissidents resist giving away secrets under torture. Texts would be encrypted in layers, so that even if a victim were forced to reveal a password, the torturer would not realise there was a second layer of information, hidden by a second password.Assange then turned up in London and proposed the Wikileaks scheme for "an open-source, democratic intelligence agency". Laurie said: "I thought it was all hot air at first." But he became enthusiastic. He advised on an encryption system, first developed by the US Navy, which uses a chain of three separate servers, and ensures leakers can post documents anonymously.Laurie is an international consultant on internet security. Earlier he set up a business that bought two military bunkers, at the abandoned US base at Greenham Common, and at an old RAF radar station in Kent. His company rents them out to firms and banks who want to protect their servers from attack. The Kent bunker is deep underground: "The radar operators were supposed to survive 30 days after a nuclear strike."Some of his subversiveness may have rubbed off from his father, Peter Laurie, who wrote a cult book in the 1970s called Beneath the City Streets, which traced networks of secret government bunkers and tunnels.Fresh off a flight from Washington, he answers the door to his rambling house in Acton in bare feet, and willingly explains why he approves of Wikileaks, while pointing out he is not personally responsible for any of their legally controversial deeds: "I have a long-term interest in privacy on the internet. It provides enormous opportunities for surveillance and this is not a good thing. Also, this is an interesting technical problem: how do you reveal things about powerful people without getting your arse kicked? Whistleblowing is a practice which should be encouraged."I'm really quite surprised at Wikileaks' success. They've done a lot of interesting stuff. It seems people are prepared to take the risk."Another member of the advisory board is an American former draft resister, CJ Hinke. Speaking from his home in Thailand, he said: "Wikileaks is a decentralised phenomenon, and that means there are volunteers in dozens of countries. These volunteers form a very loose network so that, in fact, government can't home in on anybody and take drastic action against them."In Thailand, Wikileaks has focused on efforts to block access to websites critical of the government. "The minute Wikileaks was announced, we sent them a huge trove of secret documents," said Hinke, founder of Freedom Against Censorship Thailand.The documents included detailed lists of blocked sites, including all references to The King Never Smiles, a book published by Yale University Press. "Ordinary people come across things that governments or companies or individuals would prefer to keep secret. I think it is possible for almost everybody to expose these kind of events."The wikileakers share the same belief in the "wisdom of crowds" that lies behind Wikipedia, the online encyclopaedia. Their theory is that their leaked documents will be self-verifying, thanks to the scrutiny of thousands of pairs of eyes. Some may wonder whether it's quite as easy as that.Laurie cautions that Wikileaks' vaunted encryption is not completely unbreakable. Codebreakers such as the US National Security Agency could probably crack it, he says. "If my life was on the line, I would not be submitting [documents] to Wikileaks."
It may have become the must-have gadget of the year, but iPhone users are now learning there's a further cost to being an early adopter: the &pound;1,000-plus bill that can land on their doorstep after a short holiday abroad.O2, the mobile company which has the exclusive rights to offer the Apple iPhone in the UK, this week came under pressure to slash its overseas data roaming charges. It follows complaints from customers, some of whom have racked up bills in excess of &pound;1,000 solely for accessing emails during a week abroad.Others have complained that the charges imposed by the phone service provider bear no relation to the amount of data they have downloaded. Since the iPhone was introduced in the UK last November, around 200,000 consumers have paid the &pound;269 up-front fee and agreed to pay at least &pound;35 a month to operate their iPhone. For that, they get an unlimited amount of data downloads - emails and web surfing - but only in the UK.Few users have so far been aware of the eye-watering charges that accrue when they use the phone abroad.The problem has arisen partly because O2 imposes some of Europe's highest data roaming charges on its mobile customers - at &pound;7.05 per Mb it is almost twice the European Union average. But the real problem is caused by the fact that the iPhone is always on, and looking for new emails every few minutes. Unwary users who log on when they arrive in another country automatically start accruing the enormous charges - whether they make traditional voice calls or not.Printing executive Alex Chambers, from Warwickshire, was presented with a bill for &pound;44 after accessing just a few emails while on holiday in Italy in January. He regards himself as highly IT-literate, and had turned off the phone's data roaming function, but was still hit with a large bill."I know all about data charges and have seen a few &pound;100 bills down the years. But my first O2 roaming bill was of a different order - somewhere between Barclays profit margin and Northern Rock billwise." Other users on the blogosphere have been less polite.O2 said this week it was "very open and clear with customers that its unlimited data allowances are only available in the UK" and they will incur roaming charges if using mobile data features while abroad."From this July, we will be reducing data roaming prices in Europe by more than 40%," said a spokesman. This month the European telecoms commissioner, Viviane Reding, warned that she will impose price cuts if Europe's mobile phone companies do not drop their data roaming charges significantly by the summer.The data roaming problem is not restricted to the UK. Adam Aronson, an American interactive kiosk designer, got back from a two-week trip to England to find a $5,086 bill - without making a single voice call.
Internet providers were told yesterday to come up with a plan to clamp down on illegal sharing of copyrighted music and films or see the government bring in its own laws next year.The culture secretary, Andy Burnham, said he wanted the £60bn creative industries to move to the mainstream in terms of economic and policy thinking. "Our vision is of a Britain in 10 years' time where the local economies in our biggest cities are driven by creativity," he said.The government is proposing 5,000 creative industry apprenticeships a year and new centres of excellence including one for computer games and a couture academy, free rehearsal space for youngsters and a Davos-style creative conference.Cracking down on piracy is a priority under its Creative Britain: New Talents for the New Economy plan. It is also looking at increasing the £5,000 fine that magistrates can impose on pirates.But some legal experts believe that if the government opts for new legislation it will need not only to rip up parts of the current law and amend data protection rules, but also its plans could fall foul of human rights law which entitles people to privacy in their communications."The big issue, frankly, is the impossibility of the internet service providers getting in among it and monitoring what goes on on their networks," warned Alex Brown, internet law specialist at Simmons &amp; Simmons. "The sheer volume of traffic means it just cannot be done fast enough."What is going to stop people stealing content is not the law - these people already know it is illegal. What will stop people is a technical solution that adequately protects both people's rights and copyrighted material. But we do not have one."The scale of online piracy in the UK was highlighted by research from price comparison siteMoneysupermarket.comyesterday which showed that nearly one in five British internet users admit to having illegally downloaded copyright material.The music and film industries welcomed the government's backing in the fight against piracy, which they claim lost them £460m in 2006, but the plan provided little detail of how providers are supposed to stop the online pirates. Hollywood studios and record companies believe French plans to force internet service providers to identify illegal file sharing could provide a blueprint for the UK market.British internet technology experts, however, say the lack of detail in the French proposal shows the complexity - and expense - of any system that requires the internet service providers to check every bit of data on their networks.The policy has been broadly welcomed. Feargal Sharkey, chief executive of British Music Rights, said: For the first time the government is saying that being creative is an incredibly important thing."
