Ah, precious sunshine: such a rare commodity. And when the sun shines, the last place any self-respecting, vitamin D-deprived resident of this island should be is in the cold, dark indoors - even if it does coincide with the release of the most anticipated game of the year.Thankfully for the discerning gamer, there is plenty of game-related outdoor exercise that doesn't require sporting talent, coordination or physical fitness. In fact, you don't even need to snip the umbilical cord between you and technology; the key skills developed during the years of home console co-dependency will perfectly suit the goals of the plethora of location-based games that are hitting an urban sprawl near you.Last Sunday I spent an hour on my bike exploring a maze of city streets in Blast Theory's Rider Spoke game. Using the skills developed in the years I've played treasure hunt games like Super Mario and Tomb Raider, I found clues left by other players using a GPS mounted on my handlebars, and left a few tags of my own for others to find during their own treasure-hunting.In June, the second round of the urban games curated by the Hide and Seek team will take over London. I expect to be taking part in Cruel 2 B Kind, a real-life first person shooter that uses compliments as bullets rather than live ammunition. Adaptations and new location-based mechanics abound elsewhere and are crying out for versions here: PacManhattan used mobile phones, GPS devices, silly outfits and the streets of New York to recreate the arcade classic, while the Japanese game Superstar used tagged mini-stickers in the real world to advance your fame in the virtual one.The location-based gaming movement is a transparent attempt to reclaim the concrete jungle and to re-establish the golden days of youth. Ah youth, when the world was your childhood oyster. Nowadays, kids are locked in their houses in case they meet a person with nefarious intentions or are slapped with an Asbo, and the only nooks and crannies they can explore are - ironically -developed by game designers whose 80+ hour work weeks disallow them from seeing sunshine themselves.Yet the urban landscape positively thrives with ludic possibilities which easily eclipse any big summer console releases, and thanks to global warming-induced sunshine, a few art collectives and a handful of designers who maintain the work-life balance, we're starting to see a surge in technology-supported, real-world play. If the weather stays like this for the next few months, the consoles will get mighty dusty. I'm taking my playful intentions elsewhere.
The other day I met a friend on the train who was revelling in his bought-for-work super-tiny Sony Vaio laptop. He was delighted with it, except for one thing. "I HATE Vista," he said. Which he acknowledged was ironic, since he helped with its launch last year. But, he explained, there's a difference between helping launch the thing and using it day in, day out, as he did.So what was bugging him, I asked? Was User Account Control, aka UAC, the facility that's meant to save you from your foolish self, bugging him by popping up too often? It turned out that what was really annoying him wasn't Vista itself, but Office 2007, and in particular the changes that have been made to Word in there. "I've got years of experience with Word," he said. "I know what keys to press to make things happen. But now I press them and something completely different happens."This, of course, is the curse of muscle memory - a far more important element of software than many designers realise. If you don't use keyboard shortcuts, then you're wasting precious hours every week (if not day) fiddling with the mouse, moving around the screen when you could just press a couple of keys, which is at least 10 times faster. When you discover keyboard shortcuts, you enter the realm of the power user, able to get things done at top speed. But you're also at the mercy of any inconsistent design between programs, and of any changes to shortcuts in a program.Sure, some people never learn shortcuts; the mouse is always there, but shortcuts must be hunted out. But once you discover them, you build up a library of movement, just like learning to walk or run as a child. My whole computer usage is a collection of muscle memories: I can type blindfolded because I've got used to where the keys are on the keyboard. When it comes to word processing,as Bill Bumgarner of Apple points out on his blog, doing it at speed "is a tremendously intimate bit of interaction between you and the editing software. It is inherently a keyboard-driven task and a very complex task, at that, given the myriad of syntax rules and gestural editing possibilities." Muscle memory, because it's unconscious, is what keeps us fluid. It makes computers something you manipulate, instead of a problem.Which is why it's surprising that Word 2007 should rip up so much of that for my friend. I'm sure that there are ways to tweak it - Darren Strange, the UK head of Office, is bound to get in touch - but my friend's no fool; he just doesn't have time to fiddle around finding those tweaks and he doesn't want to ditch all that muscle memory.Like everyone else, he wants the software to mould itself around him, just as he has moulded himself to it - a symbiotic relationship. In Office 2007, Microsoft seems to have broken that relationship; it's as though sharks decided they didn't like pilot fish, or crocodiles began eating teeth-cleaning plovers. Microsoft may rationalise its changes, but symbiosis is vulnerable to change by either side. Plovers can find other sources of insects; pilot fish can find other swimmers. We don't know how many symbiotic relationships have broken down in history, because they don't leave any trace; all we see are those which exist now. There might be the tiniest evolutionary gap opening up for Open Office -whose 3.0 version went into beta last week: if it copies the keyboard shortcuts of the previous versions of its Microsoft counterparts, it could open up a new niche for itself.
Ash Patel is something of a fixture at Yahoo. He's been at the company since 1996 - just a couple of years after it was founded - and in his time he's held more titles than Roger Federer.These days his business card bears the legend "executive vice-president, platforms and infrastructure". It might be a clunky moniker, but at least his underlying task is straightforward: it's his job to turn Yahoo inside out.Under pressure from all sides, the company is beginning to embark on a radical programme of product launches that will expose the skeleton of Yahoo's services so that web developers can build on it. This will, they believe, make Yahoo a vital part of the internet's ecosystem and (they hope) unlock the company's hidden potential in the process."We basically aim to open up everything," Patel says. "Yahoo has got 10bn connections - this is our latent social graph. And with our new platforms, we can start lighting these connections up."Monkey see, monkey searchThe first major piece of this puzzle is Search Monkey, an application programming interface (API) which allows web developers from any third party to create applications aimed at improving one of the company's most important properties: Yahoo's search index.Think Facebook's apps, writ large: install a widget from your favourite travel website, for example, and all the relevant web search results can be enhanced with extra data on hotel ratings, photos and direct links to book a trip.It's a system that allows independent groups direct access to one of the dotcom world's most sought-after commodities - search. Patel says that this is the first step in a new way of thinking: Search Monkey is at the vanguard of a company-wide system where all of Yahoo's services will be open to developers. Eventually, this strategy will roll out across every outpost of the sprawling Yahoo empire - including extremely popular ones like Yahoo Mail."Take your address book - or address books, because you probably keep several different ones across different applications and websites," he says. "Wouldn't it be easier if there was a way to consolidate them? That's what we want to see; a legitimate API with a trusted security model so I don't need to maintain five different [address books] any more."Is this just Yahoo trying to get other people to help it overcome the deficiencies of its products? No, he says, citing Facebook's development platform as an example. Despite the plethora of applications there (many of them hugely irritating) only a tiny minority have been picked up and centralised.Given Yahoo's recent turmoil, and the scramble by every major web company to appear more open, though, couldn't this just be a stunt? "This is the new strategy that was laid out after Jerry Yang took over. It's one of our big bets on the future," Patel says. "About three years ago we really started engaging with our developer community: we now offer more than 25 APIs and web services. A great example is the Flickr API, which is the second most used API on the web."Those numbers are impressive, but the web's most popular API belongs to Yahoo's biggest competitor (it's Google Maps) and even Flickr itself was bought in, rather than being an internal Yahoo innovation. Patel admits that the long-term project to open up is not an easy one."With the scale and the number of products we have, it's a gargantuan, mammoth job. All of our properties are built on pretty much the same set of technologies - even when we buy other companies, we've tended to acquire those using similar standards. But you don't want to go out to developers with five different flavours: we're trying to standardise, but fundamentally the way we've already tended to architect things is so that everything can be loosely coupled."It is only a few years since I listened to a very similar spiel on "social search" from Bradley Horowitz - who, as head of Yahoo's Advanced Development Division, reported to Patel and was also charged with the company's future products. For all the talk, little tangible progress was made on that vision - and earlier this year Horowitz was frogmarched out after revealing that he was moving to Google.Patel accepts that progress has been slow, but says the game has changed since then. "If you asked somebody what 'social' meant four years ago, they'd say that it was about participation and user-generated content. Now it's about the wealth of data and the social graph."Even if Microsoft's aggressive advances hadn't brought Yahoo crashing back into the headlines, it would still be impossible to ignore the fact that these are troubling times for the Silicon Valley stalwart. Even an old hand like Patel, notoriously adept at the political manoeuvring required to stick around in a senior position, can't ignore the tide.Earlier this year more than 1,000 jobs were cut, and even our meeting place - Yahoo's offices on London's Shaftesbury Avenue - are a reminder of the current shift (they are soon to be relocated to Switzerland). Is it really possible to keep your eye on the ball if you are also firing large numbers of staff? "The reduction of workforce we did was that we wanted to make sure we aligned our resources to the areas we wanted to focus on," he says.It's easy to get the impression that Patel, along with an entire echelon of Yahoo old-timers, feel themselves to be generals pushing pieces across a tactical map. The reports of high fives between Yang and his advisers on the news that Microsoft was withdrawing its bid certainly implied a lack of connection to the real world.Regardless of these adrenalin-pumping moments, however, shedding huge numbers of staff has a predictable habit of demoralising the rest. There has even been some speculation that Patel may leave the company following the appointment of a new chief technology officer, Ari Balogh.The wealth of YahooSurely all this has affected Yahoo's ability to deliver on these grand plans around openness? On the contrary, he says: the redundancies are helping to focus people's minds rather than unsettling them. "You see things differently from the outside," he says. "But everyone that is core and critical to this project is engaged 150%."The problem, as he sees it, is that Yahoo has been unable to play to its strengths. "Yahoo has always been a technology company. We've always had to build things ourselves, because nobody else has the same scale or breadth that we do."But when we fully execute this plan, I don't think people will be able to have the wealth of users, the wealth of connections or the wealth of data we've got."
Point-and-click adventures have never been a natural fit for console joypads, but Secret Files does a fair job, thanks to imaginative use of the Wiimote. Converted from the PC original, with only occasional dodgy translations, the quest to unravel one of Russia's worst natural disasters is packed with detailed backdrops and well-drawn characters, smothered in an oppressive, X-Files conspiracy hue. The puzzle-solving and production values are top-notch. However, the interface is still not quite right, with an oversized cursor that tends to click on the wrong objects and slightly uncomfortable key mappings. Still, if you can get past this, Secret Files is the adventure to beat on Wii and, indeed, most other consoles.
A Yahoo security upgrade that caused chaos for thousands of BT customers who use their own domain name to send email has been temporarily removed after protests from users.The problem arose when Yahoo decided as an anti-spamming measure to stop any emails going through the servers, which it runs for its partner BT, that did not have a matching BT/Yahoo address in the From: field. People who tried to send using their own domain names found the email did not get sent, and received a confusing message saying that they had "error 553" and offering a link where they could "validate their domain".Neither BT nor Yahoo could give firm figures on how many were affected, though BT confirmed that it was several thousand. The upgrade has now been temporarily removed but will be rolled out again "shortly"."Problems arose because it affected significantly higher numbers than we expected," said BT. Fixing it was cumbersome and difficult, according to message boards, forums and blogs. Typical of the tales of woe is freelance web consultant and blogger Phil Gyford, who spent many hours sorting it out for his mother (tinyurl.com/2fgo7f).He says: "BT's new security could be a good idea. Trouble is, they implemented it without telling anyone, then made it fiendishly complex to fix. The issue is even more confused by the apparently pointless partnership with Yahoo."The upgrade was intended to stop spam being sent through the BT/Yahoo mail servers. Early versions of spam-generating malware would install a mail server on the infected machine, and could send out thousands of junk emails per hour. But internet service providers (ISPs) then blocked any traffic on port 25 (used for sending email) that did not go through their servers. Newer malware uses the settings from the infected machines to send spam through the authorised servers - but will still have fake From: addresses.To combat this, Yahoo tried to filter out messages whose From: did not match the user name - but that caught thousands of BT users who use their own domain. BT/Yahoo intended that anyone doing so should just add that domain to an "approved list" - but apparently had not counted on the sheer number of people who choose something other than a BT/Yahoo sender's email. BT apologised for the confusion, while Yahoo has set up a web page to clarify the process (btyahoo.com/verify). BT added: "Protection of our customers is paramount."
The Huawei mobile broadband dongle, at &pound;70 from 3, is cheap enough to be almost an impulse purchase - and it is an impulse that anyone who has been charged &pound;6 an hour for wireless broadband in a coffee shop can feel. Unlike conventional wireless broadband, a 3G data modem works more or less anywhere (at least in the south of England) and does so with very little fuss. The speed is less than on a proper fixed-line connection, but only drops back down to dialup speeds in known black spots such as Liverpool Street station.There is certainly plenty for working purposes. You can send and receive email, check Google or work on library systems, but there isn't nearly enough bandwidth for YouTube or other distractions. Sitting at home near Cambridge, with the modem reporting a connection of 3.6Mbps, I found various broadband test sites reported download speeds of between 300kbps to America, and 1Mbs to Maidenhead. The upload is never more than 56kbps.If all you need, though, is to be able to work on trains, this is a great, simple, cheap solution. Travelling from Liverpool Street station out to the north Essex countryside, I was able to get a first-class connection for about half the journey; curiously, reception improves out in the countryside.You buy a slim white oval plastic box on a USB cable. It plugs very simply into the side of a laptop. (In a clever touch, the software is stored on memory inside the modem, which appears to the computer as another USB drive, so it can be installed even on laptops that don't have optical drives. Mac users will have to download the software, though.)Once the software is installed, the box appears as a new modem. Apart from placing the mobile sim in the slot to the side and entering your phone number, there is nothing to do but click and wait for a connection. Mac users note: apparently there are problems with Leopard, though not with the previous version of OS X; Googling suggests that it works at least with Ubuntu and Suse linux, and presumably with other distros too.Bandwidth can be bought on a pay-as-you-go basis, for &pound;10 per Gb or &pound;15 for 3GB. Otherwise, the modem comes free with monthly contracts, on both 3 and Vodafone. I'm cheap and I don't often go into London, but at present usage rates, I don't think I could use even 1Gb a month. For anyone whose working life requires them to schlep a laptop around, and not just writing or thinking, this modem looks like an ideal gadget. And an added bonus: it's more secure than shared wireless networking, which is hardly ever encrypted.Pros:cheap, fast enough for work, simple, secureCons:intermittent reception, expensive abroadvodafone.co.ukthree.co.uk
Foggy environments, macabre assailants and annoying controls - yes, Silent Hill is back. Survival horror fans will be pleased, especially as Origins opens up some of the original game's backstory. Players control trucker Travis Grady as he investigates creepy goings on in the titular town. Cue gore, beasties and lots of mist. Even on the clunky old PS2, the game creates a decent atmosphere, with the foggy visuals and otherworldly sound effects still suitably disturbing. Combat is as frustrating as ever, though, and not helped by an inflexible camera - first-timers may find it all a bit frustrating. Thankfully, the puzzles - especially those set in the game's main innovation, the "Otherworld" - are more challenging. And, as usual, walking down a deserted sanitarium corridor or dusty street engenders a powerful feeling of isolation. With the likes of Alan Wake threatening to take Silent Hill's template into the next generation, Origins feels like the end of a chapter. Fans and mature-game starved PS2 owners will enjoy but Silent Hill: Origins is unlikely attract new players.
Britain must love flying. How else to explain the fact that the space over the north of London is, as Andrew Watson puts it, "one of the most complicated bits of three-dimensional airspace on the planet"? And as the spokesman for National Air Traffic Services (Nats), which looks after air traffic control for commercial services, notes, there's also the south of England, home to commercial airports such as Heathrow, "executive" airports such as Biggin Hill and Farnborough, and 60-odd other airports used by pilots of light aircraft, parachutists, hang-gliders and gliders. It's very, very busy.But as Watson, a glider pilot, points out, that busy-ness leads to a peculiar conflict over data. Specifically, useful access to data about where you may and may not fly in the UK. And with about 10,000 glider pilots and 3,000 gliders in the UK making some 500,000 flights a year and able to range across the country during a single flight - that access to data matters.Moving boundariesThe Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) sets the rules about who can fly where. As Watson explains: "The UK is covered by a three-dimensional pattern of airspace into which various kinds of aircraft may or may not be allowed to enter." All pilots must carry a chart showing that 3D space if they fly more than five miles from their airfield. (In practice, they all carry the authoritative CAA chart, published annually.)That might seem straightforward - except that the boundaries can change from week to week or even day to day. That means pilots must check the CAA and Nats websites for the "Notices to Airmen" (or Notams, which presumably apply to female pilots too) about temporary airspace restrictions.What Watson finds perplexing is that though you need to know those airspace "boundaries" - which are unrelated to commercial mapping data - the CAA does not publish machine-readable versions.He explains: "Almost all glider pilots increasingly fly with cheap, effective moving-map displays created by running low-cost or open-source software on a PDA, and feeding in GPS and altitude data from external instruments. When navigating using one of these, knowledge of airspace boundaries is critically important."Stray into controlled space and the very least you can expect is an annoyed air traffic controller on your radio. Nats reckons there are dozens of such incidents per year. One way to reduce them would be to make it easier to read Notams and other notices into systems that pilots use.Yet although there are open formats for machine-readable airspace data - which would mean pilots could load them, confident of having no transcription errors caused by copying - the CAA and Nats don't provide their data in that form.Why not? The CAA said it was a question for Nats. However Nats pointed out that many of the related charts were published by the CAA. But what about the gliders' complaints about the Notams? Why aren't those machine-readable? "We do publish the notices in agreed national and international standards," said the spokesman. "If [machine-readability] is a point that they want to make to the regulators, they need to make it to the CAA and EASA" - the European Aeronautical Safety Agency."But wasn't the gliders' point that Nats could publish in both the international format and a machine-readable version? "We try to make the information available in as many ways as we can. If they want to make representations to us, we'd be happy to listen," the Nats spokesman said.The Free Our Data campaign view is that this is a rare case where the barrier to the data use is not commercial, but regulatory. The CAA is a government-appointed regulator. Nats is not government-owned, though the government is its largest shareholder. There seems no body that could push the CAA to bring its data formats into the machine-readable age. Perhaps highlighting it here can help.&#183;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
Tweet smell of successA great time for those early adopters of Twitter, with our commitment to initially puzzled colleagues now being vindicated (Making the most of Twitter, May 8). It's reminiscent of the excitement we felt in May 1997, perhaps the last time we felt the people were, at last, being empowered. But why do I feel that the dreaded Boris moment is lurking around the corner?What can we expect in the backlash? I suspect journalists have already been asked to dig for a story on the negative side of Twitter. I think we can expect a large company to provide figures on the productivity lost to Twitter.ukwebfocus.wordpress.comI finally moved into 2007 today by signing up to Twitter. I figured if there was an "introduction to ..." article about it in the paper then it was officially beyond the Early Adopter stage and I could fully embrace it with my comfy Luddite tendencies. So far it's been fun, but I wonder if it'll last as long as my interest in Facebook, which I think ran to almost a month.blog.pigsaw.orgWhat this does provide, however, is an intelligent and welcoming wrapper for the technologies that many of us are familiar with but have not yet educated ourselves on. Twitter is arguably set to do for mobile communications what Blogger did for blogging.guyberes.comIt can be useful for news, as long as you follow the right people (not as easy as you might think). But it allowed me, for example, to know about an earthquake in S&atilde;o Paulo, Brazil, even before it was on the news.network.nature.comThe cult of Wikipedia[Seth Finkelstein] uses "digital sharecropper" to describe Wikipedia contributors (Read me first, May 8). Actually, sharecroppers do make some money from their work, so Wikipedia contributors are more like slaves. But given the voluntary nature of their participation, "slaves" overstates the inferiority of their status. Perhaps "brainwashed cult members" works best.bennett.com/blogYour card details are safeThe suggestion made by Keith Goode (Letters and blogs, May 8) that, as a result of last year's HMRC data loss, anyone who receives child benefit should get new cards issued is unfounded.The data on the lost disks contained bank account information, not debit or credit card details, so there are no fraud-prevention grounds to ask your bank for replacement cards. Furthermore, to date, no instances of fraud have been identified on the relevant bank accounts as a result of last year's data loss. Also, there is no evidence to suggest that the missing CDs ever found their way into criminal hands.There is no need for child benefit recipients to be concerned. Rather than asking for replacement cards, cardholders should continue to check their statements thoroughly and report any unusual transactions to their bank.Sandra Quinn,Director of communications, ApacsBeat surrender of dataThere are naturally worries that police forces might not want to give up the information, but tough - this is not a private commercial data source, it is a record of crucial events in the lives of the individuals and communities whose security is the police's raison d'&ecirc;tre (Free our Data, May 8). We pay the Bill's bills, and if they don't do their job properly it is us who suffer, so there can be no room for petty hogging of data.tpa.typepad.comA yelp about Yell.comI have just been admonished byYell.comfor not reading the full terms and conditions for the use of its mobile program. When the screen is a 2in mobile phone, just how small can small print be before it becomes an unreasonable size?John Loader,Ely
The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday May 29 2008In the article below we referred to James Watson's and Francis Crick's experiments using x-ray diffraction to work out the double helix structure of DNA. Watson and Crick did not experiment with x-ray diffraction themselves, but used the results of studies performed by Rosalind Franklin. The work of another x-ray crystallographer, Maurice Wilkins, was also helpful.In a field in Oxfordshire is a colossal steel and concrete bunker that scientists call the monolith. At the centre of this 6,000-tonne shell is a lump of metal the size of a packet of biscuits that produces 20,000 million million neutrons per second.The monolith is the heart of one of the most extraordinary machines ever built. The beams of neutrons it produces allow scientists to penetrate deep inside objects to understand the most intimate molecular details of their internal structure.Isis, as the machine is called, had a hand in helping engineers design the super-strong but ultralight materials that make up the wings of the Airbus 380 aircraft. And it has been used to study everything from how ice forms and how oil pipelines become blocked to designing better mouthwash.It opened in 1985 and now hosts around 2,000 scientists from 30 countries a year, who between them produce in excess of 400 scientific papers. But with the facility now full to bursting, a major expansion at a cost of &pound;145m to the taxpayer is under way. It is one of 10 big-ticket science projects that are either under construction or recently completed."Isis is the world's leading research centre of its type," says Dr Martyn Bull, head of communications at Isis, which is located at the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory (RAL) at Harwell."Essentially Isis is a giant microscope. It enables us to see where atoms are and what they are doing. If you know where the atoms are and how they are joined together, we can essentially understand the material."Tweaking the neutronApart from easing the logjam at the current research facility, the idea at Isis's Second Target Station Project - which is due for completion in late June or early July - is to make some technical tweaks that will allow scientists to study different types of materials more effectively.In particular, the new facility will be set up to create neutrons at lower speed and lower energy, which are more effective for looking at biological molecules. Examples include the interaction between viruses and cell membranes or the action of natural chemicals that allow the lungs of newborn babies to operate. This should open a up a new set of medical applications.The machine works by creating a stream of neutrons that blast the material being studied. How they are scattered by the internal molecular structure gives vital clues to what is going on inside.Creating the stream of neutrons though is an immense engineering feat. First, protons are accelerated to 84% of the speed of light. This requires electromagnetic fields 10,000 times the strength of the Earth's magnetic field at the surface. At this speed the protons could travel six times round the planet in a second.They are then smashed into a block of tungsten and in the process dislodge neutrons from the nuclei of its atoms. The 20,000 million million that are dislodged each second are then fed out into beams that hit the samples of interest. The neutrons bounce off parts of the molecular structure and are flung outwards where they are collected by sensitive equipment which records their position and energy. "From the pattern of their scatter it tells us about the ways the atoms are organised in that material," says Professor Jeff Penfold, Rutherford Appleton senior fellow.The technique is so accurate that it allows scientists to watch sound waves moving through a material or see the internal stresses produced by subjecting it to mechanical loads. It was this method that Airbus researchers used to design the aircraft wing.The principle is similar to that used by James Watson and Francis Crick in their experiments to work out the double helix structure of DNA. They used x-ray diffraction by the DNA molecule to infer its structure. But neutrons offer advantages over x-rays or bombarding materials with other subatomic particles. "Because neutrons are neutral it means they are extremely penetrating and also they are non-destructive. They don't tear electrons out of their orbit," says Bull.He points out that the process that produces the neutron beam is not a nuclear fission reaction, so there is no danger of an uncontrolled explosion or dangerous nuclear fallout. If you shut off the proton beam it simply stops the tungsten block from producing neutrons.The modern equivalent of Watson and Crick's technique is being carried out at the so-called Diamond Light Source, another of the government's top 10 science projects which is also located on the Harwell campus. By probing the same materials using both Isis and Diamond, scientists can obtain complementary information.Blocking plansSome research at Isis will have immediate applications. Professor Alan Soper, for example, has been working with oil companies on understanding why pipelines become blocked. Under certain conditions, the mixture of water, gases and crude oil extracted from underground wells forms a molecular lattice-like substance called a clathrate."If the temperature's right this forms a sort of plug and blocks the pipeline," says Soper. These plugs are expensive to remove, so Soper's research is aimed at understanding how clathrates form and what can be done to prevent them.Professor Richard Nelmes at RAL is studying what happens when materials are placed under extreme pressure - of up to 300,000 atmospheres. "A lot of things happen at high pressure that don't happen at ambient pressure," he says. "You actually get chemically different behaviour." For example, elements will form compounds at high pressure that are not possible at ambient pressure. Understanding what happens at high pressure improves physicists' knowledge of more "normal" conditions, he adds.The Isis extension provoked controversy along with the government's other flagship science ventures last year when it came in for criticism from the Commons Public Accounts Committee. In its report on the cost of big science facilities it highlighted big overspends on a handful of projects. Although the Second Target Station was largely on time and on budget, with only a 9% projected increase over the original &pound;133.1m estimate, its projected annual running costs had spiralled to nearly &pound;10m: 83% higher than the original estimate.This is in fact due to the committee using old figures, says Bull. The cost of running the Second Target Station will be higher because the new facilities are much more ambitious than originally planned.The Isis engineers have already had a taste of what it will feel like when their new neutrons source is up and running. Three days before Christmas they released the proton beam into the monolith to check whether everything was working smoothly.The test passed without a hitch, allowing everyone a much more relaxed Christmas break. "It was quite stunning to watch. It was like watching Tiger Woods get a hole in one," says Bull, who says he still finds the new machine mind-blowing. "I'm just astonished the whole thing works."
TheMars Phoenix spacecraftis on its happy way to Mars, due to land there on May 25. And what better way to find out how things are going thanvia Twitter? At the time of writing, the latest message isNavigation continues to be "extraordinarily stable." A maneuver to tweak the targeting of the landing zone is planned for this Saturday.That's some smart spacecraft. (Do you think it might be mediated through a human?)Certainly in the past week or so the SMS-length service has proved its worth: the earthquake in China was, it'sclaimed, on Twitter before it was on the US Geological Service. (If you're scratching your head, seeMaking the most of Twitter.)The applicability of Twittering to doing pretty much anything - which certainly includes reporting - is very interesting. The other day I was thinking that the first big news event where we talked about "the internet" being first to transmit the news was theKobe earthquake of January 1995. Many people say that blogs were preeminent after the terrorist attacks ofSeptember 11. Then of course mobiles used for video (and Flickr photos) came into their own during theJuly 7 bombingsin London. Maybe this has been Twitter's media proving.(Also, what events have we missed out where mobiles or the web proved themselves?)
WiiWare is finally launching in Europe on May 20. Games will be sold through the Wii Shop Channel with prices starting at 500 points. "We hope that this opportunity and the inspiration to produce original and exciting games will allow developers of all sizes to bring new concepts, genres and game play experiences to Wii," says Laurent Fischer, Managing Director of Marketing &amp; PR.But later in the same press release:Players themselves will also become central to the creative process as their download choices and genre selection will become instrumental in helping developers determine future projects.In other words, developerscanbe original and creative, or they can see what's selling well and do that instead... Anyway, the opening selection of titles is a reasonably promising selection of classic titles (Dr Mario) and interesting newcomers (Pop, Lost Wind).Here's the list:Dr. Mario &amp; Germ Buster(Nintendo) Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: My Life as a King (Square Enix)Lost Winds(Frontier, pictured)Pirates: The Key of Dreams(Oxygen Interactive Ltd)Pop(Nnooo)Star Soldier R(Hudson Soft)Toki Tori(Two Tribes B.V)TV Show King(Gameloft)
One of the things Bill Gates showed today at Microsoft's annual CEO Summit was a Touch Wall, based on Windows Vista and Plex: "a 4×6 foot plexiglass screen, a rear projector, a infrared camera and the three infrared lasers".CrunchGear got a demo (above), and says:Microsoft is quick to say that they have no current plans to productize and sell TouchWall. But the potential of the system is obvious -- Prately spoke animatedly about a future where the computing experience is less monitor/keyboard/mouse and more like an architect's desk, with user input primarily directly on the screen and via voice commands, with keyboard/mouse type input used more for data entry or office type editing tasks.It also works with, say, a cardboard screen. CrunchGear adds:It's also clear that the only real limit on the screen size is the projector, meaning that entire walls can easily be turned into a multi touch user interface. Scrap those white boards in the office, and make every flat surface into a touch display instead.Update: Following a comment... for multi-touch fans, the canonical demo of multi-touch computing was given byJeff Hanin a TED talk..... I mentioned it recently inEverybody loves TED.
Well, according to the latest Sony financials they could well be. Thetechnology bloghas been looking at the figures which show Sony's gaming arm lost around $1.2 billion last year - an improvement from the $2.2bn loss the year before. Of course, console manufacturers, though generally not Nintendo, often suffer losses - caused by high costs/low install base - early on in a console's lifespan. Microsoft certainly did and it appears Sony are continuing the trend. Jack Schofield crunches the numbers."On Sony's own figures, the games division made a loss of $130 for each PlayStation 3 shipped. Let's assume that it's making pots of money on the PSP and the PlayStation 2: the PS2 is now hugely profitable and still sells more games than anything else. These two platforms could easily have made a profit of $1.2bn in the year. In that case, the total PS3 loss would have been $2.4bn shared between 9.24m PS3 consoles, or $260 per PS3 -- including any attached Sony games."What do you think then? Sound like a realistic estimate?
Google, like IBM, now just wades into new markets and tries to take them over, but theLiMo Foundation(Linux Mobile) isn't giving in to Android quite just yet. Today, it has announced thatVerizonhas joined, and issued a press release claiming a "Further Swell of New Members". It says:LiMo Foundation, a global consortium of mobile leaders delivering an open handset platform for the whole mobile industry, announced today the addition of Infineon Technologies, Kvaleberg AS, Mozilla Corporation, Red Bend Software, Sagem Mobiles, SFR, SK Telecom and Verizon Wireless as new member companies. Expanding LiMo's membership to 40 since the foundation's launch in January 2007, these companies join with existing LiMo members to collaborate on the LiMo Platform™ -- the world's first globally competitive, Linux-based software platform for mobile devices.A look at the founder members shows LiMo's weakness: Motorola, NEC, NTT DoCoMo, Panasonic Mobile Communications, Samsung Electronics and Vodafone are all from the mobile phone side, not the open source side. This makes Mozilla Corporation's joining a noteworthy event: as the organization behind Firefox and Thunderbird, it's a leader in the open source camp.Of course, there's nothing to stop companies being a member of both organisations, which have similar aims. The main difference is that LiMo is the usual industry coalition of (more or less) equals whereas Google'sOpen Handset Allianceis controlled by Google. But since Google is one of the richest and most widely-publicized corporations on the planet, that's not necessarily a disadvantage.Look, for example, at the ridiculous puffing of the gPhone (2.3m hits) even though it doesn't actually exist. Almost nobody mentions LiMo phones, even though theydo.
When does the conductor answer to the semiconductor? When a robot is leading the symphony.Last night a 4ft-tall automaton with a baton called Asimo conducted the Detroit Symphony Orchestra in a performance of Mitch Leigh's The Impossible Dream from the Man from La Mancha.Asimo (Advanced Step in Innovative Mobility) greeted the audience with  the words "hello, everyone," before waving to the orchestra.Asimo is the latest robot designed by Honda, which has been developing walking robots since 1986.It can run, walk on uneven slopes and respond to simple voice commands. It can also recognise faces with its camera eyes. Honda eventually intends its robots to be companions for the elderly or to assist schoolchildren at road crossings.But Asimo's musical repertoire is limited. Unable to respond to the musicians, last night's performance was  a case of elaborate "baton-synching", mimicking the actions of a conductor who had been videotaped before.During the first rehearsal, the orchestra lost its place when Asimo began to slow the tempo, something a human conductor would have sensed and corrected."It's not a communicative device. It simply is programmed to do a sense of gestures," said Leonard Slatkin, the orchestra's musical director. "If the orchestra decides to go faster, there's nothing the robot can do about it. Hopefully, I keep that under control."Nevertheless, Asimo wowed the audience and even impressed some of the musicians. "The movements are still a little stiff, but very humanlike, much more fluid than I thought," said bassist Larry Hutchinson.
A team of notorious American internet spammers has been fined a record $230m for bombarding MySpace users with adverts for pornography and gambling websites."Spam king" Sanford Wallace, along with his business partner Walter Rines, were yesterday ordered to pay unprecedented damages to the social networking website – amounting to the strongest punishment ever handed out to a spammer in the US.A court in Los Angeles heard how Wallace and Rines sent more than 700,000 messages to MySpace users, fooling them into visiting gambling sites or adult-rated pages. Disguised as comments from the user's friends, the notes in fact contained advertisements that made the pair a small fee every time somebody was fooled into clicking on them.Although evidence suggested that the pair made around $500,000 from their activities, district judge Audrey Collins used the terms of America's CAN-SPAM Act – which can levy up to $300 for each infringement of the law.Wallace has long been one of the world's most high-profile junk marketers, earning the nickname "Spamford" for his recurring trouble with the law. In the early 1990s he progressed from circulating fax messages to sending internet spam – and rose to prominence as the head of infamous Philadelphia-based spam giant Cyber Promotions.The duo, who failed to turn up at court for the judgment, were also banned from similar activities in the future – though experts said it may not deter them."These two spammers are just the tip of an iceberg," said Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant for internet security company Sophos. "Even if MySpace were to extricate the fine from these two men – which seems unlikely given their past record – there will be plenty more cybercriminals trying to make money from junk email."The $230m fine is many times greater than previous records for such activities, and is almost half of the $580m paid by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation for MySpace itself in 2005. Hemanshu Nigam, the website's chief security officer, said the company would continue suing spammers who abused its systems."MySpace has zero tolerance for those who attempt to act illegally on our site," Nigam said. "We remain committed to punishing those who violate the law and try to harm our members."
The US ISP Charter Internet has just sent out an email to its customers, telling them they can look forward to an "enhancement" to their web browsing experience. Yes, it'stargeted advertising- "more customized to your interests and activities. As a result of this service, the advertising you typically see online will better reflect the interests you express through your web-surfing activity. You will not see more ads – just ads that are more relevant to you."Charter doesn't say which company is providing the server-side adware, a model that's familiar (at least in theory) through the work of companies such asPhorm, though in the US a company calledNebuAdis also busy, but trying to keep itself below the media radar. (Those atDSLReportssuggest it's NebuAd that's behind Charter.)The move by Charter has raised the ire ofConsumerist, andLauren Weinstein, an American privacy advocate, who says thatwe now need to look to the FCC, FTC, and Congress for immediate actions to protect ISP subscribers' privacy rights, and both the privacy and business rights of the Internet services with whom those users communicate.Thediscussion at Slashdotwill sound very familiar to anyone who's read the discussions here about Phorm, though it does add the useful link to the"web integrity checker" pagewhich will tell you directly if your browsing is being monkeyed about with. OR at least, whether it candetectit, which may be different.I talked about the issue of Phorm and packet inspection with the Canadian Broadcasting Company a week or so ago, and forecast that there would be a lot more of this happening. Seems I was righter than I thought. You can listen tomy full interview, and thefull programme(which includes Lauren Weinstein).Meanwhile, does anyone have any definitive knowledge of whether it's NebuAd or someone else working with Charter?Update:Wired saysthat it is indeed NebuAd:Charter is partnering with a company called NebuAD to build profiles of its users. NebuAD will share the behavioral tracking results with third-party advertising networks like DoubleClick. Users can opt out of the system, but have to give their full name and address to get an opt-out cookie. The process would have to be repeated for every browser on every computer in a home to block the service, and would have to be reset if cookies are ever deleted.And just as a data point, notes that Charter has 2.7m customers.
Sony has had a good financial year (to March 31 2008) with sales up 6.9% to ¥8,871.4 bn ($84.3 bn). Operating income jumped 421.9% to ¥374.5 bn, with net income up 192.4% to ¥369.4 bn ($3.6 bn). Apparently it did well in digital cameras, PCs and LCD TVs. The PlayStation 3 did a little less well.The games division lost ¥124.5 bn ($1.2 bn), which was an improvement on last year's loss of ¥232.3 ($2.2 bn). However, the company only shipped 9.24 million PlayStation 3 consoles. This was a big increase on last year's 3.61 million units, but well short of Sony's target of 11 million units.Premonvision comments:A dip back into the reds for the Game division could be acceptable, given the nature of this business, and the pipeline that Sony has for the PS3. However, more worrying is the outlooks that Sony provides; From April 2008-March 2009 Sony has a target of 10 mln PS3 sales, which is actually lower than the target that Sony set for last years period (11 mln, but reached 9.24 bn). This means that Sony expects to sell fewer PS3 units for the current period, than what it expected to sell a year ago. Even with the looming economic recession, Premonvision expects Sony to outperform this target. Surely the Game division needs more aggressive targets if it aims to outperform the overall market.Sony aims to ship 15 million PSPs in fiscal 2009, up from 13.89 million units in the year to March 2008.Sony pocketed ¥15.6 billion ($148m) from the sale of its share of the Cell processor fab to Toshiba.(I did the currency conversions atXEwhere the current rate is 1 USD = 105.298 JPY.)A thought: On Sony's own figures, the games division made a loss of $130 for each PlayStation 3 shipped. Let's assume that it's making pots of money on the PSP and the PlayStation 2: the PS2 is now hugely profitable and still sells more games than anything else. These two platforms could easily have made a profit of $1.2bn in the year. In that case, the total PS3 loss would have been $2.4bn shared between 9.24m PS3 consoles, or $260 per PS3 -- including any attached Sony games. Hm, is that a reasonable guess or not?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Sadly, we didn't manage to catch Nolan Bushnell for the games special edition of the Tech Weekly podcast, but I subsequently managed to track down the man who brought us, well, videogaming, and asked him a few questions. Keep reading for his thoughts on GTAIV and how it all went wrong in 1983.Image courtesy ofPaul DeanHow have games surpassed your expectations?They have quickly achieved a level of photorealism that I thought would take a bit longer than it did. I think that some of the innovations in user interfaces are just starting. iThe user interface on the Wii has been brilliant and has shown just how much value interacting with the computer in different ways can be.The areas where I think they've fallen short though is that I really felt that games would be a significant part of the educational world and that really hasn't happened.Education? Why?AtuWink, we've done a lot of experimentation on social gameplay and have seen how much people learn and are enabled and facilitated in having a good time just by having a few props that can be supplied by the video screen.Throughout your career, your emphasis has been about social gaming, bringing people together through play. Why?We are a concomitant result of our history. I grew up playing games in the neighbourhood with my sisters. We had an active social dynamic; games were really a big part of that. Then working in an amusement park gave me a really good, institutional foundation for group play.This experience seems to have permeated all the interactive experiences you've helped to create.It's been easy for me to put myself into the mindset of [a social game designer] because I had such intimate knowledge of people at leisure, and how to make them have a good time. It's very easy to focus on things that you're good at!Have the console systems got it all wrong, then?The number of people in the console game market is pretty small. In the US, it's only about 15 million players. Sure, it's an important market because these players spend over a thousand dollars per year on their habit. It's economically important, but notnumericallyimportant.The biggest market is the casual game market - those people who play over the internet. It probably has closer to 60 million players, and it tends not to be the stereotypical pimple-faced boys, but thirty-five year old women. I consider them to be the gamer of the future.How did we get to this unfortunate stereotype?That happened in 1983. Up until then, games were pretty simple. In 1982, 40% of Americans said they'd played a game in the previous week. Then came the punch-kick-fight games like Mortal Kombat which were massively successful. They were so successful amongst this pimple-faced eighteen year old demographic who were spending so much money on those games, that it obscured the fact that the violence lost the women and the complexity lost the casual gamer. The economics of the marketplace didn't shrink, but the population plummeted from over 100m people to less than 15. And we're just recovering from that.How should we deal with game controversy?I never liked censorship, but I've refused in the past to take part of an awards program which gave an award to GTA. I think it's a race to the bottom socially.Somewhere along the line there has to be some keepers of the mores of society, and we shouldn't glorify the breaking of them. I am an outspoken critic of what I call trash games. I'm not going to stop saying that they're trash, they should be treated as trash and they deserve the scorn of society.
I'm currently reading The Road by Cormac McCarthy, a raw, sad and frightening story of a nameless man and his son fighting to survive in a post-apocalyptic America. Thematically and stylistically, it harks back to the likes of I Am Legend, The Earth Abides and JG Ballard's disaster novels of the sixties and seventies - the latest entry in a long-running genre that examines the consequences of Armageddon through the eyes of lonely, pitiful survivors.As I'm reading, I'm doing what I always do when I read a book or watch a movie; I'm imagining it as a game. It sort of feels like it could work - as most apocalyptic narratives do. A futuristic setting, a small group of characters, a weird environment which does not have to closely represent anything in the 'real' world, a sense of threatening 'others' lurking in the darkness. One part Silent Hill, one partDisaster Report.But can games cope with such nightmarish finality?They haven't so far. Post-apocalyptic titles like STALKER and Fallout take a sort of Mad Max approach to the collapse of civilisation - bands of armed troopers battling it out in scorched deserts. It's all pretty exciting. What novels like I am Legend and The Road explore, is the loneliness and uncertainty, the haunting nothingness of life without society.Games ought to do this well. Silent Hill 2 often hints at what is required, with lead character James Sunderland wandering through a wrecked, deserted town accompanied only by ghoulish visions. But imagine a title that drops you into the middle of a scorched 'sandbox' landscape and merely asks you to explore and survive. There will be no zombie hoards, just glimpses of figures lurking behind shattered windows, gangs of feral, desperate survivors... but most of the time, no-one.A couple of weeks ago I met Valve script-writer Chet Faliszek and talked about his 'zombie armageddon' game, Left 4 Dead. He said, "how many times have you watched a zombie movie and then come out talking about whatyou'dhave done? We wanted to make that possible. Your friends and you are always going to be better at telling that story than I am."The abiding fascination with apocalyptic stories hints at something masochistic in us that wonders what it would be like to survive a pan-global disaster. The thought of being nearly alone in the world; there is a sense of freedom, of power even - these are the same feelings that feed our love of videogames.So why don't we see games that resemble JG Ballard's doomed worlds? In the end, it's probably the hopelessness. As interactive media, games tend to propel us toward something - usually victory. For our 30 hours of puzzle-solving and fighting, we expect to be rewarded with something conclusive, something positive. But, of course, unless the developer sells-out the whole concept, allowing the player to locate some sort of dreamy oasis, you'll get nothing; there's no prize at the end of the world.
Thewikigamerscontinue to press forward withSpaceship!, our new interactive text adventure. With the assistance from new and experienced design contributors (thanks to Interactive Fiction guruEmily Short's kind publicity), thesynopsishas developed a good spine,objectsand rooms have been beefed up and some hardy souls are taking a crack at the plethora puzzles that will stand in the way of our hapless hero's rise to self-actualisation.To wit, we'd like to announce ourPuzzle Design Competition, inspired in no small part by the responses to last week's (second) Friday Question:What are your favourite puzzles of yesteryear?, and by the efforts made thus far.We're looking for the best darned puzzles in the universe! The top puzzles will be included in the game, and the top three designers will receive copies of the first Spielberg/EA collaboration, the magnificent puzzler and all-around top-scorerBoom Blox, for the Nintendo Wii. Grand prize is a copy of the game and a brand spanking new Wii console. Yes, that'sa brand spanking new Wii console.Get your ideas in, pronto!Boom Blox is a puzzler that challenges players to create their own levels which can be released to the masses via the console's online network. Even better, it features head tracking, using a special device attached to the player's noggin. Seriously, head tracking. Mental.All entries must be submitted usingthis formby next Wednesday 21 May. The puzzles will be judged by Interactive Fiction veterans and winners will be announced on Monday 26th May.If you're looking for inspiration, head to the game'sPuzzles pagefor a the many outstanding questions in the plot.If you'd like to contribute but don't have a head for puzzle design, there are still many ways you can join in the fun. OurQuick Helptasks this week are:Opening Quotations: what quote do you think should set the scene for the whole game?Object Watch: help us describe some of the flotsam that's already populating the spaceship!Come play!
This week's Tech Weekly is here for you to hear. We've all the news that's fun to discuss, we look at hosted desktops and we find out what's most important about becoming a successful internet meme. (Warning: may involve fancy dress.)Get it nowor choose from these...·The podcast feed URL·Subscribe free to Tech Weekly via iTunes·Visit our Facebook group·The Tech Weekly archives
A source claiming to have spoken to a Virgin Media director has suggested to me that Virgin Media, one of the three ISPs (along with BT and TalkTalk) that were considering implementing Phorm's server-side adware system in the UK, has now decided not to go with it.File, however, under "unconfirmed" and "rumour". I have phoned Virgin Media's press office, who restated VM's longstanding position, which is that it hasn't taken a decision one way or the other. Though I asked for a definitive response on this latest suggestion, I've not heard back. (I'll update this, obviously, if I do.)If Virgin does stand off, then that would leave BT as the only - though of course largest - ISP stilltying itselfdefinitely to Phorm. TalkTalk haspreviously saidthat it would make use of Phorm an opt-in, rather than opt-out, decision for customers (though of course there's plenty of discussion about precisely how easy it is to opt out permanently, and what theside effectswould beeven ifyou do).Meanwhile, any one who has more information - including anything about the BT trials of the Phorm system, which should have been tested for irritancy on humans some time in the past few weeks - is welcome to update us all.Update:Virgin's spokesman says that there has "been no change" in Virgin's policy, which you can find atits Webwise page. That saysVirgin Media has signed a preliminary agreement with Phorm to understand in more detail how this technology works but we have not yet decided if it will be introduced.We'll await more developments...
• Tell us what you think bycalling our Skype voicemailor mail us attech@guardian.co.uk•Post a message on the blog about this week's programme ...•Join our Facebook group
Old but still wonderful EDS commercialHewlett-Packard is buying Electronic Data Services to give it the weight in services to compete with the giant IBM. Since EDS has struggled until recently, it's also getting it for a very reasonable price -- especially compared with the silly $50 billion or so that Yahoo thinks it's worth.EDS will continue to operate as a separate company. It's not clear what will happen to HP's existing services business, which includes survivors from HP and previous takeovers such as Compaq, DEC, Tandem and -- for those with very long memories -- maybe even Apollo. However, presumably HP expects to benefit indirectly as EDS staff start to install more HP kit and less kit from Dell, Sun and other suppliers.Presumably, HP also expects to be able to cut costs and overheads at EDS. Mark Hurd, HP's boss, has already managed to do that at HP, though in a conference call today, he said EDS's services business was "leaner" than HP's.In 2000, Hurd's predecessor, Carly Fiorina, tried to expand HP's services business by buying PricewaterhouseCoopers in a deal valued at about $17 billion. Two years later, IBM bought PWC for only $3.5 billion.But not everybody is convinced by the EDS deal. HP's shares fell almost 7% on the news, taking the company's valuation down to $108 billion -- which is less than its turnover.Reuters,APand others are reporting the story in depth.
Photo: Swedish Space CorporationPeople stuck in some of the remote areas of the world are increasingly starting to use satellite broadband to get online - and yet it's generally pretty expensive and fairly slow. Yes, it might be commonplace to have dishes on our houses to watch TV, or see patchy satellite links on the telly... but the radio waves used by satellites aren't particularly efficient.How do you make things better? By ditching radio waves altogether, according to researchers atFraunhofer-Gesellschaft.The team has been working on using lasers to send data directly, achieving much faster speeds and far greater accuracy. In a recent test, according to thepress release:The data whizzed back and forth at the speed of light between German satellite TerraSAR-X and US satellite NFIRE, covering more than 5000 kilometers in space without any errors.The bandwidth achieved in the test was a hundred times greater than during conventional communication by radio waves, enabling a data rate equivalent to roughly 400 DVDs per hour.I just did some back-of-the-envelope calculations which seemed to suggest that this is the equivalent of having a 4000 Mbps connection in your home. Frankly, that seems ludicrous, but right now I'm too tired (and too late for the train) to work out if and where I might have gone wrong.Still... the internet by laser. You know it makes sense.
"Yes, it's making gobs of money. Yes, it's full of smart people. Yes, it's a wonderful place to work. So why are so many people leaving?" wondersFortune magazine. (Er, don't forget the free gourmet food!)One reason is that they don't have to wade though Google's bureaucracy. The three founders of a start-up called Ooyala, for example, say that "what they lack in institutional backing they make up for in speed and the ability to communicate with one another by turning around in their chairs and talking. Google was like that too, about eight years and 18,000 employees ago."Another is that Google's product strategy isn't particularly coherent as staff exploit their "20% time":The dabbling often results in duplicated efforts -- or products stuck in also-ran status. Google Page Creator, an early-stage product that nevertheless was publicly released in 2006, does about the same thing as Google Sites, a newer offering. "Even on Web search, there were multiple teams working on similar projects," says Ooyala's Knapp. Google Checkout is a payment system in which Google has invested heavily, yet it remains far behind eBay's PayPal unit in market share. It doesn't help matters that eBay is a major Google customer, but that's another story.Google is, of course, extremely sensitive to the observation that it's a one-trick pony. Indeed, it gets the author a phone call from "Marc Benioff, the CEO of Salesforce.com and a Google business partner" -- which leads to by far the best quote in the story."What they need to do is build a full portfolio of revenue, as Microsoft has," says Benioff. "They have a fantastic cash cow. They need a goat and a chicken."
The Canadian company behind the BlackBerry smartphone has struck back at Apple's iPhone by launching a new device with a high-resolution screen, fake leather casing and improved access to music and videos.The BlackBerry Bold got an enthusiastic reception from technology experts on its debut at a conference in Florida, sending shares in the manufacturer, Research in Motion, up by 4.7% to an all-time high of $137.10 (&pound;70) in early trading on Wall Street. RIM described its new model, also known as the BlackBerry 9000, as "incredible speed and functionality, all wrapped up in a beautiful and confident design".The Bold has retained Blackberry's one-letter-a-button keyboard, eschewing the iPhone's touch-screen technology.RIM's president, Mike Lazaridis, says business customers preferred a physical keyboard. "People tell us, don't futz around with your keyboard," he told PC Magazine in Orlando. "They say, whatever you do, don't get rid of that keyboard."The BlackBerry held a 41% market share for smartphones in the US last year, but iPhone went from zero to seize 28%, according to the research firm Canalys.The BlackBerry Bold, which goes on sale this summer, has a 624MHz processor, which can download email attachments faster. In an apparent nod to Apple's success, it has a new synchronising device for downloading music from iTunes.Jim Suva, an analyst at Citigroup, described the model as "really, really appealing". He expects RIM, which is based in Ontario, to ship 200,000 to 400,000 of the devices each quarter.In March, Apple set up a $100m "iFund" to support entrepreneurs who are developing applications for the iPhone. RIM teamed up with Thomson Reuters yesterday to launch a $150m fund to help people building technology based on the BlackBerry platform.
I recently received a note in my inbox fromEduardo Calvillo, a PhD student at UCL who's conducting research on the experience of playing videogames. It seems pretty good time to forward on hisshort survey, as it needs to be taken after playing a game, and I imagine most of you are still heads-down with GTA.If you need a screen break, check outthis link, a survey that "looks at the relation of enjoyment of a game with frustration while playing and at the end of playing". Are you compelled by your own frustration to keep playing and finish a puzzle? I know I've sat in front of a console for hours utterly po'd at myself and at the game for being so blindingly obtuse. But you now what? I've enjoyed every minute of it.Check out more on Eduardo's research and the things he's publishedhere.Thanks for the redirect, folks!
Microsoft Research has come up with its latest brainwave,Telescope, which as its puts itis a Web 2.0 visualization software environment that enables your computer to function as a virtual telescope—bringing together imagery from the best ground and space-based telescopes in the world for a seamless exploration of the universe.Yes, exploring the universe is such a bore if you can see the seams, isn't it?Join Harvard Astronomer Alyssa Goodman on a journey showing how dust in the Milky Way Galaxy condenses into stars and planets. Take a tour with University of Chicago Cosmologist Mike Gladders two billion years into the past to see a gravitational lens bending the light from galaxies allowing you to see billions more years into the past.It all sounds terrifically good fun, and we're aching to give it a try so we can tell you about it. And now we come to the system requirements, because we're on Macs here at the Guardian (it's a publishing thing). From theFAQ:Q. Will WorldWide Telescope run on a Mac?A. Yes; the following are the minimum system requirements.No, we won't spoil it yet. Let's just run through theinstallation procedurefor those on Windows...If you don't have Microsoft .NET Framework 2.0, or later, installed on your computer, a message box displays prompting you to install it. Click Yes to go to the .NET Framework 2.0 SDKs, Redistributables &amp; Service Packs page.On the .NET Framework 2.0 SDKs, Redistributables &amp; Service Packs page, scroll down the page to the .NET Framework Version 2.0 Redistributable Package section, and then click the link for your computer's architecture and operating system. (Note Most computers currently use a 32-bit architecture and operating system and should click the Download x86 version.On the Microsoft .Net Framework Version 2.0 Redistributable Package page, read the system requirements to ensure that your computer has all the necessary software installed, and then click Download.In the File Download – Security Warning message box, click Run.In the Internet Explorer – Security Warning message box, click Run.Follow the software installation instructions. [You mean there's more than this?? - CA]After the software has been installed, click the Windows Update link to make sure that you have all the latest service packs and security updates. Click Express to review all recommended software and follow the software installation instructions.In the File Download – Security Warning message box, click Run.In the Internet Explorer – Security Warning message box, click Run.Follow the instructions in the WorldWide Telescope Setup Wizard.After WWT installs, double-click the WWT icon on your desktop to open WWT.I'm exhausted justreadingit. Obviously, installing Telescope requires you to trust Microsoft to high heaven. (Which of course you do, implicitly.) But things are always simpler on the Mac - it's usually just click "Yes, do whatever it is" and drag-and-drop, isn't it? So let's see what the requirements for an Apple machine are.* Microsoft® XP SP2 (minimum), Windows® Vista® (recommended) with BootCampIn other words, Windows - running as Windows. Yes, it's a seamless universe out there. (Thanks to Danny Sullivan for thepointer.)Update:The Registerdiddownload it. They seemunderwhelmed. Meanwhile, I can advise that theAstronomy Picture of the Dayworks on browsers right back to the very first. (Today's picture is the Southern Rhea. And you can get applications orRSSthat will download the picture (Windows,Mac widget) each day. Enjoy!)
Microsoft Research has finally opened itsWorldWide Telescopesite so that everyone can now take and create their own space tours based on a vast database of astronomical images.Microsoft says: "WorldWide Telescope stitches together terabytes of high-resolution images of celestial bodies and displays them in a way that relates to their actual position in the sky. People can freely browse through the solar system, galaxy and beyond, or take advantage of a growing number of guided tours of the sky hosted by astronomers and educators at major universities and planetariums."This is the system that, famously,made blogger Robert Scoble cry.The WorldWide Telescope is basically version 2.0 of theSky Serverthat was developed by Microsoft researcher Jim Gray, andmany others. I'm delighted to see that you can still read the paper co-authored by Jim Gray on the Sky Server (PDF), written in 1999. That was five years beforeGoogle bought Keyholeand eight years before Google did something similar with Google Sky.Sadly, Jim Gray wasn't around to complete the project, being reportedlost at sea. According toWikipedia: "During a short solo sailing trip to the Farallon Islands near San Francisco to scatter his mother's ashes, his 40-foot yacht, Tenacious, was reported missing on Sunday, January 28, 2007."I first saw the WorldWide Telescope previewed at Microsoft's TechFest early in 2007 and it should have been the star of TechFest 2008, where it was demonstrated.I didn't write about itat the time because space was very short and Microsoft scooped its own show by unveiling it at theTED conferencea few days before. So it goes. But I'm planning to cover it inNetbytes.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Google is hoping to avoid a fight with European privacy campaigners as it prepares to launch its controversial Street View service this side of the Atlantic later in the year, by introducing new technology that blurs the faces of people its cameras inadvertently snap while scanning the streets.Street View, launched in the US last May, adds street-level pictures to the search engine's existing Google Maps' information. A fleet of vans fitted with cameras have been trawling the streets of more than 20 American cities, photographing the pavements to provide a complete visual map of the area.But the cameras also take pictures of anyone who happens to be walking by at the time. While this has caused controversy among privacy campaigners in the US, it could result in serious legal problems in countries such as France with strict privacy laws.Last night, Google relaunched its Street View of Manhattan with pedestrians' faces blurred. The in-house technology errs on the side of caution so it also tends to pixellate faces in adverts. It will also remove Street View images if anyone objects .Cars and vans bearing the Google Street View logo have been spotted in Paris and the company is understood to be planning to add a number of other European cities, including London, to the service this year. A spokesperson for the company refused to give a date for the European launch but said: "We will not launch in Europe until we are comfortable Street View complies with local law."We will use technology, like face-blurring, and operational controls, such as image-removal tools, so Street View remains useful and in keeping with local norms wherever it is available."
As expected (below), Google is announcingFriend Connecttoday. In apress release, Google says:Websites that are not social networks may still want to be social -- and now they can be, easily. With Google Friend Connect (seehttp://www.google.com/friendconnectfollowing this evening's Campfire One), any website owner can add a snippet of code to his or her site and get social features up and running immediately without programming -- picking and choosing from built-in functionality like user registration, invitations, members gallery, message posting, and reviews, as well as third-party applications built by the OpenSocial developer community.There will be some demo sites, includinghttp://www.ingridmichaelson.com/TechCrunch talked to Google engineering director David Glazer:The point of Friend Connect, he says, is to ", give users a shortcut to connections they've built up somewhere else." So if you go to a Website that is part of Friend Connect, you will be able to sign in under your Facebook, Google Talk, hi5, Orkut, or Plaxo IDs (you choose which one you want to sign in under, with more options coming). Then you authorize the site to go out and retrieve your friend's list from that network. Any of those friends who also happen to be members of the site you are on will then show up and you can interact with them.TechCrunch comments:Basically, what Friend Connect does is gather this data from big social networks in whatever way they make available and then presents it in a uniform way to third party sites. It also works as a pass-through between those third party sites and the big repositories of social data. This eliminates any programming hassles on the part of small Websites that want to tap into these social networks, but it also positions Google as the central switch connecting all of these different identity systems.And tomorrow, the world!
The header says it all. For those who didn't catch this today, EA has officially unveiled Skate It, a new take on its Skate sim, for the Wii and DS, due out later this year. From the release:Skate It has Nintendo players riding with the skate pros, owning the best spots in San Vanelona and pulling off the sickest tricks using the popular FlickIt controls. Loaded with all-new gameplay features, Skate It breaks new ground by introducing innovative support for the Wii Balance board which gives players a fresh way to create their own signature skateboarding style.FlickIt refers to a new control system in which the DS stylus or Wii remote are wafted about to mirror actual skate moves. The big news, though, is that Balance Board support. "We've been able to, once again, capture the true experience of skateboarding in a completely innovative way," says exec producer, Scott Blackwood. Completely innovative as long as you ignore Sega's 1997 arcade title, Top Skater, which used a hydraulic platform to simulate a skateboard.
CNN has aninteresting articleon a new trend among large global businesses, who are attempting to 'spruce up' their online distance working systems, by adding virtual world elements. Colleagues who are thousands of miles apart and who may never have met are usually united online via dry, humorless business apps. But corporations like Intel are experimenting with new systems that add-in social networking elements, and even games. From the piece:When CDC Software recently staged parts of an annual sales kickoff event in a virtual world created by Unisfair Inc., it included an online version of the golf outings that commonly accompany such affairs. It held tournaments in baseball and golf video games - and gave real trophies to the champions, said Julian Hannabuss, a CDC sales director.It's an old business cliche - deals being forged on the golf course and concluded on the 19th hole. Can this be transfered into Tiger Woods PGA Tour? I wonder if any business machinations have been hammered out, literally perhaps, in WoW?Eyeing that same future, IBM researchers are exploring whether groups of people in different locations can bond by playing collaborative virtual-world games, like solving puzzles together. IBM calls the effort "Inward Bound," a nod to the Outward Bound wilderness exercises.Games are already functioning as informal team-building exercises - how many offices are right now running round-robin Scrabulous tournaments? But as a practice organised and sanctioned by upper management? I love the idea of workgroups playing co-op CoD or Halo. It would certainly be a lot cheaper and more convenient than carting the whole sales dept out to some nightmarish team-strengthening event in the Pennines.So, what game would most suityouroffice as a team-building challenge?
More than 10% of UK mobile phone users accessed social networking websites such as Facebook, Bebo and MySpace via their handsets at least once a month in the first quarter of 2008, according to research.Nielsen Mobile, which is part of research group Nielsen, found that 21 million UK mobile phone subscribers - of a total of almost 48 million - belong to a social networking website.Out of this 21 million around 5 million, or about 25%, used their mobile phone to visit a social networking website each month in the UK in the first quarter of this year.Facebookers were found to be far and away the most likely to use their mobiles to update profiles, with around 557,000 accessing the website each month on average during the first quarter this year, according to research company Neilsen Mobile, sister company Nielsen Online.MySpace was the next most popular for mobile social networking with 211,000 UK users accessing the website via their phones in the first quarter.Bebo was third, with 162,000 mobile networkers, Windows Live Spaces fourth with 109,000 and Flixster at 90,000 completing the top five.The top 10 most visited social networking websites by mobile users also included Friends Reunited, Where Are You Now?, Yahoo Groups, Faceparty and BBC Communities."Social networking is already a global phenomenon and mobile could be the next big thing in the space," said Kent Ferguson, the client services manager at Nielsen Mobile."There could be increased demand for mobile social networking driven by the flat fee price plans offered by the leading operators that give subscribers unlimited mobile internet access."The most popular mobile social networking pastime was sending messages or mail to other users, with 55% of UK users accessing their profile doing so.This was followed by reading mail or messages at 47%, viewing pictures at 33%, uploading photos at 29% and adding friends at 21%.The rest of the top 10 was made up of activities including receiving text alerts, viewing profiles, creating or updating a profile, uploading a video and participating in a chat room."In an effort to differentiate their offerings and pull ahead all the [social] networks are looking to what the mobile medium can offer, particularly when it comes to attracting 15- to 24-year-olds, a group highly representative among social networking addicts," said Alex Burmaster, the European internet analyst at Nielsen Online.Neilsen's survey is based on interviews with just over 10,000 UK mobile phone users.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Monday's very sunny edition of Chatterbox
It's been hyped from here to the back of beyond, but the search enginePowerset- dubbed a "Google killer" by all manner of media pundits - is now live... at least partially.The first iteration of Powerset, years in the making, doesn't index the web - just Wikipedia.It's a very limited rollout for the people behind the site, which uses natural language understanding to provide answers to complex search queries. The Powerset team, including former Nasa scientist Barney Pell (who was replaced as CEO) and PayPal/Facebook backer Peter Thiel (the subject ofour now infamous Tom Hodgkinson diatribe), have been working away for years on their attempt at reworking the search engine - and have opted for natural language understanding for their spin on search.According to theSan Jose Mercury News:"This is just to whet users' appetites for more and more," said co-founder Barney Pell, a former research scientist at NASA and SRI International.Unlike Google, which indexes the world's Web sites at lightning speed by doing a quick and dirty analysis of key characteristics, Powerset painstakingly "reads" every sentence on every Web page and looks for meaning.This approach requires a huge amount of computing power - it can take a single microprocessor as much as 20 seconds to analyze a page. But Pell believes the extra effort is worth it for the time it will save human beings.The idea is to read your query and work out what you're asking the internet, then give you the answer. But will slow and complex ever match a quick and dirty solution?This limited launch is meant to display the company's power, if not its reach. But the proof of the pudding is in the eating, sogive it a goand tell us - are you excited, or disappointed?
Charlie Brooker takes a look at GTA IV inhis column todayand picks up on something that rarely gets mentioned in amongst the praise/outcry."As far as the script and storyline goes, it tries so hard to appear "adult", it winds up looking downright adolescent."I totally agree, especially if gaming is going to hit the mythical "mainstream". The next step for gaming - the next-next gen? - should be as much about adding more substantial narrative as it is about increasing processing power. We need moreMad Menand less Mad Max. Or are you happy with the quality of the GTA IV script? Or not particularly bothered and happy just playing the game?
Let's be brief on this one: there's now a page that shows you which stories have been most viewed on the Guardian Technology site, for the past 24 hours and the past 7 days.So bookmark, if you will, thepast 24 hoursand thepast 7 days.And lend us your opinion: do such things tend to emphasise the few over the many, so that the long tail of content gets lost in a miasma of a small selection of stories that you may (or may not, of course) have heard about already? Or is it the ideal way to find out what thezeigeistzeitgeist (ta, BarryMcC) of the moment is?Do you pay much attention to "most read/most emailed" links on other sites? And do you think it would be a sensible way to decide how to position stories in the future (for example, a frequently-read but old story might keep its position on the "Technology front page" online if it seemed to bear up)?(I'm encouraged, by the way, that one of the most-read stories is aboutnanotechnology for brighter LEDs. Nice to know there's interest in tech beyond keyboards.)
RIM has announced the BlackBerry Bold business 3G/Wi-Fi smartphone with twice the screen resolution and a StrongARM processor that's twice the speed of current models. Oh, and a "leather-like" back, apparently. RIM'spress releasesays:Crafted from premium materials, inside and out, that radiate elegance with a dramatic presence, the BlackBerry Bold is designed to give business professionals and power users unprecedented functionality and performance in an intuitive BlackBerry smartphone. It is the first BlackBerry smartphone to support tri-band HSDPA high-speed networks around the world and comes with integrated GPS and Wi-Fi, as well as a rich set of multimedia capabilities. From its lustrous black exterior, satin chrome finished frame and stylish leather-like backplate, to its stunning display, sophisticated user interface and newly designed full-QWERTY keyboard, the BlackBerry Bold smartphone is a symbol of accomplishment and aspiration. . "The new BlackBerry Bold represents a tremendous step forward in business-grade smartphones and lives up to its name with incredible speed, power and functionality, all wrapped in a beautiful and confident design," said Mike Lazaridis, President and Co-CEO, Research In Motion.There's also a Flashtaster, andReutershas a story. Laptop has a briefhands onreport.The Bold was developed as the BlackBerry 9000.
An Israeli company called WeCU ("We see you") is developing software that can identify terrorists without them doing anything. Haaretz.com, the online edition of the Haaretz newspaper, says:According to the company's founders, in under a minute it can screen an individual, without his or her knowledge or cooperation and without interfering with routine activities, and disclose intentions to carry out criminal or terror activity. It can identify subjects who are not carrying any suspicious objects, do not demonstrate any suspicious behavior, do not fit into a predefined social or other profile and do not arouse any suspicion.The story says: "The system consists of three components: Hidden biometric sensors that measure the subject remotely or during random contact; a system that displays the stimuli; and a computerized data analysis and decision-making system that operates in real time."The developers say that mass production of the system is expected within two and a half years. Each unit is expected to cost tens of thousands of dollars.There's not much info on WeCU Technologies Ltd, but it is aMicrosoft Partnerand was "incorporated in August 2003". The partner page has a summary of the approach, but the link to itsweb pagedoesn't work.
When the 12th annual Webby Awards were announced last week,The New York Timestook the judges' awards in the news and newspaper categories, and also won the "people's award" for best newspaper.It could have done even better, because it was nominated in another three categories including Best Visual Design – Function. Last year, it also picked up Webby Awards for the best home/welcome page and best business blog.The newspaper known as the "Gray Lady" is still somewhat grey on the web, but as these awards show, it has come a long way in the past couple of years.The most notable advance was the redesign launched in April 2006, when pages became wider, simpler and faster. Its long pages of text links are not pretty, but in-page jumps mean you can move around quickly.Two more innovations were alphabetical subject pages – Times Topics – and the personalised MyTimes page.I like Times Topics. How many newspapers have a page for pancakes? This includes links to Times stories plus a Pancakes Navigator with "resources from around the Web about pancakes as selected by researchers and editors of The New York Times". I may be a boring Bisquick user, but I like to keep up with trends.Many subject pages are devoted to people, from Aaliyah to Zyuganov. Times Topics also covers places, from Abu Ghraib to Zimbabwe.Favourite writersMyTimes looked even more promising, but is still in beta, and hasn't really lived up to expectations. Like iGoogle, it lets you combine RSS feeds and widgets on a set of tabbed pages. In this case, you can have sections for your favourite Times writers, and add feeds recommended by your favourite writers.Feeds are not, of course, limited to what's in The New York Times. My MyTimes page has feeds from The Guardian and Engadget, Flickr photos, and the weather for London. It should also show my Gmail, but that widget has been withdrawn "for further development". Another couple of feeds are not working, and for some reason, I can't get it to add Dilbert. Great idea, but the execution is lacking.There's also a Most Popular page, which lists the top 10 articles emailed or blogged, and the most popular search terms. Clicking through takes you to the full list of 25 most popular items over 24 hours, 7 days and 30 days. However, the similar lists in the separate sections (Technology, Sports, Arts etc) are actually much more useful.While The New York Times has been on the web since 1995, its influence has been restricted by its insistence on registration and by charges for some content. Last September, it made all its current articles – and access to much of its archive, except for 1922-1986 – free. Unless you're a subscriber, reading an old article costs $3.95, which is expensive for a sports report or movie review.Still, The New York Times is improving, and is now establishing itself as the premier US newspaper on the web.
KateModern, the flagship online drama broadcast by social networking site Bebo, will wrap up for the last time at the end of June, it was announced today.The last part of series two will air on June 28, with Bebo promising a "high octane" ending with multiple episodes.Featuring Royle Family star Ralph Little, the interactive drama has run for more than 300 four-minute episodes since it launched in July last year, racking up more than 57 million views.Bebo wanted the show to "encourage unprecedented interactivity" with its audience and has also tried to distinguish itself from rival social networking sites by building up original content.Users are given interactive tools to "talk" to KateModern characters and producers from the series, suggest storylines and solve puzzles in the plot.The Bebo president, Joanna Shields, said KateModern has "created a new genre and demonstrated the power of media on a social network with gripping storylines and peerless production values".KateModern's producer EQAL, which also made the YouTube hit Lonely Girl 15, has not ruled out reprising the drama in the future but will hope to beat the average 1.5 million views of each episode.A spokeswoman for Bebo said the show had always been profitable because the site worked to establish sponsorship deals before it went ahead.Brands including Orange, Toyota and Cadbury Creme Egg have all been involved in sponsorship activity around KateModern.Bebo is also running online dramas Sophia's Diary and the Big Trip, and is expected to announce new video projects soon.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Though there's not roomin print for all your letters and blog pingbacks, we do here. This week saw reactions to Games Week online. And how do you think that went?ON THE ZITTRAIN&gt;&gt; Well first of all I think he's just plain wrong. You only have to look at appliances like the Linksys NSLU2 or even the iPhone, which is oddly enough seems to be being held up as the poster child for vendor lock in, to see that we aren't being locked in by these devices at all. Or at least, some of us aren't. I think he's right in one respect, I think we're entering a period where the number of people that can hack on the devices we use to talk to the network is going to become smaller.dailyack.comHMRC?So, now it begins, my wife's bank account has been debited fraudulently for 560 pounds. She has never user her card on the Internet, she checks her balance daily. So , what does she share with half of the population? The fact that we have children and our details are registered with a government department who have casually lost millions of people's data. She has contacted her bank (Barclays) and found the source of the fraud ( a large garage group). On contacting them, they told her that they have received a large number of fraudulent hits in the last couple of days on the Internet. I would suggest to those that have children, and therefore have had their personal data handed to criminal elements on a plate by this government, to contact their Banks and get new cards issued. Keith Goode, NorwichGAMES WEEKI lovedRichard Bartle's article: it was absolutely fantastic! Please congratulate Richard Bartle for me. This was on the best articles ever written on computer games! I especially loved this part: "15 years from now, the prime minister of the day will have grown up playing computer games, just as 15 years ago we had the first prime minister to have grown up watching television, and 30 years ago to have grown up listening to the radio. Times change: accept it; embrace it. Don't make yourself look even more 20th Century, even more public school, than you do already. You've lost! Understand? Your time has passed." Congratulations on this great article! Mark Rein, Vice President and Co-Founder, Epic Games, Inc.&gt;&gt; The UK's Guardian newspaper has proclaimed a Games Week for their paper. The Guardian has withheld nothing from this celebration: they flooded their website with new articles from the greats in VG journalism and VG creators. It's a must read... What a great acknowledgment of video games as cultural relevant media. We'll see games popping up in news broadcasts more and more frequently.blogs.setonhill.edu/nmj/&gt;&gt; It's shameful to admit, but I really like this video game [GTA IV]fieldguidetomemphis.blogspot.com&gt;&gt; There is no doubt that The Sims played a huge impact by helping mold the casual gamer. More and more people are introduced to gaming every day.simprograms.comFM?Mr Greenwood says 'apparently FM is higher quality anyway' (Letters, May 1). In my part of north London, FM reception quality has declined so much in recent years, even with an outdoor aerial, that I have been obliged to buy DAB and retire perfectly good FM equipment. I suspect a plot to force us all to convert! Now I get clean reception even with an indoor aerial - no more hiss, fluctuations due to passing aircraft, or interference from pirate stations. Just like the improvement of FM over AM in its early days! The power supply on our small kitchen DAB radio remains very hot even when it is turned off - what a waste! We have to remember to turn off at the mains switch as well. Stephen Thornton, LondonCLEANING UPToday's article (Filthy as a loo seat: hazard of computer keyboards) has "a vacuum cleaner can be used to clean vents, but contrary to internet myth, keyboards should not be put in the dishwasher, the magazine said." ISBN 0-596-00513-X has a section describing the author's use of a dishwasher for this purpose - I haven't tried it. David Martin, GlasgowFREESAT?About a year ago I explored options for satellite reception - we live in a black hole for analogue reception and Freeview does not work here. Freesat seemed a good option with the ability for the user to choose what equipment to use. According to the advertising this should be available from High Street retailers now, but a recent enquiry at the John Lewis in Reading gave the answer that satellite=Murdoch. Can you get any better information on possible launch dates? Peter Beaven, Crowthorne [after this letter arrived, the BBC and ITVannounced it..]PHORMJust a quick note of appreciation for Charles Arthur's interview on Phorm. At last a serious Q&amp;A session addressing the real issues raised by concerned users in a civilised but penetrating way. (name and address supplied)
According toIDG News Service, Microsoft is offering ultra low cost PC manufacturers a deal on Windows XP Home that could take the price down to $16 for ULCPCs sold in "emerging markets" where it has to compete with free Linux.Microsoft plans to charge PC makers US$26 for Windows XP Home Edition for ULPCs sold in emerging markets such as China and India, and $32 for those sold in developed markets, the documents show. PC makers who are eligible for its Market Development Agreement, however, can get a discount of as much as $10 off those prices, the documents say.But the deal is only available for machines with screen sizes up to "10.2 inches and hard drives to 80Gbytes, and they cannot offer touch-screen PCs," says the story. "The goal apparently is to limit the hardware capabilities of ULPCs so that they don't eat into the market for mainstream PCs running Windows Vista, something both Microsoft and the PC vendors would want to avoid."The story doesn't mention Microsoft's third world programme or the Starter edition of Windows XP, which are thought to be available for around $3, with even more restrictions.The US Justice Department prevents Microsoft from doing deals for Windows, but it offers volume and other discounts plus a range of sticker, advertising support and marketing programmes to make it available at relatively low cost. This is just another example. They're all optional, of course. But if you're a ULCPC manufacturer, you don't want to be paying $44 or even $32 per copy for Windows if the guy down the road is paying $16 or less.....
