Shhh - don't pass it on. It's the kind of secrecy one might expect for a database of proposed nuclear reactors or plans to go to war. But a database containing the laws of the land? Surely the only way to obey the law is to know what it is in the first place? On August 2, the government rolled out the second stage of a long-delayed project to make the consolidated law of parliament accessible to the people. So how does it look? The public - who paid for the whole project - can't get a look in.No free public access sites have been granted permission to view the current system and testers of the database - predominantly from commercial legal publishing firms - have been told not to share their login and password. Even so, some testers are not entirely happy with what they've found after logging on to the top secret database of our country's laws.Firstly, an astounding Crown copyright notice greets the reader: "The Statute Law Database and the material on the SLD website are subject to Crown copyright protection. The Crown copyright waiver that applies to published legislation generally does not apply to SLD because it is a value-added product. Any reuse of material from SLD will be the subject of separate and specific licensing arrangements. No such arrangements have yet been entered into. Users should not therefore reproduce or reuse any material from SLD until further guidance is issued."Democracy advocates outragedNo matter that the value was added by public officials at taxpayer expense. Small commercial legal publishers and democracy advocates are outraged. "It is appaling that a government feels it should sell the laws it makes to the general public who must obey them," said developer Francis Irving, who last month won two New Statesman new media awards for his web siteswww.writetothem.com(the contribution to civic society award) andwww.pledgebank.com(advocacy award). "Because the DCA's data cannot be reproduced, it makes it impossible for anyone else to compete by providing new and innovative ways of accessing and learning the law."Irving had hoped to create a free, user-friendly legal database to rival his previous successes. As such he filed Freedom of Information Act requests last year asking for the raw data held by the Department for Constitutional Affairs. Instead of thanking Irving for his interest, the DCA denied his request. Matthew Elliot, the chief executive of the Taxpayers' Alliance, is appalled by the government's response: "Any information collected by the government at taxpayers' expense should be freely available to the public. If private organisations are willing to collate information at no expense to the taxpayer, why on earth is the government spending money doing exactly the same thing?"DCA spokesman Alfred Bacchus says that the copyright notice is only for the pilot system. "For live running it will be suitably amended. We have always quoted that there will be a level of free access for the general public but there may be a charge against some of the value added data (defined under the terms of the Treasury's Wider Markets Initiative) depending on the outcome of the commercial strategy. This is being discussed at the moment."It isn't as though the government has lacked time to produce a taxpayer-funded database. In 1991, it awarded a contract to Syntegra Ltd - a BT company, previously Secure Information Systems Ltd - to build the legal database. "Since that time little information has been released about the project, though regular assurances have been given as to its progress and, since 1995, as to it being publicly available 'next year'," says Nick Holmes, managing director of Infolaw, an online legal resource.The Syntegra project was delivered in November 1993, though not formally accepted until Summer 1995, at a cost of &pound;700,000. "It is not clear what was delivered at that time, nor what happened to the project for the next several years," Holmes says. Despite spending an unknown amount of public money, it now appears the DCA plans to charge the public to access the data. Current law will be freely accessible, but historical law will not. So, for example, if you are selling a house you bought 10 years ago, you would have to pay to find out the laws in force at that time. "Why the man in the street has to pay to see the law even as it was 10 years ago is hard to understand," Holmes says. "Potentially, that's relevant to everyone, not just lawyers."US law is copyright freeThis is not how it could, or should, have happened. In the US, where information compiled at public expense by public officials is copyright free, the public has had access to consolidated law for decades. Since 1992, the Legal Information Institute at Cornell University in New York has been the leading online resource for US law and Supreme Court decisions. "The raw material for our United States Code collection is provided us by the law revision counsel's office in the House of Representatives," says institute director Thomas R Bruce. "They have actively helped us with the things we publish."Even Canada, which inherited Crown copyright from us, provides its citizens free access to parliamentary law. In the mid-90s the University of Montreal, which now operates the Canadian Legal Information Institute, set out to remove copyright limits on the distribution of law. It succeeded and the Reproduction of Federal Law Order was issued in late 1996.Meanwhile, in the UK, we're still suffering under the yoke of Crown copyright. "This copyright situation manages to be bad for business, bad for lawyers, bad for the general public and bad for our freedom all at the same time," Irving said.&#183;Heather Brooke is the author of Your Right to KnowWhere is the law?The most accurate and comprehensive sources for British law all cost money - and lots of it.LexisNexis and Sweet &amp; Maxwell (Westlaw):These are the only two private sector publishers that provide a substantially comprehensive set of consolidated legislation. Out of reach for all but the wealthiest law firms.Halsbury's Statutes:Available in hard copy or online. Authoritative and updated, found only in major public libraries or private law libraries.Justis (justis.com):A paid-for resource containing the laws as they were published (unconsolidated) going back many hundreds of years.Where to find the law for freeOffice of Public Sector Information (tinyurl.com/gtcse):Access to "as-enacted" (ie, unconsolidated) legislation published by HMSO since 1987.BAILII (bailii.org):Republished OPSI data with free value-added search facilities and hyperlinks. Again, this is incomplete and unconsolidated, so its utility is very limited.Citizens Advice Bureaux (adviceguide.org.uk):Some good basic factual information on major laws. For more detailed guidance you need to speak to a CAB advisor.HM Court's Service (hmcourtsservice.gov.uk):Provides major case judgments. Tribunals tend to do better and most publish all their decisions. Some tribunals have their own websites.Public Libraries:Most libraries simply don't stock accurate updated legal reference tools because of their extortionate cost. Specialised law libraries are not free for public access.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
My eyebrows were raised in surprise last week when I saw a report that fleetingly mentioned some new ideas being bandied around the BBC. The corporation was drawing up plans to create a plug-in gadget for MP3 players that would turn them into digital radios. As a DAB devotee, I was immediately excited. Thanks to a quirk of geography, the analogue reception in our home is terrible at the best of times; digital radio has helped us get hold of the ordinary stations, let alone all the extra channels.The trouble is that while DAB has made great strides in the home, in the outside world it's still a poor relation. Portable digital radios are handy, but have a long way to go before they can displace any of the other devices that we already lug around in our pockets. Companies that focus on feature-rich music devices, like Creative, have long stuck FM radios inside their players - but given that different countries are at different stages in their digital journey, it's hard for them to plump for DAB chips as standard. Third party manufacturers are in the same boat. And as for Apple, it is only recently that Cupertino displayed the first signs of accepting that maybe, just maybe, iPod owners sometimes like turning on the radio. Despite all that, the concept of a clip-on DAB gadget throws up intriguing possibilities. Would it work on all MP3 players, not just iPods? Would it work with car stereos? What about mobile phones?Given the highly-regulated environment that licence fee payers rightly demand of the BBC, the storm that might surround gadget-making would be substantial. It would be almost impossible for it to create, say, an iPod-only product. The squeals of pain from publicity-starved competitors alone would shatter every window at Television Centre. In-car radio would probably go down a storm. But it might be the mobile phone industry that had most to gain, as it seeks to devour the MP3 player market in the same way it has taken over low-end digital photography. But even there, loyalties are divided. Manufacturers would love to stick a cheap DAB chip inside handsets. The costs are minimal, and many handsets are tweaked with features aimed at national markets. But network operators are still focused on the desperate attempt to profit from frankly confusing mobile music services. Why let people listen to good quality DAB when you can sell downloads at &pound;1.50 a time?Broadcasters like the BBC have their own agenda. The growth of digital radio cannot continue if device manufacturers refuse to play their game, but huge amounts of time and money have been invested in new platforms. They need ways to reach more listeners. It would certainly not be the first time that the BBC had taken on a technological cause for the "greater good". Many of us will remember fondly the days of the Acorn BBC Micro, and although that might now seem a rather quaint little episode in PC history, it was, in fact, extremely important in spreading the home computing gospel in Britain.A more recent technological triumph has been the corporation's championing of free-to-air digital television with the Freeview product. Where commercial competitors had failed - the entire project looked in tatters after the collapse of ITV Digital - Auntie was able to step in and provide stability, marketing power and audiences who were not traditional technology buyers. There have also been other schemes that drew attention - in the past few years, for example, talk of a BBC Broadband product. Competitors boggled at such a concept, which never materialised.Chances are that the clip-on DAB player is also likely to end up filed somewhere in the back of Broadcasting House in a cabinet marked "nice ideas that never came to much". But the speculation alone is a shot across the bows of those who have ignored digital radio so far.bobbie.johnson@guardian.co.uk&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
"Once upon a time there was an island named Blogosphere, and at the very center of that island stood a great castle built of stone, and spreading out from that castle for miles in every direction was a vast settlement of peasants who lived in shacks fashioned of tin and cardboard and straw," writes blogger Nick Carr inThe Great Unread."Once upon a time there was an island named Blogosphere, and at the very center of that island stood a bridge over which lots of bloggers walked happily each day. Under the bridge, in a dark and gloomy hole, lived a troll named Nick," responds bloggerRex Hammock.This is a much better response thanMike Arrington's, though it amounts to much the same thing.An even more useful response is in the comments to Carr's piece: a link to Clay Shirky's old essay,Power Laws, Weblogs, and Inequality, which is the single most accessible text for understanding the blogosphere and possibly the whole IT industry.(Real men, of course, readHubermanandWatts, but Shirky will do for most purposes.)
This just in:New Woman Magazineis looking for ladies who live inSecond Life. From the blurb:Has being on Second Life changed your real life? If you are between 20 - 35, female, live in the UK and hooked on Second Life - we want to hear from you. Maybe you met your real life partner through Second Life, or you've realised your ultimate dream in Second Life which has now spilled over into your real life, or maybe you are having an illicit affair in Second Life, unbeknown to your real life partner...If this sounds like you, or someone you might know, please send your photo, including your name, age and where you live to kirsten.lester@emap.com.
MindTouchhas released a beta version of an "instant wiki" system at the rather nicewiki.comaddress. It really is a beta, as I discovered by doing a quick bit of copy-and-paste to create a wiki aboutPictures at an Exhibition. It's also not clear how anybody else would add to it.In this particular case, it would have been easier and made more sense to add sub-pages to theWikipedia entry. However, I still think it's a great idea to offer free wikis at wiki.com, and I'll be interested to see what turns up there.Update: It turns out that I missed the background to this story while I was otherwise engaged (ie working on the paper). The quick recap is that "Domain name speculator John Gotts" -- man behind Adware.com -- sort of bought the wiki.com domain for $2.8 million.Wired Newssays:Wiki.com is the startup equivalent of instant cuisine. According to Gotts, a team of engineers put together most of the site's backend in a caffeine-fueled span of 48 hours. The site runs using technology from MindTouch, a Washington wiki-software and hardware startup founded by former Microsoft employees.It's "sort of" bought because, according to Wired, "rather than buy the site outright, [Gotts] agreed to pay the owner, business naming firm Dynamo, $10,000 a month for six months to use the domain. The deal gives Gotts an option to buy it for the full $2.8 million at the end."Valleywag has the interesting postGotts Milks: An interview with the man who bought Wiki.com
Dell has been illustrating the value of blogging by posting stuff on its official blog, which is now calledDirect2Dell(avoids being confused with a porn site).On Monday, the blog said: "About 14 percent of the batteries provided to Dell customers between April 2004 and July 21, 2006, are affected. Dell is recalling approximately 4.1 million batteries during the period compared to 24.9 million batteries that we actually shipped during that same time."Yesterday, itanswered a question many are asking:Some customers are wondering why some batteries Dell distributed during this time period are part of the recall and why other batteries are not. Dell uses multiple suppliers and multiple battery pack form factors so not every battery is affected. This recall is specific to battery packs produced with Sony cells. If you have a battery that is not included in the recall, you can feel confident it is ok.Aside from all the finger-pointing, it's a good illustration of something lots of people have found out the hard way. Today's computer industry is built on the idea of infinitely interchangeable parts, and sometimes they aren't.
ModelAston Martin V8 VantagePrice&pound;82,800Top speed175mphAcceleration0-60mph in 4.9secsConsumption(combined) 16.4mpgCO2emissions406g/km (road tax band G)At the wheelAustin PowersThey'd rather walkNo oneOn the stereoGreased LightningEn route forYour own Lear jetI drove a new Volkswagen Eos the other day. It was a sparky little number in a happy shade of blue with a delightfully smooth gearbox and a racy impatience at the lights. It did not, however, turn a lot of heads. At no point did the Eos and I cause a grown man to drop his shopping and punch the air. At no point did someone just march up to the car as I was parking it and brazenly take photos. And at no point did the occupants of an entire curryhouse freeze in mid-chew and stare out of the window as I gunned its engine and idled past.Yet all of these things - and many more - happened when I drove the Aston Martin V8 Vantage. Part car, part public service, it's a vehicle that makes its driver feel if not actually famous, then at least enormously privileged, and quite possibly in need of a pair of waterproof pants. This sleek piece of motoring mayhem does 0-60mph in under five seconds (except when I'm driving), has a top speed of 175mph (ditto), and - much more importantly - is capable of generating an effervescent mixture of envy and elation in every middle-aged man in earshot, which is a sizeable area.Aston Martin has just celebrated the building of its 30,000th production car and the V8 Vantage is what you might call the poor man's Aston, costing a five-figure sum and sporting an eight-cylinder engine, rather than the usual six-figure sum with accompanying 12-cylinder beast. Let's call it an entry-level Aston, an attempt by the British car-maker to rectify the fact that its marque is exclusive but not particularly visible.Weighing in at a mere &pound;82,800 (that's the 2007 price, the waiting list being nine to 12 months), the V8 Vantage is within the range of, say, potential Porsche-buyers who might fancy trading up to something a bit more special but for whom the jump to the &pound;100k Aston Martin DB9 is just too ruinous. So they get a more compact package in the Vantage and, instead of the DB9's relatively useless back seat, they get the Vantage's relatively useless luggage ledge.What else do you get for that knockdown price? Quite simply, the ride of your life. I took my handcrafted model, which came in thrilling "tora red", down to the south Kent coast. I tapped the accelerator somewhere on the edge of London and didn't really have to touch it again until we hit the beach, the 10-way adjustable leather seat cocooning me like a favourite old armchair all the way, as drivers of Mercs and BMWs looked on in wonder. (Actually, they were probably wondering why a 380bhp car capable of leaving them for dust was pootering down the slow lane. Well, I was scared. My other car is a pushbike.)The Vantage has one of those chunky gearboxes typical of the elite sports car. You don't so much change the gears as manhandle them. But it's still a dream to drive. And a dream to look at, too: its seven-spoke alloy wheels are thrust right out to the corners, giving it a poised, pugnacious yet elegant appearance, while the bodywork's sculpted curves bend light so aggressively the car seems to be moving even when standing still.Inside, the dashboard is clad in more black leather than a chubby biker, stitched with an angry red thread and boasting, among other delights, a satnav console that swings up out of the dash with the sort of studied hi-tech slowness only large quantities of money can buy. The roof is finished in what may be suede but feels like velvet, and, in a nifty touch, there's a little camera tucked away inside the passenger door. It's for gathering evidence after an accident, apparently, but you do have to fight the urge to rip off its casing and get a few snaps of yourself salivating behind the wheel.And then there's the noise. "If you stick it in second and floor it," someone advised, "it will make an incredible racket." You don't even have to do that. Just hitting the glass button on the dash marked "Engine start" and hearing that rich, throaty roar is enough to make you feel like you're strapped into your own personal thunderbolt.It turns a lot of heads. Too many, actually. To drive it is to be constantly stared at, pointed at, marvelled over, celebrated - not something that happens a whole lot on a bike. You begin to feel a bit self-conscious. I found myself cultivating a new persona, a special air of lofty indifference, a bored, oh-what-is-all-the-fuss-about manner. It didn't fool anyone. As I jerked the Vantage back and forth in a dismal attempt to park it in a tiny space in a tiny seaside town, craning my neck to see out of the porthole that Aston Martin call a rear window, a guy stopped to give me a bit of help, and a crowd of amused onlookers gathered to watch."You don't seem like an Aston Martin kind of man," said one of them when I finally parked it at an angle and got out. The nerve.&middot;Giles Smith is away
You may not have heard of the trade event Games Market Europe - the low key London event aimed at networking - sotoday's cancellation newsis unlikely to phase you. But while I wasn't overly impressed last year - the show couldn't decide whether it was a microscopic E3 or a glorified conference - I'm sad to see it go, if only because it lowers the already low chance of a decent UK games event being launched in the near future. Yes, there is stillEdinburgh,NottinghamandLondon Games Weekbut these lack the punch of big show that I'd argue the industry - especially one as visually focussed as gaming - needs. I'm going toLeipzignext week - on the Thursday - and I'll be very interested to see how a small-ish German town handles what has now become an important show. Will we ever see a large UK show again? Should we care?
"The difference between us," says my wife Anna, "is that if I were to go cycling, it would have to be flat, and if there were any hills, I'd get off and walk. Whereas, if you go cycling, you go looking for hills." This is true. I would consider it scarcely worth getting togged out to go for a bike ride if there weren't some hills to be climbed. During my mid-life lay-off from cycling (otherwise known as having a young family), any trip or holiday that took us near mountainous country would have me looking up wistfully at the distant blue hills and dreaming what it would be like to ride among them.The lure of the hills is partly about the need for a physical challenge, partly also about the panoramic views they reward that effort with. But it is also a soul thing. About lifting your spirit up from the common, quotidian life of the plain and searching for something transcendant. Mountains, as the Romantics knew, are sublime.OK, so Caspar David Friedrich would have been thinking of something a bit more vertiginous than the North Downs or the Chilterns, but you take what you can get and, for the rest, there is the imagination. I can think of at least two country lanes among the Surrey hills known to cyclists as the "Little Alps". A little aspirational, perhaps, but we all need a dream to nurture.Not all cyclists fantasise about hills, I accept. And I mean no snobbery by it: I don't consider people who like hills "proper cyclists" and others not. If it were a choice between living in a pan-flat country where practically everyone went by bike and a gorgeously hilly one where most people drove, I'd choose Holland every time. I guess I'd put up with headwinds instead of hills. And book holidays in the Dolomites.But there is another side to this hill-seeking. "Isn't life uphill enough already?" asks Anna. Meaning, why make things harder for yourself? I've thought about this, and I think I like riding uphill because, if you can conquer that climb, then the uphill business of getting through life seems easier. My cycling is a hobby and a sport, and so, like all such pastimes, a displacement activity - yes, a way of avoiding more difficult things. But it also has a metaphorical quality. The title of a (sadly not very good) documentary film about the 2004 Tour de France currently on release is Overcoming. A bit pompously Nietzschean, but you get the idea.There is an obvious fallacy in the idea that an ability to ride a bike up a long, hard hill in any way equips you for the infinitely more complex and challenging stuff of life. But if it lifts the spirit to climb that mountain, perhaps it is a useful illusion.&#183;On Your Bike! The Complete Guide to Cycling by Matt Seaton is published by Guardian Books, price &pound;16.95. To order, call 0870 836 0749, or visitguardian.co.uk/bookshopand get free p&amp;p.Bike doctorAll your cycling questions answeredDear Matt,The environmental benefits of using a bike are undisputed, but what are the environmental costs of buying one? Modern bikes use some very exotic (and toxic) materials; most are made a long way away and seem to be replaced fairly often.I was thinking of buying a new road bike, but decided instead to resuscitate my 25-year-old Reynolds-framed road bike and update the drive-train to cope with my local Cornish inclines. And a nice ride it is too!Darren Miles, via emailPutting a precise carbon price on a new bike is beyond my capability, but you are right. Most are either aluminium, which requires lots of electrical power, or carbon fibre, which is essentially a plastic - with all the associated environmental penalties. In both cases, production is generally in the far east, so there are transport costs attached. And there is more built-in obsolescence and less "repairability" of parts with modern bikes. Whereas what you've done - recondition an old steel frame - ticks all the boxes for green virtue. As long as you don't get any bits of it rechromed: that really is toxic.
Yesterday I spent the afternoon trying to get a few straight answers from Dell spokespeople on the battery recall issue.First off, I asked them how long it was likely to take for affected British customers to get replacement batteries. They didn't have an answer. (laptops without batteries aren't that useful, of course).Secondly, since the recall potentially affects machines bought in the last few months, some customers may still have their 30 day return guarantee in place. Would customers who were under guarantee be able to get a full refund on their laptop instead of waiting for a replacement battery. The best answer I got was that such cases would be dealt with on a "case by case basis". Other than that, I was given the runaround on a satisfactory answer - customers are being offered replacement batteries, and that's it.If you've been affected, or are a Dell owner, then leave a comment telling us what's happened to you.
Here's something as an addendum toyesterday's poston Dell's exploding battery recall, and - possibly - an answer tothe questionof whether other manufacturers might follow suit.Sony, which produced the battery which is being recalled, is adamant that this is essentially a technical problem inside Dell's machines and not one regarding the batteries themselves. Last night I talked with a Sony representative, who said that the problem was in the way Dell laptops charge the battery, and wrote this in thestory we've run today:But although the same model batteries are also used in products from other manufacturers, a Sony spokeswoman said there were no concerns. "This is an issue specifically down to Dell's battery-charging system," she told the Guardian.That's not going to stop America's Consumer Product Safety Commission from investigating if there are potential further effects, of course, something which could also bring Sony's own Viao products - as well as Apple, HP and Lenovo - into the frame.But Dell has suggested it won't be feeling any financial impact from the recall, with some making the presumption that such a claim means it's a defect on Sony's part.The fog continues.
All thistalkabout William Castle has caused me to pause and think about the greatest - but most useless - gimmicks ever incorporated into games.Gimmicks can work, but often they're used to hide a sub-standard movie product. There's a fine line between innovation and gimmick. Castle's seat-shocking episode during screenings of The Tingler and John Waters' Smell-o-Vision are shining examples. Still, 3D is neat. IMAX is cool.Smell-o-visionis even making steps towards a triumphant return to a screen near you...Here's our list. Please feel free to add.The Fishing Rod ControllerThe famous fishing rod controller for the Sega Dreamcast's Bass Fishing was utterly pointless, but a rather good idea. It used motion sensors to determine how far the player had cast off and a preposterous windy-up thing to reel the virtual supper back in. (Yawn) The best thing about it was that it cold be used across games. My favourite was Track and Field.Buzz buzzersPositioned as controllers which "break down the gaming barriers", the Buzz buzzers are simply giant red button interlopers on the joypad's domain.Nocturne's fabricI've got a real bee in my bonnet about this one. I remember reviewing this game many years ago and understanding quickly why all the press release could shout about was the fantastic real-time fabric effects.Bullet TimeOnly used in Max Payne, bullet time slowed down the action on the screen so the player could see just how cool s/he looked while blowing up a bad guy. Irritating as hell. Usually the "off" option was immediately deployed.Eight Players on Four ControllersMicro Machines is a great little racing game, but it's difficult enough to keep four players on the screen at any one time. If anyone slips off, everyone's gotta wait. Where's the continuity in that? So to double-up on Nintendo's joypads is ridiculous. Feels like it was designed for a photo-op to me.Dual ShockFirst premiered with the PlayStation console, this rumble-feature has become an industry standard. Thousands of people were forced to purchase the newfangled controller in 1999, when the game Ape Escape couldn't be played without it.Time-ReverseAn excellent innovation from Prince of Persia: Sands of Time. Oops, you've just stepped off that cliff. Quick! Reverse and try try again! Helpful for those post-pub gaming.Madness1Upreminds me of Eternal Darkness' clever manipulation of sanity. From the article:developers Silicon Knights decided to give players the opportunity to share in the hero and heroine's madness by altering the game world according to their degenerating mental health. So as the sanity meter drifted closer to the danger zone, odd things would happen -- for instance, the screen would appear to melt... or worse.Solar SensorHideo Kojima's studio is well-known for introducing all sorts of fascinating gameplay which heighten the immersion of an experience. They also have a penchant for the surreal. Enter the solar sensor in Boktai: The Sun is in Your Hand, a game which requires that players (gasp) leave their pits and head into the sun. Solar energy supplies the game's weapon. Unfortunately, the GameBoy Advance's screen reflects it.MicrophonesUntil Sony got the right (karaoke) application for them, console microphones were terrible. The virtual petSeaman, the Dreamcast's most disturbing product, couldn't understand a word you were saying and would expire in protest. Even the more recent Nintendo GameCube microphone has issues with word recognition.Surely there are many others from days of yore.
As my Coke post has sparked off a furious debate about the nature of advertising I thought this might be of interest. A gamer has just postedan indignant ranton the Ars Technica forum about Dungeon Siege II: Broken World. At one point in the game an NPC offers the player a selection of goods that can only be obtained by entering codes available in the PSP title, Dungeon Siege: Throne of Agony. He also offers to hand over a code that'll let the player open up hidden extras in the handheld version - a sneaky piece of promotion dressed up as in-game dialogue. To jar that willing suspension of disbelief yet further, the text transcript of the offer peppers the game titles - and mention of the PSP system itself - with Trademark and Registered Trademark symbols. Classy."I understand advertising on in-game billboards where it's appropriate to the setting. I understand posters on walls and soda machines loaded with X brand sodas. What I dont understand is an NPC in a fantasy/adventure game trying to talk to me about codes for an upcoming PSP title. Not only that, but it was voiced as well," says the affronted player.Of course, we've seen plenty of titles that openly flaunt the connectivity between portable and home console platforms - the Pokemon series springs to mind. But this instance seems to be an abuse of the whole concept of the Role Playing Game. It is an affront to delicate and complicated notions of immersion and identification within the game world. It is an assumption that the gamer is always functioning as an active consumer, wherever the game universe may take them.All in-game advertising works on this level to some degree, but as the forum contributor points out, most ads are placed in context - billboards at F1 circuits, shop signs in city environments - they can almost be read as authenticating markers, meaningless beyond proving the detail of the virtual universe they inhabit. But having a chap come up to you and try to sell you a game? When you're pretending to be a sword-wielding hero? It isn't right is it?
The batteries that Dell is recalling were reportedly supplied by Sony, and it's unlikely Dell had an exclusive on the design. So the next questions are: which other firms have been shipping the same or very similar Sony batteries, and do they have the same problems?Apple may be one.Macfixit reports:Several news outlets reporting the recall have also noted that the same Sony batteries were used by Apple. In fact, Channel NewsAsia reports "A spokeswoman said Apple was looking into the issue."This leads to speculation that the same faulty components were shipped with some MacBook Pros. Apple initiated a "battery exchange program" for some MacBook Pros shipped from February 2006 through May 2006, but has not acknowledged that this is the same issue that is forcing Dell's recall.Apple recalled iBook and PowerBook batteries made by LG Chem Ltd of South Korea and sold in 2004-05 due to overheating -- details from theU.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission.Both Dell and HP/Compaq have also had more than one notebook PC battery recall.
Just in case you've somehow missed this - Coke has launched afantastic new advertset in a GTA-style environment. In the thirty second segment, created by advertising agency, Wieden &amp; Kennedy, a rough-looking character is seen pulling a passing motorist from his vehicle - but instead of stealing the car, the Tommy Vercetti look-alike simply hands over a Coke before carrying out a series of other good deeds while a song called 'Give A Little Love' builds to an overblown stage show crescendo in the background.It's a beautifully produced piece of faux-machinima, expertly capturing, and then gently parodying, elements of Rockstar's smash hit gangsta series. The ad is also an indication of how the GTA brand has secured itself a place in the mainstream consciousness - a feat that is not guaranteed merely by selling millions of copies.It's certainly an enourmous step-up from the tiresome Lucozade/Lara Croft campaign from a few years ago.Read morehere.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Stories of exploding Dell laptops have been doing the rounds online for a while now, but the company has finally admitted a serious defect by recalling more than 4 million laptop batteries.More than a million of the batteries are thought to have been sold outside the US, although figures for the number sold in the UK and Ireland were not immediately available.The Dell-branded batteries were used in laptops supplied between April 1, 2004, and July 18, 2006, the company said.They were sold either separately or with Dell Latitude, Inspiron, XPS and Dell Precision Mobile Workstation laptop computers.The words Dell and "Made in Japan" or "Made in China" or "Battery cell made in Japan, Assembled in China" are printed on the back of the batteries.Looks like it's time to have a look inside your computer.
Another week, another retro compilation. Thelatest reportedlygathers together a stack of EA's Mega Drive and SNES titles - Jungle Strike, Syndicate, er Mutant League Football - and sticks them on a PSP disc. No news on a UK version yet but, let's be honest, no rush eh? I've lost count of the number of retro/classic/cash-in compilations that have been dumped on us this year. I've yet to play one longer than about the 20 seconds it takes to go from nostalgic joy to crushing disappointment. Some of the new Xbox Live arcade games - Pac-Man, Galaga etc - have been re-released so often on different formats that you wonder which two people in the Western world don't yet own a copy.Perhaps the only retro compilation that would get me excited would be a LucasArts adventure pack for the DS - thinkMonkey Island, Sam and Max etc. Until that happy day arrives - and I'm not holding my breath, despite stufflike this- I'll continue to look to future games rather than help lazy publishers grab some easy nostalgia cash.
YesterdayI challenged readers to match famous movie directors with games which theyshoulddirect, if we lived in an ideal world. Based upon the certainty of comments from that post, the results may surprise you:Spike Jonze - Katamari DamacyThe director of quirky, offbeat and occasionally downright obtuse films is the epitome of modern, independent American cinema. Only a man who forced John Cusak to "be" John Malkovich via a porthole in the Mertin Flemmer Building on the 7 1/2 floor could truly get inside the head of the bonkers King of All Cosmos.Terry Gilliam - Abe's OdysseeThe master Gilliam's films are often about external forces pressuring a hapless main character to come to grips with an oppressive Other. Really, it's not a huge leap fromBrazilorTwelve Monkeysto Abe.Jane Campion - IcoCampion's The Piano was an astonishingly poignant feminist reading of the ritual of committment. Not only is the environment in Fumito Ueda's Ico astoundingly beautiful like Campion's island, but the player is also forced to come to terms with the subtleties of co-dependence, machismo and liberation.Alfred Hitchcock - NocturneThe master of suspense, and dark, brooding narrative. This game should have been all that, but what we're left with is some nice imagery of a coat flapping in the wind. If anyone could make it scary, it would be Sir. H.William Castle - Ape EscapeI love William Castle and everything he means to cinema. Sure, his films were rubbish in the first degree (though that hasn't stopped Hollywood from re-making them), but how can you fault a man who drew the crowds into his first feature by taking out life insurance policies on each person in case they expired from fright in the middle of his movie? I humbly match this master of hype - the father ofThe Tingler- with Ape Escape, the first computer game to require the use of the PlayStation's Dual Shock.Martin Scorsese - GTAIt was a cheap shot, really. I think in particular he'd do the best job with the mob factions in GTA: II. Anyone have any other suggestions for this master of the silver screen?Jean-Pierre Jeunet - Shadow of the ColossusI fell for Jeunet when I saw Delicatessen for the first time. It was cemented when I saw City of Lost Children. Words cannot describe what happened when I saw Amelie. So while I'm not a fan of Shadow of the Colossus, the game captures the fierce whimsy and epic barriers faced by the awkward little guys which feature in all of his films.M Night Shyamalan - Fatal Frame II: Crimson ButterflyM Night "I see dead people" Shyamalan took the old faithful twist and mashed it up with Hitchcockian suspense dimensions. This game is terrifying, but the player is forced to confront every plot turn head on, never once lulled into complacency. Everything always comes out in the end...Roman Polanski - Silent HillPolanski's main characters are often off-kilter. Life-changes don't help with the internal stress. And then, one day, they crack. Just like all of the main characters in Silent Hill films. And the player is never sure what's real and what isn't.Steven Spielberg - The SimsFamily guy Steve is all about the neighbourhood. His big thing is social relationships, and how big things - aliens, weather systems, the supernatural - affect them. So, into the dollhouse he goes, because there's always something around the corner that might just rip apart all those warm, fuzzy family bonds.When writing these two posts I racked my brains for appropriate games and was surprised at how few games would fit the range of elements captured by these (and other) directors. Once again, this is a round-about call for greater depth of experience in games.So if anyone can suggest other games appropriate to these directors and some of the others I wrestled with (e.g., Stanley Kubrick, John Waters, Orson Welles, Wes Anderson, Ted Solondz, Hal Hartley, Frank Capra, Ingmar Bergman, Howard Hughes), please do!
Thanks to all of you who turned up for last night's Gamesblog Battlefield session. We had a full server for most of the evening and although things were a little chaotic to begin with, it was great fun. China clearly had the upper hand with some highly experienced players pinning us Americans back a lot of the time. On one map, US forces spent the entire game stuck on a battleship, unable to get ashore without being machine-gunned by helicopters. This was pretty frustrating and ran very close to 'baseraping' - the horrendous phrase for beseiging an opponent's HQ and taking out anyone who spawns. But if we'd had a decent pilot of our own we might have made some progress...On dry land, however, the Americans fought back and managed to hold a few bases. I helped by running over two of my teammates, once in a tank and once in a speedily reversing jeep.Many, many thanks to James Carey from PC Format magazine who helped to get many of us set up with TeamSpeak then explained some of the finer points of Battlefield tactics. Also, thanks again to EA who provided the server, Toshiba who have lent me a lovely Qosmio G30 laptop and Telewest who kindly bumped by broadband connection up to 10megs.The Gamesblog Battlefield server is still active and you're welcome to use it, but I'm going to password protect it today. If you'd like to know the new password, perhaps to practise on your own or with other Gamesblog readers, please email me at gamesblog@gmail.com (putting 'Battlefield password' in the subject header) and I'll mail you back with the new details.I'll run another PC session in a fortnight's time. Next monday it's Xbox 360 time!
The great thing about selecting your 50 "coolest" Web sites is that "cool" does not require any rational justification. They don't have to be any good. They don't have to be chosen for quality of information, ease of use, speed or any of the other things real people care about.From this point of view,Time's selection for 2006does not disappoint. For example, it includes YouTube and MySpace, which are about as cool as one of those "animals do the darndest things" shows -- which, if you insert "human", they very much resemble. It includes the Human Clock, which is amusing, and which wascool for about a month in 2001. It even includes Google Spreadsheets, which would struggle to be cool even if you accessed it from the planet Pluto.I can't even mention gossip site TMZ, which is so cool it's running a survey: "Do you think Mariah's tour outfits are too revealing?"The really amazing thing is that Time's list does include at least one really cool site:Pandora. Perhaps it was a mistake....
What is it now? 18 months? Has it really been that long since I started playing WoW? It's been an on and off relationship - I had 3 months away from Azeroth after my daughter was born - but I'm still a huge fan of the landmark MMO. Yes, it's easy to mock the hackneyed orcs n' elves setting or the timesink grind elements but such is the beauty of the world - sunset overMulgore, the sea breeze at Southshore - that forgiveness is easy. For WoW addicts the big news is the forthcoming release ofBurning Crusade, the game's first expansion pack. Due out late this year, BC will offer flying mounts (currently travel is groundbased only), two new races (one for each faction), a host of new areas to adventure in and a raised level cap from 60-70. In English you say? Think WoW with knobs on - fans will revel in the ability to further empower their characters (it takes around 10 days - 240 hours - at least to get to level 60) - although it remains to be seen if new players will be tempted.Of course, with nearly 7 million paying subscribers to WoW it's little surprise that the world's biggest games publisher has got interested in MMO's again. EA's recent purchase of Mythic - currently developing the highly promising Warhammer Online - saw the publishing giant revisiting a genre for that had previously caused itlittle joy.Warhammer Online, along with Lord of the Rings Online - yup, fantasy is still the MMO setting of choice - are WoW's only serious competitors in the medium term (both are due out in 2007) But as Mythic CEO Marc Jacobs said in thisrecent interview, "I think anyone who shoots to beat WoW's numbers right now or in the next year or two is insane". So, is World of Warcraft's dominance good or bad news for the MMO market?
Okay, this really is the final posting on tonight's Battlefield encounter. James Carey, reviews editor ofPC Formathas kindly wrestled control of the server away from me, making it easier for you to find, password protecting it and adding TeamSpeak support.The server is now called Multiplay.co.uk :: Guardian Gaming - you'll be able to find it by searching for 'Guardian Gaming' on the game's Multiplayer screen. The password is newport50. Please take a look at the rules when you arrive at the server. If you break them, you will be jettisoned so quickly, you'll leave scorch marks across cyberspace.Our TeamSpeak server is called Multiplay.co.uk :: Guardian Gaming TS Server. The IP is 85.236.100.27:9347. If you don't have TeamSpeak you can download it fromhere. The password, if activated, is also newport50. Those without voice comms capabilities will be more than welcome, though.Hopefully that's clear. Sorry about all the posts, but this has been a real learning experience for me. Looking forward to meeting and perhaps even shooting you all this evening.
Microsoft hasannounceda new set of programming tools which will allow students, hobbyists and indie studios to develop for the Xbox 360. Due for release at the end of August as a public beta, XNA Game Studio Express will be available for free to anyone with a Windows XP-based PC. Users will also be able to subscribe to an online Creator's Club where they'll be able to share ideas and data as well as test their game code. Microsoft claims that ten US universities have signed up to support Game Studio Express on their respective videogame courses.The company's press release begins with a slightly erroneous boast, though. "in the 30 years of video game development, the art of making console games has been reserved for those with big projects, big budgets and the backing of big game labels. Now Microsoft Corp. is bringing this art to the masses..." Clearly, they've forgotten about the Sony Yaroze, a special version of PSone which allowed home coders to create their own PlayStation games and was adopted onto dozens of Uni courses around the globe. However, Microsoft's experience in the PC sector, and its understanding of programming culture, could well lead toward a more robust and feature-rich development environment for users. Already GarageGames, developer of Xbox Live Arcade title, Marble Blast Ultra, has migrated its Torque Shader Engine and Torque Game Builder 2-D visual game designer to the XNA Game Studio Express platform.It's not clear yet, what kind of restrictions XNA Game Studio Express users will face when attempting to exploit the capabilities of the Xbox hardware. The press release states that Creator's Club members will be able to test code on Xbox 360, but will they be able to access all of its innards? For example, Yaroze programmers were restricted in how much their games could access the disc drive.Whatever the finer details, this is an indication of how seriously Microsoft is taking indie development. Xbox Live Arcade has become a major platform for small studios to sell their wares, with titles like Mutant Storm and Geometry Wars garnering almost as much attention as mainstream retail releases. XNA Game Studio Express could well attract even more talent across from the PC scene to console.
The (clearly unsubstantiated)rumoursthat my favourite directorTim Burtonwill be lending his unique styles to a film version of Lucas Arts' 1998 PC graphic adventureGrim Fandangoafter he completes Sweeny Todd (based on the man I was once told was an in-law) has caused me to contemplate the potential best pairings of game and cinéaste. A fantasy league table, if you will.See if you can match the directors with the movies theyshoulddirect:The Directors*Spike JonzeTerry GilliamJane CampionAlfred HitchcockWilliam CastleMartin ScorseseJean-Pierre JeunetM Night ShyamalanRoman PolanskiSteven SpielbergThe GamesSilent HIll Ico Nocturne Shadow of the Colossus GTA Katamari Damacy Abe's Odyssee Ape Escape Fatal Frame II: Crimson Butterfly The SimsAnswers posted tomorrow.*These directors were chosen on the basis of their unique contributions to international cinema, be they visual, cinematographic, authorship (in some cases) or pace. The games were chosen purely because they fit the directors.
Microsoft released Live Writer over the weekend, which is a little Windows word processor that posts what you write to the blog of your choice. I used it on Sunday to post to a Live Spaces bog and it worked fine*, and numerous other poeple are trying it with other systems, so if you are interested, read around....* Or "Live Spaces blog" -- but the resemblance to MSN Spaces is amusingly apposite.The download comes with the Live Toolbar which adds things like a feed reader, Onfolio, and your choice of a vast number of buttons (or you can create your own).It also makes IE6 into a tabbed browser.The toolbar obviously has a Blog It button so you can blog stuff via Live Writer while you are surfing, rather than going to your blog.Nathan Weinberg atInsideMicrosofthas a little walk-through with lots of screen grabs.For other coverage seeTechCrunch,LiveSide,Ed Bott,Om Malik,Dave Wineror whoever floats your boat.LiveSide has anExclusive: Interview with J.J. Allaire, Architect for Windows Live WriterAllaire founded Onfolio, which is a great little app that Microsoft bought.Incidentally. I'm not sure if Live Writer was announced or leaked. Like a lot of Microsoft stuff now, details emerged via theLive Side Team blog. This is neat because it seems to bypass the corporate infrastructure, and most of the teams seem to act on the direct feedback they get. I now have more than 30 Microsoft blogs bookmarked, and Microsoft has turned into a blogging company. It's doing a much better job in this respect than Google or Yahoo, or IBM or Sun, not to mention all the companies that still don't get blogs at all.Update: I've now uninstalled the Live Toolbar as it's clunky and crashes the browser far too often. That has also removed Onfolio (pity) but left Live Writer behind. IE6 has now stopped crashing. The best way to get tabs on IE is stillMaxthon, as an adjunct to Firefox or Opera.
Happy Monday folks. Get chatting.
A final reminder for PC owners - I'll be hosting a Gamesblog Battlefield 2 session tonight from 8pm. Just load up the game, go to the multiplayer screen then search for the server 'MH5300'. That's me. It's not password protected as I haven't had chance to sort that out, but I'll be able to kick off any juvenile team killers who turn up uninvited.Also, despite my promises on Friday, I've not been able to synchronise my TeamSpeak server with the game server. I don't think I'll even be able to get the in-game Voip system working so it may be all text inputs tonight. Apologies.On the bright side, I've asked several members of the PC Gamer magazine team to come along and they should turn out for a few rounds.You'll need to be running Battlefield v1.22 or later. To download the latest Battlefield patch (v1.3) you can gohereor to a download site like FileShack or FilePlanet.Hopefully see you later!UPDATEThe server is now called Multiplay.co.uk :: Guardian Gaming - you'll be able to find it by searching for 'Guardian Gaming' on the game's Multiplayer screen. The password is newport50. Please take a look at the rules when you arrive at the server. If you break them, you will be jettisoned so quickly, you'll leave scorch marks across cyberspace.Our TeamSpeak server is called Multiplay.co.uk :: Guardian Gaming TS Server. If you don't have TeamSpeak you can download it fromhere. Those without voice comms capabilities will be more than welcome, though.
His political approach has become a byword for populism and yesterday President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad endowed it with a hi-tech dimension by launching his own weblog.The hardline Iranian leader's debut on the international blogosphere came in the form of a 2,300-word tract that asked readers to decide if the US and Israel were trying to start a new world war. Mr Ahmadinejad, who has identified himself with Iran's army of poor people, also described his humble origins in an impoverished rural village. His entry into the mass ranks of bloggers marks the latest step in a concerted effort to communicate directly with ordinary Iranians over the heads of the elites. Mr Ahmadinejad's first year in office has been distinguished by a series of old-fashioned mass rallies throughout Iran aimed at wooing mass public support.His resort to more up-to-date means appears on the presidential website atahmadinejad.ir. His first missive is available in English, French and Arabic - as well as Farsi - suggesting he is also aiming at an international audience.It includes one of Mr Ahmadinejad's bluntest statements yet on the conflict between Israel and the Iranian-backed militant group, Hizbullah, in Lebanon. "Do you think that the US and Israeli intention and goal by attacking Lebanon is pulling the trigger for another world war?" He invites readers to vote yes or no.In an autobiographical passage, the president attempts to explain the personal circumstances behind his radical Islamist political beliefs, including his fervent desire for Iran to pursue nuclear technology in defiance of western opposition."During the era that nobility was a prestige and living in a city was perfection, I was born in a poor family in a remote village," he writes, labelling himself the son of "a hard-bitten toiler blacksmith".He ascribes his rapid rise to academic excellence which enabled him to finish 132nd out of 400,000 in university entrance exams.He also describes reading newspapers with the help of adults while in first grade at school, from which he learned how Americans in Iran had been granted immunity from the country's laws by the shah. "I realised that Mohammad Reza [had] attempted to add another page to the vicious case history, which was the humiliation and indignity of the Iranian people versus Americans."
"We've got a PS3 - and here it is rubbing shoulders with Xbox 360 for the first time ever!" saysGames Radar."Created by Sony as an accurately proportioned replica, the PS3 model may be made entirely from wood, but it takes more than a cursory glance to realise that it's not the genuine article and gave us a good impression of what the Sony powerhouse will look like nestling next to our TV."The pictures are here.
On Wednesday, inSearch -- a life laid bare, I blogged a New York Times story about Thelma Arnold, the first person to be publicly identified from the anonymous search data released by AOL.The paper has followed up withYour Life as an Open Book, which looks at the privacy implications and related legislation. It also mentions one of the more bone-headed European initiatives:In December, the European Parliament passed sweeping data retention rules aimed at the telecommunications and Internet industries, requiring that fixed-line and cellphone records, e-mail and Internet logs be stored for up to two years. The measure was lauded by law enforcement groups but decried by privacy advocates and even industry, which would have to find space -- and money -- to store it all.Another short piece,How to Digitally Hide (Somewhat) in Plain Sight, mentions things users can do to increase thier privacy.I'm sure there will be more to come....
For all the past week's posts, clickhere. Highlights include:Happy 15th birthday, World Wide WebJobs announces Xeon cheesegraterSearch -- a life laid bareZune speculation mountsAre there really 50 million blogs in existence?
Three o'clock one Icelandic morning, Rebekka Guoleifsdottir couldn't sleep. There was a picture in her mind's eye, and only one way to realise it. So she picked up her camera, drove out of her home town and stood in a lake for an hour, water lapping at her knees. She took picture after picture after picture until she got the right shot.It did not appear on an advertising billboard, gallery or magazine but on the internet, along with hundreds of other photos she has posted to huge acclaim, catching the eye of the Wall Street Journal and Germany's Der Spiegel magazine. In the latest demonstration of the internet's power to launch careers, Rebekka has now landed a lucrative deal with the car maker Toyota and is set to make a fortune by selling her work online.Yet just over a year ago the single mother was still teaching herself how to use a camera, a Canon Digital Ixus, without reading the manual. She had already put some of her drawings on Flickr, a community website where users post their pictures for others to view, and decided to add some of her early photos. The instant response was encouraging so, despite having no training as a photographer, she upgraded her camera and kept expanding her page. To date it has received 1.6m visits, making it the most popular of all Flickr's 4m users.'The web changes opportunities for all kinds of artists, like musicians,' said Guoleifsdottir, 28, speaking from her home in Hafnarfjorour, near Reykjavik. 'It's so much easier to get your stuff out there. Iceland is a small community of 300,000 people and it's hard to get recognised, but this way you can reach out everywhere.'The praise is very motivating. People respect me as a photographer. At first it was, "You're very pretty" - a lot of women get that on Flickr. I wanted to be taken seriously as a photographer, not for the way I look, and I feel I've achieved that to some degree.'Her photos often feature herself or her sons, Bjarki, eight, and six-year-old Hauhur, sometimes in dreamlike poses, sometimes against dramatic Icelandic landscapes. She spends between one and four hours working on each image with Photoshop software on her computer, creating optical illusions such as a floating fruit or a clone of herself. The first-year visual arts student admits it is all because she struggled as a painter.'I treat my photos in the way I would if I was a painter,' she said. 'I can't paint, so I use the camera instead of a paintbrush and canvas. I do a lot of creating unusual scenes that look real to get people guessing, "How on earth did she do that?" People ask me, "How do you get the colours and the depth?" The answer is I've been working on them every day for hours. I'm not a street photographer who goes out and shoots everything they see.'Guoleifsdottir will go to extremes in search of a good photo. 'In December I took series of pictures wearing a tiny black dress. It was zero degrees and the wind was howling. You cannot see from the pictures how painful it was. My mum said, "You can't, you're going to get pneumonia". I sometimes feel that I'm a performance artist but I shoot pictures instead and don't have any assistants because I'm too shy.'Rebekka, who lived in Florida from the age of four to 11, became a hot property on Flickr after a picture of her with an apple suspended in mid-air appeared on the site's feature page. Her pictures have attracted comments such as 'Rebekka is to photography what Bjork is to music, every picture is a work of art. When she finds time for sleep I don't know, maybe she doesn't.'The Wall Street Journal recently profiled her as a member of the 'New Media Power List' along with model Christine Dolce, one of the most popular members of MySpace, and Judson Laipply, who has the most watched video on YouTube. She has earned two assignments taking celebrity portraits for magazines in Iceland and will shoot pictures for Toyota there in September. She will soon set up an online store.Rebekka, who is separated from her sons' father, lives with her parents and has a boyfriend. Her sons are enthusiastic about her work. 'They like my pictures, they think they're cool.' she said.Other cyber starsArctic MonkeysThe Sheffield band built up interest after giving away demo CDs at gigs, which were put on the web by fans. Signed by Domino Records, their first single went straight to number one.www.arcticmonkeys.comZoe MargolisAs Abby Lee, she started a blog of a young woman's sexual adventures. It is now a bestselling book.www.girlwithaonetrackmind.blogspot.comAlex TewFaced with his student overdraft, Tew made $1m by selling a million pixels - the dots making up the images on a computer screen - at $1 each as advertising space on his website.www.milliondollarhomepage.com
Lionel Shriver, authornytimes.comOne of the great luxuries of living in London as a transplanted New Yorker is web access to the New York Times, with which who needs the whole loud, messy city? Sorry to be so partisan, but NYT's journalism beats its British equivalent hands down, especially in its foreign coverage. Ironically, London correspondent Sarah Lyall's version of British news is sharper, funnier and more nuanced than most British journalism about the same stories.Alain de Botton, writerabebooks.comI'm a huge fan of this online second-hand bookshop that has revolutionised the way I research my work. There's no longer a need to visit endless shops in the vain hope of finding a particular book. The site delivers on one of the great promises of the internet: the ability to find the needle in the haystack.Martha Kearney, political editor, Newsnightwoottensplants.co.ukI should probably say the Newsnight one, even though they published a childhood photo of me sent in by my mother. I sit next to the website producer and he often bakes me cakes. But bribery and nepotism aside, I prefer the more escapist website, so I'd pick woottensplants.co.uk, which sells wonderful plants from a nursery in Suffolk. Or thorne.co.uk for beekeeping equipment. I am just learning and the site is full of temptation - such as a camouflage outfit in case someone is trying to steal your hive. For politics, trypoliticalbetting.comor5thnovember.blogspot.com.Peaches Geldof, DJmyspace.comI'm obsessed. It's brilliant for socialising as you can talk to people you've never met. It's also great for finding out about new music and you can get into whole new genres you may not have had access to before. At the moment I likemyspace.com/adventureplaygroundandmyspace.com/fisherpricesoundsystem. But I've learnt not to add random people, just friends... people on MySpace can be weird.Bidisha, writer/criticthefword.org.ukWhen not romping joyously through the detritus of global capitalism, Googling myself, buying books, ordering CDs and speculating about Harry Potter's bedtime bath treats, I do intend to save the world. Tothat end I've chosen thefword.org.uk. It's for anyone who likes women and hates hate and its pages are full of killer cultural critique, rightful ire, brainy banter and Mae West wit. Founded and edited by Catherine Redfern, it proves once and for all that whoever said feminism was dead lied.Professor Stephen Hawking, scientistlanl.govI visit lanl.gov (the website of the Los Alamos National Laboratory) every weekday. It circulates papers in high energy, which is what the internet was created to do. It has revolutionised the field. Previously, new papers went by snail mail and circulated only among a small number of elite institutions in Europe and North America. Now anyone in the world can download the papers the next day and submit their own control.Conrad Shawcross, artistwikipedia.orgThis free encyclopaedia site has solved a lot of problems I've been researching recently, from obscure tessellation systems to musical spin-offs of the Knight Rider theme tune. Its ethos of free information sums up the core of what the web is all about.Ekow Eshun, artistic director, ICAaintitcoolnews.comIt's a Hollywood movie fansite that's in fact horrendously uncool - furious debates rage about the virtues of the new Superman movie or whether Pirates of the Caribbean 1 or 2 was better. But it's also a true measure of a successful site - passionate, funny and capable of garnering enough people-power to shift the fortunes of major companies.Shami Chakrabarti, director, Libertynbc.com/The_West_WingThe official NBC West Wing site is currently my favourite website, as a means of coping with West Wing bereavement. That said, I'm pretty disappointed in the site's search option which doesn't appear to allow you to search for witty and wise Bartlet/ Santos/ Vinick quotes such as 'It [the Constitution] wasn't designed to make us comfortable. It was designed to keep us free.'Hari Kunzru, authoryoutube.comI'm in favour of anything which allows people to make things for one another, without the mediation of a broadcasting company or an editor. On YouTube you can watch home-produced terrorist conspiracy videos, people dancing on treadmills and US soldiers patrolling Ramadi wearing mullet wigs. That's better than television.Bella Freud, fashion designerun.org/unrwaFor those who want to do something to help Palestinian refugees, un.org/unrwa gives a clear, factual update. This UN Relief and Works Agency gives a voice to the dispossessed and connects you to the realities of their daily life.Tony Benn, political campaignerinformationclearinghouse.infoI'm what they call a 'silver surfer': I'm 81 years old and rely on the internet for all sorts of information, although when my laptop crashes I have to call my grandchildren. My most important website, the Information Clearing House, is American and sends me email updates regularly covering the peace movement in the States, the trade union movement and some things that are happening here, too.Dominic Sandbrook, historianoxforddnb.comThe website for the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography might sound a bit worthy, but it's an utterly fascinating treasure trove of our national life, covering everybody from Lady Godiva to Winston Churchill. I can't think of a site that better captures the splendid richness of our history - or the infinite variety of our ancestors.Mark Eley, designer, Eley Kishimotoashadedviewonfashion.comDiane Pernet is a friend and I have been following the development of her site since its birth. The highlight of our online relationship was when we invited her as our diarist on the Gumball 3000 Rally and she blogged the whole episode in real time, so our friends and family were always with us.Rankin, photographerimdb.comThe Internet Movie Database, because it's like a massive spider's web of information.
Johannes Gutenberg took the idea of printing by moveable type and turned it into a publishing system. In doing so he changed the world. But he did not live to see the extent of the revolution he had brought about. If you'd told him in 1468 - the year he died - that the Bible he had published in 1455 would undermine the authority of the Catholic church, power the Renaissance and the Reformation, enable the Enlightenment and the rise of modern science, create new social classes and even change our concept of childhood, he would have looked at you blankly.But there lives among us today a man who has done something similar, and survived to see the fruits of his work. He is Tim Berners-Lee, and he conceived a system for turning the internet into a publishing medium. Just over 15 years ago - on 6 August 1991, to be precise - he released the code for his invention on to the internet. He called it the World Wide Web, and had the inspired idea that it should be free so that anyone could use it.And just about everyone did, with the result that the web grew exponentially. Today nobody really knows how big it is. At a recent conference, Yahoo's head of research and development put the size of the public web at 40 billion pages, but the size of the 'deep' web, the area where web pages are assembled on the fly and served up in response to clicked-upon links, is estimated to be between 400 and 750 times greater than the part that is indexed by search engines. Since you started reading this piece, thousands of pages have been added.By any standards, the web represents a colossal change in our information environment. And the strange thing is that it has come about in just 15 years. Actually, most of it has happened in less than that, because the web only went mainstream in 1993, when the first graphical browsers - the computer programs we use to access the web - were released. So these are early days. We can no more envisage the long-term implications of what has happened than dear old Gutenberg could.The strangest thing is how casually we have come to take it for granted. We buy books from Amazon, airline tickets from Easyjet and Ryanair, tickets for theatres and cinemas online, as if doing so were the most natural thing in the world. We check the opening times at the Louvre in Paris or the Museum of Modern Art in New York (or browse their collections) online. We check definitions (and spellings) in online dictionaries, look up stuff in Wikipedia, search for apartments to rent on Craigslist or a host of local lookalikes such as Daft.ie in Ireland. You can buy and sell just about anything (excluding body parts) on eBay. Children seeking pictures for school projects search for them on Google Images (and download them without undue concern for intellectual property rights). Holiday snaps escape from their shoeboxes and are published to the world on Flickr. Home movies likewise on YouTube. And of course anyone with doubts about a prospective blind date can do an exploratory check on Google before committing to an evening out with a total stranger.All this we now take for granted. To get a handle on the scale of what has happened, think back to what the world was like 15 years ago. Amazon was a large river in South America. Ryanair was an Irish airline that flew to places nobody had ever heard of. eBay was a typo. Yahoo was a term from Gulliver's Travels. A googol was a very large number (one followed by a hundred zeroes). Classified ads were densely printed matter in newspapers. 'Encyclopedia' was a synonym for Encyclopedia Britannica. And if you wanted to read what your MP had said in the Commons yesterday you had to queue at the Stationery Office in London to buy Hansard. Oh, and there were quaint little shops in high streets called 'travel agents'.To celebrate the 15th anniversary of the web we've assembled a list of sites that have become the virtual wallpaper of our lives. What the corresponding list will be like in 15 years' time is anyone's guess. As the man said, if you want to know the future, go buy a crystal ball. In the meantime, read on and wonder.&#183;John Naughton's history of the internet, A Brief History of the Future, is published by Phoenix at &pound;7.991.eBay.comFounded:Pierre Omidyar, 1995, USUsers:168mWhat is it?Auction and shopping siteYou cannot buy fireworks, guns, franking machines, animals or lock-picking devices on eBay, the internet's premier auction site, but almost everything else is OK: sideburns, houses, used underwear and of course Pez dispensers.Pez is where it is said to have all begun for eBay's ponytailed founder Pierre Omidyar when he responded to his fiancee's worries that she would no longer be able to expand her toy collection when they moved to Silicon Valley. Omidyar developed a car boot sale anyone could use wherever they were, and without the need for getting dressed. The name sprang from Echo Bay Technology Group, Omidyar's consultancy company, and the first sale was a broken laser pointer.Things have moved on a little since then. We spend more time on eBay than any other internet site. There are more than 10 million users in the UK. And eBay is far from just a second-hand stall. New items are sold by global companies; many people have abandoned their jobs to eBay full time, and normally sane people fret about 'negative feedback' and being outbid by 'snipers'. eBay owns PayPal and Skype, making dealing almost effortless.Simon Garfield2.wikipedia.comFounded:Jimmy Wales, 2001, USUsers:912,000 visits per dayWhat is it?Online encyclopaediaAs a young boy growing up in Hunstville, Alabama, Jimmy Wales attended a one-room school, sharing his classes with only three other children. Here he spent 'many hours poring over encyclopaedias', and faced the familiar frustrations: their scope was conservative; they were hard to navigate and often out of date.In January 2001 he created a solution. Wikipedia was a free online encyclopaedia and differed from its predecessors in one fundamental regard: it was open to everyone to read, and also to edit. If you had something to add - from a pedantic correction to an entire entry on your specialist subject - the Wiki template made this easy. The software enables entries to be updated within minutes of new developments. There is nothing you cannot find - how best to make glass, the use of the nappy in space exploration - and if something isn't there, you may wish to take matters into your own hands.Like any fast-moving venture - the site attracts 2,000-plus page requests a second - it has not been slow to attract criticism. Occasionally a libellous article will lie undetected for months, as happened with an entry linking one of Robert Kennedy's aides with his assassination. But Wales says his creation is abused only rarely, and swiftly corrected by other users. 'Those who use Wikipedia a lot appreciate its true value and have learnt to trust it,' he says. 'Sometimes a prankster will substitute a picture of Hitler for George Bush, and within an hour someone would have changed it back.'SG3.napster.comFounded:Shawn Fanning, 1999, USUsers:500,000 paying subscribersWhat is it?File sharing siteShawn Fanning created Napster in 1999 while studying at Boston's Northeastern University, as a means of sharing music files with his fellow students. Of course, it was entirely illegal (home taping kills music, remember) and was quickly attacked by a mainstream music industry already struggling to make profits on its money-guzzling artists. Its popularity reached a peak in 2000 with over 70 million registered users before Fanning's company was forced to pay millions of dollars in backdated royalties: a move which bankrupted the original, free-to-use Napster the following year. By then, however, the premature leaking and sharing of hotly anticipated albums by some of the major labels' most bankable artists had proved to be a stimulant, not a thief, of sales once the CD version was released. The new Napster - effectively a renamed version of a pay-to-download MP3 site owned by the original Napster company's buyers, the German giant Bertelsmann- has never recaptured its original cool, precisely because it is now legitimate. What it did in its brief period of illegal notoriety was popularise the notion that making music freely available on the internet - through MySpace, one-off downloads or artist-sanctioned 'leaks' - does artists no harm at all; indeed, it's helped to launch the careers of many.Lynsey Hanley4.youtube.comFounded:Chad Hurley, Steve Chen and Jawed Karim, 2005, USUsers:100m clips watched a dayWhat is it?Video sharing siteWhen Chad Hurley and Steve Chen began working out of a garage in San Mateo in late 2004 to figure out an easy way to upload and share funny videos they'd taken at a dinner party, they had no idea just how huge an impact their creation would make. The former PayPal employees launched the user-friendly site in February 2005 and it has since become one of the most popular sites on the net, with YouTube claiming that 100 million clips are watched every day. Through the grassroots power of the internet and good word-of-mouth, the site quickly went from a place where people shared homemade video clips to users posting long-lost TV and film gems such as bloopers from Seventies game shows to ancient music videos. It has also taken off as a place for amateur film-makers to show off their talents - take David Lehre, a teenager whose MySpace: The Movie became such a popular clip he's already fielded job offers from major movie studios.Not all television studios immediately embraced the idea of their archived copyrighted footage being shared. 'We're not here to steal,' insists Chen. 'When [US television network] NBC asked us to take something down, we did.' In fact, NBC only last week announced plans to work alongside YouTube, airing exclusive clips and trailers and eventually hoping to post episodes of The Office and Saturday Night Live on it. The company has had several offers to be bought out, but the pair swear they will not sell out. They continue to work out of their San Mateo loft, overseeing 27 employees and developing ways to make the site easier to use while whirling lucrative deals with studios.Gillian Telling5.blogger.comFounded:Evan Williams, 1999, USUsers:18.5m unique visitorsWhat is it?Weblog publishing systemThere weren't too many computers lying around in the cornfields of Nebraska in the 1970s when Evan Williams was growing up. But he was drawn to them when he found them. He was also drawn west, to California in the 1990s. Williams founded Pyra Labs with two friends. At first it made project-management software for companies. It was not glamorous. Then it made Blogger and changed the world.'The funny thing was I actually hesitated before working on Blogger because I didn't see the commercial applications,' says Williams. 'We had started a company and we needed to make money. We didn't see how this little hobbyist activity was going to make anyone money.'The little hobbyist activity was blogging, the art of keeping a weblog - of diarising, theorising, satirising, fictionalising your life and observations online. It had already taken off among the tech fraternity in the Nineties, but it required building and maintaining your own website; the luddites were excluded. Williams created a tool that made self-publishing online as user-friendly as word-processing. It is hard to exaggerate the importance of this innovation. It didn't just create a new form of creative expression, it turned the media upside down.Content was once made by companies for passive consumption by people. After Blogger, people were the content. They wrote about and read about their friends, their opinions, their cats. (There was a lot about cats in the early blogs.) None had a huge audience but collectively they were massive. 'Now you see TV networks saying: "We've gotta get on the web because that's where the audience is,"' says Williams.There is no accurate count of the number of blogs in existence now. There are millions. One is created every minute. The revolution might have been possible without Blogger but it would have taken everyone a lot longer.'Something like it would have existed anyway,' says Williams. 'And lots of things like it do exist. It was a combination of helping push an idea as well as just being in the right place at the right time when the idea was right.'Rafael Behr6.friendsreunited.comFounded:Steve and Julie Pankhurst, 1999, UKUsers:15mWhat is it?School reunion siteIn July 2000, as the dreams of the internet boom crumbled around them, a husband-and-wife team were busy launching a rough and ready web phenomenon. Friends Reunited, which was sold to ITV for &pound;120m last December, was Julie Pankhurst's brainchild. While pregnant, she became obsessed with finding out what her old friends had been up to since they left school. Her husband Steve, a computer programmer, had been brainstorming with his business partner Jason Porter for an original internet-based idea, and Julie suggested a website to cater for her newfound obsession. It took her some time to convince them. 'In the end,' says Steve, 'I designed Friends Reunited just to shut her up.'The site took off slowly, getting half a dozen hits per day, but everything changed at the start of 2001 when its lone server collapsed. 'The Steve Wright show on Radio 2 had made us their website of the day. Tens of thousands of people had tried to access the site at the same time.' Within a month membership rose from 3,000 to 19,000; the couple were working 18-hour days. Friends Reunited quickly became a household name and membership soared into the millions.Killian Fox7.drudgereport.comFounded:Matt Drudge, 1994, USUsers:8-10m page views per dayWhat is it?News siteWhat began as a gossipy email newsletter has, since its first post in 1994, developed into one of the most powerful media outlets in American politics. Today the Drudge Report has evolved into a website, drudgereport.com, and its threadbare, no-frills design belies the scale of its influence. It received an estimated 3.5 billion hits in the last 12 months; visitors regard it as the first port of call for breaking news.Fedora-wearing founder Matt Drudge monitors TV and the internet for rumours and stories which he posts as headlines on his site. For the most part these are direct links to traditional news sites, though occasionally Drudge writes the stories himself. In 1998 he was the first to break news of the Monica Lewinsky scandal.Named this year as one of Time magazine's 100 most influential people, the 38-year-old regards himself as a maverick newsman working free from the demands of editors and advertisers. Others, particularly critics from the left, view his reportage as biased towards conservatives, careless, malicious and frequently prone to error.A report in 1997, alleging that White House assistant Sidney Blumenthal physically abused his wife, generated a $30m lawsuit against Drudge, which was dropped in 2001. In June 2004, Drudge apologised for a February 'world exclusive' claiming that John Kerry had had an affair with an intern.Drudge has been labelled a 'threat to democracy' and an 'idiot with a modem' as well as 'the kind of bold, entrepreneurial, free-wheeling, information-oriented outsider we need more of in this country' (by Camille Paglia); his importance in the US media is undisputed.KF8.myspace.comFounded:Tom Anderson and Chris DeWolfe, 2003, USUsers:100mWhat is it?Social networking siteWhen business-school alumnus Chris DeWolfe set up the social networking site MySpace with his partner, ex-band member and film studies graduate Tom Anderson, three years ago, there was little indication that the one-stop online friend-making shop would soon boast 100 million members and more page visits in Britain than the BBC. The pair envisaged a site that would bring together all the qualities of existing online communities such as Friendster, Tribe.net and LiveJournal, with added features including classified adverts and events planning.They got the formula just right: the MySpace-opolis is growing by 240,000 a day, making it the fourth most-visited website in the world. DeWolfe believes that the key to the site's success is its founders' rapport with the people who use it. 'We looked at it from the point of view of how people live their lives,' he says.One of those features is the ability to upload and listen to music, which has attracted 2.2 million new bands and artists to the site, some of whom - most famously Lily Allen and Arctic Monkeys - can attribute their chart success to having spread the word through MySpace.MySpace's parent company, Intermix, was bought by Rupert Murdoch's NewsCorp last year for $580m, causing consternation among some of the music world's more politicised acts, but no large-scale boycott. The site is simply too valuable and effective - and ubiquitous - to ignore.LH9.amazon.comFounded:Jeff Bezos, 1994, USUsers:More than 35m customers in over 250 countriesWhat is it?Online retailer, primarily of books, CDs and DVDsThe earth's biggest bookstore was originally called Cadabra, but Jeff Bezos thought again after his lawyer misheard it as 'cadaver'. He chose Amazon as something large and unstoppable and so, with current annual revenues of $8bn, it has proved. It was just a trickle to begin with though: the first office was in a Seattle suburb with desks made out of old doors. But it quickly became the headline act of the dotcom miracle and Bezos was Time magazine's man of the year in 1999. Amazon's continued dominance rests on price-slashing that would make Wal-Mart wince, and a reputation for reliability. Though selling books (and now almost everything else) on a vast scale, it has tried never to forget the value of intimacy.Tim Adams10.slashdot.orgFounded:Rob Malda, 1997, USUsers:5.5m per monthWhat is it?Technology news website and internet forum'I'm just a geek that likes to poke around with hardware,' says Rob Malda. His site, Slashdot.org, hosts news and discussion for techies and is one of the most visited websites in the world. Time magazine included him in its top 100 innovators, stating: 'Malda has taken the idea of what news can be, hacked it open and rebuilt it for the internet age.'Most of the site is written by users; posts include a short synopsis paragraph, a link to the original story and a lengthy discussion sometimes running to 10,000 comments a day. Slashdot pioneered this user-driven content, and influenced sites including Google News, Guardian Unlimited and Wikipedia. In 2002 the site leaked the ruling of a court case involving Microsoft before the verdict had even been delivered to Microsoft or the US government. There is also the Slashdot effect, where a site is swamped by heavy traffic from a Slashdot link and its server collapses.In 1997, 21-year-old Malda started what we would now call a blog, hosted on his user account at university. As the site picked up users he divided his time between college, paid work and the site. 'It was a blur. There were many nights when I did not sleep.' Two years later Andover bought Slashdot for $5m, shared between Malda, co-founder Jeff 'Hemos' Bates and other partners. They also shared $7m in stock between them. In 2000 VA Linux (now VA Software) bought Andover for $900m. Slashdot now has 10 employees dedicated to maintaining the site, most of them based in California. Malda has remained in Michigan, where he grew up and went to college. He is director of Slashdot. He proposed to his wife Kathleen on the site in 2002.Katie Toms11.salon.comFounded:David Talbot, 1995, USUsers:Between 2.5 and 3.5m unique visitors per monthWhat is it?Online magazine and media company Salon grew out of a strike. When the San Francisco Examiner was shut for a couple of weeks in 1994 a few of its journalists taught themselves HTML and had a go at doing a newspaper with new technology. They found the experience liberating, and David Talbot, the Examiner's arts editor, subsequently gave up his job and launched the kind of online paper he had always wanted to work for. Salon was originally a forum for discussing books, but the editors quickly realised it had to be more journalistic than that. They aimed at creating a 'smart tabloid', not afraid to be mischievous while maintaining a rigour with news. Talbot believes that online journalism came of age with the death of Princess Diana and the Lewinsky scandal. It proved with those events that it could be nimbler and more gossipy, it could update itself continually and, crucially, let readers join in. Salon's Table Talk forum established a new relationship between a news outfit and its audience, letting readers write themselves into the story.Salon was not afraid of muck-raking. When Talbot decided to run a story about Henry Hyde, who was to sit in judgment of Bill Clinton after the Starr report, he was roundly criticised not just by the entrenched Washington media but also by some on his own staff. The story concerned Hyde's extramarital affair of 30 years before, and the more august sections of the American media, not to mention the right-wing impeachers of the President, thought this was beyond the pale. Talbot recalls how Salon 'got bomb threats, I received death threats... [but] I think if as a new organisation that comes into the world, a new media operation, you don't take risks with stories that no one else does, then what's the point?'For all its journalistic success, Salon has always struggled financially. A couple of times the site has nearly gone under; on one occasion Talbot was forced to fire his wife who ran a women's page. A subscription system saved it, along with the growth in online advertising. These days Talbot sees Salon's competitors as the big news organisations, the New York Times and so on, who have strong online presence. Having shown a few of them how it's done, Salon now faces a daily battle to stay ahead of the game.TA12.craigslist.orgFounded:Craig Newmark, 1995, USUsers:4bn page views per monthWhat is it?A centralised network of online urban communities, featuring free classified advertisements and forumsCraigslist is one of the most deceptively simple websites on the internet. It is also one of the most powerful. It is - pretty much - simply a free noticeboard. But its astonishing popularity has given it immense power. Want to rent an apartment? Sell a car? Find a job? Meet someone to spend the night with? Craiglist will provide the answers. For free. It has revolutionised urban living in America. It has also undercut one of the main reasons for newspapers: classified advertising. As nearly all Craigslist's content is free, it rarely censors ads and its readers number in the millions, it is far more useful to post an advert on the site than in your local newspaper. Thus a huge decline in newspaper ads and revenue, triggering cost-cutting which will see reporters tossed on to the scrap heap... and the end of a free press and democracy as we know it (if the critics are to be believed).The website was founded by Craig Newmark, an ubergeek with a hippyish mentality. It started as a simple email that he would send around listing various events going on in San Francisco. From such humble beginnings Craigslist has grown into a multi-million-dollar business. Yet Newmark refuses to sell his company or charge for every ad.Why should you care? Craigslist is all over the world - and coming to your home town soon.Paul Harris13.google.comFounded:Larry Page and Sergey Brin, 1998, USUsers:A billion search requests per dayWhat is it?Search engine and media corporationIts name is listed as a verb in the Oxford English Dictionary. It commands the largest internet search engine in the world. It is the fastest-growing company in history and its founders are worth almost $13bn each.The search method devised by Larry Page and Sergey Brin was instrumental to Goggle's success. Rather than ranking results according to how many times the search term appeared on a page, their system measured the frequency with which a website was referenced by other sites. Another key factor was the site's stripped-down design, which made it speedier and more accessible than its competitors.From such plain foundations a gigantic empire has sprung and is branching out into email (with Gmail), news (Google News), price comparison (Froogle), cartography (Google Maps), literature (with the much contested Google Book Search), free telephony (Google Talk), and, most strikingly, Google Earth, an incredibly detailed virtual globe. Google styles itself as a laidback, hippyish organisation but its founding motto, 'Don't Be Evil', is already being tested: the compromise it reached with China over censorship has proved particularly contentious.KF14.yahoo.comFounded:David Filo and JerryYang, 1994, USUsers:400mWhat is it?Internet portal and media corporationIt receives an average of 3.4bn page hits a day, making it the single most visited website on the internet, but in recent years Yahoo! has been eclipsed by Google. Both companies were launched on a very small scale by Stanford University graduates and, very soon the portal that Jerry Yang and David Filo had started as a hobby was en route to becoming the most popular search engine on the web. On the back of its early success, Yahoo! (an acronym for 'Yet Another Hierarchical Officious Oracle') branched out into email, instant messaging, news, gaming, online shopping and an array of other services.It also started buying up other companies such as Geocities, eGroups and the web radio company Broadcast.com. Yahoo! survived the internet collapse at the start of the decade and brought former Warner Bros chief exec Terry Semel on board in 2001 to navigate the difficult waters of the post-boom period. Semel began to address the challenge of making money out of the internet without relying on advertising revenue alone. Google notwithstanding, Yahoo! is still very much a contender.KF15.easyjet.comFounded:SteliosHaji-Ioannou, 1995, UKUsers:30m passengers last yearWhat is it?:Budget airlineIt's easy to forget what it was like back in the old days, when we didn't just pay a tenner, pitch up at Luton and pop over to Rome for the weekend. We mini-breaked in Bournemouth. Travelling to Scotland was an all-day affair. Airlines issued quaint old-fashioned things such as meals. And tickets. And seats.And then along came Stelios. That's Stelios as in Haji-Ioannou, although he now, alongside Delia and Jamie and Sven, belongs in that rare category - the surnameless celebrity. He's also that other elusive British beast - the celebrity entrepreneur. In 1995, after borrowing &pound;30m from his dad, a shipping magnate, he leased two second-hand Boeings and began selling flights to Scotland for &pound;29 each way.EasyJet was the first low-cost British airline and, presciently, the first to start taking bookings over the internet, although, as Stelios admits, he wasn't won over straight away.'We started off as something very obscure like 1145678.com. And I said: "This is never going to fill the planes. It's just for nerds." Then some time in 1997 we bought the domain easyjet.com for about &pound;1,000 and put up a proper website. At that time we had the telephone number in big letters on the side of the plane. And we put a different telephone number on the website. Week after week I watched how quickly the numbers were growing and that gave me the confidence in April 1997 to launch a booking site.'It was, he says, the neatest and simplest way: 'you outsource the work to the customer'. And it turned him into an internet evangelical. The first company he set up after easyJet was easyInternetcafe and all 15 companies in the easyGroup have some sort of web component.Carole Cadwalladr&#183;Do you have a favourite website? Tell us what it is and whyhere.
"Sony officially announced its BWU-100A product at its "Experience More 2006" event in Sydney yesterday, all the while acknowledging that there's significant room for improvement before the product is viable for integration into media centre PCs," reportsCNet."Vincent Bautista, Sony's product manager for data storage, told CNET.com.au that due to copy protection issues and lagging software development, the drive will only play user-recorded high-definition content from a digital camcorder, and not commercial movies released under the BD format."Comment: Blu-ray movies use High-Bandwidth Digital Content Protection (HDCP), so your PC needs an HDCP-compliant graphics card and HDCP software, neither of which is available for purchase. Does this mean Sony expects BWU-100A users to get their movies via BitTorrent?
MondayLast week of StreetWars LondonSecond Lives on Channel 4Mobile games reach the EdgeTuesdayFIFA 2007: why EA Sports is mad but brilliantGRAW reportBrowse your DSTopical newsgamesWednesdayDig games dug upOf hard-drives and hard sells30-somethingMurdoch takes his PC gaming takeover to a new levelThursdayTechnologyGaming for adultsLudic sprayTracks of our yearsFridayPS3: natural selection in action?BullyEnter the Battlefield
The trailer for the forthcoming certainly-to-be-Daily-Mail-fodder gameBullyhas been released. Aeropause directs us to it.In all, it appears to be typical fodder from Rockstar, most famous as creators of the Grand Theft Auto franchise: mix of aggro and sex wrapped up in a package of Harry Potter-esque nice graphics. I'm going to reserve judgement on the actual game until I see anything other than what appear to be in-game cut-scenes.All I can say that with Reservoir Dogs and this one coming out soon, it's going to be a very very challenging Autumn. Anyone who wishes to avoid controversy and/or ignore damning headlines should disappear now.
PC gamers - don't forget, I'll be running a Gamesblog Battlefield 2 session on Monday evening at 8pm. I'll provide access details on Monday - as soon as I've figured out what I'm doing. EA has very kindly set up aMultiplayserver for us (thank you Lizzie Wilding!), now all I have to do is figure out how to access it. Don't worry I'll crack it by Monday. The server supports TeamSpeak so we'll be able to chat if you have a headset.While I'm thanking people, Toshiba has provided me with one of its absolutely gorgeousQosmio G30laptops to set this all up on.So, yes, 8pm Monday. Be there or I'll have mastered the art of setting up a clan server for nothing!
Jack'salready pointedto the latest numbers coming from blog search engine Technorati, which suggest that there are now 50 million blogs out there (readDave Sifry's State of the Blogospherefor more). That, they say, indicates that one is being created every two seconds.Kevin Burton, the founder of pseudo-Technorati competitorTailrank, has taken issue with Sifry's figures on hisown blog:These numbers are overly optimistic and dangerous. There are not 50 million blogs. Blogs are great and all but too much hype is a bad thing. There might have been 50 million blogs that have ever been created but there aren't 50 million blogs in active use.I think Kevin - who seems to have fairly restrictive concepts of what an "active" blog might be - also misses some other points. Does Technorati cover every blog in the world? I don't think so - it's clearly missing large chunks of the blogosphere, including big areas of the Asian market (it's been reported that 37% of blogs are written in Japanese and 15% in Chinese, for example).So how do you measure how many blogs therereallyare? Strip out spam blogs - of which there are very many - and discount blogs which never get more than one or two entries (ditto) and then what? Do you include dead or static blogs? There are arguments for and arguments against that concept. But still, a global internet population of around a billion people online and 50 million blogs means that one in 20 surfers has a blog, on average.Given recent studiesinto such behaviour, a figure of around 5% does not sound ludicrous. So perhaps 50 million isn't so far off the mark, even if it isn't the same 50 million as Technorati is tracking.
A story byTWICEsuggests that Microsoft's attempt to unseat iPod could be in US shops this autumn:Microsoft is in the process of unveiling to select retailers the first of its line of Zune wearable digital audio players and informed retailers it will offer a single unit this fall, available in three colors at a suggested retail price of $299.Retailers who have been briefed by Microsoft told TWICE the player will offer Wi-Fi capability, but will require that the portable be connected to a PC for the actual purchase of songs. Retailers, who claimed Microsoft remained "fuzzy" on the Zune's wireless capability, said only that Zune will allow users to bookmark songs that may be shared via Wi-Fi, but that users cannot purchase songs on the go from the Microsoft Zune Web site.Price is interesting - $299 translates directly to £156, but would probably iron out at around £180 in the shops over in Blighty. That would undercut a comparable iPod by around £40. The limited version of wireless connectivity could be an attempt to limit power consumption - something noted out by Charles inhis column this week- but all this talk of "fuzzy" details sounds pretty fuzzy full stop.People I've spoken to at Microsoft have privately balked at the idea of the player hitting the UK market before next year. Perhaps plans in the US are more developed. But it certainly seems odd to me that Redmond has been able to keep anything secret enough that details only begin to emerge a couple of months before it hits the market... it's just not their style.Still, judging by past performances from Apple, they'll be loading their guns for a new iPod release in the middle of September. It'd be fun to see the two go head to head.
Another day, another quietly gloating story about cancelled PS3 games.Accordingto GameWorld Network, Japanese developer From Software has canned two forthcoming titles, Dark RPG and Black Blade. "This is just the latest in a string of cancellations the PS3 has endured in the lead up to launch day," the reporter confides.Endured? Hang on, let's just try and put this into some sort of perspective.This is From Software -From Software- a company that's spent the last eight years wringing the very life out of its Armoured Core series of derivative mech battlers while occasionally, very occasionally, knocking out the odd cult delicacy like Kuon or King's Field. Thisisn'tSquare Enix.The rest of that 'string of cancellations' is handily compiledhere. It includes Killing Day, an Ubisoft tech demo shown off at last year's E3 and not heard of since. I'm sure the world will cope without another edgy first-person shooter that rips the creative heart out of every flashy action movie of the last five years. Then there's Theseis, some kind of supernatural conspiracy adventure based in Athens and developed by Track7, an untried, untested new studio that has clearly been playing Broken Sword or reading Da Vinci Code. Or both.Next, Elveon, an RPG which, according to developer 10tacle Studios, is, 'based on the comprehensive fantasy saga that reaches back to the ascendance of elvish culture'. Just what the next-generation in videogame technology needs - another chunk of Tolkien-referencing fantasy tosh. (Don't worry it's still heading to PC and Xbox 360...)Elsewhere, we recentlydiscoveredthat Atari won't have any PS3 games til 2007. Lord help us, Ken Kuturagi must have dropped to his knees and wept like a child when he heard that. Atari's line-up for this year includes Arthur and the Minimoys, Totally Spies 2 Undercover and Stuntman 2. What an incalculable loss for the Sony dream.This isn't a catalogue of disastrous extinctions, it is natural selection. PS3 is monstrously expensive and not particularly straightforward to develop for, so it turns out publishers are going to have to be extremely careful about what they fund. In the PS2 days, it was financially viable, indeed worthwhile, to follow a big genre title with several mediocre wannabes - the budgets were manageable and a large audience was there to lap up the effluent. But on PS3 we're talking millions and millions of dollars for even the most wretched of GTA or Final Fantasy rip-offs. And at least for the first few months, the market won't be big enough to support them, because there won't be enough machines in circulation.Could it be that in the PS3 universe there will be no hackneyed RPG-by-numbers, no soulless 'me too' urban racers, no witless gangsta adventures completely lacking the wit or verve of GTA but filled with crude racial stereotypes and idiotic glorifications of violent street 'culture'? Well, perhaps that's too much to ask. But at least the numbers will be kept down. Publishers may be faced with a difficult choice - create truly excellent genre titles or break off into new areas. In the crushingly expensive next generation, will it be necessary to mutate in order to survive?
"The Consumer Electronics Association (CEA), the owner and producer of the International CES, the world's largest consumer technology tradeshow, announced today that it is forming an advisory committee to solicit gaming industry feedback and explore the viability of a West Coast event in late spring 2007 focused on the gaming and entertainment marketplace," says aCEA press release.The International CES has a rich history with the category. It was the nation's largest gaming show until E3 was formed in 1994. In addition, the Microsoft Xbox and Sony PlayStation were both launched or previewed at CES."Since ESA decided to eliminate the E3 event in its known format, we have been deluged with inquiries on whether we could fill the tradeshow needs of smaller video entertainment companies," said Gary Shapiro, president and CEO of CEA. "Our executive board met yesterday and unanimously asked staff to explore ways that we can help the gaming community."Comment: Games companies are dropping out of E3 because it has become a ludicrously expensive circus. But one reason they went to E3 in the first place was because CES had become a ludicrously expensive circus....
Michael Arrington of TechCrunch has added another site to his expanding blog empire, "CrunchGear, for the gadget obsessive." It will compete with Engadget, Gizmodo and a few hundred more.Arrington's launch postsays "The editor is John Biggs, who was previously the editor of Gizmodo," and the team includes "Blake Robinson who writes the popular music blog audiomonger".CrunchGear is going to be different from the other gadget blogs out there. The team is committed to writing about breaking news but will also be featuring weekly product comparisons in a given category. Expect CrunchGear to look like something between a pure blog and CNET Reviews. Our goal isn't just to let you know about the hot new stuff coming out soon, but to also help you decide what kind of camera, laptop or MP3 player you want to buy as well.As well asTechCrunch, the group includesMobileCrunch,TalkCrunch, andCrunchBoard.Comment: The two new sites should really be called BoardCrunch and GearCrunch. Or perhaps Arrington could rename his original site CrunchTech....
Friday's weekend edition of Chatterbox.
Two enticing retro-themed press releases hit my in-tray today. First, Sony has announced the latest SingStar title - due out just in time for us all to humiliate ourselves at various Christmas parties. SingStar Legends features the following unforgettable hits:Elton John - Rocket Man The Beach Boys - Surfin' USA The Police - Roxanne Johnny Cash - Ring of Fire The Jackson 5 - I Want You Back Tina Turner - What's Love Got To Do With It? John Lennon - Imagine Nirvana - Smells Like Teen Spirit Ben E King - Stand By Me David Bowie - Life on Mars? The Righteous Brothers - Unchained MelodyThere really is something for everyone on here - apart from that weird cousin who only listens to Cannibal Corpse.Almost as moving to me - although Greg will hate it - is the Sega Genesis Collection, a collection of 30 Mega Drive greats on one PS2 or PSP disc. In among the treasures are Altered Beast, Sonic The Hedgehog, Shinobi III, Phantasy Star and Golden Axe. Players will also be able to unlock hidden extras like game trivia and interviews with the developers. The PSP version will also offer Wi-Fi multiplayer. This one's out in the US in 'the Fall' and shouldn't take long to tumble over to bargain buckets on this side of the Atlantic.
I reportedSony's Mylo (My Life Online) gadgetin today'sTechnology section, but not everyone is happy with what it offers. Phil Wolff's Skype Journal has some major complaints and a list of14 things Sony can do to try to save it. Alice Hill's RealTechNews has5 Reasons Why the Sony Mylo is Doomed to Failure. This story concludes:An old associate of mine, Preston Grallla said it best: "So let's sum this up. It's a device for people who are devoted to instant messaging, but won't work with biggest IM networks in the world. It costs as much or more than handheld gaming devices, but won't let you play games. And the Skype capabilities are nice, but the target audience already has cellphones."
I'm fascinated lately by the myriad things that emerge from gameplay activities that have nothing to do with how the games are meant to be played, but are obviously offshoots of the themes, content or modes of participation that have been designed by the developers. A good example isemergent economies in online games- it was never intended, but wow, ain't it something?At a meeting last month, a group of us decided to term this sort of thing "ludic spray," inspired by Zimmerman and Salen's definition of a "game," from their bookRules of Play, and further extrapolated by Zimmermanhere:Game Play is the formal play of a game that occurs when players follow rules...Ludic Activities are other kinds of activities that we would recognize as play (two dogs chasing each other, two kids rough-housing, someone casually tossing and catching a ball)...The "spray," therefore, is the stuff that is inspired by a formal game but doesn't adhere to its rules. This can be anything fromfan fictionto independent spin-offs toformal business ventures(as in the case of the previously-mentioned economies).In some ways, merchandising games - the bane of most reviewers - are the spray from the entertainment medium of film. I suppose the same could be said for the phenomenon when it happens (rarely and often poorly) the other way around. But these - like theLost ARG- are orchestrated by The Man (or Woman) for the purposes of explicitly keeping people hooked/making money.One good example of community-led ludic spray ismachinima, the art of making movies from game engines - set for arepeated sessionat this year'sEdinburgh Interactive Entertainment Festival.This sort of thing is arguably important in today's media lanscape, where ownership of products is increasingly being given back to consumers. The longevity of a media property is obviously elongated by the desires of the community to keep it going. I wonder if it's possible for game designers to create products with the intention of ludic activity spraying beyond the boundaries of the games they create. And if they have the cahones to do it.
Some people think Apple's Steve Jobs wouldn't have a clue what a blog was unless he wanted to sue one, but that's not true. He's been secretly writing a blog famous for its unanticipated level of honesty, and although we were recently mourning its disappearance,The Secret Diary of Steve Jobsis back! (Many thanks to Paul Waite for providing the link ina comment to my earlier post.)Not only that, Steve's new diary hasventure capital backingfor a significant expansion. One of those involved is Iceland's Hans-Olaf Gutmansdottir, who has an Open Sores blog athttp://hans-olaf.blogspot.com/. (But perhaps not for those with a "nervous disposition".) Hans is a bit like Linus Torvalds, except physically, of course. The hair's more like Richard Stallman's.Other victims, sorry, participants includeWired's Chris Andersonand Digg'sKevin Rose. But to me, all this looks like overegging the pudding.Meanwhile, Forbes magazine's bloggerRich Karlgaardhas offered "the latest, coolest iPod" to anyone who can identify the author. There's some interesting (and some totally absurd) speculation in the comments. Posting times and some bits of vocabulary suggest the author could be English....
The announcement that Microsoft has finally tired of its "partners" in the digital music player business trying to wrestle Apple's iPod to the ground - a fight in which the partners have looked distinctly Lilliputian - marks an important shift in the software giant's approach to partnership. You could even argue that it ends it. The reality is that the Zune player, when it appears, might redefine our thinking about what a high-end bit of consumer gadgetry looks like.I'm only worried that it will redefine it downwards. Microsoft's own people have already parodied their tendency, when trying to do consumer stuff, to cover the packaging in too many exclamations, while others have parodied its tendency to make what should be simple, hellishly complicated. In the latter iscrazyapplerumour.com's depiction of how the owner of a Zune (which it calls the "Microsoft Windows Media Player 11 Portable Media Player Device Media Player Media Player Media Player") will spend their first few hours: click on Start, start a program, call an authentication hotline, type in the 128-character code the hotline provides, and "you're ready to start the process of moving toward the process before the process where you'll be able to download your first song!" So you can be sure that everyone in Microsoft working on the project is trying to do two things: first, keep absolutely everyone else in Microsoft out of it, so they don't infect it with corporate thinking and mess it up; and secondly, trying to stop themselves thinking like Microsoft people. In its way, the Zune is like a project 25 years ago, when IBM created a "skunk works" team to create something they later called the "IBM PC".If the Zune will truly have, as has been hinted, wireless connectivity that lets it link up to your PC and of course to the Zunes of other people around you, will that really be good news? I'm not sure it is. The reality is that WiFi or Bluetooth connectivity sucks up a surprising amount of power, particularly from a battery-powered device. So does running a music player, at least if it has a hard drive - and with the Zune forecast to have a 30GB capacity, there'll be a hard drive inside for sure. Great - two power-sucking elements in one package.So the picture begins to clear slightly. There's the Zune, intended to appeal to teens (surely), with a video screen and a wireless connection and a hard drive. Seriously - are they really going to want to sit around plugged into the power sockets so they can share their music? Far simpler to get a music-playing phone and swap images, videos or MP3 music via Bluetooth, because a phone will also send texts, make calls, hold your address book and it's got multiple generations of testing that ensure it provides pretty good battery life even while it shows you videos.While the Zune is aiming to beat the iPod by offering much more in terms of high-end features, my suspicion is that early buyers will feel a little let down - rather as those who bought the Sony PSP in the expectation that it would be a general-purpose handheld, rather than just a Sony games-playing machine, have generally been disappointed. Sure, the early reviewers will love it: they'll enthuse about the bright colour screen and how easy it is to connect to other Zune users, and what fun it is to navigate through your songs by their artwork, and how the battery lasts for ages. But screens and batteries fade, and it will only take a few wrinkles in the DRM around the songs to create ill-will where none was needed.Which brings us to the question: should Microsoft be creating the Zune at all? Of course it should. Someone needs to challenge Apple, if only to show us what might be done - even badly. (And the Zune won't be bad; just over-reaching.) Who knows, it might prompt Apple to show Microsoft how these things should really be done. A wireless iPod for 2007? Why not?charles.arthur@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
