Parents are being warned to be vigilant with their iPhones and iPads, following increasing reports of children running up bills of hundreds of pounds while playing games such as Playmobil Pirates, Coin Dozer and Racing Penguin.Parenting websites are reporting greater numbers of parents being billed £500 or more after their children have made "in-app purchases" (IAPs) while playing games. The problems begin when children wish to explore new areas of a game or wish to obtain better weapons for their character – they are often able to buy these with a single click.Siobhan Freegard, founder of Netmums, said: "We have heard of cases where parents have been hit with bills for hundreds of pounds as the apps are often linked to their card details through iTunes. Often the bills aren't immediate and it takes days to find out they have been charged."One parent who recently faced that scenario is entrepreneur Chris Brown. A couple of days after he bought the Smurfs Village game for his six-year-old son, Brown logged on to his bank account and found he was overdrawn thanks to £160 of Apple transactions. "My first thought was that my account had been hacked, but when I went on to my Apple account I saw £160-worth of Smurf Village credits," Brown said.His son had bought the credits within the 15-minute window after Brown had bought the game. "I contacted Apple and discovered I wasn't the only naive parent in the world. This is a common occurrence and Apple refused to issue any kind of refund. Needless to say that I have now disabled all in-app purchases on my devices. Lesson learned."Most devices allow users to restrict access to IAPs or block them completely – it is parents who do not install these measures who are at risk.Under current rules, after users have entered their password to buy a product, there is a 15-minute window during which they need not supply their password again when making further purchases. It means if a parent downloads an app and then lets their child use that app immediately, the child can make as many in-app purchases as they like for the next 15 minutes before being prompted for the password again."App developers are not often altruistic," said Spencer Whitman of app protection firm AppCertain. "They often include in-app purchases hidden behind the free price tag. Either they offer a small amount of play, then charge for continued use; offer in-app purchases for more in-game content such as extra areas of play or upgrades; or they constantly interrupt game play to ask for in-app purchases."It is easy to see why companies are introducing IAPs in their apps.Analysts Gartnerforecasts that in-app purchases will drive 41% of app store revenues by 2016, well up on the 10% contribution to revenues made by IAPs in 2012.Justine Roberts, founder ofMumsnet, said: "It's all too easy for our children to get sucked into games and, before you know it, they've racked up huge costs buying coins, berries and doughnuts. You do need to keep an eye on your child's device settings and to keep your password for purchases private at all costs."Adam Levene, chief strategy officer at Grapple Mobile, said: "The simplicity of making instant purchases and the allure to progress the game further at the touch of a button, without necessarily understanding the monetary value, has raised concerns. Developers have a greater responsibility to ensure that an in-app purchase is obvious and feels distinctly different from the standard game play."Which?executive director Richard Lloyd said: "It's far too easy for children to run up huge bills on phone apps when most default settings allow 'in-app purchases' without asking for a confirmation or password. If your child has run up a huge bill without your knowledge, contact the app store or manufacturer, as you may be eligible for a refund."An Apple spokesman said: "All iOS devices have built-in controls that give parents and guardians the ability to restrict access to content, such as internet access and age-rated content. Parental controls also give parents and guardians the option to turn off functionality, such as purchasing from iTunes, and the ability to turn off in-app purchases."
Without a word, Activision has removed all of its James Bond games from Xbox Live, Steam and its own website. Rumours about the expiry of its licence may be true, but since the franchise's most recent game,James Bond 007: Legendswas released less than three months ago, many suspect there may be more to it.Good news for buyers of secondhandWii Us: it transpires that even after erasing the machine's hard drive, future owners can download any game previously purchased on the console from Nintendo's online eShop, without paying.Games out this week includeAnarchy Reigns(Xbox, PS3), Sega's cheap and cheerful dose of outrageous cartoon ultra-violence and swearing, andEarth Defence Force(PS Vita), which brings giant robots to Sony's handheld, and encompasses both ground and air combat, and features four-way co-operative play.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewThe fundamental problem with Microsoft's motion-detecting Kinect peripheral is that it's not very good at detecting movement. In games that demand subtle or directional actions, you start to feel like someone trying to communicate with a blind man using semaphore. Sesame Street TV is the first Kinect title to bypass these problems altogether. It does so by being nice and simple, requiring its diminutive audience to jump, throw invisible balls with both hands and generally make great big movements, which the device has absolutely no trouble seeing. Astutely, it doesn't try and shoehorn Kinect into everything it does, reserving it for a few occasions in each episode, which keeps things fresh. That helps to create charming, interactive television, that mixes entertainment with learning and a bit of leaping about.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewDmC's baddie, Kyle Ryder, is a villain of our times: an evil banker seeking to enslave the world through debt. Yet, this being Devil May Cry, he's also working for old demonic antagonist Mundus and has a few supernatural powers of his own. Only fair, given hero Dante's outlandish range of magical weaponry and screen-filling special moves, not to mention the makeovers given to him and his family; Dante now looks more like a mod than a floppy-haired anime character. Taking place partly in the real world and partly in limbo, the latter is where most of the action occurs.  Here, it's not just enemies that try to kill Dante: entire streets fold in on themselves in attempts to devour him. The action is fast but strategic, with each enemy requiring its own tactics and weapon combinations to dispatch it, and the abandon of early levels soon gives way to much more demanding and potentially lethal engagements as you progress.
The first new bike I&nbsp;owned was a Raleigh racer. It was a joint Christmas-and-birthday present (oh, cursed January birth) and arrived in good time for my cycling proficiency test. Before we went back to school, I remember pedalling it round to the recreation ground near our house, looking forward to the reception I'd get. I&nbsp;imagined admiring glances at the drop handlebars that reminded me of rams' horns, and envious looks as I showed off the 16 gears.I got past the tennis courts when I&nbsp;realised I'd made a terrible mistake. Everyone was astride machines with knobbly fat tyres, chunky frames and flat handlebars, with more gears than mine. My Raleigh was white with discreet bands of blue, red and yellow. Theirs were fluorescent green, yellow and orange, matching theGlobal Hypercolourheat-sensitive T-shirts they wore under their anoraks. Mountain bikes! How had I&nbsp;missed the memo?The remarkable indestructibility of my Raleigh meant I was stuck with my hopelessly unfashionable steed throughout the early 90s, when mountain bikes with a daft number of gears ruled supreme. Twenty years on, I find myself testing a remarkably similar model: the Gran Sport, an update of a design Raleigh has been making since the 60s, if not before. The look may not have changed but fashion has. Hipsters across east London pay hundreds of pounds for secondhand (sorry, vintage) Raleighs. No wonder the 125-year-old manufacturer has decided to knock out a new version.Alas, it does feel knocked out. The Gran Sport is a lovely-looking bike but, like a Wonderbra, it promises more than it can deliver. Beneath its chic and sleek exterior lies a&nbsp;decidedly average bike. The steel frame felt unresponsive. Riding it was unsatisfying, like trying to snog someone who won't properly kiss you back. I hated the metal pedal cages, which scraped the ground whenever my feet weren't in properly – a regular occurrence in London's stop-start traffic. The gear shifters felt like they were being deliberately difficult. Changing gear on theTrek MadoneI tested last was as easy and pleasurable as stroking a friendly cat. On the Gran Sport it was an effort.My primary school Raleigh would have been made in Nottingham, where the company started in 1887. The firm is now Dutch-owned and since 2003, the 850,000 bikes it produces each year have been put together in south-east Asia. Has quality been lost in the move? Or am I just nostalgic for my youth? At least I'm riding something trendy for once. The 10-year-old me would be very happy about that.Raleigh Gran SportPriceRRP £700FrameSteel (Reynolds 520)Weight11.8kgGears16 (Shimano 2300 shifting levers)In a wordDeceiving
The US Federal Trade Commission chairman has publicly defended his agency's settlement with Google for the first time since the search giant was cleared of result biaslast week. The settlement was reached after a nearly two-year investigation into allegations that Google used its dominance to push down results from its competitors.Google agreed to change the ways it presents some search results and runs search advertising, but was exonerated of the results bias claims. Rivals including Yelp and Microsoft accused Google of favoring its own product results over those of its competitors and called for the anti-trust case.ButFTC chairman Jon Leibowitz told Talking Points Memothat the agency's decision was legally sound and would be beneficial to competition and consumers."Under facts we found, all five of us, from liberal Democrat to conservative Republican, agreed that the evidence militated against an anti-trust case," Leibowitz told TPM. "The fact that we managed to have both Google and Google's rivals unhappy, in an odd way that's maybe unique to Washington, that puts us in the right place substantively."Leibowitz also addressed questions about the the role lobbying played in the investigation.Google accumulated a $25m lobbying budgetover the course of the FTC's investigation."My sense is that the lobbying makes the companies feel good and lobbyists feel good," Leibowitz said. "At the end of the day, whether you want to say lobbying had any influence, or canceled itself out because there was lobbying on both sides, if you're going to do what lobbyists want you to do in a regulatory agency, you're not doing your job."Five FTC commissioners voted unanimously to close the case on whether Google used unfair practices in search results, but voted four to one in favor of a settlement after finding that the company used unfair practices in its mobile business.The FTC said that Google's Motorola Mobility phone subsidiary had unfairly used patents in an effort to block payment and extract large payments and continued to do so after the subsidiary was acquired by Google in August 2012."We took a pretty meaningful step forward to stop one of the most drastic abuses in patent litigation," Leibowitz said. "[Google] won't be able to engage in patent holdup, where the threat of an injunction is used as a sword of Damocles."The practice in question abused "standards-essential patents" to demand exorbitant license fees from companies that are required to must comply with a standard like 3G or Wi-Fi to make smartphones, game consoles and computers.Google withdrew two patent infringement claims it filed against Microsoft on Tuesday. "That's part of what we expected," Leibowitz said.Google's legally abiding agreement with the FTC says that the company will stop "scraping" content from other sites and presenting it as its own in search results. Sites and businesses can also opt of of being in the search results for Google verticals including Google Local and Google Shopping, without getting their search results pushed down in Google's general search.By agreeing to a legal bind instead of making a voluntary commitment, the FTC can enforce and monitor whether Google is upholding its side of the agreement. Google can also be fined by the FTC if it strays from the commitment.In the course of the investigation, Google executives provided sworn testimony and the FTC reviewed 9m pages of documents from the company and others. Some saw the case as a chance for the dominant company to lose some power."Perhaps to some extent we helped to build up expectations," Leibowitz said. "But I also think complainants created great expectations of their own. I think that as time goes on, more and more people will recognize we did justice."When the FTC announced the settlement with Google on 3 January, it was portrayed as a victory for Google by many US news outlets. "Reporters think of this in some ways as a horse race," Leibowitz said. "It's really about doing the right thing."
Facebook is extending its experiment charging users to send messages, offering users access to the accounts of VIPs – including Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg – for as much as $100 (£61) per message.The offer was spotted byMashablereporter Chris Taylor who tried to message Zuckerberg, but was told the message would be routed to the less visible "other" folder, unless he paid the $100 fee.A Facebook spokesperson confirmed to Mashable that the company is testing "some extreme price points to see what works to filter spam".The cost of sending a message is thought to vary according to the popularity of the VIP.  The move follows the introduction last year of paid-for posts, as the company tries to increase revenue from its 1 billion users.The trial began in December when Facebook introduced a $1 charge to send a message to the Facebook inbox of someone who is not already a friend, though capped at one paid message per recipient per week. Facebook said at the time it was an "economic signal to determine relevance" and help organise users' messages."If you want to send a message to someone you heard speak at an event but are not friends with, or if you want to message someone about a job opportunity, you can use this feature to reach their Inbox," Facebook explained in ablog post. "For the receiver, this test allows them to hear from people who have an important message to send them."
Welcome to this week's roundup of the newest and most notable apps for iOS – iPhone, iPad and iPod touch. That means apps released for the first time in the last seven days on the App Store, rather than updates to older apps.Looking for Android recommendations?There's a separate best Android apps post for that. Here's this week's iOS selection:Joe Danger (£1.99)There's a lot of buzz building around this game from Hello Games, which puts you in the helmet of "the World's Most Determined Stuntman" over a series of spiffing-looking courses, taking in bus-jumping, mousetrap-evading and, er, shark-jumping. Not in the bad way.iPhone / iPadDan Snow's Castles (£1.99)Already released as a very impressive iPad app, historian Dan Snow's guide to 100 of Europe's most imposing castles helps you dig into text, photos and videos about the weapons, battles and sieges associated with them. Perfect for a spot of historical tourism.iPhoneBBC Sport (Free)The BBC's official Sport app is slick and quick to use on an iPhone, providing fast access to scores, text commentaries and news, with the ability to customise it so the sport you're most interested in is easily accessible.iPhoneParagraph Shorts (Free)Coming on (a bit) like a Flipboard for short stories, Paragraph pulls stories from various websites in text, audio and video form, serving them up in issues for you to browse on your iPad.iPadThe Berliner Philharmonika's Digital Concert Hall (Free)The world-famous Berliner Philharmoniker orchestra has its own app, offering live video streams of concerts over the course of the year, as well as archives of its past performances. A seven-day ticket to watch costs £7.49 via in-app purchase.iPhone / iPad2013 AA Pub Guide for iPad (Free)The AA wants to make browsing for boozers on your iPad a simple experience with this new app, which is ideal if you're taking your tablet on holiday and using it to research each day's itinerary. It spotlights more than 2,000 pubs with details, maps and pricing.iPadMurakami Diary (£1.99)I wrote about thisHaruki Murakami appin more depth earlier in the week, but as a quick refresher: it's a stylish substitute calendar app for your iOS device, wrapping quotes from Murakami's books and related imagery around your daily dates. Six exclusive short stories are also included.iPhone / iPadSofia the First: Story Theater (£2.49)Disney's latest TV show has an official app based around the heroine Sofia. There's a story to read, but the real appeal for children is the chance to create their own stories with the characters and scenes in a virtual theatre on-screen.iPhone / iPadGarmin Connect Mobile (Free)Fitness gadgets that wirelessly synchronise data with smartphone apps are all the rage, and Garmin is getting in on the act too. This app works with its Garmin Edge 510 and 810 cycling computers to log details of your bicycling rides, then share them with friends or race against them at later dates.iPhoneWWF Together (Free)This iPad app comes from wildlife charity the WWF, promising to bring you "closer to the stories of elephants, whales, rhinos and other fascinating species" on your tablet. That means information about each animal, interactivity and even fold-up virtual origami models of the beasts. Videos and photos make good use of the iPad's screen too.iPadOm Nom Candy Flick (Free)Om Nom is the monster hero of the monstrously-successful Cut the Rope games, but this spin-off sees him trying augmented reality technology on for size. If you print out the marker image and point your iOS device at it, Om Nom appears as if in the real-world, ready to catch sweets you fling in a Paper Toss-style game.iPhone / iPadBloom.fm (Free)Bloom.fm is an interesting spin on the streaming-music genre, offering free personal radio stations, then charging if you want to cache tracks on your device for listening whenever you like. A monthly in-app purchase of £1.49 gets you 20 tracks to keep (changing them whenever you feel like it), while £6.99 gets you 200, and £13.99 gets you a full Spotify-style on-demand service with as many downloads as you like. You can also buy these tiers direct from Bloom.fm's website, where they're cheaper.iPhoneIzik (Free)Izik is a brand new app for tablets by search firm Blekko. Apparently you pronounce it "Eye-zik", if you're wondering. It's a search engine designed for tablet use, which means lots of images and swiping to move around results.iPadWhisk (Free)What's a person to do if they finish as runner-up in The Apprentice, and thus fail to snag that job with Lord Alan Sugar? If you're Nick Holzherr, you launch a food app called Whisk. Like many others in its genre, it offers a selection of recipes to suit various dining occasions, but the twist is that the app creates a virtual trolley of ingredients then helps you order them from supermarkets including Tesco and Waitrose from within the app.iPhoneThe Blockheads (Free)Nothing, alas, to do with Ian Dury, but this is still well worth your time if you like characterful iOS games. It's an open sandbox-style game where you "explore, mine, craft and build" in a pixeltastic landscape, playing alone or with a friend over the network. A lovely piece of work.iPhone / iPadThe Rolling Stones (Free)Nothing, alas, to do with Mick Jagger, Keith Richards and... Just kidding. This is Uncut magazine's appy tribute to the Stones, drawing on 50 years of interviews and photos from fellow IPC mags NME and (the late) Melody Maker. There's also a collection of reviews of every Rolling Stones album to date.iPhone / iPadRecce New York (Free)Amid all the buzz around 3D maps from Apple and Google (not to mention the debate over the respective qualities of their 2D mapping apps) British firm eeGeo has quietly cracked on with its Recce map apps. New York follows London and San Francisco in getting the treatment: a lovely-looking (offline) 3D map of New York which you can zoom around getting info on landmarks and venues.iPhone / iPadGrowtopia (Free)There's definitely something in the air this month for mobile games development: specifically, Minecraft. Growtopia can be filed alongside The Blockheads, albeit with even more connected ambition: "an experimental creative sandbox platformer mmo with crafting". That means exploring 2D landscapes, building things with or without friends, then chatting to other players who are doing the same.iPhone / iPadCutetown (Free)More 3D maps, except in this case it's you doing the mapmaking. Well, Cutetown at least gets you to design the 3D buildings of your neighbourhood, promising that no 3D-modelling or architectural knowledge is needed. "Play with it like a child plays with a construction set". Where this leads isn't quite clear, but it's certainly intriguing.iPadZenonia 5 (Free)If you're a fan of sprawling top-down Korean RPG games... Well, you'll probably have played at least some of Gamevil's excellent Zenonia games. This is the fifth game in the series, and it sees you exploring, battling and taking on players over the network in the PvP mode.iPhone / iPadThe Wheels on the Bus (£1.49)As children's songs go, The Wheels on the Bus is a bit of an earworm. If that troubles you, this app won't help: it's a neat children's app based on the song, with five interactive activities for 2-6 year-olds including a virtual piano to learn the notes.iPhone / iPadMcElligot's Pool - Dr. Seuss (£2.49)This may not be one of the more famous Dr Seuss books, but that might be one reason McElligot's Pool appeals to Android-owning parents who've tired of cats in hats, green eggs and Grinches. Oceanhouse Media's book-app tells the story of Marco as he fishes for imaginary sea-creatures, with word-highlighting and voice narration to help young readers.iPhone / iPadFindables (Free)I'm pretty cynical about QR codes in the West, but Findables might have hit on a use for them: a way for people to scan your iPhone if you lose it and get in touch to return it. That said, the app doesn't stand alone: it works with a Findables iPhone case that has the personalised code stamped on it. Other uses include exchanging social and work contact details.iPhoneNoble Nutlings (Free)The initial buzz around developer Boomlagoon focused on the fact that its founders previously worked on Angry Birds at Rovio. Their first game Noble Nutlings has since made headlines for its initial similarity to Rovio's Bad Piggies game. That said, this is more about building a cart then racing it – a bit less puzzly than Rovio's title.iPhone / iPadMarksta (£1.49)Most smartphone owners are happily sharing their pics on social networks and photo-sharing services without fretting about copyright. Marksta is a way to add watermarks to images before sharing them, whether it's your website address, Twitter handle or other contact details.iPhoneAmazing Ants (Free)Amazing Ants is a fun-looking physics-puzzler based around ants, as you help them find fruit and sweets across a series of 99 levels. In-game purchases give you a helping hand along the way.iPhone / iPadDeath Golf (£0.69)Billed as a "platform golf game" (which reminds me of Worms Crazy Golf a few years back), this sees you playing through 35 holes while avoiding traps and beasts on your way to holes. Power-ups and golfer customisation aid your progression.iPhone / iPadSkifta (Free)Technology giant Qualcomm has been making headlines this week for one of the mostadmirably-bonkers CES keynotesin recent memory. Skifta is more serious though, from one of its subsidiaries: a media-shifting app to stream music, photos and videos around your home using DLNA/UPnP technology.iPhone / iPadFridge Words (Free)Fridge Words is the latest quirky word-puzzle game on iOS, using virtual versions of plastic magnetic letters, which you have to rearrange into as many words as possible against the clock. You play against friends asynchronously, Words With Friends-style.iPhone / iPadFrench Course: Teach Yourself (Free)Teach Yourself is a familiar brand in the real-world language-learning industry, but this app sees its course translating to iOS devices. Here it's French that's the focus, with two free units and a talking dictionary, then other modules available for £2.49 in-app purchases.iPhone / iPadThat's our selection, but what have you been enjoying on iOS recently? Make your recommendations or give your views on the apps above by posting a comment.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new Android apps – and that's new as in newly-released, rather than new updates to old apps. This week has been slightly quieter for notable apps on Google Play, so it's a list of 20 this time round.The weekly iOS roundup will follow later in the day. For now, here's this week's pick of the Android world:Steampunk Racing 3D (Free)If you'd like to tell Wipeout and similar games where to stick their futurism, Steampunk Racing 3D may well be the driving game for you. It sees you speeding across the obligatorily "war-torn" industrial world in an array of steampunk vehicles, blasting opponents with naughty weapons and upgrading your motor as you progress.Izik (Free)Izik is a brand new app for tablets by search firm Blekko. Apparently you pronounce it "Eye-zik", if you're wondering. It's a search engine designed for tablet use, which means lots of images and swiping to move around results.Facebook Pages Manager (Free)If you're running a Facebook Page, then the Pages Manager app is an essential download to quickly check on stats, respond to comments and post new content. It's been on iPhone for a while, but is now on Android. And yes, I didwrite about it last week, but that was apparently an early release in a few countries: the app is actually available in the UK now.AWS Console (Free)This is another professional tool – this time for Amazon Web Services, providing a mobile management console for admins to manage their cloud services, and respond accordingly even when out and about. Amazon reckons it'll focus on the most relevant tasks for anyone managing EC2 instances and CloudWatch alarms.Fitocracy (Free)It's that time of year when people try to get fit (or eat and drink themselves into oblivion to buck the trend, obviously). Fitocracy is for the former group, as you may have guessed. It turns getting fit into an almost RPG-style game where you earn points for workouts, rise in levels and "slay the laziness dragon". Social features are built in for extra motivation.The Great Fusion (£1.21)Another game here, but this time with more of a science fiction focus, as programmer Max puts his "anti-hero cape" on to go through a graphic adventure with lots of pop-culture references. It looks to have the streak of humour that marked some of the best games in this genre back in the day.Kaliki Audio Newsstand (Free)This seems intriguing: the idea of an "audio newsstand" streaming news stories from publications including the LA Times, Detroit Free Press, Agence France Press, OK! Magazine and Men's Fitness as audio. The idea: you use it while driving as an alternative to the radio.Whisk (Free)What's a person to do if they finish as runner-up in The Apprentice, and thus fail to snag that job with Lord Alan Sugar? If you're Nick Holzherr, you launch a food app called Whisk. Like many others in its genre, it offers a selection of recipes to suit various dining occasions, but the twist is that the app creates a virtual trolley of ingredients then helps you order them from supermarkets including Tesco and Waitrose from within the app.Scrabble Dictionary (£2.47)Curses to this not being available in the UK for now, but Merriam-Webster's official Scrabble dictionary is on Android in (presumably) the US Google Play store. It offers more than 100k playable 2-8 letter words, with a Word Finder feature to just find words that are playable from your tiles. And, of course, it's usable under the table without your opponent noticing MUCH more easily than the actual book...McElligot's Pool - Dr. Seuss (£2.48)This may not be one of the more famous Dr Seuss books, but that might be one reason McElligot's Pool appeals to Android-owning parents who've tired of cats in hats, green eggs and Grinches. Oceanhouse Media's book-app tells the story of Marco as he fishes for imaginary sea-creatures, with word-highlighting and voice narration to help young readers.M-GO (Free)This is another US-only app for now, but it's a very interesting one: a partnership between DreamWorks Animation and Hollywood veteran Technicolor to launch a Netflix-style streaming TV/film service, M-GO. Available in public beta, it promises a catalogue of thousands of shows and films to stream, charging on a pay-as-you-watch basis rather than a monthly subscription.Lego City Fire Hose Frenzy (Free)Lego has been making apps as well as physical toys for some time now, with Fire Hose Frenzy its latest on Android. It sees a block-headed fireman (plus firedog) putting out fires on a succession of levels, taking to helicopters and fire engines when necessary.FxGuru (Free)FxGuru is the latest in a genre of apps that aims to help people add "big-budget Hollywood special effects" to their home videos, for those tricky moments when a wedding video just doesn't have enough cruise missiles or UFO invasions to spice up the action. Some effects are included in the download, while others are sold via in-app purchase.I Am Vegend: Zombiegeddon (Free)A fun thing: the Google Play store URL for I Am Vegend appears to indicate that its working title was Angry Plants. That gives you the gist of the game, where you have to "survive the Zombiegeddon and take revenge upon the birds, the pigs, and the zombies".ShaqDown (£0.62)Oof to the title, but basketball star Shaquille O'Neal's new mobile game may appeal to fans. It's more zombies though: the game sees Shaq trying to "take down these Mutant Zombies with his awesome powers and abilities". Which essentially involves running, punching and slinging his flaming balls all over the shop.Pocoyo - Elly's Doll (Free)Children's character Pocoyo gets his own Android app here, which turns the Elly's Doll episode of his TV show into an interactive storybook-app. Expect 20 pages, animation, sound and voice narration in a choice of Spanish or English.Abyss: The Wraiths of Eden (Free)Developer G5 Entertainment is well-practised at making hidden-object games, with Abyss being its latest on Android. It sees you exploring a series of underwater locations finding objects and playing mini-games. An in-app purchase is required to unlock the full game after playing the trial section.Train Sim (Free)Originally written for the developer's 18 month-old son, Train Sim sees you controlling a virtual toy-train on a track, speeding it up and slowing it down, parping the horn and toggling its lights on and off. It's very much focused on children rather than adult trainset buffs.Beat the Beast (£0.63)Android already has a healthy collection of tower defence games, but Beat the Beast is hoping to find a niche with its 3D graphics and spellcasting gameplay. Warmly-received in its original iOS release, it offers three game modes and a varied collection of beasts to defend your towers from.DJ and Co (Free)Billing itself as a "socially connected mobile jukebox", this app gets one person to play music on their Android phone, with friends connecting wirelessly to vote on what should be played next. The developer reckons it's good for parties and public spaces alike.That's this week's selection, but what Android apps have you been enjoying at the start of 2013? Post your recommendations or views on the apps above in a comment.
Rory Carroll is at theConsumer Electronics Showfor the Guardian, taking notes and photos about the most talked-about products at the tech jamboree.Here's Rory's latest dispatch:No CES is complete without a funeral.New technologies dominate attention, not unlike crying babies, but the expo is just as notable for the technologies which appear to gasp, wheeze and die.Many in Las Vegas agree that this year's biggest tombstone is for 3D. Last year's big thing, the great hope for TV makers desperate to boost sales, flopped in stores. Too expensive, too annoying, too limited, whatever the reasons, manufacturers got the message and switched to developing sharper"ultra HD"2D screens.Compared to last year, when you seemed to be offered 3D shades for every presentation, TV-related or not, this year only a few bothered. "Dead, dead, dead. Dead," said one buyer at ShowStoppers, a sideshow event held across from the convention centre.But just like Freddy Kreuger, 3D TV never quite dies. LG signalled a possible future resurrection with curved 3D OLED TVs. The wall of screen panels which greeted visitors to its exhibition was, I have to say, spectacular. Multicoloured planets and spaceships swooped so realistically I almost ducked, feeling rather like the Lumiere brothers' audience which supposedly panicked upon seeing an oncoming train.It didn't get much attention but I was intrigued by a Philadephia-based company,StreamTV Networks, which showed off 3D without glasses which can be used for TVs, tablets, PCs and other displays.Walther Roelen, a company engineer, said the technology had been waiting for ultra HD, which required fewer pixels. "Other companies misjudged the market. But if you do 3D right, it's better than 2D." StreamTV has sourced production to China and plans to be on the market by June, he said. He did not know much it would be priced.My five-minute viewing left mixed impressions. The technology certainly works. My non-spectacled eyes watched dinosaurs charge out of the screen. But after five minutes I found it vaguely oppressive, a buzzing in my head. Don't read too much into that. After 10 hours on your feet most things are oppressive. And maybe it was just a physical tic, a feeling I ought to have had glasses, if only so I could take them off. The public will soon have chance to judge for itself.Desktop 3D printing, which caused a big buzz in recent years, took another step to maturity withMakerBot'sReplicator 2X, which gives two colours, not just one, and uses a different type of plastic, ABS, rather than the PLA used by the Replicator 2.Wow. As a non-techie I don't usually have need to write sentences like that. I digress. To the uninitiated, think of 3D printing as a microwave-size device which contains a robot arm with a glue gun. It makes stuff, layer by layer, out of plastic. All sorts of stuff. Sculptures, instruments, widgets, toys, spare parts. Whatever you want it to make, in theory, it can make.The new Replicator is a big, big deal, MakerBot's evangelical CEO Bre Pettis, assured me. "It's a beautiful machine. We're very proud of it. Our goal is to change the world and blaze a trail into the next industrial revolution."A 3D printer ($2,799 for the 2X, $2,199 for the 2) can do that, he said, by letting engineers, architects and designers have their own personal little factory sitting on a desk. "As more people get MakerBot they'll be more in control of the things they need to manufacture stuff." The company just published a book, Getting Started with MakerBot, for this brave new world.With so much focus on services and apps there was something infectious about Pettis's enthusiasm about physical creation. Whether 3D printing will march towards a glorious destiny I don't know, but you can imagine Charles Babbage's ghost cheering it on.Tweets from CES:#2013CESLG tries to convince techies they're metrosexuals. Good luck with that.twitter.com/rorycarroll72/…&mdash; Rory Carroll (@rorycarroll72)January 10, 2013#2013CESsuits + swag bags = Mormon look.twitter.com/rorycarroll72/…&mdash; Rory Carroll (@rorycarroll72)January 10, 2013#2013CESGeeks debate whether Oprah interview signals LanceArmstrong 2.0 or 3.0.&mdash; Rory Carroll (@rorycarroll72)January 10, 2013#2013CESJust bumped into (svelte) Morgan Spurlock at 7-11. His favourite gizmo: the i-potty training system. "So cool."&mdash; Rory Carroll (@rorycarroll72)January 11, 2013Previous journals and more:•Wireless watches, 'carrying systems' ... and Snooki•Smartphones, phablets and forks•Pebble rocks CES 2013 with launch of its wireless watch•Channelling your inner Eastwood: CES 2013 offers brain-wave technology•Tech Weekly Podcast: Rory Carroll reports from CES 2013 in Las Vegas
These are bountiful times for gamers who are also fans of The Walking Dead, the post-zombie-outbreak Robert Kirkman comic-book, which was translated into a massively popular and critically acclaimed US TV series. But there's also plenty of potential for confusion.Last year, indie publisher Telltale Games turned the comic-book into one of the games of the year, despite operating on a tiny budget, by concentrating on the moral implications of negotiating a zombie outbreak. But at the same time, Activision, the world's biggest games publisher, had acquired the rights to make a game of the TV series. The result is The Walking Dead: Survival Instinct, due to arrive on 29 March for Xbox 360, PS3 and Wii U.Telltale Games turned the most basic of ingredients – effectively a point-and-click adventure with stylised 2D graphics – into something way more than the sum of its parts. Alternatively, Terminal Reality, the US developer behind The Walking Dead: Survival Instinct, is a big-budget 3D first-person shooter and, due to the web's in-built propensity to favour the underdog, has already attracted some online flak.Terminal Reality's principal effects artist, Glenn Gamble, talked us through the game to the backdrop of a fairly extensive demo: "The game takes its cues from the TV show, in terms of its sounds, lighting and art-style – it has a similar sepia tone. We asked the fans of the TV series what they wanted, and they asked for an action/survival game."It's effectively a prequel to the TV series: "It takes place while Rick [Andrew Lincoln's character] is still in a coma, and the whole thing is beginning to go to hell in a handbasket. It follows the story of the Dixon brothers, Daryl and Merle. You play as Daryl who, we feel, made the biggest character growth in the TV series."Getting the walkers rightGamble says that Terminal Reality went to great length to achieve authenticity: "We took botany lessons and learned about the flora and fauna of Georgia."But, he says, the zombies – known as walkers, in Walking Dead parlance, are "the stars of the show. One of the hardest things was to make those guys seem engaging – what do you do to make them feel alive? So we made them environmentally aware. You have to sneak around a lot, leaning and peeking: they can hear you and smell you, and they will investigate any sounds associated with humans."Gamble maintains that the gameplay errs more on the side of survival, and a that guns-blazing approach won't bear fruit: "It's not a Call of Duty-type game; three walkers are more than a player should be able to handle at a time. And we can randomise the positions of dead bodies – walkers lying on the ground could be dead, but they might not be."You can melee, but it's usually best not to get too close: there's a grappling mini-game, which lets you push them off, or line them up for a skill-shot."Also in the game's favour is the ability to take multiple paths through Georgia, and to choose whether or not to help survivors – according to Gamble: "Some survivors might be better for your group than others."So what is it like in action?Activision's demo swiftly confirmed that, in gameplay terms, The Walking Dead: Survival Instinct proceeds along very similar lines to Ubisoft's ZombiU, even down to providing objects such as flares, which can be used to distract walkers.One mission involved collecting boxes of fireworks in order to set a church, into which you had enticed a whole community of walkers, on fire.  Again, similarly to ZombiU, you could take a path across the town in which the mission was set via the rooftops, avoiding the hordes of walkers on the ground. Weapons included the usual shotguns, and an axe appeared to be the game's staple melee weapon, the equivalent of ZombiU's cricket bat. Although Gamble asserted that it was ponderous in comparison with other, lighter single-handed weapons.The Walking Dead: Survival Instinct looked likely to appeal to those who enjoy the more cerebral, strategic survival-horror gameplay, which is thoroughly in tune with the nature of the TV series. But there was one obviously sub-standard aspect to the game: its graphics, with a washed-out grey-brown filter applied to ape the TV series' look, were pretty unimpressive.Terminal Reality's decision to adopt that particular art-style appeared to have the unwanted effect of creating a flat, somewhat textureless ambience, which was disappointing, compared with the uniformly amazing-looking games that have recently graced this late stage of the console cycle.Let's hope Terminal Reality can add some graphical gloss before the game's release, and that its writing is sharp and complex. Otherwise, The Walking Dead: Survival will struggle to appeal to a constituency beyond the TV series' most avid fans.
"OMG, that's a bullshit question. Eat one, you doofus." One as-yet-to-be-determined day in the future, computers will talk back to us in this manner. But, thankfully, it would appear that Computers with Attitude are not yet on the near-horizon.Eric Brown, the IBM researcher charged with training Watson,the supercomputer that famously beat human all-comers in the US quiz show Jeopardy in 2011, has provided an interesting insight into just how hard it is to crack the ever-elusive nut of artificial intelligence (AI).Speaking to Fortune magazine, Brown said that Watson can readily absorb information far beyond the capacity of any human, but where it struggles is understanding our subtlety of language, particularly the human predilection for slang."As humans, we don't realise just how ambiguous our communication is," he said. (To be fair, most users ofApple's Sirihave largely deduced this already.) To test Watson's skills at understanding slang, Brown instructed the supercomputer to digest theUrban Dictionary, the popular website that provides definitions for thousands of slang words,including ones of a particularly profane nature. In one test, Watson mistakenly used the word "bullshit" to answer one of Brown's queries. The Urban Dictionary has now been deleted from Watson's memory."Computers are now incredibly impressive at what I call 'micro smarts', namely, very specific tasks involving encyclopedic levels of data but with clearly defined rules," saysNigel Shadbolt, professor of artificial intelligence at the University of Southampton. "That's why Watson was able to win a quiz show such as Jeopardy. But what they still struggle with is knowing how to behave in a generalised situation."Humans are "superb" at switching rapidly between rules of engagement," he adds. "We live in a mass soup of cultures, rules and contexts. Words such as 'wicked' and 'decent' now take on different meanings to different people. In some ways, to ask a computer to know how to use a word correctly in various contexts is the ultimate challenge. The inoffensive use of the term 'bullshit' in the right context is sometimes quite hard to judge for humans.Even prime ministers famously struggle to grapple with the use, or even meaning, of slang terms such as 'LOL'."
Just for a bit of fun, here are the top ten best-selling games in the US from 2012. This is based on data from retail analyst NPD Group, drawn from sales of physical goods rather than digital downloads. According to the company's annual report, game sales were down 23% from 2011.Here's the line up:1. Call of Duty: Black Ops 2 (Xbox 360, PS3, PC, Wii U)2. Madden NFL 13 (Xbox 360, PS3, Wii, Vita, Wii U)3. Halo 4 (Xbox 360)4. Assassin's Creed 3 (Xbox 360, PS3, PC, Wii U)5. Just Dance 4 (Xbox 360, Wii, Wii U, PS3)6. NBA 2K13 (Xbox 360, PS3, Wii, PSP, Wii U, PC)7. Borderlands 2 (Xbox 360, PS3, PC)8. Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 (Xbox 360, PS3, Wii, PC)9. Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes (Wii, Xbox 360, NDS, PS3, 3DS, Vita, PC)10. FIFA 13 (Xbox 360, PS3, Wii, Vita, 3DS, Wii U, PSP)No one can be that surprised about the best-selling title, or the absolute domination of sequels: indeed, their are no 'original IPs' in the list. As for genre representation, Just Dance 4 is looking a little lonely in there amid all those macho shooters and sports sims.FromJoystiq:Call of Duty: Black Ops 2 topped off physical retail software sales in both December and 2012 as a whole, which totaled $1.54 billion for the month and $2.67 billion for the year, down 26 and 23 percent from 2011, respectively. Surprisingly, Far Cry 3 accomplished the second-most successful December launch NPD has recorded since it started monitoring sales in 1995, earning it the number six slot on the list of December's top 10 best-selling games. The list of 2012's 10 best-selling games can also be found after the break, in all of its "comprised entirely of sequels" glory.Andfrom Engadget:NPD's year-end report out today has confirmed that the Xbox 360 is the clear winner in US console sales for 2012, with 1.4 million units sold in December alone keeping it in what's described as a "dominant" position. As for this year's big new console, the Wii U, the NPD Group reports that it's sold nearly 890,000 units in the US after its first 41 days on the market, with 460,000 sold in December (actually less than the 475,000 of the original Wii). Nintendo found a slightly different spin to put on that, though, noting that the Wii U has generated $30 million more than the original Wii at the same point in its lifecycle, which sold more units but also cost less. When it comes to Nintendo's other consoles, the 3DS was on top with sales of 1.25 million in December, while the standard DS moved 470,000 units.Isn't it about time for a generational leap?
2013 will mark the end of an era for social media fans as Microsoft finally kills off Windows Messenger, its popular but outdated instant messaging tool.After announcing inNovemberthat it planned to close the service, Microsoft this week emailed Messenger users to confirm it would be switched off on 15 March, from when Messenger logins will no longer work. Windows Live IDs are unaffected.Instead, Microsoft is diverting users to Skype, which offers instant messaging as well as audio and video chat."On 15th March 2013, we are retiring the existing Messenger service globally (except for mainland China where Messenger will continue to be available) and bringing the great features of Messenger and Skype together," said Microsoft's official email.FollowingMicrosoft's acquisition of Skypein May 2011 for £5.2bn, analysts had speculated that Microsoft would move to bring Messenger and Skype's competing services closer together.Pre-Facebook and Twitter, instant chat applications such as Messenger, AIM and ICQ were hugely popular. Windows Live Messenger began life as MSN Messenger in 1999 and had more than 100 million users in 2010.Messenger will continue to operate in China where it is run under licence.
Picture this. One morning, you visit the Guardian home page to find a headline article about, let's say, a natural disaster in south-east Asia, or mass civil unrest in a Central American state. Next to the text is a link to a game about the story, designed to provide further information and insight. Do you follow it? Do you play?Games that explore political and social issues have been around since the early days of the medium – the 80s and 90s saw dozens of titles about nuclear conflict and Cold War politics with titles like Theatre Europe and Conflict: The Middle East Political Simulator.In the late 90s, however, the arrival of web plug-ins like Flash and Shockwave soon gave rise to a new era of browser games, cheap and quick to produce, with a ready-made worldwide distribution agent: the internet. It wasn't long before designers were using these to quickly comment on and investigate real-world events.In the mid-2000s leftwing Italian siteMolleindustriastarted producing titles like The McDonald's Videogame and Tamatipico about corporate greed and the plight of workers. Elsewhere, game designer Gonzalo Frasca set up the siteNewsgaming, producing titles about 9/11 and the 2004 Madrid bombings.But a recent event has brought the subject of newsgames into the wider consciousness again. Earlier this week, a war simulation entitledEndgame: Syriawas rejected for inclusion on the iPhone App Store. Developed over two weeks by British studio Auroch Digital, it puts players in control of the rebel forces as they pursue different military and political objectives.Apparently, the basis of Apple's rejection was a section of the App Store user guidelines forbidding games that, "solely target a specific race, culture, a real government or corporation, or any other real entity". This would seem to rule out the whole concept of newsgames as a breach of terms.Based in Bristol, Auroch Digital is a small digital media consultancy which has also organised a series of game jams – two-day game development competitions – in the region. Earlier this year, founder and game designer Tomas Rawlings started thinking about how the rapid prototyping techniques used in jams and hack days could be applied to produce titles that explored current affairs."The first game jam I took part in was a revelation for me," he says. "I started thinking more about different ways this could be applied. I honestly don't know yet where the balance is between the time of development and the time of topicality, and what mix works for a newsgame. It is very interesting finding out though."Rawlings has set up a new website,Gamethenews, to distribute these experiments and has been backed by the University of Abertay via itsPrototype fundwhich seeks to support innovative gaming projects. There's already a new title available on the site, My Cotton Picking Life, about child labour in Uzbekistan, and Rawlings is currently working on something about the war on drugs in Mexico. All the games are distributed for free on PC and Android devices. But it looks like iPhone will be off limits.Reaction to Apple decisionIndustry reaction to Apple's decision has been mixed, but when the Guardianran a story on itearlier this week, there was a familiar strain of revulsion at the very idea of games dealing with topical issues. "How to turn the death and suffering of innocent Syrians into mindless entertainment," read one tweet. It's a reminder of the global media horror surrounding filmmaker Danny Ledonne's game Super Columbine Massacre RPG, which sought to analyse the motives of killers Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold. Many newspapers assumed it was a piece of cheap exploitation, rather than an attempt to understand the psychology of the boys in a format familiar to teenagers.Ian Bogost, a professor of interactive computing at the Georgia Institute of Technology, has been designing and blogging about newsgames for several years. His own studio,Persuasive Games,creates titles for public policy makers, educators and corporations, dealing with current affairs and issues. He has also written a book Newsgames: Journalism at Play, about the emergence and future of the phenomenon. He sees the roots of this revulsion lodged in widely held perceptions about games."What this comes down to is a problem of familiarity and convention," he says. "When you stop to think about it, there's really no reason to believe that film and television aren't inappropriate media for exploring real-world issues and events. I mean, Michael Bay made a film about Pearl Harbor, even. But we're more accustomed to non-fiction film and television because there are more examples of them. There's also more criticism and commentary that hashes out the conventions and aesthetics of documentary, non-fiction, and dramatic televisual media."Meanwhile, in games, we tend to see non-fiction topics on the fringes. Gears of War isn't even trying, of course, but even Spec Ops: The Line isn't really non-fiction either. Without a set of examples that move players to be affected by non-fiction games, and without more widely published and read criticism about why such games are useful, its no wonder they find themselves unsure and afraid. That may change over time, but it won't change by magic, through some kind of slow maturation process that arrives by osmosis. We need more games to make it happen".Recently, we've seen another often marginalised medium go through this process of experimentation and acceptance: comic books. The likes of Joe Sacco's Palestine, Art Spiegelman's Maus and Marjane Satrapi's Persepolis have shown how the graphic novel format can add depth, detail and emotion to raw stories of death and war. In these works, the conventions of the comic book format are both exploited and subverted to wrenching effect."I think the problem is the word 'game'," says Rawlings. "It has cultural connotations of triviality. However, as games have grown up as a form, we can show they don't have to be about only entertainment, they can have other roles too."Before Joe Sacco's excellent war reporting, you might have thought a comic was only for kids. After reading his work, you can be in no doubt that this gives another take on events. I think games are also at this junction point of exploring how they can do more".Influence of news outletsFor Bogost, the issue now is just as much about the legitimacy of the developer as it is about the form itself. "The Endgame Syria project seems interesting, but it's not coming from a major news outlet," he says. "It's not necessarily that the New York Times or the Guardian are automatically capable of producing better newsgames – rather it's that they are already established as respected voices in journalism, and thus anything they make automatically overcomes part of the mental block for players and editors alike. The things the NYT publishes are automatically journalism, or at least they are until proven otherwise".Acceptance, especially via a major news outlet, must be within reach. Hugely successful consoles like the PlayStation, Xbox and Nintendo Wii, together with the advent of powerful smartphones, have turned video games from a geeky pastime to a pervasive media – around 40% of the UK population now plays games on consoles, PCs or smartphones.Games are now being adopted by hundreds of major organisations outside of the entertainment industry. Museums and galleries use them to publicise new exhibitions and provide more information on their collections; NGOs and charities use them to highlight current funding drives and engage with younger audiences. The very mechanics of games, the systems of compulsion and reward that we find so compelling, are being ripped out by savvy corporations to "gamify" their communications and services.The digital age is one of interactive rather than passive media consumption. Why shouldn't news work in the same way? Newspaper sites have been prodding in this direction for a while, producing interactive charts, utilising apps like Google Maps to produce explorable illustrations of key stories. There has also been a move toward crowd-sourcing certain aspects of data journalism: in 2009, the Guardianlaunchedan app allowing readers to download documents relating to the MP expenses scandal and were encouraged to search for the most interesting claims.Meanwhile, we've seen the growth of citizen journalism, through blogs, social media and sites like Demotix and Blottr. Of course, these examples aren't games, but they have engendered an idea of news as a participatory process.It might be just a case of presentation. If a piece of interactive journalism is termed as a simulation rather than a game, would that help? Perhaps, but Bogost sees another barrier to the rise of newsgames: the experimental intransigence of the major media outlets."In the Newsgames book, we wrote about my own experiences at Persuasive Games working with the New York Times on editorial games circa 2007. The problem came down to organisational politics: even when the Times was spending actual money on games, the will to publish them effectively wasn't there. It wasn't there because nobody had prioritised it, and the newspaper was struggling just to keep up with its ordinary editorial duties".Fading interestJan Schaffer, executive director ofJ-Lab, an institute that funds innovative journalism projects in the US, has seen a similar drop-off of interest. "It is my impression that the conversation around newsgames was a bit more prevalent in the early part of the century," she says."J-Lab did an early newsgames workshop in 2002, for instance. We've seen various news organisations like Minnesota Public Radio and the New York Times come up with state and federal budget calculators: the last one from the NY Times was around 2010. The GothamGazette.com had some nice interactive games, but nothing recent".So why has interest faded? "I think it's solely because of resources," says Schaffer. "You need creative technologists on staff to build these games. They are time-consuming to build and a game may only pertain to a particular news issue. So it's a lot of effort for something that isn't evergreen. Strapped news organisations have had to prioritise and I think instead we've seen a lot more in the realm of interactive maps and searchable databases and data visualisations".Bogost agrees that funding is an issue, but thinks that many news outlets just don't have the right mindset: "Even when the opportunity for revenue was put on the table, the NYT couldn't, or wouldn't, figure out how to carry out such an experiment."Perhaps this is why newsgames have proliferated online as small projects engineered by teams of just a few coders and designers, rather than as a mainstream new medium. But it's a shame, because they could be enormously effective in an era where children are now native digital media consumers.Games as a learning tool"Games are great systems for learning and exploring," says Jo Twist, CEO of games industry trade body UKIE. Twist was previously a commissioning editor at Channel 4 Education, producing web games based around political, historical and social issues."Games are about decision making, about consequences of actions. And while you are playing, you are picking up facts, pieces of the puzzle, learning tactics, because you have to, and want to, in order to progress to the next level."Well-written scripts or beautiful graphics can compel the player into wanting to explore more and complete more challenges –Bow Street Runnerwas really good at doing that. The format won't work if it is executed poorly: the gameplay must be really compelling for anyone to play it. But well-designed games provoke your curiosity and make you want to know more in order to progress."In practical terms, the big problem with newsgames is time – they need to be produced and distributed quickly to remain topical. But that is getting easier. Endgame: Syria was built using the accessible development packageGameMaker, which takes out a lot of the programming slog and allows very rapid prototyping – Rawlings' game represents around two weeks' work.Bogost has also overseen a project namedGame-O-Matic, designed by students at the Georgia Institute of Technology in conjunction with the Expressive Intelligence Studio at UC Santa Cruz. It's essentially a tool to facilitate the quick and easy production of journalistic games without any coding or development experience.Once the tools are there, it could be that games become the new blogs – a means of self-expression and socio-political comment. For newspapers, though, there may have to be a radical re-think: journalism as a trade in the traditional sense is fading into history, and increasingly the major media sources are having to reinvent themselves as digital platforms; they will have to develop a culture of R&amp;D, they will need to think like San Francisco startups. That's not just because the means of consuming media has changed, it's because mega-corps like Facebook, Google and Apple have taught an emerging generation that information is a software product to be shared and interacted with.Beyond all this is a simple truth that games are brilliant formal systems that allow us to detect and explore patterns. They teach us things in the way our brains love. Of course there are issues of ethics and morality to be wrestled with, but these are about content rather than format.Fundamentally, newgames represent a means of sharing information via a format that huge numbers of people are engaged with; it is not unwise and frivolous to explore those possibilities, it seems unwise and frivolous not to.
It's Friday, and I spent most of last night playing DmC. How about you?
Day 4 of CES always sees the journalists and exhibitors all getting a bit battle-weary. The big keynotes are done, the big themes will have been dealt with, and Apple (which doesn't exhibit) will have done something elsewhere to divert attention (in 2011, lettingVerizon announce it would sell the iPhone; this year, announcingApp Store download figures 2013.) The biggest event most are looking forward to is checking out of their hotel.So what's left? Is it just sweepings? Not at all.Finally - finally! - the bendy phone is here:Samsung shows off bendy smartphone &gt;&gt; Connected Digital WorldSamsung  has unveiled a prototype phone with a flexible display, meaning it can be  folded almost like paper.During its keynote speech at the CES 2013  trade show yesterday (January 9), the Korean firm showed off the bendy display  technology, as well as a phone with a curved display.Instead of glass, the flexible phone features super-thin plastic that means it  is bendable and unbreakable. The device demonstrated at the keynote ran Windows Phone 8 rather than Android.The latter is probably no more than a detail. Some more detail:The demonstration unit had the  bendy display attached to a box containing the processor. The phone was shown to  flex and bend without any major distortion to the colours or icons.Samsung has been working on flexible displays for several years and previously released  a video showing the potential applications for 'bendy' smartphones or  tablets.Samsung said that the Youm technology will allow its hardware partners to create a whole new range of devices with "bended, foldable  and moulded screens".This is very exciting, though the "box containing the processor" part is a bit of a downer. But until you have bendy silicon too, it's not really feasible.Also, does Apple count as a "hardware partner" to Samsung?Meanwhile, closer to home:Dacor's Android oven packs 1GHz processor, 7-inch screen, heat (hands-on) &gt;&gt; EngadgetDacor'sninth-generationoven pulls together a 1GHz processor, 512MB of DDR2 RAM and Android 4.0.3. It also cooks food. At the front of the Discovery Wall Oven, there's a 7-inch LCD touch panel, while the UI behind its oven-centric widgets is apparently the product of a design collaboration between Dacor and BMW's DesigworksUSA -- they're all simple enough to navigate and get things done. The oven-maker's Discovery IQ controller cooking app will offer up interactive cooking guides, recipes and all other things cooking, although you'll still be able to install more standard apps from Google Play. The built-in cooking app offers preprogrammed dishes and adjustable timings for several dishes, while you can even program the oven to cook food remotely from any Android device.Can it also put the food in remotely? Also, if any are sold, will they count towards Google's activation figure?Meanwhile, in another part of the Android (and handset) forest…Diminishing returns: the cold, hard truth for CES smartphones &gt;&gt; Time.comJared Newman:Sony has a new flagship phone at CES called the Xperia Z, and it is pretty decent. The company has another one, called the Xperia ZL, that's also fairly nice. They're both roughly as okay as the flagship Ascend D2 phone that Huawei was showing off in another part of the room.If my descriptors seem lacking, that's intentional. The truth is that none of these phones seem markedly better than last year's holiday handsets. They've got a few perks that some older phones don't, like 1080p displays and quad-core processors, but in real world use it's hard to see the added benefit.When I sampled another new phone this morning, Pantech's Discover, the experience seemed practically as solid as Sony's and Huawei's flagship devices, despite a mere 720p display and a dual-core chip. The biggest difference is that Pantech's phone will sell for $50 on AT&amp;T, starting this Friday. Huawei's and Sony's phones will likely be more expensive if they ever reach the United States.Quad-core and 720p will seem completely sufficient within a year. Moore's Law at work. The question then becomes, is there any benefit in adding more cores? What's the processing that's needed? PCs have hit much the same wall in the past few years.Genius 'Ring Presenter' is a computer mouse that you wear on your finger &gt;&gt; Pocket LintMike Lowe:It's all happening in Vegas at the Consumer Electronics Show. Big 4K screens, big smartphones and, er, a teeny wearable computer mouse that slips over the finger? Yup, that'll be the Genius Ring Presenter then.What may at first sound rather bonkers does have its practical use. Think about a presentation where you want to "play the weatherman" and navigate around screens when in front of an audience, for example. Well now you can, but without wires.The coolest cameras at CES 2013 &gt;&gt; GizmodoCamera manufacturers announced so many awesome cameras this fall. We honestly weren't expecting much from them at CES this year. But some big manufacturers delivered the gear anyway. Here are four dope new shooters that all surprised the megapixels out of us.Like everyone else, you can rush down to your local Jessops and… oh.The Apple economy dominates CES 2013, but Samsung isn't far behind &gt;&gt; The VergeApple hasn't made an appearance at CES since 1992, but its products are everywhere. At CES 2013, iPhones and iPads adorn the sides of booths for everything from Bluetooth speaker manufacturers to car audio companies. Booth after booth is named iFrogz, iSkins, and iLounge. Row after row of companies like Otterbox and Speck have made fortunes building cases for Apple products. Just Mobile's booth is something like an aluminum shrine to Sir Jonathan Ive, Apple's lead industrial designer.At CES an economy of Apple has developed — funding booths as big and as extravagant as CES mainstays. But as the convention floor gets more and more crowded with phone and tablet accessory companies, it's even harder to stand out. iGuy, an iPad case with arms and legs no longer makes headlines the way it once did. While there's still plenty of Apple zealotry to be had, casemakers are moving — slowly, surely — in the direction of the Samsung Galaxy S III.Does that mean, though, that Samsung will have to keep the size of future Galaxy versions the same size and configuration in order to prevent older stock being incompatible? Or can case makers target their manufacture accurately enough to not have surplus stock (or shortfalls)? Samsung is likely, at least, to tell them more about forthcoming models than Apple.Then again, if you've got a bendy phone, who needs a case?And finally, the automotive side is huge at CES, but gets little attention, mainly because cars sell in relatively small numbers compared to phones or PCs, and it takes much longer for new tech to filter through. So make of this what you will:QNX's Car platform 2.0 puts a 1080p display, LTE, and video calling in your car &gt;&gt; The VergeIn addition to the standard functions of navigation, climate control, and voice calls, the QNX system can also support high-resolution, wide-bandwidth video calling. In the Continental GT test vehicle, two cameras allow both the driver and passenger to participate in video conferences, with full duplex calling and stereo sound. Of course, the video calling feature only works when the car is in park — shifting it to any other gear or neutral will automatically shift the call to voice only. We placed a couple of video calls from the car on the show floor, and came away impressed with both the video and audio quality. QNX says that the system is capable of supporting the full spectrum of audio perceived by the human ear, and based on our quick tests, it sounded really good.QNX, of course, is the software platform underpinning the RIM PlayBook and forthcoming BB10 products. It's a real-time OS.So what have you thought of this year's CES? Did it promise you everything you wanted? It's pretty clear, at least, that you won't be short of internet fridges - just as in every previous year.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSPOT-light on Microsoft's SPOT Technology &gt;&gt; Windows for DevicesMicrosoft has described its Smart Personal Objects Technology (SPOT) initiative as being "aimed at improving the function of everyday objects through the injection of software." Smart wristwatches are the first SPOT-based application, and Bill Gates unveiled early SPOT watch prototypes during hiskeynote addressat the January, 2003 Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas.In the words of @arebee on Twitter (who provided the link), "here's your Pebble watch - in 2004." Was Microsoft ahead again only to fall just before the technology became marketable?iPhone, Surface: Teen survey says Apple is done, Surface is cool | BGRAmong teens, Apple is no longer cool. The news comes from the Buzz Marketing Group, an agency that specializes in youth marketing.Popularity is always a double-edged sword with teenagers and according to the sentiment observed by Buzz, Apple is now too popular to be popular. Replacing iPhones and iPads as the object of teens' desire is Microsoft's Surface tablet and Galaxy smartphones from Samsung.(Thanks @rquick for the link.)Google set for Brussels showdown | Technology | The GuardianJuliette Garside:Brussels is moving towards a regulatory showdown with Google after the European commission's competition chief accused the company of diverting internet users to its own services.Joaquín Almunia believes Google is giving undue prominence to its own services such as news, maps and shopping comparison, driving traffic to them to the detriment of rival websites. The EU is reiterating its tough stance despite a decision last week by US regulators not to impose changes on Google's search business.This is going to be a hell of a fight.An homage to the tablet &gt;&gt; TechPinionsJohn Kirk:Tablet PC shipments are expected to reach more than 240m units worldwide in 2013, easily exceeding the 207m notebook PCs that are projected to ship, according to NPD.Amazing.The only thing greater than the resistance to tablet adoption has been how quickly tablets have overcome that resistance.The modern tablet was reinvented in April 2010 with the introduction of the iPad. It's now two years and 8 months old. No personal computing technology has been adopted faster than the tablet. And that's saying something. The tablet is being adopted at almost twice the rate that the smartphone was.(Thanks @slimbowski for the link.)IllumiRoom &gt;&gt; Microsoft ResearchIllumiRoom is a proof-of-concept system from Microsoft Research. It augments the area surrounding a television screen with projected visualizations to enhance the traditional living room entertainment experience.No, us neither, but there are pictures and some videos. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Tablets are 'media machines' with games the most popular app category &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukOctober 2012:There is plenty of anecdotal evidence for tablets being used predominantly for entertainment, but mobile analytics firm Flurry has tried to put some hard numbers on the trend, by comparing smartphone and tablet apps usage by category.The question does remain of what proportion of PCs are used for "content creation" (which as thediscussion in the comments of Thursday's Newsbucketshows, isn't an agreed definition.)Apple not a premium consumer brand? &gt;&gt; Fortune TechA consumer survey also conducted by Bernstein Research [shows that] 95% of current iPhone users in Europe and North America plan on repurchasing an iPhone now, and 85% of iPad customers plan on repurchasing another iPad some time down the line as well.As the hyper-growth company of the last five years, largely propelled by the iPhone and iPad lines, less than 50% of Apple's actual profits currently come from repeat customers, but given those survey results, the inflection point [where more than 50% does] should arrive some time in 2015.Interestingly enough, Bernstein Research also surveyed other smartphone users and found that 75% of Android users plan to repurchase another  Android device, 58% of BlackBerry users plan on doing similarly, while just 37% of Windows phone owners intend on sticking with the platform.It's not clear whether that's Windows phone or Windows Phone - the difference being that some people might still be using Windows Mobile (it lives, just). And with Nokia's announcement on Thursday, it seems that it doesn't matter about repurchase just now - Windows Phone is after the new buyers. (Via @slimbowski.)The rise of the Twitter fist bump &gt;&gt; BuzzfeedJohn Herman:There are a lot of reasons to favorite a tweet: it's a way to bookmark it for later, or to show support to its poster, or, if you use a service like Stellar, to actuallysendit somewhere else. Favoriting is arich cultureunto itself, and one that is apparently changing.InDecember of 2011, Twitter restructured its site (and later, apps) around four streams: Home, Connect, Discover and Me. Home and Me were minor updates to the familiar tweet list and profile, respectively, but Connect and Discover were different &mdash; particularly when it came to favorites. December was when they became truly visible for the first time.Connect added "Interactions," which shows you clearly, in a list, who's been faving your tweets.Favourite, dammit. Favourites - also known as "the silent retweet" - have started moving up, as the graph on the story shows. Don't get distracted by the Sidebar of Stuff.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic, said Isaac Asimov, and there is a hint of that wonder in a little gadget called Leap – which could transform how we use computers.The device, the size of a USB drive, is a 3D interface with camera sensors which lets you control your computer by waggling your fingers in the air. If you've seen Minority Report you sort of have the idea, except you don't need to touch the screen or even to wear special gloves."We've created a technology that could fundamentally change how people interact with computers, said Michael Zagorsek, vice-president of product marketing ofLeap Motion, which plans to launch the gizmo onto market this spring, price $70."We're creating the canvas and tools to create experiences which customers will fall in love with." There are more than 100,000 pre-orders.He gave the Guardian a demonstration on Wednesday on the sidelines of the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, plugging the device into a laptop balanced on his knee.Like a minimalist conductor, Zagorsek's fingers hovered over the keyboard, never touching it, and pointed at the screen. A matrix appeared. Zagorsek's fingers waggled, and the matrix unfolded into a spinning cube. He waggled some more, and colourful squiggly lines appeared, arcing and looping across the matrix in accordance with his fingers.He switched to the game Fruit Ninja, where you slash falling fruit, and handed me the laptop. A mango tumbled from the top corner of the screen. My finger sliced the air and the mango burst open.It feels like Microsoft's Kinect controller but with dramatically better accuracy – 200 times better, according to Leap Motion – which can track finger movements down to one hundredth of a millimeter, smaller than a pinhead.The technology has wowed those afforded advance demonstrations. Wired called itthe best gesture-control system it had ever tested.The Verge called it "Kinect on steroids" andpredicted a glittering future. "We're pretty sure we've seen the next big thing in computing."David Holz, a former Nasa engineer and self-styled "mad scientist", and Michael Buckwald, a serial entrepreneur, founded Leap Motion in 2010. Netscape's Marc Andreessen was an early investor. They recruited Andy Miller from Apple to serve as president. Other top Apple executives followed, including Zagorsek.When the companyuploaded a video last Maygiving a glimpse of their software's potential, reaction went viral, with more than 7m views.Key to the strategy is throwing open the platform to app developers. It received 40,000 submissions suggesting a bewildering array of spin-offs. Many were for robots, a field the company does not wish to pursue for now, but suggested apps for games and music proved more promising.One of Zagorsek's favourites was an air harp, which would allow musicians to play the instrument with exact precision. Another was for recipes, the idea being a cook with sticky hands could flick pages of a recipe without touching the screen."Just like pinching and zooming, people had to learn new ways of interacting, and now it seems so obvious," said Zagorsek. He predicted it would initially complement and gradually replace the mouse. Perhaps the physical keyboard too, at least for those who could touch-type an imaginary keyboard.Sceptics say waving your arms all day could become tiring and tedious but Zagorsek said you could control the computer by waggling your fingers an inch over the keyboard. The company is sending 12,000 devices to developers around the world in hope of filling an app store with irresistible products.Leap Motion is pacing its debut. It has no booth or displays at CES. Instead it has rented two discreet rooms to meet developers and a few journalists at the back of the Hilton convention centre, the quietest, dullest part of an otherwise bustling expo. The limelight, it believes, will come soon enough.
Brussels is moving towards a regulatory showdown with Google after the European commission's competition chief accused the company of diverting internet users to its own services.Joaquín Almunia believes Google is giving undue prominence to its own services such as news, maps and shopping comparison, driving traffic to them to the detriment of rival websites. The EU is reiterating its tough stance despite a decision last week by US regulators not to impose changes on Google's search business.Google prioritises paid-for search results, but its "natural" or unsponsored results are meant to be undistorted by financial interests and based on criteria such as the popularity or relevance of individual websites."We are still investigating, but my conviction is [Google] are diverting traffic," Almunia told the Financial Times. "They are monetising this kind of business, the strong position they have in the general search market and this is not only a dominant position, I think – I fear – there is an abuse of this dominant position."His comments suggest Brussels will hold the line against Google, despite the US federal trade commission's decision last week not to impose sanctions.Google chairman Eric Schmidt met Almunia before Christmas and will submit detailed proposals suggesting remedies by the end of January.This could mark the first time that the US group has bowed to regulatory pressure to change its core search business.The complaints against Google were brought by Microsoft, which has a rival search engine called Bing! and runs parts of Yahoo!'s search operations, and by travel websites Expedia and TripAdvisor, and British company Streetmap.The commission said last May it had four main concerns, the first being possibly distorted "natural" search. The second fear is that Google copies content such as user reviews from competing services and uses it in its own offerings without permission."In this way they are appropriating the benefits of the investments of competitors," the commission stated.The third fear is that Google forces other websites for which it sells and delivers search adverts to work with it exclusively.The fourth relates to how easily search advertising campaigns booked via Google can be transferred to other platforms for search advertising.Almunia said Google was taking a constructive approach but that Brussels would be "obliged" to issue formal charges if the remedies it suggests fall short. In theory remedies could include flagging when Google services are artificially given a higher billing than rivals.Google said: "We continue to work co-operatively with the European commission."If the case moved to the courts and the EC showed that Google had broken EU antitrust laws through the abuse of a dominant position, Google could be fined 10% of its worldwide revenues – which for 2011 amounts to €2.9bn (£2.3bn).The Commission could also force its own choice of changes on Google, although fines have been easier to impose in previous cases than practical remedies. Microsoft, which fell foul of Brussels regulators over the preferential treatment it gave to its own Internet Explorer browser within Windows software, has been fined €1bn but is still being pursued for not complying with requests to offer users a choice of browsers as the default for their PC.
Amid one of theworst flu seasons in yearsin the US, a new Facebook app is getting in on the germy action.Help, I Have the Flu– brought to you bypharmaceutical start-up Help Remedies– scans your friends' Facebook statuses for any mention of "coughs", "sneezes" or "flu", to help you figure out who made you sick. The app's tagline suggests: "Nothing will make you feel better like having someone to blame."The Centers for Disease Control aren't so sure. Before logging in to Facebook to point fingers,the CDC recommendsan "influenza vaccination for people who have not yet been vaccinated this season, and anti-viral treatment as early as possible for people who get sick and are at high risk of flu complications."Guardian readers have also offered up home remediesthat make them feel better when felled by the flu.The symptom witch-hunt that is Help, I Have the Flu may not be as useful to the sick as it is a bit of fun. After all, someone coughing openly next to you on the subway is probably not on your friends list in the first place.Broader geographic data may be a more useful indicator of the spread of sickness. Last year,an analysis of geolocated tweets in New Yorkthat mentioned illness was able to predict the progression of sickness fairly accurately, down to the individual tweeter.Other web and mobile apps that track the spread of the flu among larger groups than your Facebook circle are also available. They include such titles as HealthMap's Flu Near You – which also offers health tips – and Fount.in'sGerm Tracker, a web app that tracks flu trends via social media reports, available from the same researchers behind the New York Twitter study.Google is continuing its seasonal flu trackerGoogle Flu Trends, too, which currently shows skyrocketing "flu" searches over the past month. Mapped across the US, Google reports current flu activity as "intense" in 41 states, with the nine remaining states experiencing "high" flu activity when compared to official historic flu data.The CDC's own mapfits a similar trend– showing "widespread" influenza activity across the US.
Nokia has reported record demand for its flagship Lumia smartphones in the first sign that the Finnish mobile phone giant's long commercial winter may be thawing.Operating profits at Nokia's handset business will break even or move into profit, ending three straight quarters of losses, the company said in an unscheduled update.Helped by a multimillion dollar marketing blitz, Nokia sold 4.4m Lumia phones in the Christmas quarter, a higher number than in any previous three month period since the range was launched in 2011 as a key plank in chief executive Stephen Elop's turnaround plan. The company is struggling to keep up with "better than expected" Lumia sales, Elop said, with retailers and mobile networks selling out their stocks across its major markets. The forecast-beating update sent Nokia's shares up as high as 18%, with Elop hailing a "solid quarter". The shares closed up over 10% to €3.324 in Finland.Suggestions that Lumia is gaining traction should boost Microsoft. The handsets use Windows phone software, which has been slow to attract consumers who favour Apple products and Google's Android interface. Android has helped Samsung overtake Nokia as the world's largest phone maker.Previously, Lumia sales have not risen above the 4m achieved in the second quarter of 2012. Elop said the latest high-end version, the Lumia 920, had proved particularly popular.Nokia has accumulated €4.8 billion (£3.9bn) in losses since Elop abandoned the "burning platform" of its own Symbian software for smartphones in early 2011. Its devices and services division, which accounts for half of sales, has not produced an operating profit since the end of 2011 and had been expected to produce a fourth straight quarter of losses at the end of 2012.Nokia revised that forecast on Thursday after better-than-expected phone sales, with its Asha range doing well in emerging markets. It has also achieved rapid savings from a cost cutting round that has slashed more than 20,000 jobs and closed production and research sites around the world.
Rory Carroll is at theConsumer Electronics Showfor the Guardian, taking notes and photos about the most talked-about products at the tech jamboree.Somewhere in between writing aboutbrainwave technologyandnew wireless watchesproduced by Pebble, Rory found time to take a look around.A closer look at the watches, a Kickstarter creation:#2013CESPebble about to ship 85000 of these. A kickstarter fairytale.twitter.com/rorycarroll72/…&mdash; Rory Carroll (@rorycarroll72)January 9, 2013(Theprojectlaunched on Kickstarter with a target of raising $100,000 in a month. Instead it became a phenomenon on the crowd-funding site, raising more than $10m.)Adventures in creative branding:#2013CESIn the old days we called them bags.twitter.com/rorycarroll72/…&mdash; Rory Carroll (@rorycarroll72)January 9, 2013(Related: "CES has become a complete waste of time")Celebrity spotting: "Does it make me a bad person to say I've no idea who Snooki is? But will investigate why he/she/it is here."#2013CESsnooki has left the building but has left stack of phone shoes. Shoe phones? $29.99.twitter.com/rorycarroll72/…&mdash; Rory Carroll (@rorycarroll72)January 9, 2013The Snooki was never found, leaving products and rappers in her wake:#2013CESseeking snooki I found 50 cent. He didn't know where she was.twitter.com/rorycarroll72/…&mdash; Rory Carroll (@rorycarroll72)January 9, 2013(See also:Alicia Keys, Maroon 5 and Danny DeVito)What would you like to see?Tweet@RoryCarroll72with your requests and he'llanswer your questionsas they come up.
This week Charles Arthur meets John Collison, co-founder of Stripe, the US-based online payment system that's taking on the might of Paypal.Also Rory Carroll reports from this year's Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas where he's encountered mind-controlled toy helicopters and smart forks alongside the launch of HD televisions and next-generation fridges.Finally we have a tech news roundup with Jason Phipps and this week we feature the music ofJeremy Razimbaud aka Morbak Magenta.
Social news site Reddit has been courting influential Silicon Valley investors as part of a funding round that values the company at $400m,TechCrunchreports.Exploiting a boost in its profile after President Obama held a Q&amp;A on the site – and in the wake of the outing of controversial online posterviolentacrez– Reddit is reported to be limiting the investment round to just $1m, instead courting the allegiance of the tech industry's most exclusive angel investors.Reddit is owned by publishing giant Condé Nast, which owns titles including Vogue and Vanity Fair, through parent company Advance Publications, and was spun out as a standalone company in 2011 with $20m funding in the bank.With a small staff of fewer than 50 and income generated by advertising and subscriptions, the site is still thought to have around $18m of that money in the bank, reportedAllThingsD.Reddit has built a cult following, recording 400 million unique visitors in 2012 while its October page views doubled year on year to 3.8bn.Reddit's chief executive, Yishan Wong, joined the company in March to help the company control its own finances, but some users have been sceptical, believing he may sacrifice the site's prized anonymity to increase targeted advertising.
Amazon has stepped up competition against Apple's iTunes Store bylaunching AutoRip, giving customers free MP3 versions of physical CDs they have already bought.From Thursday, customers who bought any of the 50,000 AutoRip-eligible CDs from the Amazon Music Store from 1998 onwards will be able to access digital versions immediately through users' accounts on Amazon's Cloud Player.Albums initially on offer include Pink Floyd's Dark Side of the Moon, Adele's 21 and Thriller by Michael Jackson. Amazon's vice president of worldwide digital music, Steve Boom,told Reutersthe first 50,000 AutoRip albums would be the biggest selling, and that the aim is to encourage take-up of its Cloud Player service."When we picked those 50,000 titles we focused on having a substantial majority of our physical CD sales covered," he said. "People will be exposed to Cloud Player and our digital music offering, which is a good thing. We want to take this global."Amazon launched the service after securing licencing deals with EMI, Warner and Sony as well as independent labels.The online retailer is aiming to increase its 16% share of the digital music market, which Apple's iTunes Store dominates with 64% share, according to NPD Group. Google's nascent Music service accounts for just 5%.Cloud Player is accessible through Amazon's Kindle Fire device as well as integration on Samsung TVs and DVD players, Roku media player and Sonos hardware, plus iPhone, iPod and iPad apps.AutoRip will compete with Apple'siTunes Matchservice, which scans a user's music collection and matches it in the cloud for £21.99 a year, andGoogle Music's free scan-and-match service."Amazon has done a decent job, but Spotify is disrupting iTunes a little bit everyday," Brian Blair, analyst at Wedge Partners, toldBloomberg. "Amazon Cloud Player, Google Play – I've seen no evidence that suggests you're seeing a migration of users away from iTunes to those services."
I enjoy watching things happening in slow motion — falling raindrops, glasses shattering etc — and I'd love to record my own. Could you recommend some affordable high-speed digital compact cameras?Mustafa KurtayAlmost all the mid-range and high-end digital compact cameras now seem to shoot videos, and most of them shoot "high speed" videos as well.Unfortunately, it's hard to figure out which cameras do what, and even harder to know which ones make a decent job of it. Details are not always provided in sales blurbs, and rarely get more than a cursory mention in camera reviews.It would be useful if a camera magazine or website such asDP Reviewdid a comparative test of these "high speed" video capabilities. Since I can't find group review, and haven't used the vast majority of these cameras myself, you'll have to do quite a bit of work to find the best one for your needs. However, I can get you started….Slow-motion photography is, in principle, simple. Videos are usually played at 25 or 30 frames per second (the UK's PAL television system uses 25fps, while NTSC uses 30fps or, more accurately, 29.97fps). If you film something at 50 or 60fps and then play it at 25 or 30fps, the movie will last twice as long, but everything will happen slower. Choosing higher and higher frame rates will give you slower and slower effects, and professional high-speed cameras run at thousands of frames per second.Of course, there are drawbacks to using high frame rates. With digital compact cameras, the higher the frame rate, the smaller the image.Let's take the Casio EX-ZR100 as an example. It produces still images made up of 4000 x 3000 pixels, which makes it a 12 megapixel camera.It will shoot full HD videos at 30fps, which drops the resolution to 1920 x 1080 pixels. By the time you get to the highest speed setting of 1,000fps, the resolution is down to 224 x 64 pixels. This is too small to be practical. Worse, it's a horrible letter-box shape.No doubt some people buy the EX-ZR100 and similar cameras because they are attracted by the 1,000fps speed, but I bet they don't use it very often. The most attractive slow-mo setting is probably HS 240, which gives a resolution of 432 x 320 pixels at 240fps. This is noticeably less than standard definition video (640 x 480 pixels at 30fps) — also known as VGA — but not unbearably different.So, in your search for a camera, I suggest you concentrate on getting the best resolution at 120fps and 240fps, both of which will give slow-motion effects, with 480fps as a possible bonus. I don't think you can get 640 x 480 pixels at 240fps in a cheap camera, but 120fps would be nice.I picked Casio because the company is known for pioneering this area. It produced a series of high-speed cameras, from the 1200fpsEX-F1in 2008 to the FH100 in 2010.They all had excellent slow-motion capabilities with manual shutter speed and exposure control. These cameras (including the FH20 and FH25) may fetch much more than their list prices on eBay. It's worth looking at current models such as the Casio FX-ZR100 and ZR300 — or the EX-FC200S, which is on Amazon.com but not Amazon.co.uk — but Casio no longer leads the market.Either way, the outgoing Casio Exilim EX-ZR100 looks a bit of a bargain since you can get one for£147.70from Amazon.co.uk, reduced from £299.99.The Canon PowerShot S100 is a popular camera with slow-motion enthusiasts, to judge bythe number of examples posted on YouTube. The S100 is a 12MP camera that shoots full HD (1080p24) videos, and also offers slow-motion recording. It will shoot 640 x 480 pixels at 120fps, and 320 x 240 at 240fps.However, it's relatively expensive, so you could consider the Canon PowerShot SX260 instead. This is a"travel zoom"camera with a longer zoom lens and GPS, and offers the same slow-motion modes with slightly reduced image quality for less money:£225.31 at Amazon.co.uk.Slow-motion enthusiasts also seem to like the 12MP Panasonic Lumix FZ200, which can shoot HD (720p) videos at 120fps and VGA-level (640 x 480) movies at 240fps. Again, there arelots of examples on YouTube. However, this is a relatively expensive "bridge camera" (£429) not a compact.Instead, you could look at the £214Panasonic DMC-TZ30EB-K(aka Lumix TZ-30) travel zoom. This does 320 x 240 pixels at 220fps using the motion jpeg format, which produces larger files than the usual AVCHD/H.264 video formats.These three cameras show that it's possible to get decent slow-motion results from a digital compact camera at an affordable price (£150 to £225), though you will get better results if you can afford to spend more. I am sure Ask Jack readers will chip in with other helpful suggestions.So far, we've only covered slow motion shot "in camera" with post-processing limited to playing the video at a different speed. However, it's also possible to take standard videos and slow them down using computer processing. In this case, software uses interpolation to create new frames in between the frames you shot at the time.RE:vision Effects'Twixtor, a plug-in for Adobe's After Effects, is the best-known program for creating slow-motion videos from standard footage. It can produce stunning results with the right sort of input, such as high-quality videos from a Nikon or Canon digital SLR.Unfortunately, Twixtor costs more than most digital compacts (just over £200) whileAfter Effectscosts £911 at Amazon.co.uk. This is not a good option for amateurs.However, anyone who fancies this sort of thing could try the free, open sourceslowmoVideo. Simon Eugster wrote it as his bachelor thesis(PDF)at ETH Zürich.If you have any spare cash after buying a camera, spend it on a good tripod and possibly even some lights. Putting the camera on a sturdy tripod is the quickest and easiest way to eliminate camera shake and make your videos look more professional. It should also discourage you from moving the camera around, which can lead to theJello effectillustrated in a video atVimeo.High frame rates usually result in less light reaching each frame, so slow-motion videos shot on cheap cameras can tend to show a lot of grain and "noise". You can minimise this problem by making sure the subject is strongly lit. Quartz halogen lights are the most commonly used, but seeChoosing the best video lighting kitfor a short introduction to the topic.
It is an increasingly familiar complaint – online gaming forums have become snakepits of defamation and derision. But you rarely hear it from the developers themselves, and certainly not about their own lovingly tended communities.Earlier this month however, David Gaider, the lead writer on Bioware's Dragon Age series wrotea rather depressing poston his personal blog, claiming that he no longer visits the Bioware Social Network forums because of the "toxic" levels of abuse and vilification. "Spending too much time there starts to make me feel negative," he writes. "Not just about the games we make, but about myself and life in general. That's not a good feeling to have."He's keen to point out that it's not about slamming his head in the sand, ignoring constructive criticism, and he concedes that there is still useful feedback both good and bad. His problem is that the positivity is being completely drowned out."The signal-to-noise ratio does seem to be worsening, and eventually you get the feeling like you're at one of those parties where all anyone is doing is bitching. It doesn't matter what they're bitching about so much as, sooner or later, that's all you can really hear. Engaging starts to mean partaking in the bitching until you feel like that's all you're doing. Even when I try to rise above, those who are most negative will seek me out in order to get a rise out of me— and not unsuccessfully. I am only human, and I'll end up responding to score points just as they do, and end up feeling shitty for having done so.He also makes an interesting point on how online communities can devolve:"Eventually the polite, reasonable folks stop feeling like it's a group of people they want to hang around. So they leave, and those who remain start to see only those who agree with them— and, because that's all they see, they think that's all there is. Everyone feels as they do, according to them. Once the tipping point is passed, you're left with the extremes… those who hate, and those who dislike the haters enough to endure the toxic atmosphere to try and combat them. Each clash between those groups drives more of the others away."Of course the negativity that can arise from online anonymity is an issue that goes much further than gaming; media sites the world over are grappling with the puzzle of encouraging reader interaction while also ensuring people behave in a respectful manner. From Tripadvisor reviews to Facebook posts and, yes, newspaper comments sections, the process of contributing has to be made intuitive and uninvasive, but yet these factors also provide a shield from behind which participants feel comfortable to sling bile.And it definitely seems as though the distancing effect of the anonymous online forum is part of the problem here. Gaider compares the experience of reading these pages with attending the company's fan conventions. Again, he anticipates the criticism that he's just looking for sycophantic fanboys – and counters: "It's possible to like something overall and yet dislike parts of it intensely, or to be disappointed overall in something you were hoping to like, and in either case to have a positive discussion regarding what you've disliked. I've had several such discussions with fans at cons, and indeed walked away from those discussions with a far better attitude about them simply because the tone of that interaction was not adversarial."Certainly, you're always going to get a different demographic of gamer at cons: the time, effort and expense of attending a physical event means that many of the more misanthropic elements of the community will be removed. But it's also much more difficult to actually spit death threats into the face of a developer than it is to post them online with very little fear of recourse.Much has been made this year about the supposed entitlement of gamers. Bioware knows more about it than many others, thanks to the internet protests that kicked off after the disappointing ending of Mass Effect 3. There has been plenty of thoughtful and intelligent criticism from gamers online – indeed in the comments section of this very Games Blog – but there has also been absurd inappropriate fury.And as his blog post has been picked up by sites like Kotaku and Eurogamer, Gaider must be steeling himself for more abuse. News sites can only quotesectionsof his argument, and context can become part of a complex equation of misrepresentation and mythologising:"It's especially hard when someone takes something you've said and twists it, and then misrepresents it to others as what you actually said.. and how would they know otherwise? Reference that misrepresentation and, as far as anyone's concerned, I may as well have said it. The urge to go in and correct them is almost overwhelming. But what would be the point, other than to offer them new ammunition and ultimately end up being an asshole myself?"Requiring forum members to post under their real names hasnever been a popular solution. One alternative to that comes from the murky underworld of gamification: perhaps encouraging polite, mature posts by providing rewards and premium benefits to worthy participants may be a way of changing behaviours – a 'carrot' approach to contrast the usual 'stick' of banning.Whatever, when a developer feels irrevocably alienated from his own community, you feel that something probably needs to change. In this age of endless franchises and DLC, building an 'engaged userbase' is vital, but if that turns toxic, nothing good will come of it; least of all a better game.
Aside from thefascinating tale of Pebbleand its imminently shipping "smart watch".. Microsoft turned up (even though it's not exhibiting) and gave people the chance to play with its Surface Pro.But let's have the Pebble first:The Pebble smartwatch keeps it simple (hands-on) &gt;&gt; The VergeThe Pebble is an attractive smartwatch in part because of its e-paper display. People commonly confuse e-paper with E Ink (in fact, we did just that in our video below), but it's mostly a distinction of brand rather than function. The screen doesn't seem to offer quite as much contrast or reflect as much light as E Ink displays, but it's miles better than the display on the Metawatch. It's black-and-white only, of course, with a resolution of 144 x 168 pixels.On the right-hand side are three buttons — up, down, and select — and on the left is a single back button. The buttons are pretty big and offer more resistance than you might at first expect, but presumably that's to prevent accidental presses. It charges via a small magnetic clip that snaps on the side. Pebble tells us the watch should last about a week on a single charge, which takes about two hours to complete. It's also water-resistant down to four atmospheres, which should be enough for your morning laps in the pool.(I ordered one ages ago, so we'll aim to have a real in-use review once it arrives.)Now, the Surface Pro is here.Microsoft Surface Pro hands-on: this is what it should have been all along &gt;&gt; GizmodoSam Biddle:Surface RT was an enormous letdown—not because it was bad, but because it could have been so, so good. But Microsoft brought the Pro version to Vegas and let us play—and I couldn't be happier.To be blunt, Surface Pro makes RT look like a mistake. Surface RT was a mistake—but fortunately for Microsoft (and more importantly, for us), Pro makes up for almost every deficiency of its smaller, cheaper sibling. It has the internal power and the physical flexibility to, for real this time, perhaps carve out a whole new category of computer. It could be the device you put in your bag and on your desk above all others. Almost every conceivable facet is superior this time around.Hard to know how Microsoft will react to people saying, "Oh, the Surface Pro is wonderful - so much better than that terrible Surface RT."Gizmodo wasn't the only one to get a hands-on:Surface Pro: an in-depth look at Microsoft's super tablet &gt;&gt; The VergeTom Warren:Similar to the Surface RT, Surface Pro takes advantage of a built-in kickstand and Touch Cover / Type Cover combo to provide a tablet / notebook hybrid of sorts. This time Microsoft has angled the device at 26 degrees instead of 22 degrees, but if you compared the RT and Pro side-by-side it's difficult to tell the difference at first glance. These devices are clearly family members, and Microsoft has made sure they match in ways that allow you to use the same cover on either tablet.Surface Pro has a gorgeous 10.6-inch ClearType Full HD Display that outputs a 1920 x 1080 resolution. I say it's gorgeous because this display is unprecedented on this type of device. Text reproduction and colors were spot on and viewing angles were great for tablet use. Aside from the resolution, Microsoft has packed in 10 points of multi-touch support and active pen input…There's certainly a trade off with the Pro compared to the RT and that lies in a combination of hardware and software. The thickness allows Microsoft to pack in an Intel Core i5 processor which gives you access to a full version of Windows 8 Pro — that means you get all your normal desktop apps. The price is weight and battery life. It's not clear exactly how long the Surface Pro will last on average use, but I estimate it's around five hours.No word on price.Even so, Surface or no, it seems like everyone is down on CES, whether they're there or not….CES has sadly become a complete waste of time &gt;&gt; BGRBrad Reed:Las Vegas is a much better place to be in January than Boston, and I've typically had fun covering CES in the past. I skipped it this year, however, and after taking a look at all the "big" announcements unveiled by major tech vendors at CES 2013, all I can say is, "Thank God I'm stuck freezing in Massachusetts." Let's put it like this: If the most exciting announcements at your electronics trade show are a Sony Xperia phone and a Samsung chalkboard, then you have failed horribly at convincing major tech vendors that you're a worthy launching pad for their best new products.Which does seem to be a problem. It becomes big TVs again and again. Unless Microsoft releases the Surface every year. Except it's not an exhibitor. But looking at what is really on show:LG smart fridge pictures and hands-on &gt;&gt; Pocket-lintIan Morris:We've always loved the water cooling system of these American-style fridges, and the ability to have water provided either cold, or freezing in chunks or ground up is a dream come true. The impressive air filtration is useful too, for keeping the food fresh. The fridge is able to monitor conditions dynamically, and make changes on-the-fly to keep your food as fresh as possible for as long as possible.Price: just $3,500. Would madam like a Surface Pro to go with it?Hands on: Alcatel One Touch Idol review &gt;&gt; Tech RadarJohn McCann:The Alcatel One Touch Idol is one of a trio of new smartphones from the French firm which are pushing towards the top end of the mobile market.A less powerful understudy to the One Touch Idol Ultra, the Idol slides in with a 4.7-inch IPS LCD display, 1GHz dual-core processor, 512MB of RAM, 4GB of internal storage, 8MP camera and Android Jelly Bean.This is all squeezed into a slender 7.9mm chassis and Alcatel is claiming the One Touch Idol is the lightest smartphone in the world in its category tipping the scales at 110g.For comparison, the iPhone 5 weight is 137g. So Alcatel's made a big, light phone.Meanwhile Wired has been sort-of-liveblogging-Instagramming CES. Here's what it thought of Wednesday:Wired Gadget LabGoogle Glass in blue. These bad boys will be available in multiple colors. (Kinda looks like this would go well with a baby blue Surface.)Also contains the quote"I don't think I saw a single new thing today" — Vinod Khosla, Khosla VenturesWelll, some people are impossible to please.
Apple is reportedly developing a budget version of the iPhone that could cost half as much as its latest handset, in an attempt to push back against arch-rival Samsung and increase sales in Asia.With competitors producing touch-screen devices for under $100 (£62) without subsidy, analysts say that to make an impact Apple would need to price its budget model at around $300, half the price of the latest iPhone.Scheduled for launch in the second half of this year, according to manufacturing sources, a second model would mark a major shift in strategy for Apple, which has produced just one handset a year since it first appeared in 2007.The prototypes have a larger display than the iPhone 5, according to manufacturing news siteDigitimes, and could feature a less expensive body, possibly made of plastic rather than the aluminium casing favoured by Apple.Last year saw the arrival of touch-screen smartphones from ZTE, Samsung and Lenovo that cost less than $100, a development that will push annual sales of what are in effect miniature computers to the 1bn mark for the first time in 2013, according to accountants Deloitte.With emerging markets such as China and India expected to generate a large proportion of those sales, Apple must now decide whether to risk lower profit margins, and devaluing the brand of a device that accounts for almost half its revenue, by pushing for a share of the budget smartphone boom."Apple is fast approaching a fork in its global strategy for the iPhone," said Neil Mawston at researcher Strategy Analytics. "Apple needs to decide whether to continue with its current strategy of one-model-one-segment, or whether it needs to expand into multiple models and multiple segments. A sweet spot for high volumes would be around the $100 level, but Apple may be afraid of damaging its premium brand at this low price-point, so a pricing level around $300 seems more likely, in our view."An Apple spokesman declined to comment. Lower cost but high performance phones, many of which use Google's Android software, have bitten into Apple's global market share, which fell from a peak of 23% at the end of 2011 to 15% in the third quarter of last year, according to researcher IDC.Samsung's growth hinges on its high cost, flagship Galaxy SIII, but it has blitzed the market with 37 different smartphone models in 2012, each adapted to local tastes and budgets. The result was a leap in global market share in the third quarter of 2012 to 31% from 9% the previous year.Apple has relied on selling older models at a discount rather than designing new phones at a range of prices. Its oldest handset still on sale, the iPhone 4, is available for £319 out of contract in the UK, while the iPhone 5 costs £529 out of contract and $649 in the US, putting Apple out of reach for many consumers.The iPad mini, a cheaper and smaller version of the world's best selling tablet computer, could point the way for the iPhone. The mini has done well in China, generating "insatiable demand" according to analyst Brian White of Topeka Capital Markets.An iPhone with a larger screen could be a selling point. Smartphones are being used to watch more video as resolution improves, and the iPhone 5 screen is among the smallest of the current high end handsets. It measures 4 inches on the diagonal, up from 3.5 inches for its predecessor the 4S, but less than the Samsung Galaxy SIII's 4.8 inches.
It's Thursday!
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamOpenStreetMap hits 1 million users &gt;&gt; OpenStreetMapNote: document is a PDF.OpenStreetMap, the project to create a free map of the world, has reached one million signedup users this week.OpenStreetMap involves "mass collaboration", attracting large numbers of contributors all around the world to create a new map from scratch (without copying from existing maps). Anyone can sign up at openstreetmap.org and add information about their neighbourhood to the map, using simple editing software.On Sunday (6th Jan) the count of users registered on the OpenStreetMap.org website passed one million.Did we mention that it's British? Congratulations to its founder, Steve Coast. (CA: On a panel in 2006 with Coast and Ed Parsons, then of Ordnance Survey, I confidently asserted that OSM would never get the scale of users it needed to get to OS-quality detail. Then the Free Our Data campaign succeeded, Parsons went to Google as a head of maps technology, and the OS data went free and was incorporated into OSM,)200 Million Members! &gt;&gt; Official LinkedIn BlogWe recently crossed an important and exciting milestone for the company. LinkedIn now counts over 200 million members as part of our network, with representation in more than 200 countries and territories. We serve our members in 19 languages around the world.I'd like to thank each of you for helping build the LinkedIn network into what it is today. It's been amazing to see how our members have been able to transform their professional lives through LinkedIn. You truly grasp the power of LinkedIn when you start to focus on these individual success stories.Any chance of a deathmatch with Google+?Google's new VP9 video technology reaches public view &gt;&gt; CNET NewsStephen Shankland:H.264 is used in videocameras, Blu-Ray discs, YouTube, and more. But most organizations using it must pay patent royalties to a group called MPEG LA that licenses H.264-related patents on behalf of their many owners.Google has tried to spur adoption of VP8 instead, which it's released for royalty-free use. One major area: online video built into Web pages through the HTML5 standard.However, VP8 hasn't dented H.264's dominance, and VP8 allies failed in an attempt to specify VP8 as the way to handle online video. As a result, HTML5 video can be invoked in a standard way, but Web developers can't easily be assured that a browser can properly decode the video in question.Google, through Motorola Mobility, is also a member of the H.264 patent pool group. If MPEG-LA decided to sue over VP8 or VP9 infringing, Google would be suing itself.May 2011: Windows Phone will beat Android in 2013, analyst explains &gt;&gt; BGRLate last week, BGR wrote about a recent report suggesting Microsoft's share of the global smartphone market would overtake Google's share in 2015, and Windows Phone would become the best-selling smartphone platform in the world at that point. On Tuesday, the Pyramid Research analyst responsible for the report published a follow up explaining that her findings were misinterpreted. Pyramid's Senior Analyst Stela Bokun explains that Windows Phone is poised to overtake Android's massive market share much earlier than that -- as soon as 2013, in fact.A classic of its kind.(815) Flickr: Why did Flickr drop the "e"? &gt;&gt; QuoraStewart Butterfield, co-founder:Because the guy who owned the domain http://flicker.com wouldn't sell it and we loved the name. Dropping the "e" was Caterina Fake's idea -- I was against it at first because it looked so wrong, but I eventually came to see the wisdom: it was easy for us to get the domain, but it was also more distinctive &amp; recognizable, easier to search for, etc.Yahoo won the rights (?) to flicker.com in June 2010, as the next answer below Butterfield's explain. Quora, meanwhile, remains an excellent place to find top-level people answering real questions.In which Ars is allowed to see--but not touch--an Ubuntu phone &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaWe got to see a smartphone running Ubuntu up close for the first time today. It looks like it works and all, but this article will most definitely not be a "hands-on" report--we weren't allowed to put our hands on it.Canonical demonstrated a Galaxy Nexus running Ubuntu's phone interface at the Consumer Electronics Show, but product manager Richard Collins explained that the company isn't quite ready to let us use it. "We're just doing all of the driving for the demos for now simply because we understand how the experience works," Collins told me when I asked if I could test it out. In other words: No touching!...The biggest challenge for Canonical may be convincing carriers and phone makers to sell Ubuntu phones and put some marketing muscle behind them.It's the last sentence which is the meaningful one. Canonical's interface might work wonderfully, but without scale, it's essentially just a ROM for Linux desktop users.Dropbox to be included on all Samsung flagship phones and camera - ComputerworldDropbox on Wednesday announced tighter integration of its cloud storage and file-sharing service with Samsung products, from smartphones to televisions.Dropbox said the deeper integration includes several new Samsung devices, such as the upcoming Samsung Galaxy Grand smartphone and smart cameras. Samsung cameras will automatically push the photos to Dropbox's cloud storage service.Just a thought: if Samsung bought Dropbox, Apple would be screwed - inasmuch as Samsung could stall the development of Dropbox on iOS, or let it die. That could lead to users abandoning the iOS platform quite fast.Office for iOS may be coming, but does it really matter? &gt;&gt; MacworldJohn Moltz:A word-processing application was necessary back when printing was a daily activity. Heck, we'd print all kinds of ridiculous things in the '90s: résumés, term papers, holiday letters, dungeon master's character sheets ... uh, I mean, résumés. Résumés.Ahem.But eventually I, like many others, simply stopped needing to print. Everything I wrote I transmitted electronically or put on a webpage. And really, good riddance to printing. Printing is horrible. Printers are horrible. Printing software is what people in Dante's Ninth circle of Hell are condemned to use over and over. A pox on you if you ask me to print something these days; a plague on you and your house if you ask me to fax something. A good text editor--BBEdit, or any of the dozens of excellent Dropbox and iCloud-based iOS editors--is now my writing tool of choice. Memorize a few pieces of Markdown syntax and kiss a "word processor" goodbye.Read on for the most fabulous dissing of spreadsheets and presentation software.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Pebble, which became a Kickstarter sensation by promising to design possibly the world's coolest watch, on Wednesday unveiled the device to instant, though possibly premature acclaim.The watch, which connects wirelessly to smartphones to display information like text messages,will start shipping to customers on 23 January, working its way through a backlog of 85,000 orders before taking new orders.Weighing 38g, the watch looks basic but connects with iOS and Android devices, has Bluetooth 4.0, an accelerometer and an e-paper display and is waterproof. This means that you can use it to control music from the shower. It will sell for $150."We had to get it right, it's on your wrist," Eric Migicovsky, Pebble's founder and primary engineer, told the Guardian after unveiling the watch to a packed press conference at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. "People won't tolerate something bad being attached to their body."Technology journalists applauded the presentation. "The more I see the more I am excited about this device," wrote one.Kickstarter backers who followed the unveiling via a live video stream tweeted positive first impressions. No one outside the company, however, has had a chance to use the device or note any potential glitches. Migicovsky, 26, is awaiting customers' verdicts. "We're pushing it out there," he said. "I'm really excited to hear back what people think."During the press conference, the Canadian developer used a Pebble on his wrist to take questions which those following online sent via email, Facebook and Twitter.The watch comes in a variety of colours; one feature is a customised face which allows you to see the time in numbers, as a traditional clock face, in words ("nine twenty five") or, for true geeks, in a binary form which resembles black and transparent dots.Migicovsky apologised for a four-month delay – the watch was supposed to launch last September – but said the company wanted to lock in advanced hardware so upgrades could be done via software. "We want to make it as future-proof as possible," he said.The watch will show calls to your phone and allow you to check email and texts, an application which is expected to appeal to bikers and runners.The project launched on Kickstarter with a target of raising $100,000 in a month, the idea being to make a few thousand specialised watches in San Francisco's bay area. Insteadit became a phenomenon on the crowd-funding site, raising more than $10m, and so the company scaled up for mass production by sourcing production to China.The watch's battery will run for a week; its Bluetooth will drain 5% to 10% of a connected smartphone's battery.Rahul Bhagat, Pebble's head of operations, said his team was tired but exhilarated to have launched in time for CES, the world's leading innovation expo. "We've been getting by on two or three hours sleep a night," he said.The company will sell directly from its site, getpebble.com, and has no plans to distribute through stores. Migicovsky said that once production was running smoothly, Pebble would focus on developing new software for the device."It feels nice to have reached this point," he said. "As a boy I was always interested in watches, pendulums, grandfather clocks. The project for my fourth-year engineering course was watches. One thing led to another."
Twitter is coming under increasing pressure from the French government over homophobic, racist and anti-semitic tweets which Paris says contravene its laws on hate-speech.French ministers are in talks with officials from the US-based microblogging site over how to deal with concerns from anti-discrimination and equality groups in France.The government has suggested Twitter should actively fight against the publication of tweets containing hate-speech on its platform in France, even though the micro-blogging site defends itself as a champion of free speech.The debate comes after spate of offensive hashtags trended among the most popular in France in recent months. These included #SiMonFilsEstGay (If my son was gay) – in which users speculated on the worst things they would inflict on a gay relative – and #SiMaFilleRameneUnNoir (If my daughter brings home a black man), #UnBonJuif (a good Jew) and #SiJetaisNazi (If I were a Nazi).The government argued that the content of many of these tweets was illegal under French laws against publishing racist and discriminatory hate-speak.In a court case in Paris this week, a French Jewish student union, backed by the country's biggest anti-racism groups, appealed to a judge to force Twitter to hand over personal details of users who had tweeted anti-semitic comments under the hashtags #UnBonJuif (a good Jew) and #UnJuifMort (a dead Jew), so the users could be prosecuted.In October, Twitter agreed to remove the offensive hashtags. But its lawyer, Alexandra Neri, told the court that users' details would not be handed over. She said Twitter's data on users was collected and stocked in California and French law could not be applied. She said the only way the site could be forced to hand over details would be if the French justice system appealed to American judges to push for the data."We're not fleeing our responsibility. Our concern is not to violate American law in cooperating with the French justice system. Our data is stored in the US, so we must obey the rule of law in that country," she said, adding that Twitter had no obligation to hand over data in France. A Paris judge will rule on the case on 24 January.Meanwhile, the ongoing row over offensive tweets has highlighted the gap between theAmerican right to freedom of expressionenjoyed by the San Francisco-based site, which is not responsible for content, andEuropean laws on hate speech.Najat Vallaud-Belkacem, the women's minister and government spokeswoman, recently publishedan opinion piece in Le Mondeappealing for Twitter to respect "the values of the French republic" and consider putting in place alerts and security measures which would stop hate-speech spreading via the site in France.Fleur Pellerin, minister for the digital economy, this week told LCI TV that because Twitter was opening an office in France and seeking to establish itself in Europe, "I think it's in their interest to adapt to the legal, philosophical and ethical culture of the countries in which they're seeking to develop." She said the French government was in "permanent" discussion with Twitter, which was receptive to its ideas. "They know that they have to adapt to other cultures, legal [systems] and to appreciate the fundamental freedoms of the countries where they operate and I think they're open to discussion."She described it as a negotiation not a legal fight, and warned against stirring controversy.Twitter's position is that it does not moderate content. But it has a procedureto flag up potential child abusewhich will be instantly removed. It can also suspend accounts considered illegal or in breach of its rules. French anti-racist associations have demanded Twitter extend its policy to allow users to flag up and seek removal of any tweets considered to be an apology for crimes against humanity or incitement to racial hatred.French Twitter presence is growing steadily, with 5.5 million users, according to French data analysts comScore. Around 500m tweets are sent each day across the world.The power of Twitter in France was underlined last year when Valerie Trierweiler, partner of the president François Hollande, fired off a tweet supporting a dissident election candidate, which caused a political and personal scandal at the Elysee that rumbled on for months.Guy Birenbaum, a French commentator on new media and social networks said the offensive hashtags and tweets by what he called "hooligans" and trouble-makers were a miniscule proportion of the daily tweets in France, and likened them "to a kind of game to push a hashtag up the trending ranks, like the competition to burn the most cars at new year." He said the French government was in a kind of mediation role between the Twitter and anti-discrimination groups in France to deal with a cultural problem."I don't think this is a government like China which is interested in control or censorship." He questioned how any computer systems could technically effectively filter tweets for hate-speech. "The real answer is education for young people and in schools about how to use internet, speech and responsibility."Last year, in an unprecedented move in Germany, Twitter complied with a request by authorities toblock the account of a banned neo-Nazi group.
Rory Carroll is at theConsumer Electronics Showfor the Guardian, taking notes and photos about the most talked-about products at the tech jamboree.Spotted: A smart forkJudging by buzz, the world's first smart connected fork is one of the hits of CES. It knows how fast you are eating and encourages you to slow down by vibrating and flashing an orange light. The idea being that eating slower enhances digestion and reduces the quantity of food consumed."We've been covered by 62 countries in the past 48 hours," said Renee Blodgett ofHAPILABS, the French company which designed the fork. "And what's with you British? The BBC have interviewed us five times. We couldn't get rid of them."The company, founded by Fabrice Boutain (a svelte Frenchman in no apparent need of vibrating cutlery) is based in Hong Kong and Miami. It has made just a handful of prototypes but hopes, with the help of Kickstarter funding, to have the Chinese-made forks on the US market by April. "After that, spoons," beamed Blodgett.What would you like to see from CES 2013?Tweet@RoryCarroll72with your requests and he'llanswer your questionsas they come up.Spotted: A gross press lunch#2013CESPress box lunch. Is there an app for Gordon Ramsey?twitter.com/rorycarroll72/…&mdash; Rory Carroll (@rorycarroll72)January 8, 2013Spotted: A scary-looking sculpture maker#2013CESMakerBot 3D printer, $22000, making Roman sculpture out of plastic. 'Like a glue gun attached to robot arm.'twitter.com/rorycarroll72/…&mdash; Rory Carroll (@rorycarroll72)January 8, 2013Spotted: Abused smart phones#2013CESIPG cracks walnuts on a phone to stress the point.twitter.com/rorycarroll72/…&mdash; Rory Carroll (@rorycarroll72)January 8, 2013Spotted: More abused smart phones#2013CESThe ultimate 3D for watching Titanic.twitter.com/rorycarroll72/…&mdash; Rory Carroll (@rorycarroll72)January 9, 2013Spotted: Even more abused smart phones#2013CESIs there anything more perilous than being a smartphone? Butterflies have longer life spans.twitter.com/rorycarroll72/…&mdash; Rory Carroll (@rorycarroll72)January 9, 2013Spotted: Diarist wearing cat ear-shaped brainwave readers#2013CESNeuroSky's 'cat ear' brain wave readers. They wriggle, droop or prick according to what you're thinking.twitter.com/rorycarroll72/…&mdash; Rory Carroll (@rorycarroll72)January 9, 2013Channel your inner Eastwood: Firefox thought technology becomes reality at CES 2013
If you were a 10-year-old boy in 1982, the most exciting film of that year was not Tootsie, or Blade Runner, or even ET, but a rather ridiculous action thriller calledFirefox, in which Clint Eastwood plays a US pilot who steals a fighter jet from the Soviets.Not just any fighter – a super-duper prototype controlled by thought. A mere shimmer of a thought and you could turn left, turn right, fire, kapow! The notion appealed far more than cycling around with a bald alien in a basket.Three decades later, CES 2013 gave me the chance to live the fantasy, sort of, courtesy ofNeuroSkyandPuzzleBox, two companies which are pioneering brain-wave technology."You just have to concentrate," said Steve Castellotti, the founder of PuzzleBox, strapping a black band around my head. A sensor node rested on my forehead, a device clipped to my ear. Castellotti tapped on a computer. "Ready."I channelled my inner Eastwood – in a cockpit, braced for G-forces. A green light on the computer flashed. And hey presto, lift-off. A toy helicopter the size of a squirrel whirred upwards. Flying by thought!The glory was intense, but fleeting. Seconds later the helicopter plunged – apparently I lost concentration – into Castellotti's waiting hands.The device works by measuring brainwave electroencephalogram (better known as EEG) and heartbeat electrocardiography (ECG). Puzzlebox, which is seeking funds through Kickstarter, says on its site:For the past two years we have been publishing Open Source software and how-to building guides for hacking RC helicopters with Brain-Computer Interface (BCI) control using NeuroSky and Emotiv EEG headsets. Now we're finally making a finished product available to the public, while still freely releasing all source code, available hardware schematics, 3D models, and so on. The goal is to provide a fun toy as well as an educational introduction to BCI and neuroscience.There are drawbacks to the model I tried. You can't really control the direction of the flight, let alone fire missiles at an enemy MiG. The point of the software, said Andrea Shukis, of NeuroSky, is to teach the value of concentration and focus. "You can use it to teach children and to help adults keep their brains active."Shukis then strapped two pointy furry triangles around my head, with a sensor node resting on my forehead. "Cat ears," she smiled. "Our other display product."Clint was not subjected to furry appendages – the Soviets didn't dare – but Shukis continued, oblivious. "They respond to your mood and level of concentration. The more you concentrate, the more the ears prick up. The more you relax, they droop. If you think of something fun, they sort of swivel."I thought of something fun and, sure enough, they swivelled. When a small crowd gathered to observe and I grew self-conscious, they pricked up. If I'd had a tail, it would have swished.The technology has potential applications for educators, mental health researchers and the military. "It's not our focus, but there were a few guys earlier asking about the military side," said Shukis.Their identity? Now there's a thought.
Eleven civil servants at Iain Duncan Smith's department for work and pensions have been sacked for using Twitter or Facebook.The 11 sacked officials are among 116 DWP employees to have faced disciplinary action for blogging and social networking since January 2009, according to figures revealed under the Freedom of Information Act.Of these 116, 34 were given a final written warning, 35 received a written warning and 36 were reprimanded orally for their use of social media.The DWP said use of Twitter, Facebook and other social media sites was "completely restricted" for most of its workers. The only employees allowed to use the sites are those who have a "genuine requirement for access". The department'sofficial Twitter accountis run by the DWP press office.Information on the dismissals of DWP staff comes at a time when senior government figures, including David Cameron, are trying to get to grips with the rough and tumble of social media. Theofficial Number 10 Twitter accountboasts nearly 2.2 million followers, while the prime minister now has 200,000 followers after joining the 140-character foray last year.Steven George-Hilley, the director of technology at right-leaning thinktankParliament Street, said: "In a social media age, it beggars belief that employees are being banned from using sites like Twitter and Facebook in the workplace."Instead of implementing draconian rules and penalties, public sector departments should encourage responsible use of social media, that empowers staff without putting the organisation's credibility at risk."A DWP spokeswoman said: "The DWP has clear guidelines for staff on the use of the internet and social media. The vast majority of staff abide by these rules."For the small minority who don't, we have strict disciplinary measures in place, ranging from a warning to dismissal."
CES has moved into full swing, with the audience allowed in (even though there are somedoubts about whether CES is really still relevant in an age of software and services). Here's our quick pick of the fascinating and enthralling from day two.Asus Transformer AiO: the Windows 8 all-in-one that transforms into an Android tablet &gt;&gt; PCProAsus has used the first day of CES 2013 to demo the Transformer AiO, an 18.4in desktop all-in-one with a detachable screen that doubles as an Android tablet.The difference between the Transformer and the larger, battery-powered Sony VAIO Tap 20 is that when the Transformer is removed from its base station it switches from running Windows 8 from its Core i3 processor and Nvidia GT 730M GPU to a more traditional tablet running Android 4.1 (Jelly Bean) from an Nvidia Tegra 3 processor.For when you can't decide which you want. You can opt to keep it as a Windows 8 device via wireless remote desktop connection to the base station - so not going to stay that way on the train. Expected weight: heavy.Tactus morphing touchscreen keyboard hands-on (with video) &gt;&gt; EngadgetWell, Tactus has been sampling some new coating materials attempting to reduce glare -- and succeeding -- cut down on the controller's size by 70% and in so doing also doubled up the speed that the keyboard activates. As a refresher, the system includes a reservoir stored in the device, a controller to move the fluid into the tixels -- yes, tixels, Tactile Pixels -- and software to control the entire system. Once activated, the tixels inflate and become squishy that offer tactile keyboard-like feedback.Squishy keys? Yuk. We're still holding out for the tactile feedback system demonstrated bySenseg.It's official: 3D is dead &gt;&gt; The VergeVlad Savov:It's a weird and ironic dichotomy. On the one hand, 3D has become ubiquitous enough in televisions that people are unwittingly buying it when opting for a high-end new HDTV to fill their living room void — yet on the other, every big TV maker at CES has waved a clear white flag on trying to sell 3D TV as an important feature. Sony CEO Kaz Hirai spent more time during his keynote talking about professional-grade Sony camerasattracting M. Night Shyamalan over to digital recordingthan he did talking up 3D. In fact, I'm not sure he mentioned 3D once.It's not actually "official", but 3D seems to be gone as something that companies use to try to sell TVs.Samsung's got a giant OLED TV that curves (updated: hands on) &gt;&gt; GizmodoSamsung, not content to stop at its imprisoned UltraHD televisions, has announced its latest technologically marvellous curiosity: an 55-inch OLED television with a display that curves.Samsung touts the "panorama effect" and "life-like viewing" that a curve like this provides, but the biggest benefit seems to be that the curve makes all viewing angles equal. And that's true to a point; the curve is very slight, but the viewing feels uniform. The biggest effect of the form, though, is one of envelopment; it's a bit like having a planetarium on your wall. Which is both disorienting and majestic.Not to mention expensive. Well, we assume expensive, but there's no detail on pricing, availability or other figures. OLED TVs have been shown off at CES for a couple of years now without actually happening in the broader market. (Also: hands on a TV?)CST-01 E Ink watch is world's thinnest, pictures and hands-on &gt;&gt; Pocket-lintIt looks essentially like a bangle or bracelet (depending on your location for the correct naming convention) and is currently making waves on Kickstarter, having made $36,690 of its $200,000 goal in just a matter of days.Maker Central Standard Time - hence the CST-01 name - will be using a Seiko Epson Microcontroller to keep time. And its micro energy cell battery is rechargeable and can be charged 100,000 times, lasting around 15 years.Expected price: "around $170" when it launches in September. Given how Pebble has been working torturously through its manufacturing process (more, including exclusives, from Pebble on this site later this week) the price sounds reasonable but the timetable perhaps optimistic.Going ga-ga over LG's GA7900 &gt;&gt; Tech RadarLG alsounveiled the GA7900 todayduring its press conference. This is one of seven new Google TVs the company is showing off at CES this year, but it's the most high-end of the models.The TV works with a Bluetooth remote that has a keyboard on the back. What's more, couch potatoes don't have to life a finger to change the channel. The GA7900 also offers voice control to search for a program.Oh, yeah, Google TV. Remember that? Although Tech Radar goes on to say (ahead ofbroader coverage):Thought Google TV was going to lie low in 2013? Think again.Mountain View announced that Asus, Hisense and TCL will all reveal Google TV devices during the Vegas show while existing partners like Vizio and Sony are set to demo the recently revamped service on each companies respective devices.What "Google TV devices" mean exactly we don't yet know, but we're thinking anything from integrated screens to set-top boxes to IPTV boxes.Finally: butter-fingered (litereally or figuratively) smartphone owners, rejoice:Triple-strength Gorilla Glass 3 unveiled at CESAs Jennifer Aniston used to say, here comes the science bit:Gorilla Glass is an alkali-aluminosilicate glass that's chemically strengthened via a process called ion exchange: the untreated glass is immersed in hot molten salt at around 400°C, causing smaller sodium ions to be replaced by larger potassium ions; as the glass cools, a layer of compressive stress is formed on the surface that gives it increased resistance to scratches and drops. Gorilla Glass 2, unveiled at CES 2012, delivered the same damage resistance as its predecessor with a 20 percent reduction in thickness; the newly announced Gorilla Glass 3 is designed to resist scratches even better and retain more strength when it is scratched. Overall, Corning claims that Gorilla Glass 3 is three times more damage-resistant than its predecessor — a feature it's calling Native Damage Resistance (NDR).Delivery date: unspecified. Sorry about that.
The world's biggest consumer technology expo opened on Tuesday  to a familiar scene: thousands of gadget buffs streaming down Paradise Road to the cavernous Las Vegas convention centre, eager to glimpse the devices and trends of the future.For the next four days the Consumer Electronics Show will unveil technological advances and launch 20,000 products and prototypes – a vast bazaar showcasing new phones, new televisions, new tablets, new everything."Oh my God, I can't believe I'm here!" squealed a voice as crowds surged through the doors. Tweets from those visiting the booths of Samsung and the like declared them "awesome" and "amazing".The event is as big as ever: around 150,000 industry professionals – entrepreneurs, executives, designers, bloggers – crawling over 1.85m sq ft of exhibition space. The chief executive of mobile chip maker Qualcomm, Paul Jacobs, who delivered the keynote speech on Monday night, said its wares would change the world. "There are almost as many mobile connections as people on earth. Pretty soon mobile connections will outnumber us."But there is a problem. Sceptics say that the world has changed faster than CES, that the pre-eminence of the internet and software has marginalised an event still tethered mainly to hardware, and that CES is sliding into limbo as a consequence.Wired, the technology magazine, declared on the convention's eve: "As software matters more and more, CES matters less and less. The internet is already the world's largest trade show. Gadget blogs are the new conventions."Sure, big electronics shows offer the opportunity to meet people and forge relationships. But even that transaction is being moved online in the era of real-time social media."Hardware has become increasingly meaningless as upgrade cycles accelerate and spread across platforms, it argues, citing the Nokia Lumia 900, a flagship phone hailed as the next big thing at last year's CES. It was a hardware triumph but disappeared after Microsoft announced Windows Phone 8, rendering the Lumia, which used Windows Phone 7.5, obsolete.Wired at least sent reporters to Las Vegas. The news site BuzzFeed boycotted and published a story headlined "Why We're Not at the Biggest Tech Show in the World."After years of dwindling relevanceCES was no longer the most important place to go to see trends in technology, it said. "Seriously doesn't the word 'electronics' in the conference's dusty title make your eyes instantly droop a bit?"One problem raised by the news site BuzzFeed was the event's focus on hardware at the expense of software and services. The other was that social media had displaced traditional conventions as forums to showcase products and ideas. It noted that none of the four technology companies which "truly matter to people" – Apple, Amazon, Facebook and Google – were exhibiting at the expo.For years Microsoft's chief executive, Steve Ballmer, had given the keynote speech at the Venetian resort hotel. But the company pulled out this year, handing the job to Jacobs of Qualcomm. In his speech Jacobs exuded optimism and said "Gen M" – generation mobile – would keep the industry humming. He underlined his point by unveiling Qualcomm's new Snapdragon 800 Series processor. Due on the market this summer, it should improve the performance of smartphones and cars and give rival Intel a run for its money. And as if to rebuff accusations of dwindling relevance, Jacobs spiced up his speech with eclectic celebrity guests. Director Guillermo del Toro came on stage to show a clip of his new robot film, Pacific Rim, streaming it from a tablet that uses a new Qualcomm chip."Snapdragon ensures the film you see will be viewed exactly as I want it to be seen. When you're watching a great film, you want a great experience."The Nascar driver Brad Keselowski displayed an app which lets fans follow drivers during races. The actor Alice Eve lauded a new app for her new film, Star Trek: Into Darkness. Big Bird from Sesame Street appeared to plug an app which helps children with vocabulary. For the industry audience the biggest and most welcome surprise was Microsoft's Ballmer, who made a cameo to talk up the tech giant's new generation tablets and smartphones.This week's CES is expected to be dominated by ultra HD TVs, supersized smartphones, acrobatic PCs and sensors which replace the mouse by tracking gestures and eye movements. If any of that catches on CES will claim, as ever, that you saw the future here first.
Wednesday! What are you up to?
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPC News: Valve's Steam Box: Early specs and what we know so far - CVG UKValve has invested in computer manufacturer Xi3 to develop a custom PC in a bold new move to bring Steam to the living room.Early details suggest the system is codenamed 'Piston' and will be coloured in the familiar charcoal grey associated with Valve's software. Valve's Steam, specifically its Big Picture Mode for TVs, will likely be pre-installed onto the Linux based operating system.1TB, eight (eight?) USB ports, HDMI out. Basically, a headless PC.Qualcomm's insane CES 2013 keynote in pictures and tweets &gt;&gt; The VergeWho knew that people would dream of the sane, rational days of Steve Ballmer keynotes?Telecoms pricing &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansOfcom (the UK media and telecoms regulator) compiles a chart like this every year, showing pricing for a range of different user case baskets to get access to telecoms and media services around the world. Somewhat conveniently, it shows the UK as cheapest (mainly due to the slightly over-competitive mobile market), but it is also interesting to see how expensive the US market tends to come out in these sorts of comparisons.The US might think it's doing great in this space; in fact it's doing poorly. The same applies to broadband pricing.Steve Ballmer confirms Windows Phones sales 5 times faster than last year over Christmas &gt;&gt; WMPoweruserUsing our old stand-in, Facebook Monthly Active Users, we can also easily confirm that many more new Windows Phone users joined the club in the last quarter of 2012, and in December 2012 six times more new FB MAU were added than in Q4 2012.The MAU figure works because most people who use WinPhone connect it to their Facebook account. However, as Ballmer didn't say what the figure was last year, one has to estimate: WMPoweruser reckons 11.1m for the quarter.Apple working on a less-expensive iPhone &gt;&gt; WSJ.comApple is working on a lower-end iPhone, according to people briefed on the matter, a big shift in its corporate strategy as its supremacy in smartphones has slipped.While Apple has explored such a device for years, the plan has been progressing and a less expensive version of its flagship device could launch as soon as later this year, one of the people said."Could resemble the standard iPhone..." but with polycarbonate plastic. Certainly, analysts have thought that Apple ought to do an "iPhone mini" for years (try a search on that term). But would it be sold just to countries where Apple wants to make a big impression, such as China? It hardly needs to push its share in the US.Making your kitchen cool &gt;&gt; BBC Sci/Tech NewsYes, you've read this before, but..This has got to be the coolest gadget yet for the kitchen: a fridge freezer that is hooked up to the Internet.Screenfridge, as it is called, allows you to send and receive e-mail, watch television, pay bills and handle personal banking. You can also keep food in it.Wait: see if you can guess which year (and, for bonus points, month) this story appeared.PC prices must rise, not fall, to solve Windows 8's lousy start, analyst argues &gt;&gt; ComputerworldThe holiday slump in PC sales - down 11% compared to 2011 - means that PC makers must raise prices, not continue a race to the bottom, an analyst argued today.Windows 8 failed to turn around slumping PC sales during the recently-concluded holidays, final data from US retailers showed, confirming earlier estimates.The answer, said Steven Baker of the NPD Group: Raise prices."This [fall in sales] had to happen," Baker said in a Monday interview, referring to the unsustainable razor-thin margins and the continual rush to undercut competitors' pricing. "Even if Windows 8 had been a warmed-over Windows 7, [OEMs] would still have been beaten up," Baker said of a counter-factual where Microsoft just kept doing what it had been doing, and declined to turn Windows in a different direction.Surely netbooks - and all the other evidence - demonstrates that the variable demand for Windows PCs is price-elastic. (There's a base demand that is unlinked to price because it's giant corporate buyers.) So raising prices means lower demand.CES 2011: Samsung had one of the craziest, most secretly impressive keynotes at CES &gt;&gt; Business InsiderFrom 2011:Last night Samsung delivered an incredibly odd, but impressive keynote on the future of television.The keynote was led by Boo-Keun Yoon, president of Samsung's TV business.But really, a weird tween named "Zoll," was the host for the evening, introducing each topic. There were also dance routines.The comments section on that post is... intriguing in its eagerness.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Information flow is toxic sewage for authoritarian states. It's why Iran blocks Facebook and China hobbles Google. Some lefties would toss the American effort to muzzle WikiLeaks in the mix. Information can undermine power.It's not clear whether that will be the effect of a visit to North Korea by Google executive chairman Eric Schmidt, who is among a delegation led by the former New Mexico governor Bill Richardson. Pictures of Schmidt were released on Tuesday, showing him on a visit to an "e-library" where students were using Google.Here's an extract of the AP report of the encounter, which, if the pictures are to be believed, had a distinctly staged feel about it:One student showed Schmidt how he accesses reading materials from Cornell University online on a computer with a red tag denoting it as a gift from Kim Jong Il. "He's actually going to a Cornell site," Schmidt told Richardson after peering at the URL.Cohen asked a student how he searches for information online. The student clicked on Google "That's where I work!" Cohen said and then asked to be able to type in his own search: "New York City." Cohen clicked on a Wikipedia page for the city, pointing at a photo and telling the student: "That's where I live."Kim Su Hyang, a librarian, said students at Kim Il Sung University have had internet access since the laboratory opened in April 2010. School officials said the library is open from 8am to midnight, even when school is not in session, like Tuesday.In a completely unstaged moment, a student showed Schmidt and the rest of the US delegation how he accesses the internet. Photograph: Kyodo/ReutersSchmidt documented the experience. Photograph: David Guttenfelder/APThe AP noted that while university students at Kim Chaek University of Science and Technology and the Pyongyang University of Science and Technology have carefully monitored internet access, they are "under strict instructions to access only educational materials".Most people in North Korea are not allowed to use the internet, but that does not rate as a hardship in a nation that once again faces severe famine after a terrible drought and a disastrous grain harvest. In the 1990s an estimated 1 million North Koreans died of hunger while Kim Jong Il devised ever gaudier tributes to himself. Considering that last month North Korea sent a rocket into space, a pattern emerges: big spending on photo-worthy exploits while the people starve.What's Schmidt up to? Neither he nor Google has said why he is accompanying Richardson, who plans to speak to North Korean officials about an American, Kenneth Bae, arrested for committing "hostile" acts against the state.It'spossible to speculateon why the invitation was extended. In a New Year's Day speech the new leader, Kim Jong Un, said the state planned to use science and technology to build the economy.Critics might say Schmidt, a billionaire and a walking symbol of the riches technology can afford, is being used as a set piece to establish North Korean tech cred. Or perhaps Google is considering a deal with North Korea similar to the deal it had with China, in which it agreed to censorship in exchange for market access.Whatever the cause and effect of Schmidt's visit, there's an ineffable strangeness to photos of the Google chairman watching a rigged demonstration of the freedom to use Google – a strangeness that only a state that is a terminal prisoner to its own insularity could devise.
Twitter, which is inching towards an$11bn (£6.8bn) US stock market flotation, posted profits of just £16,500 in the much-delayed maiden accounts for its UK subsidiary.It is too early to tell, however, whether the microblogging website will adopt the kind of financial structures favoured by other internet firms such as Google, Amazon and eBay to lower their UK tax bills.Very little is known about the finances of the San Francisco-based group, which is incorporated in the US tax and secrecy haven of Delaware. The business is estimated to have taken $288m in global advertising revenues last year, according to the research firm eMarketer – a figure that is projected to rise to $545m this year and $807m by 2014.While the US only accounts for 10% to 20% of Twitter's estimated 200 million active users around the world, eMarketer researchers estimate the more commercially mature US market will still generate 83% of the group's advertising revenues for 2013.So-called "promoted" adverts started appearing on Twitter feeds in 2010 in the US, and in Britainin September the following year. Among the first advertisers targeting the UK that autumn were Sky, BT, Eurostar, Electronic Games and Paramount Pictures UK.By 2011, just $5.6m, or 4%, of the group's ad revenues were estimated to have come from markets beyond the US. The UK was one of the first new territories targeted, with a small staff recruited in central London in May 2011 about the same time as the firm acquired the filtering site Tweetdeck, located near London's so-called "Silicon Roundabout".Abbreviated accounts, covering the first seven months of Twitter UK's life, were only signed off by Ali Rowghani, the US group's chief financial officer, last month. The three-person board consists of Rowghani, Twitter chief executive Dick Costolo and the site's group counsel Alex MacGillivray – all of whom are based in San Francisco. The UK firm's registered office is given as that of its solicitors, Baker &amp; McKenzie.Small British firms can file abbreviated accounts if they meet two of three conditions: having turnover less than £6.5m, a balance sheet under £3.26m, and with fewer than 50 staff.Twitter UK's parent company is a holding company in Ireland called Twitter International Company. The Irish firm is not required to file accounts and is ultimately owned by the Delaware-incorporated Twitter Inc.Last month Google's boss, Eric Schmidt, brushed aside criticisms of the group's elaborate corporate structure – involving an international company in Ireland and a parent company in Delaware – which have seen it shift revenues of about $9.8bn into a Bermuda shell company where they are sheltered from tax. "It's called capitalism. We are proudly capitalistic. I'm not confused about this."A Twitter spokesperson declined to comment on the record but privately insisted that figures in the 2011 accounts for its British subsidiary were in line with the scale of UK trading  at that time.
Samsung has unveiled intelligent television sets controlled by voice and gesture commands as it prepares to do battle with Apple in the living room.With the iPhone maker known to be developing a television set of its own, companies from Sony to chip maker Intel are rushing to reinvent the small screen before Apple enters the market.Fresh from its success in smartphones, where sales of the devices helped Samsung post a fifth straight quarter of record profits on Tuesday, the South Korean company is turning the TV into a computer.Samsung said it was forecasting an operating profit of $8.3 bn (£5.2bn) for  October to December, a jump of 89% on a year ago.The sets it unveiled at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas can be updated with new software like a phone or a laptop, and feature a redesigned interface that Samsung hopes will replace clunky menus used by pay-TV companies.The "smart hub" home screen displays content on five panels – traditional TV channels; lists of movies and series that can be bought or rented; the owner's photos, home videos and music; social media with updates on what friends and family are watching and what is popular on YouTube or Twitter; and a panel of apps such as Skype. Voice commands can be used to select content; hand flips can move between panels; and pinching zooms in and out of images.Making television sets is an unprofitable business, but that could change if Apple intervenes as successfully as it did in the music and mobile industries."The TV companies see the opportunity to do what Apple did in phones," said Martin Garner at research firm CCS Insight .  "On average, when people buy a phone today they spend more than they did before. There is a bit of a race to get there first and make it difficult for Apple to win market share in that area."
The seemingly unstoppable Lego series of platforming adventure games is set to continue this year with a new set of ultra-powered allies. Lego Marvel Super Heroes is coming to multiple platforms this autumn.The game will feature a range of comic book legends including Hulk, Thor, Wolverine and Spider-Man, coming together to save the world from a cabal of super villains. Loki and Galactus have already been named. The storyline will apparently "compliment" the eight Lego Marvel playsets currently available, which feature various classic scenes from major comic series'. Environments will include well-known Marvel locales such as New York, but the game will also, "take the adventure beyond Earth to iconic locations in the Marvel Universe," according to Tom Stone, MD of Lego games creator, TT Games Publishing.Players will be able to unlock 100 superhero characters to supplement the main cast: Deadpool, Captain America and Hawkeye are on the list, no doubt exhibiting certain signature powers of their namesakes.The announcement comes after the significant success of DC tie-ins Lego Batman and Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes. And to ensure as many Marvel fanatics as possible get to play, the game is coming to Xbox, PS3, Wii U, PC, DSand3DS.Guesses, please, for the next 'franchise crossover' in the series. Lego Star Trek, maybe?
Monster trainers rejoice – Nintendo has announced a new duo of titles in the hugely successful Pokémon series. During a web broadcast this morning, company president Satoru Iwata revealed that Pokémon X and Y will be coming exclusively to the 3DS console in October.The games, which represent the sixth generation of the series, will feature a familiar combination of monster collecting, trading and fighting. This time, however, the action takes place in a detailed 3D world with a new dynamic combat system. Three new Pokémon have been announced: a cute critter named Chespin, the dog-like Fennekin and an amphibian called Froakie. The video also hints at two new rare or "Legendary" Pokémon, one resembling a deer, the other a huge bird.In a press release accompanying the video, Junichi Masuda, director at Pokemon developer, Game Freak, states: "We brought Pokémon into an entirely new dimension [...] The stunning visuals, a completely redesigned environment, game scenario, music, and communication features will bring smiles to the faces of video game players around the world."The Pokémon series started out on the Nintendo Game Boy in 1996, with the original Red and Green incarnations. The main titles have always been released in pairs, with both usually featuring the same plots and locations but offering different monsters, requiring gamers to trade with their friends to get the full set.Although initially intended for younger gamers, many veterans have grown up with the titles and have remained addicted to the winning recipe of exploration and monster swapping. Over 200 million copies of Pokémon titles have been sold worldwide since the series began. The games have also been converted into trading cards, cartoons and comic books, making it one of the most lucrative video game franchises of all time.
Of course, we did it as well. When compiling those all-important 'games of the year' lists, it's the big budget titles that tend to rise to the surface. The Guardian's own top 25 of 2012didfind space for the likes of Super Hexagon, FTL and Hotline Miami, but the emphasis was on Triple A giants such as Xcom, Dishonored and Far Cry 3. Those titles only tell part of the game development story for 2012, though.The Independent Games Festivaltells the rest.Now in its 15th year, this bastion of the US indie gaming scene was set up – asits website states– "to encourage innovation in game development and to recognise the best independent game developers". Taking place every year as part of the Game Developers Conference in San Francisco, the IGF is essentially an indie awards ceremony, with all the shortlisted titles playable on the show floor. This year, around 580 titles were submitted for inclusion, all of them played and rated by juries of developers and journalists.The finalists for this year's event wereannounced yesterdayand its a fascinating, thought-provoking collection. There are some reasonably well-known titles: the compelling spaceship simFaster Than Lightand bloody shoot-'em-upHotline Miamiare featured in a couple of categories including the main Seumas McNally Grand Prize. Terry Cavanagh's exhaustingly hyperkinecticSuper Hexagonalso makes an appearance for Excellence in Design."I'm really happy to get a couple of mentions," says London-based designer Mike Bithell, whose geometric platformerThomas Was Alonedrew honorable mentions in the audio and visuals categories. "Thomas was my first indie game, so those nods are massively appreciated. A big inspiration to keep pushing, keep improving and maybe get a nomination with the next thing. Danny (Wallace) and David (Housden) rightly got the nod for the awesome sound work they did, and the visuals mention was a cool surprise!"A lot of the games might not be familiar – yet they show us intriguing ways in which genres are being explored and interrogated outside of the mainstream. This is most apparent in the new Excellence In Narrative category. Here you'll find Blendo Games' astonishingThirty Flights of Loving, a first-person narrative experience that more or less invents a new linear story-telling method. Here too is 'magical realist adventure'Kentucky Route Zero, about a strange highway running beneath the state; andDys4iaby transgender games designer Anna Anthropy, an autobiographical tale about her experiences during hormone replacement therapy. I was surprised to see the beautifulPapo &amp; Yoonly making it into the 'Honorable mentions' section of this category, as – alongside Dys4ia – it's a remarkable use of gameplay mechanics to tell a very personal story (this time about a child growing up with an alcoholic father), and it hints at the wider possibilities of interactive narratives beyond the very simple, very homogeneous B-movie plots we're used to.The list of finalists always causes controversy in the indie community – some feeling its too willfully esoteric, some that it's not esoteric enough. But it's always a fascinating snapshot – and it provides a forum to discuss titles that don't make the major news sites. "Yesterday, every games website, forum and youtuber was talking about indie games and that's a big deal," says Bithell. "IGF have paved the way for games coverage. I'm lucky to have started putting out games once others had fought the good fight to get mainstream games coverage to look at their stuff, but I respect what's been done. And as a player, I know I saw some names on the list I'd not seen before, so it's a great way of finding interesting new games to play."Indeed, I'll certainly be trying out Richard Hofmeier's street vending sim,Cart Lifeand the sci-fi puzzlerMirrorMoon, both of which are up for the Nuovo Award which specifically celebrates abstract and 'unconventional' titles.Anyway, have a look atthe listand make it a new year resolution to try at least one game you haven't heard of.
Microsoft's reputation as the "less cool" rival to Apple appears to have been reinforced, after thieves raided its Silicon Valley offices – but only stole a collection of iPads.The thieves made away with five iPads worth more than $3,000 (£1,865) from Microsoft's research and development centre in Mountain View, California, over Christmas.Microsoft's flagship collection of smartphones and tablet computers remained untouched in the raid, according to Mountain View police whospoke to The Register.Red-faced Microsoft employees were presumably relieved to find their own company's gadgets had been overlooked when they returned to work after the Christmas holidays – but immediately reported the iPad thefts to police.News of the raid came to light after aPalo Alto Daily Post storyon 4 January, headed "Microsoft says somebody stole its Apple iPads". The final line of the story included the intriguing nugget: "No Microsoft products were reported stolen."The story prompted a flurry of "too good to be true" claims on technology blogs, but waslater confirmedby Palo Alto Daily Post reporter Angela Ruggiero who wrote on Twitter: "So to everyone out there asking, yes the story is very real. Thanks for your interest."The iPads were said to have been taken from an office where Microsoft develops new software for Apple products. No word yet on whether the thieves were only after the unreleased Microsoft apps.Microsoft had not responded to a request for comment at the time of publication.
When future economists look back on the dawn of the internet era, they will marvel that an age of such technological marvel was attended by a widespread, infantile mania for preventing positive externalities."Externalities" are the economist's catchall term for the spillover effects experienced by the people who are affected by others' activities. Most of the 20th century was spent locked in battle with the corporate vice of externalising negative costs. Companies are beholden to their shareholders, and so they are meant to save every penny they can, even when saving that penny might cost the rest of society several pounds. The classic example is toxic waste: processing industrial waste before it leaves the factory is a costly proposition, and so, whenever it is possible to do so, companies have defaulted to dumping their waste into the wider world. This is a much cheaper option — for the company.For the world, it's vastly more costly. After all, when the offensive sludge is all neatly gathered at the effluent pipe's head-end, it is concentrated and handy, and can be gathered and fed into whatever decontamination or sequestration system is appropriate.But once the sludge has exited the pipe and is out in the world, it has to be gathered up before it can be dealt with. Contaminated coolant can be sealed in barrels at the factory and sent for secure burial. Once it's dumped in a stream, you have to figure out how to get it out of the stream before you can clean it up – this is notoriously difficult.What's more, streams feed into rivers, and rivers into oceans, and people drink from them and swim in them and eat the animals that swim in them and rely on them. What started as a waste-containment problem has become a public health emergency and an environmental catastrophe – the company's savings are the world's loss.So policy wonks have spent a century thinking about creating the carrots and sticks necessary to minimise this externalising behaviour. The idea is to work out a system of fines and punishments that make it economically irrational to dump sludge, because the savings from doing so are offset by the penalties for getting caught. Getting this number right is notoriously hard, because you have to factor in some kind of multiplier of the penalty that accounts for the discount that rational – albeit psychopathically immoral – companies will apply based on the likelihood that they will not get caught.Virtuous circlesBut what aboutpositiveexternalities? Historically, these have been a lot less contentious, and it's easy to see why. A positive externality arises when you do something you want to do that also makes life better for someone else. For example, if you drive your car slowly and carefully to avoid a wreck, a positive externality is that other users of the road have a safer time of it, too. If you keep up your front garden because it pleases you, your neighbours get the positive externality of slightly buoyed-up property values from living on a nicely kept street.Positive externalities — virtuous cycles — are all around us. Your kid learns to speak because of all the people around her who carry on conversations and because of the TV shows and radio programmes where speaking occurs (as do immigrants like my grandmother, whose English fluency owes much to daytime TV after she came to Canada from Russia).My flat – on the top floor, above a commercial building – gets some of the rising heat from the building below, capturing our downstairs neighbour's exhaust heat (on the other hand, we provide a positive externality to them by insulating their roof with our home).The net is the natural home of positive externalities. Start with the "network effect" – the way that adding people to the network creates more value for existing users of the network (one fax machine is useless, two fax machines are slightly useful, a billion fax machines are indispensable, at least, until the web makes them obsolete). Every website that came along increased the likelihood that new users would find some reason to join the internet. Every new user that came along increased the likelihood that someone would make a website that tried to reach that user.This is a kind of anti-entropic magic trick, using the exhaust from one process to create fuel for the next one. The most famous example is Google's PageRank algorithm, which began when the company's founders realised that every time a web creator added a link from one site to another, there was a kind of implied vote for the linked-to site – when I link to you, I'm implicitly saying that you have something I think others should see. This citation analysis (a common practice in academia, where journals who are widely cited are considered more valuable than less-cited journals; and where journal-articles that are more widely cited are considered more valuable as well) was wildly successful, and it showed that there was, latent on the web, an invisible mesh of authority that could be made visible with the right kind of analysis.Google is a case-study in harvesting positive externalities. It offered a free, voice-based directory assistance number, and used the interactions users had with its software to build a corpus of common phrases, expressed in multiple accents and under a wide range of field conditions. Then it used this to train the voice-recognition software that powers its Android-based phone-search. Likewise, it mined all the publicly available translations on the web – EU documents that appeared in multiple languages, fan-based translations for subtitles on cult cartoons, and everything else it could find – and used this to train its automated translation engine, providing it with the context that it needed to figure out the nuance and sense of ambiguous phrases.There are other companies that do well by harvesting these positive externalities. Facebook provides its users with a handy platform for socialising, and then – notoriously – mines their social graph to figure out how to sell things to them.However, there's a wide difference between the two companies: much of Google's business revolves around capturing externalities from things you were going to make anyway. In many cases, the resources Google mines are public and remain in place even after Google's finished with them (for example, anyone can index the web and do the same citation analysis as Google).Both Facebook and Google also try to entice the world into activities that generate externalities. Facebook is a giant behaviourist experiment designed to tempt you into systematically undervaluing your privacy, and it uses game-like mechanics to extract more personal data and more social-graph enumeration from its users. Google's a little less obvious about its enticements, but clearly, offering services such as YouTube and Blogger are mostly about figuring out how to earn money from the exhaust-stream from individual and corporate creativity. Facebook, and to a lesser extent, Google, try to claim ownership over your externalities by locking them up in proprietary walled gardens.Taking a cutBut back to our era's defining mania: resentment over positive externalities. Many people and companies have concluded that if someone, somewhere, is getting value from their labour, that they should get a cut of that value. Irish newspapers are paying solicitors todemand money from websites that link to them, on the grounds that a website is improved if it contains a reference to the news, and that improvement needs to be paid for. Many people have accused Google of "ripping off" the public by indexing content, or analysing it, or both. Jaron Lanier recently accused Google of misappropriating translators' labour by using online translated documents as a training set for its machine-translation engine – an extreme version of many labour-oriented critiques of online business.And take DRM – digital rights management – which is used to restrict the way you use the media you buy, such as ebooks, videos, and games.DRM systems have been deployed to stop people from selling used games, to stop them lending their ebooks, to stop them from taking DVDs from one country to another. This is pure positive-externality resentment.The reasoning for DRM goes like this: "I sold you this [ebook/game/video] for the following uses. If you figure out a way to get any more value out of it, it belongs to me, and you can't have it, until and unless I decide to sell it to you."In the pre-digital world, this would have been laughable. "I sold you that book: if you want to use it to keep the table from wobbling, you'll have to pay me extra." Or: "I sold you that game to play in your house. How dare you bring it on holiday with you?! You owe me!" Or: "That TV was sold to you for the purposes of watching programmes, not to be used as a white-noise machine to lull your newborn to sleep, and certainly not to support a pile of knick-knacks!"Of course, removing positive externalities also removes value. Cars are worth more because of the used-car market. University textbooks command a higher price because of the market for used textbooks. If either sector managed to kill those externalities, it would be selling goods that its customers valued less (and would likely find that they demanded lower prices for them, too).I was at a TV DRM meeting once where a representative from the US-led Motion Picture Association proposed that broadcasters should be able to selectively block the use of wireless retransmitters – the sort of thing that lets you have a receiver in the sitting-room that fed a TV set in your bedroom – because "watching TV in a room other than the one the show is being received in has value, and if it has value, we need to be able to charge money for it".That's the crux of this irrational fear of positive externalities: "If something I do has value, I deserve a cut." It's one thing to say that someone who hires you to do a job, or purchases your product, should pay you money. But positive externalities are the waste-product of something we were already going to do. They're things that you have thrown away, that you have thrown off, that you have generated in the process of enjoying yourself and living your life.The mania to internalise your positive externalities is the essence of cutting off your nose to spite your face. I walk down the street whistling a jaunty tune because I'm in a good mood — but stop as soon as I see someone smiling and enjoying the music. I keep my porchlight on to read by on a warm night, but if I catch you using the light to read your map, I switch it off, because those are my photons — I paid for 'em!Worse still: the infectious idea of internalising externalities turns its victims into grasping, would-be rentiers. You translate a document because you need it in two languages. I come along and use those translations to teach a computer something about context. You tell me I owe you a slice of all the revenue my software generates. That's just crazy. It's like saying that someone who figures out how to recycle the rubbish you set out at the kerb should give you a piece of their earnings. Harvesting positive externalities involves collecting billions of minute shreds of residual value – snippets of discarded string –and balling them up into something big and useful.If every shred needs to be accounted for and paid for, then the harvest won't happen. Paying for every link you make, or every link you count, or every document you analyse is a losing game. Forget payment: the process of figuring out who to pay and how much is owed would totally swamp the expected return from whatever it is you're planning on making out of all those unloved scraps.In other words, if all latent value from our activity has a price-tag attached to it, it won't get us all paid – instead, it will just stop other people from making cool, useful, interesting and valuable things out of our waste-product.
