Electronic Arts has long been the Roland Emmerich of video gaming – its franchise products (for no-one at that company calls them games) are big, flashy and mostly senseless, but they can also be enormous fun. Army of Two: The 40th Day, the sequel to last year's thuggish co-operative shoot-em-up, is a fine example.Once again, the action follows steroid-guzzling mercenary duo Rios and Salem as they blast their way through swathes of identikit bad guys, earning bags of cash and blowing it on customised weapons. For the sequel, however, EA's Montreal studio has scaled down the idiotic macho banter and reined in the globe-trotting narrative – now the action takes place over a couple of days in Shanghai as the city is blown to pieces in a mysterious terror attack.Although it's possible to take this mad ride alone, with AI controlling your partner, the real pleasure of the game is grabbing a friend and tumbling through the maelstrom together, often splitting up to flank enemies, one charging in with an assault rifle, the other hanging back and sniping. Most of these split-up-and-surprise sections are clearly signposted – as is just about everything in this unapologetically linear adventure – but they're thrilling nonetheless, forcing a wonderfully synchronised, closely reliant form of cooperation that regular online deathmatches rarely allow.But it's the epic destruction, the sheer incendiary chaos, of the game that keeps you plugging away. As you fight through the city, buildings collapse on each other, aircraft crash, roofs fall away to leave office floorspaces open to the stars and explosions rip apart the floor beneath you. Yet still you fight on – collecting guns, adding crazy extras to them, and discovering more about the daft story.At times, the chunky control mechanism strains and flounders, the camera becoming jammed behind your bulky character, or the automatic cover system failing to lock in, leaving you ridiculously exposed to enemy fire. And the sections where you have to make serious moral choices about shooting or saving by-standing characters caught in your private war are jarringly incongruous amid the laughable carnage.But this is a trashy masterpiece of brash, brainless fun, jammed with blowout set pieces and awesome weaponry. As with Epic Games' very similar Gears of War, you need to disengage your brain entirely and redirect your intelligence to your trigger finger. If you can turn up, tune in and zone out, you'll have a sick, twisted ball.
Google today postponed the launch in China of a mobile phone incorporating its email and web services, after the row with the government in Beijing over censorship and hacking of its internal network."The launch we have been working on with [mobile carrier] China Unicom has been postponed," said a Google spokesman.Informed observers said Google had decided it could not launch a handset which relies on the US company's services – particularly the web search and Gmail applications, which would be "baked" into the operating system – when it could not be sure if those will continue to be available in China.Google last week accused Chinese hackers of compromising its internal networks to try to access the webmail accounts of human rights activists, who have been repeatedly targeted by the Chinese government. As a result, Google said it would end the self-imposed censorship of its search results there.Though Google has begun talks with the Chinese government to see if it will be allowed to lift censorship, a Chinese foreign ministry spokesman said today that the search provider must obey Chinese law.  That implies that Google will have to close its google.cn site, which would put most of the 700 employees there out of work."Foreign firms in China should respect China's laws and regulations, and respect China's public customs and traditions, and assume the corresponding social responsibilities, and of course Google is no exception," said Ma Zhaoxu.Asked about Google's accusation that it had been hacked from within China, Ma said Chinese companies had also been attacked. "China is the biggest victim of hacking," Ma said.Although there are mobile phones sold in China which use Google's free Android operating system, none so far has incorporated the Gmail and web search apps as the proposed one would. Sources familiar with Google's thinking said the company decided that launching the phone and then withdrawing the email and search service would "seriously compromise the user experience".Google has not yet set a date when it will stop censoring search results inside China. The Chinese government insists that internet searches are censored to remove material deemed "subversive or pornographic", with human rights and dissidents' work deemed to fall into the former category.
Cricket fans are set to be able to watch Indian Premier League matches on YouTube after a deal with Google, according Indian media outlets.Reports say the Board of Control for Cricket in India and the search engine will announce the deal – which may mean live matches in countries where the TV rights have not been sold – on Wednesday.No TV deal has been agreed for the UK following the collapse of Setanta, which held the TV and internet rights to the competition.YouTube had already hosted highlights of last year's IPL on anexisting channel. YouTube has already been testing large-scale live events such as a U2 concert and was on Tuesday due to stream the IPL's pre-season "auction", in which teams will bid for 51 players.India's Sony Entertainment Television and Singaporean World Sport Group jointly hold domestic and global IPL broadcast rightsin a $1.2bn 10-year deal, and have resold to apatchwork of global players. Willow TV holds North America internet rights.Now reports say the 59-match, 45-day day IPL, the third season of which starts on 12 March, will be broadcast live on YouTube – but in which territories and on what basis is not clear.It could be a deal to bring the tournament to countries where there is a gap in TV coverage – such as the UK following Setanta's demise.The International Olympic Committeehosted Beijing 2008 highlightson YouTube for countries with no television deal.DirecTV aired last year's IPL in the US on its $149-a-yearCricket Ticket.IPL chair Lalit Modi hinted that a deal was looming. Hetweeted: "Wait and watch for breaking news soon."YouTube UK told paidContent:UK: "We can't comment on rumour and speculation." But Bruce Daisley, the lead for display ads and YouTube at Google in London, isquoted by Marketingmagazine as saying: "We're keen to see how the community will take to live sport. There's a real interest in live events, so we're excited."An event like the IPL could be an important shot in the arm to YouTube's ad sales. The IPL is not just a domestic Indian cricket tournament but features players from around the world. It plans to pay out 6% of an expected $1.6 billion, 10-year income as prize money.Marketing mag reported: "YouTube wants to sign a global sponsor and multiple local backers as part of its strategy to make money from the coverage."Telegraph.co.uk said: "Modi told India's Economic Times at the weekend that he hopes to hold matches in the United States within 18 months." The paper adds: "Google will split advertising revenue", although without confirmation.
There was nothing unusual about the Google/China zero-day attack -- it was "almost textbook in its execution of a targeted attack," saysSymantec, and asSophos's Chet Wisniewskipoints out: "this attack is only unique because of the publicity". It used a new version of an old Trojan that your anti-virus software might have blocked, and it didn't work at all if you were using IE8 with DEP turned on, which it is by default. The question is, how would you know?Jonathan Nessfrom Microsoft's Security Research &amp; Defense team has provided an answer.To check if you have DEP enabled, download SysInternals'Process Explorerfrom Microsoft or run it online athttp://live.sysinternals.com/procexp.exe-- it's a geekier version of the Windows Task Manager, and lets you see Windows' internal processes.In Process Explorer, select the View menu item, and click on the bottom entry: Select Columns. On the resulting panel, go to the right hand column, tick the box for DEP Status, and click OK. You can now look down the list of applications running on your PC and see whether DEP is On, Off, or n/a.Be sure to check that both Adobe Reader 9.3 (if you have it, run it) and Internet Explorer have DEP turned on. That way, even if you do get caught by this zero-day attack, the code will not be executed.DEP (Data Execution Prevention) was introduced with Windows XP SP2, and uses a combination of hardware and software: you must have a compatible processor, but most are, now. If you don't appear to have DEP, restart your PC and check the BIOS, where you should be able to turn it on.Incidentally, I checked on my desktop PC running Windows XP, and Google Chrome also runs (like IE8) with DEP turned on. However, Firefox 3.5.7 runs with DEP turned off, which is a bad idea. Does anyone know why?
Angry Kindle fans have sabotaged the Amazon rating of a bestselling new book, Game Change, an exposé of the 2008 US presidential elections, to punish its publisher for delaying the digital edition of the book until February.The New York Times called  Game Change, by political reporters Mark Halperin and John Heilemann, "a spicy smorgasbord of observations, revelations and allegations" and the Washington Post said it was "engaging and readable [with] some real reporting", but the book has been punished with one-star reviews at Amazon.com from frustrated Kindle users."I'm very disappointed there is no Kindle version available for this book. By the time it comes out, this book will be outdated and I will have forgotten about it. Shame on you publishers for excluding and alienating a huge market, that would have bought your book if you weren't so short-sighted,"wrote H Watson yesterday, one of 142 reviewers to give the book one star. Fellow protester Mugdha Bendre agreed, writing "we want to read topical books like this one right away. Not wait a month for the ebook version to be available. I'm afraid I won't be buying this book after all and will have to subsist on the excerpts published in newspapers."Some reviewers have questioned the fairness of the one-star reviews, which have brought Game Change's overall rating down to 2.5 stars, saying they have nothing to do with the book's content and calling on Amazon to delete them. "This is a terrific, insightful look at the 2008 campaign. Why are all the Kindle owners punishing the authors with lousy ratings because of the publisher's and amazon's marketing ploy? It's mean-spirited and unseemly," wrote Laurence R Bachmann, giving it five stars. "You can't review a book unless you've read it for heaven's sake."HarperCollins published Game Change – subtitled Obama and the Clintons, McCain and Palin, and the Race of a Lifetime and billed as "the real story behind the headlines" – in hardback on 11 January, but the Kindle version is not out until 23 February. Despite the negative reviews, it is currently the online bookseller's bestselling title.HarperCollins is not the only publisher delaying release of its ebooks. Last year, leading publishers Simon &amp; Schuster and Hachette Book Group bothtold the Wall Street Journalthat they would delay ebook editions – which are generally priced significantly lower than the hardback – by up to four months for some titles in 2010. "We believe some people will be disappointed. But with new [electronic] readers coming and sales booming, we need to do this now, before the installed base of ebook reading devices gets to a size where doing it would be impossible," Simon &amp; Schuster chief executive Carolyn Reidy told the WSJ.Amazon.com pointed out at the time that "authors get the most publicity at launch and need to strike while the iron is hot. If readers can't get their preferred format at that moment, they may buy a different book or just not buy a book at all."
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Sorry to bother you but my (much loved!) Ask Jack has not been up-dated since 17 December. Am I looking in the wrong place or you having a well deserved holiday before embarking on the "increased frequency" promised in the last print edition?Tom WilsonAs you and other readers have noticed, the Ask Jack blog has been hibernating since the final issue of the printed Technology section last year. In between, I took a Christmas holiday then went to the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas, which left no time for posting here. This week, however, I'm hoping to post regularly, and the general view from email responses from readers is that it would be good to have one post a day. There's no guarantee I'll make that, but I'll try.So, you're now welcome to send new queries to my Guardian.co.uk address, which is shown above in a form that can't easily be machine-harvested. (Putting an address online is, sadly, a sure way to attract spam.) However, I'm not very likely to answer obscure technical questions, which usually apply only to your particular set-up: those are usually best asked in the manufacturers' or software developers' support forums. Obscure technical questions that appear to affect a lot of readers are, of course, fair game.Also, sorry, I don't have time to answer questions individually, but I will try posting a couple of queries foryouto answer, and we'll see if that works out. Please bear in mind that the whole point of the thing isto help fellow readers, and if that's not your purpose, your comments are unlikely to be useful.Finally, many thanks to Tom and to all those who wrote in with kind words about the column, usually while asking where it had gone ;-)
Here we go. Perhaps piqued by BBC Tech correspondent Rory Cellan Jonessayingthat Apple was leaving it late to issue invitations to its event on Wednesday week at the Yerba Buena Arts Center in San Francisco to launch its tablet, Apple has issued invitations to an event at Yerba Buena Arts Center in San Francisco on Wednesday week to see... "its latest creation".Seeing the invite, the snark is already quite high (a new version of MacPaint! suggested some) but we can see certain things here.The New York Times - which is due to introduce a paywall - iswidely expectedto be one of the partner organisations that will be represented on stage next week:"sources speculate that [NYT chairman Arthur J] Sulzberger will strike a content partnership for the new device, which could dovetail with the paid strategy".First, you can be sure that it is going to be a tablet. After all this time, it looks like Apple has finally figured out how you can do something with a tablet/slate (more the latter - as in a device without a keyboard, not even a slide-out one).It's interesting that this is fully eight-and-some-change years after Microsoft reckoned it had cracked it: who can forget Bill Gatesannouncing at Comdex in November 2001that "I'm already using a Tablet as my everyday computer. It's a PC that is virtually without limits -- and within five years I predict it will be the most popular form of PC sold in America." (Look, it's the computing equivalent ofAndrew Neil in Private Eye, OK?)But what's happened in those intervening eight years is that all sorts of new computing ideas have come along - particularly multi-touch, which you're familiar with from the iPhone. But actually Apple was trying it on a "safari pad" - a sort of web tablet - before the iPhone, according to a New York Timespiece from 2007: "Mr. Jobs seized on the multitouch technology after Apple product designers proposed it as a 'safari pad,' a portable Web surfing appliance. Instead, he saw the technology as something that could be used for a similar purpose in a cellphone."The only questions outstanding now are:(1) how much will it cost in the UK if it's $1,000 or so in the US? Best guess: £1,000.(2) what's it going to be called? Some of my money is on iPad - have a look atiPad.com, which changed hands in April last year but is peculiarly quiet and belongs to the mysterious "Enero 6 Corporation" (who? although as a point against iPad, it seems to be written in Microsoft's ASP scripting language), but the rest is on iSlate - given that islate.com presently shows up as being parked with Markmonitor.com, which all Apple-owned domains turn out to be once they're made live. Then again, the iBook name is available againSo: what's your prediction for how - if at all - the iSlate/iPad is going to rock the world? And what will it get right that the since-2001 tablets and slates haven't?
I recently bought a new desktop computer with Microsoft Windows 7. The problem is that I cannot download Adobe Reader, or Acrobat, and therefore can't read some circulars I'd like to.Nick CarterYou could try downloading Adobe Reader 9.3 fromhttp://get.adobe.com/reader/, remembering to untick the box that tries to bundle Google's Toolbar as well: it should work. However, it's worth exploring alternatives because Adobe Reader now has a rather poor record forcritical security holes, and because it's very widely installed, has become a focus for malware attacks.One alternative PDF reader that I have previously recommended isFoxit, which is also free. There are others listed for all operating systems at bothWikipediaandpdfreaders.org. Sumatra PDF might be worth a go, as it's small and open source.A workaround is to use theZamzar.comweb site to convert PDF files to a different format such as Rich Text Format (rtf), Microsoft Word (doc), an image file (jpg, bmp, png) or even plain text (txt). However, this quickly becomes tedious if you merely want to view PDF files.
The British government and armed forces are to continue their widespread use ofthe version of Microsoft's Internet Explorer browser that was attacked by Chinese hackers who broke into Google's corporate network– even though both the French and German governments have advised people to stop using it.The Cabinet Office, which oversees the deployment of computers in government, said today that "it doesn't think the issue [of being open to hacking] would be resolved any better by going elsewhere".But over the weekend the German governmentadvisedcitizens to stop using any version of Internet Explorer because of the possibility of attacks against it which could compromise the user's computer without their knowledge – and lead to the theft of data or incursions into corporate networks.Today, the French government followed suit, issuing anadvisorysuggesting that all versions of Internet Explorer, which is included with Windows, are vulnerable to the attack that was used against Google, Adobe and an estimated 30 other western companies, by hackers originating in China.Google said the attacks were used to steal intellectual property and compromise email accounts, and identified Internet Explorer as the weak point that was exploited.The specific version of the browser known to be vulnerable to the attack mounted on Google is Internet Explorer 6 (IE6), which was first released in 2000 and is standard on Windows XP, which was released in 2001. Despite its age and known weakness to hacking, IE6 is still the most widely used browser in the world, ahead of newer, more secure versions and rivals' alternatives such as the free Firefox, Opera or Safari browsers.IE6 is extensively used by the British government, including UK armed forces: in response to parliamentary questions asked last year by Labour MP and former Cabinet Office minister Tom Watson,  the Ministry of Defence, which has 300,000 desktops worldwide (including ships), said it was sticking with IE6, "and at the current time does not have a requirement to move to an updated version".Watson said today: "The government's own advice to businesses and consumers, through itsGet Safe Onlinesite that it helps to fund, is to not use IE6. So other than the fact that they aren't taking their own advice, it's preposterous that they wouldn't take this threat seriously. With the added security threat, all departments should certainly ditch IE6 and upgrade."Microsoft sought to play down the risks of the vulnerability in ablog posting on Sunday, saying that "we are only seeing very limited number of targeted attacks against a small subset of corporations. The attacks that we have seen to date, including public proof-of-concept exploit code, are only effective against Internet Explorer 6."However both the French and German government advisories say that there are weaknesses on newer versions of Internet Explorer on all versions of Windows, including the recently released Windows 7.
Google is investigating whether one or more of its employees in China helped launch the cyber attack against it last month, according to reports.It is thought the line of inquiry is a routine part of its investigation into the attack, which Google says was sophisticated, originated in China and targeted intellectual property and the email accounts of human rights activists.According to Reuters news agency, citing two unidentified sources, the attack, which targeted people with access to specific parts of Google networks, might have been helped by employees in the company's offices in China. It has several hundred staff on the mainland."We're not commenting on rumour and speculation. This is an ongoing investigation and we simply cannot comment on the details," a Google spokeswoman said.Security analysts told Reuters the malicious software or malware used in the attack was a modification of a trojan called Hydraq. A trojan is a hidden program allowing unauthorised access to a computer. The analysts said the sophistication in the attack was in knowing whom to attack, not the malware itself.Chinese media have said that some Google China employees were denied access to internal networks following the statement, with others put on leave or transferred to different offices. Google said it would not comment on its business operations.The Foreign Correspondents' Club of China said in a statement today that Gmail accounts used by journalists in at least two bureaux in Beijing had been hijacked and their emails forwarded to unknown email addresses. Last week several well-known Chinese advocates of human rights complained of the same problem.A spokeswoman for Google said at the weekend that it was "business as usual" after rumours that the US firm had decided to shut down Google.cn.The row over internet censorship intensified at the weekend when Yahoo's Chinese partner,Alibaba,  called Yahoo "reckless" for supporting Googlein its standoff with Beijing.In an interview with the Wall Street Journal last week, a Yahoo spokeswoman said the firm stood "aligned" against the "deeply disturbing" attacks and violation of user privacy."Alibaba Group has communicated to Yahoo that Yahoo's statement that it is 'aligned' with the position Google took last week was reckless given the lack of facts in evidence," said John Spelich, an Alibaba spokesman. "Alibaba doesn't share this view."Yahoo owns about 40% of the Alibaba Group, which runs China's biggest online retailer,Taobao, and its largest e-commerce site,alibaba.com. Yahoo sold its stake in the Alibaba site late last year, but its stake in the group as a whole, acquired when it closed its own offices in China some years ago, remains a valuable asset.A Yahoo spokeswoman said: "Yahoo condemns all cyber attacks regardless of origin or purpose. We are committed to protecting user security and privacy and we take appropriate action in the event of any kind of breach."Google announced last Tuesday that it wasno longer willing to censor search results on its Chinese service, citing the cyber attack as well as growing controls on the internet. But spokesmen say it has not yet stopped doing so and will continue talking to the Chinese government about whether it is possible to operate an uncensored service.Chinese authorities have tried to play down the disagreement, with the ministry of commerce saying there are many ways to resolve the dispute. But officials have stressed that all foreign companies must abide by Chinese laws. It is hard to see how the two sides could reach agreement.Figures released this week showed the number of China's internet users leapt almost 30% in 2009, to 384 million.
Google and other leading companies appear to have been hit byan unpatched "zero day" vulnerabilityin Microsoft's Internet Explorer browser, via a "spear phishing" attack. In other words, it was aimed at a small number of companies, perhaps even at individuals. It's extremely unlikely that you were one of them.Unfortunately, this does not mean you are safe. If it looks attractive, other malware writers will try to exploit the vulnerability, and use it more widely. The current technique is to use web sites baited with topical news, which can quickly find themselves prominently displayed on Google. You should therefore take extra care when doing searches related to Haiti, and so on.Fortunately, the Operation Aurora (thanks,McAfee, for the handy name) exploit is currently somewhat limited. Microsoft'sSecurity Research &amp; Defense blog published a handy chart(above) of the systems affected, which makes it clear that the real risk at the moment is to people using IE6 on Windows 2000 or XP.Further Insight into Security Advisory 979352 and the Threat Landscape, a post by George Stathakopoulos, Microsoft's general manager in trustworthy computing, spells it out:"In terms of the threat landscape, we are only seeing very limited number of targeted attacks against a small subset of corporations. The attacks that we have seen to date, including public proof-of-concept exploit code, are only effective against Internet Explorer 6. Based on a rigorous analysis of multiple sources, we are not aware of any successful attacks against IE7 and IE8 at this time. This is likely due to improved security protections provided by newer versions of Internet Explorer and Windows as described in our recent Security Research and Defense Blog. In summary, we are not seeing any widespread attacks by any means, and thus far we are not seeing attacks focused on consumers."The attack depends on "using JavaScript to copy, release, and then later reference a specific Document Object Model (DOM) element", so it can be prevented bydisabling JavaScriptor byenabling Data Execution Prevention. DEP "prevents the execution of code from pages of memory that are not explicitly marked as executable".DEP is included in Windows XP Service Pack 2 and later versions of Windows. You can turn it on by visitingthis pageand clicking the button marked Fix It.You have to wonder why anybody at Google would still be using a nine-year-old browser on an antique operating system with DEP turned off, and if they would also not have other defences such as browsersandboxing(Googlebought a companythat does this) and anti-virus software (F-Secure, for example, says it would have stopped the attack, and other anti-virus software is no doubt being updated). It's not clear if Google simply observed the attack or if the exploit actually worked. You'd expect a company of high-flying geeks not to fall for this sort of thing.Either way, the best idea is to stop using IE6, because even if Aurora didn't get you, the next exploit might. Much of IE6 was written in a previous century, when web attacks were not as common or as sophisticated, and when most of today's web standards had either not been invented or not widely implemented.Many large companies persist with IE6,in spite of Microsoft's efforts to get them off it, because their web sites or intranets use features not available in rival browsers, including Active X controls. This provides a short-term gain, because it avoids the cost of rewriting and testing applications, and/or moving to a more modern operating system. However, it also provides short-term pains -- because IE6 and XP are more vulnerable, less powerful and less functional than later software -- while making the eventual inevitable upgrade more difficult and more expensive.The fact is, the longer companies continue to use IE6, the further they fall behind the rest of the world, and the best of the web. This is not a good thing.Many companies did, of course, benefit from the power that IE6 provided when it came out, and from the fact that it set a ubiquitous standard for five or six years. But today it's neither ubiquitous nor a standard, and there's no rational excuse for sticking with it.
The much anticipated – by me especially - space opera/RPGMass Effect 2is launching on the 29th Jan. The sequel promises more plot twists and relationship conflicts as well as tighter combat and even prettier visuals. The gorgeous retro-synth soundtrack will be back too. I recently spoke to producer Adrien Cho and asked him about influences, improvements and the future of role playing games.What are the main changes you have made to the original game?When Mass Effect came out it was fairly unique. There was nothing else really like it around and it set a benchmark. It was the first game to really meld shooting and role playing games. I call it a Sci-Fi action/RPG/Shooter. So we haven't taken away any of this for Mass Effect 2. What we have done is focus on the shooter aspects more. We wanted to make it more visceral. We did this because we wanted to open up the audience to gamers who like Gears of War or Modern Warfare and introduce them to a genre that they may normally ignore. The upshot of this is they may notice the great things about Bioware games such as believable characters and great stories. If you can convince them that this is a fantastic shooter but then they will discover that there is so much more to Mass Effect 2 than that.How do you keep your Role Playing Game fans happy while attempting to reach this new shooter audience?There is a fine line here. But if RPG fans liked the original Mass Effect then they shouldn't have a problem as we haven't removed any of role playing elements. There is still plenty of number crunching going on in the background, probably more than in the original. What we did do was take a look at what didn't work in the original game and make it more streamlined and efficient. For example we took a lot of flak about the inventory system in the first game. We've now streamlined that so that it is much easier to scroll through your items and customise your armour. The key thing is that focussing more on the shooter elements has not taken away from the role playing. The story is still amazing and there is plenty of freedom.The facial expression character visuals on the original game felt like a step forward. Why are these so important?It's all about engagement. Everything ties back to us wanting to make the best story driven games in the world. Strong visual acting and characters all help achieve the performance that we need. I always think that if you are casting a role for TV or the movies you want the best actors but also the best performance. The character graphics really help make the performance and story feel believable.Are there any major differences between the PC and 360 versions?Not really. This time we did co-development on PC and the 360. Last time 360 was the lead platform with the PC following after. We learnt a lot from the PC version in terms of controls and layout so second time around we decided to develop both together and share knowledge between them.There seems to be a real 70s/early 80s sci-fi feel to Mass Effect, particularly the music. How much of an influence is all this to Mass Effect 2?It's actually 60s sci-fi as well! But yes, you can hear the influences ofVangelisin the soundtrack. We looked a lot at images fromJohn Harriswhich had a great vision of what the future should be look like. There was optimism in many ways. I always thought when we got to 2000 we would all be living in spaceships. Sci-fi from the mid 80s onwards got into a bit of a Deep Space Nine/Babylon 5 grunge feel. But older sci-fi had a really clean look. A lot of the designs in the game also look back at the original NASA designs too.  We're huge fans of Ridley Scott too. One of the worlds in Mass Effect 2 is very Blade Runner influenced. It is a space station called Omega. So imagine being able to run through an 80's Ridley Scott film! That's what Mass Effect offers in that level.The planetary exploration in the first game was really undercooked. What changes have you made for Mass Effect 2?Yes, the missions in the fist game were not received well. We designed them as moon buggy missions that let you roam around and experience weightlessness. But yes, they didn't go down too well. If you think about the planets we added them to the game to give a sense of a wider galaxy to explore. But if you kept seeing the same base or the same rocky environment then that was not good for gamers. So for Mass Effect 2 each planet is unique and has its own individual mission. Some of these are short – just beam down to get an artefact – but other are long and can involve problem solving, combat etc. There are plenty of different things to go and I think gamers will be happy.I assume there will be Downloadable Content?Yes, but we are not going into detail about this yet. The key thing we will use it for is to add variety. This could be weapons or armour through to side quests and full expansions.How does Mass Effect 2 link to the first game?We're offering a really catered experience. Movies and TV are really passive experiences where you do not control. Mass Effect is great because although we have set out a universe and a story we allow users to experience it in their own way. So your decisions in the original game will have a huge influence on your experience in Mass Effect 2.Where are role playing games going as a genre?I see the hybridisation going further. Not just RPG games using features from other genres but the other way round too. So many games now have RPG features such as personalisation, customisation and XP. You can see it in Mass Effect 2. Many of the team on the game were involved with Knights of the Old Republic. If you remember in that game the actions were very much queued up during combat. The original Mass Effect saw the evolution of that with players having more direct control. Mass Effect 2 is a further evolution of that idea, giving more control to the player but not losing any of the great story and character elements. Look at Modern Warfare 2 – it looks great on the shooting side. Why not incorporate some of the mechanics of that with the RPG elements of our games?Mass Effect is out of Xbox 360 on the 29th January
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
It would be a mistake to assume that what's on show at BETT represents what's actually in schools, but it certainly shows what the ICT industry is currently trying sell. And that is, most obviously, Microsoft Windows 7 on both desktops and netbooks. I might well have missed a few smartbooks running Google Android or some other version of Linux, but I only found one prototype smartbook. My assumption that CES would herald a flood of the things was wrong.Actually, there were two prototype smartbooks on theVye PCstand: one running Android on a Tegra (ARM-based) chip and the other running Microsoft Windows CE. People with long memories will know this was Microsoft's cloud-based computing solution a decade ago, and that it was used in later versions of Psion's NetBook, aka Series 7. It also appeared in numerous pen-based tablets, and versions include Windows Mobile, used on some smartphones, and the automotive version in Ford and other cars.There was also a shortage of tablet or slate computers exploiting Windows 7's multi-touch functionality -- at least, I didn't see any -- though there were plenty of convertible PCs, including Intel Classmate designs. In fact, I only saw two Windows 7-based notebook PCs with multi-touch screens: a Dell Latitude XT2 convertible, and a Toshiba Satellite U500. The latter was preloaded with some Microsoft Surface-type demo-ware, including Virtual Earth, the fishy screen saver and three games. Dell also offers a 21.5 inchSX2210T multi-touch monitor with webcam, which I saw on Microsoft's stand. However, I suspect multi-touch screens will be more popular on all-in-one PCs like the HP TouchSmart, Sony and Medion models.Another trend I expected to see is the use of Intel Atom chips in desktops, especially as dual-core Atom chips become more common. These are powerful enough for most school uses, but they're generally cheaper and run cooler than mainstream Core chips. The only example I saw at BETT 2010 was UCS'sApollo 945GC, available in black or silver for £99.88 (inc VAT) or more from iCubes.co.uk. (The dual-core version on display was priced at "from £120".) This is basically an Atom Barebones PC, so you can have a Core 2 Duo motherboard if you want.Other things that caught my eye included Microsoft's Kodu Game Lab, and the Moway mini-robot.Koduwas launched a year ago as a way for children (or anyone else) to develop their own video games for the Xbox 360 console. From an educational point of view, it's somewhat like developing Logo programs in the early 1980s, except the outputs are more fun than turtles. What I hadn't noticed is that you can now download a beta (Technical Preview) version free for Windows PCs -- and it still supports Xbox controllers.If you still hanker after a turtle, Spain's Minirobots SL was showing a new version of itsMoway autonomous robot(from £134), which looks like a tiny radio-controlled electric car. It is designed for teaching technology, electronics and programming in the secondary school-college-university market. Programs developed using the MowayGUI software can be transferred to the robot via the PC's USB port.The Moway includes line, light and anti-collision sensors, so you could probably have fun racing half a dozen of them round a spaghetti-junction track. I think the name actually comes from its modular construction, rather than mo-torway, but having a bunch of swarming interactive autonomous robots sounds like fun.
The row over internet censorship in China intensified at the weekend when Yahoo's Chinese partner called the US internet giant "reckless" for supporting Google in its standoff with Beijing over alleged cyber  attacks.Alibaba, Yahoo's partner in China, attacked it yesterday for its "reckless" support for rival Google. In an interview with the Wall Street Journal last week, a Yahoo spokeswoman said the firm stood "aligned" against the "deeply disturbing" attacks and violation of user privacy."Alibaba Group has communicated to Yahoo! that Yahoo's statement that it is 'aligned' with the position Google took last week was reckless given the lack of facts in evidence," Alibaba spokesman John Spelich said. "Alibaba doesn't share this view."Yahoo owns around 40% of the Alibaba Group, which runs China's biggest online retailer, Taobao, and its largest e-commerce site, Alibaba.com. Yahoo sold its stake in the latter site late last year, but its stake in the group, acquired when it closed its own offices in China some years ago, remains a valuable asset. Yahoo's public relations team in the UK had not responded to the Guardian's queries at time of writing.A Yahoo spokeswoman said: "Yahoo! condemns all cyber attacks regardless of origin or purpose.  We are committed to protecting user security and privacy and we take appropriate action in the event of any kind of breach."Google said this weekend it was "business as usual" after rumours circulated in China that it was shutting down google.cn It announced late on Tuesday that it was no longer willing to censor search results on its Chinese service, but spokesmensay it has not yet stopped doing so and that it will continue talking to the Chinese government about whether it is possible to operate an uncensored service.Chinese authorities have tried to play down the disagreement, with the ministry of commerce saying there were many ways to resolve the dispute, but officials have stressed that all foreign companies must abide by Chinese laws. It is hard to see how the two sides could reach agreement.A spokeswoman told Reuters that Chinese media reports that Google has already taken a decision were untrue, denying that employees have been put on paid leave. She said she was "unaware" whether staff in China have been denied access to codes, as some blogs have alleged.Google cited what it described as a massive and sophisticated cyber attack last month, targeting the email accounts of human rights activists as well as intellectual property, and originating in China, in its announcement of its decision.When the news emerged, there wasspeculationwhether Yahoo, along with Microsoft, would use the dispute to increase its market share in China. The firms run the other two major Western search engines in China."Google put itself on a pedestal and positioned itself as a company with morals that believes in organising the world's information freely and for the good of all. Microsoft and Yahoo! have never done that. They are just businesses," said Nate Elliott, a principal analyst at Forrester Research.The US State department is expected to issue a formal request for China to explain the cyber attacks early next week.Figures released this week showed the number of China's internet users leapt almost 30% in 2009, to 384 million.
LEXUS 250 ISC£34,550MILES PER GALLON: 31CO2PER KM: 214 GRAMSGOOD FOR: MAYBAD FOR: DECEMBERIt is an irony of modern life that the more choice we are offered, the less we seem able to make a decision. We can choose where to shop, where to send our kids to school and in which hospital we'd like to have our hernia repaired ("A clinic with a view of the river and a doctor who smells of apricots"). But the reality is we shop at the nearest supermarket, the children go to their local school and the hospital is the one with a cancellation "in 12 days, thank you very much". Choice is just an illusion, an extra layer of perceived value, created by marketeers. And nowhere is this better demonstrated than the world of folding hard-top sports cars.The myth: a high performance, four-seat coupe that turns into a roomy cabriolet at the flick of the button. The reality: a wildly over-engineered two seater with space in the back for a pair of size-00 models that turns into an awkward-looking cabriolet with a small boot at the flick of a button.If you want a proper sports car/family car/convertible car/sensible car/luxury car… buy one. All-in-one varieties are almost always a compromise. Surely it's better to excel in one field than muddle through in several.This week I've been driving Lexus's 250 ISC – the convertible variant of the sublimely sensible and wonderfully driveable IS range. Unfortunately, the seven days I spent behind the wheel coincided with one of the wettest weeks we've had since we went camping this summer in Devon, so I barely managed to open the roof. But that doesn't matter, because the joy of this type of car is that it shines come rain or… well, shine. It's a family car for sunny escapes and rainy returns. So we headed out to the countryside for a relaxed family lunch. Within 30 minutes the teens in the back were complaining of claustrophobia, nausea and boredom (no change there, then).Up front, I pulled my seat forward to create a wafer-thin-mint's worth of extra legroom for their Uggs in the back. But the moaning continued. We tried to hypnotise them by playing loud music, but the stereo developed  a nervous tic and kept jumping to Classic FM, which drove them mad. In an attempt to  keep the peace, my wife took the wheel and  I swapped into the back. I could see what  the teens meant – about the space at least.  The music sounded wonderful.Later, I went for a drive on my own. There was more space, I moved the seat back so my head was no longer rubbing on the roof. The car's handling and performance, clearly aimed at Corniche-style cruising, came into its own. It felt refined, mature, even stately. But also a little sluggish. Everything is so damped and weighted and luxurious you feel like you're driving through a Mogadon haze. Finally, the rain stopped and a full moon broke from behind the clouds. I whipped open the roof – a mere 21 seconds thanks  to the car's 15 different roof motors and  37 individual sensors. If the coupe-for-four was a disappointment, the cabriolet-for-one was a relief. And maybe that's the real choice to make here. A family car to enjoy in the company of yourself.★martin.love@observer.co.uk
IF YOU'RE planning watch a DVD today, listen to a CD, play a computer game, go to a supermarket, browse the web, or do 100 other everyday tasks, spare a thought for the invention that has shaped our lives and revolutionised our manufacturing industries: the laser.The name is an acronym for Light Amplification from the Stimulated Emission of Radiation. It works by pumping electrical energy into a "gain medium" (a gas, solid, liquid or plasma). This stimulates the emission of light, which is then amplified by being passed backwards and forwards in a cavity. In its simplest form, this consists of mirrors at either end. Light bounces back and forth off them, each time passing through the gain medium, and is amplified with each pass. Typically one mirror, called the output coupler, is partially transparent, which is how the output laser beam is emitted.A laser beam is special because it's what physicists call "coherent"; it consists of waves that all have the same frequency and are in step with one another. This makes it different from, say, a flashlight beam, the light waves from which will have different frequencies and typically be out of phase with one another.The reason we're celebrating the laser this year is that 50 years ago Theodore Maiman, a researcher at the Hughes Research Labs, built the first one, using a ruby crystal to produce a beam of red light. Later the same year, a group of physicists built the first gas laser, using a mixture of helium and neon.Since then the technology has been developed, miniaturised, commoditised, extended and deployed to the point where it's virtually impossible to find a manufactured product that hasn't encountered a laser at some stage in its creation or use. When you play a DVD, a semiconductor laser less than a millimetre wide scans the disc's surface. The intricate cutting and welding of the steel in your car door was done by lasers. The internet's backbone runs mainly via laser light transmitted along fibre-optic cables. Every supermarket checkout uses a laser beam to scan barcodes. American forces in Afghanistan are now using powerful lasers mounted on Humvees to detonate any roadside bombs ahead of them.Lasers are thus a critical part of our technological infrastructure, yet no one involved in the research that led to them had any inkling of what their investigations would produce. The original idea goes back to a paper Albert Einstein published in 1917 on "The Quantum Theory of Radiation" about the absorption, spontaneous emission and stimulated emission of electromagnetic radiation. For 40 years, stimulated emission was of absorbing interest to quantum physicists, but of little interest to anyone else – certainly to nobody in government.Which brings us to Lord Mandelson, now in charge of all government funding of universities and academic research. He has no personal experience of research in science or technology, but, like many people whose minds are unclouded by knowledge, has strong views on these matters.In his first speech after taking control of Britain's research spending, for example, he "made no apology for prioritising research that would contribute to Britain's future prosperity". The occasion was the celebration of the centenary of the Science Museum, and Mandy left his listeners in no doubt that he will continue government policy of allocating more of the £6bn science budget to areas with commercial applications – in other words, areas that the government (and its industrial advisers) think will yield short-term benefits for Britain.Meanwhile, at the Higher Education Funding Council for England, the geniuses who presided over the disaster of the Research Assessment Exercise – which sets funding to universities based on the perceived "value" of their research – have been adjusting to the Mandel­son line. They are working on a "Research Excellence Framework" which will require applicants for funding to cite "demonstrable benefits to the economy, society, public policy, culture and quality of life". This bodes ill for any scientist or engineer interested in curiosity-driven research.The laser has become vital for our way of life, yet no researcher who worked on it after Einstein's paper could have predicted what would emerge. If Mandelson had had anything to do with it, we'd be reading barcodes by flashlight.
While the debate over excessive violence in computer games turning our pop kids into square-eyed psychopaths continues, what should march up, eyeballing all and sundry, but blood-soaked, third-person shooter,Army of Two: The 40th Day? But beyond the shock, awe and inevitable outrage, is it any good? Following on from a fairly dire original, in which you played as one of two masked mercenaries, Salem or Rios, the sequel takes place on a hazardous journey through a disintegrating Shanghai. Working for a private military firm, the excuse for all the killing is to mop up amid the chaos, face off against rival military contractors and make lots of money.Despite a paper-thin plot, the much-improved graphics and pick-up-and-play controls keep your finger glued to the trigger, an option tempered by moral decision points, such as choosing whether to save innocent lives or execute captured enemies, which shape your path through the game.Each combat scenario can be approached from two different angles, enabling your partner to cover your back while you dive through a hail of bullets. Alternatively, enemies can be distracted (creating "aggro" as the game has it) while you flank them and pick off targets undetected. Earning cash for missions, you can also build up a substantial arsenal of customisable weapons. Once you've worked your way through the single-player campaign, you can tackle the missions in co-operation with a friend. This is no intellectual exercise then, but terrific mindless fun at its best.
There's enjoyable post-pub viewing to be had in the Winter Olympics. The highlights show cuts most of the repetitive tedium, snow adds aesthetic pleasure (revel in the landscape in that one where they march for miles like penguins&nbsp;on planks), and there's a curious sense of satisfaction in watching toned young Aryans wrap their bodies in multicoloured cling film and chuck themselves off a glacier.And then there's curling. The finest winter sport of them all. It's chess, it's bowls, it's impossibly gripping. On ice. With brooms. Which makes its absence from the newVancouver&nbsp;2010inexplicable.Doubly so when considering the pretty much one-dimensional nature of most winter sports. Almost all of them boil down to bunging on the clingfilm and going downwards as fast as possible. The video game equivalents necessarily have to mirror this, especially in the officially licensed product. So of the 14 events on offer, seven involve reaching sea level as fast as possible on pieces of wood and three by leaping on a lump of metal and careering down a frozen water slide.Fair enough, it's what the Winter Olympics is all about. But unfortunately that, largely, is pretty one-dimensional. Graphically, it's pleasing: the sensation of speed well-represented, nice snowflakes etc. The controls are well thought-out and it is fun skiing, sledding or boarding down the mountain. Just not for long. Once mastered, the limited number of courses combines with the fact that 10 of the events are a mixture of two basic themes, so there's little incentive to play again.Of the other disciplines, speed skating requires furious button-pressing (entertaining, but only if actually furious); 1,500m skating – rhythmic button-pressing (a thousand times more fun onGuitar Hero); while aerials and ski jumping – accurately timed pressing of buttons (easily mastered, belying the complex nature of both). They add variety, as does the challenge mode (offering specific goal-based takes on the sports), but just not enough.What's missing? Well, a score-based free snowboarding option; biathlon would have added shooting to the mix; even a basic ice hockey sim is usually a winner. Fun could have been had with figure skating and, of course, curling would have brought a change of pace and the perfect multiplayer challenge (offered in glorious broom-against-a-stranger fun at playcurling.com).Vancouver 2010is a missed opportunity: there's not really enough here for a half-decent post-pub highlights show.
The annualBETT educational trade exhibitionhas moved on a long way from the days when it seemed mostly about picking computers and cheap software for the Acorn BBC B or Archimedes. The current show, which closes today (Saturday), has products that few people would have considered way back then. Examples include digital signage, short-throw projectors (for whiteboards), electronic money, CCTV cameras and biometric entry and registration systems. In some cases, schools could be getting ahead of most businesses.One example is theVeriCool Fingertip Cashless Catering System. This uses a small pad for fingertip scanning and verification. Pupils use money preloaded into their accounts to pay for lunch with their finger, without having to use cash or a swipe card. Not only does this solve the problem of lost or stolen dinner money, it means no one can tell who is getting free school meals. The same system can also be used for checking people in through the school entrance or registering attendance at lessons.Another cashless epayment company,sQuid, has also started to offer biometric fingertip identification. sQuid provides for micropayments in schools using a contactless card system like the ones widely used for transportation systems. This is useful, again, because it avoids the problems of handling cash and integrates with school accounting and catering systems. At BETT, sQuid said it had introduced a fingerprint-based system that was being used atBanbury Schoolin Oxfordshire.Face recognition is another approach. Aurora was demonstrating Face Register (which it calls faceREGISTER), which was launched in April as a "post 16 registration solution" (PDF). Students enter their pin number, then the machine takes their photo using infrared flash and compares it against the data held on file. The company says it takes less than five seconds to sign in, and students can sign out in three seconds or less. Obviously Face Register allows for all kinds of tracking by student, by subject, by tutor and so on. But it also provides an attendance record for those pupils claiming a government Educational Maintenance Allowance, designed to encourage poorer students to stay on after they reach 16.Nor is this the limit for what's appearing in schools. Some have already installed CCTV systems, and the analysis software is becoming increasingly sophisticated. For example, Security Systems Technology (SST) says its "recent education work includes an IP-addressable solution with over 100 cameras at Brampton Manor School in east London and a staff time &amp; attendance project at The West Bridgford School in Nottingham." Itspress releaseadds:"Video analytics, including people counting as deployed by SST, has become a valuable tool for University &amp; school facilities managers often to aid the Utilisation Survey process. Alarm-based installations are able to continuously monitor CCTV images throughout a school or college, creating an alert if certain patterns of behaviour occur such as large groups gathering in an area or intrusion into a protected zone. Facility managers at educational sites will immediately recognise the potential applications of such scene analysis."We already know that the UK has become a "surveillance society" -- the House of Lords Constitution Committee said as much in its report,Surveillance: Citizens and the State, published a year ago.Kids are already tracked by CCTV cameras in town centres and perhaps on buses and trains. Tracking them in schools seems the obvious next step.
Bayonetta, PS3, Xbox 360 (reviewed)Gamers often complain that the excesses of cut scenes – which see your character leaping around dispatching enemies – are rarely matched by gameplay that's flatter, slower and less balletic. In Bayonetta, you're so breathless from the action, cut scenes provide a brief respite for your pulse to return to normal. Featuring a bespectacled, English-voiced heroine who wears a black catsuit and guns for high heels, its hilariously over-the-top fights see you taking on enemies over 100 times your size, using endless flurries of gratuitously overblown punches, kicks and special moves. Largely ignoring gravity and frequently triggering slow motion "witch time", Bayonetta pounds her way through vast swathes of demons in the most savagely stylish way imaginable. It's an orgy of perfectly choreographed cartoon uber violence and is the game the Devil May Cry series always promised but never delivered.Sega, £32-£49.99Darksiders, PS3 (reviewed), Xbox 360DarksidersYou're War, one of the four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, on a mission to slaughter the legions of heaven and hell until both sides are forced to call a truce. Completist in its inclusion of the catalogue of fantasy cliches, from the outlandishly sized and often flaming sword of your protagonist to its heavy metal album art vistas, Darksiders plays like a straight-faced version of Maximo, the PS2 hack-and-slasher that had you fighting cartoon demons until your armour fell off, leaving your knight in his underwear. You never get to see War's boxer shorts. Dividing time between fights and superbly realised puzzles, which often occupy many rooms and levels of dungeons, you'll also find a variety of opponents and some spectacular bosses. Entertaining and executed with a high level of polish, Darksiders is a gripping and solid-feeling action role-playing game that will take a decent amount of perseverance to beat.THQ, £31.99-£49.99Vector TD, iPhoneVector TDTD stands for tower defence, a genre now so familiar it can be reduced, like KFC, to its initials while still being recognised. The concept is simple: place and upgrade gun turrets to repel waves of invading enemies (traditionally referred to as "creeps"). Vector TD is the iPhone conversion of a popular free Flash game, which brings with it shiny neon-looking graphics, an interesting selection of colour-coded creeps and the usual variety of upgradeable towers with which to kill them. As in its PC big brother, once towers are placed all you can do is upgrade or sell them – winning is a matter of tactics rather than reflexes. While £1.19 isn't a king's ransom, this is a lazy port with only two levels of zoom, one of which is too close and the other so distant your fingers are too fat to place towers accurately, and no way to fast forward time when you're waiting for stragglers to work their way round to the tower with their names on it.Candystand, £1.19
Web 2.0 Suicide MachineWe seem to be in thrall to social networking sites such as Twitter, MySpace and Facebook, but what happens if we want to cut ourselves off from this brave new world – unfriend our fake mates and start spending some time talking (well sending text messages) to our real ones? Permanently signing off from these sites is a time consuming and complicated business, which is why many accounts merely wither, unloved, unfriended and unvisited. The Web 2.0 Suicide Machine provides a dignified end for those seeking to terminate their online identities. With some final, fitting words and just a couple of keystrokes, you can watch your online life disappear before your eyes. Not that the sites themselves are too happy about this virtual euthanasia; Facebook recently served them with a rather chilling cease and desist order.Nerd BoyfriendJack Lemmon in Good Neighbour Sam as featured in nerdboyfriend.com Photograph: Everett Collection/RexThere are thousands of blogs and websites dedicated to fashion and style, but relatively few address the sartorial difficulties of a) being male and b) being a male who isn't really interested in fashion. Nerd Boyfriend's approach is refreshingly original, compelling and impressive: instead of models, the site features photographs of nerdish film stars, authors and other male icons of a more bookish bent and sources online stores selling similar clothes to the ones being worn in the pictures. They date from vintage snaps of Jack Lemmon and Steve Martin right up to contemporary nerd pin-ups like Stephen Merchant and Jarvis Cocker.Blog roll: TypeHelveti-tweet wallpaper from typenuts.comType NutsType-themed wallpapers for desktops and iPhones.Ministry Of TypeDifferent ways to say "The End", gravestone lettering and the art of car parks.LetterheadyCherishing the corporate and private letterheads from a world before email.Logo Design LoveThe art of the logo, with successful redesigns and tools to make your own.I Love TypographHow to make a font, iPhone apps and who shot the serif.LetterologyA book design tutor on the complications of the letter T and a joke about Franklin Gothic's dark tendencies.What Type Are You?Answer questions to discover your font.What we learned on the web this weekAvon Barksdale is realAvon Barksdaleis realMen whocare about the G spot are a mythThe incorrectway to remix a bedtime classicEmma Watsonis practicing vanishing spells on her own legsThe best paidprofessions inAmericaandGreat BritainThe mostboring video game of all timeThe psychologyof fast food menusWhy compressionis killing musicDogs loveLaw &amp; OrderEverything equals2010
It's prediction time again! Yes, I know that January is half-over already, but that gives me less time to make it all happen, doesn't it?And remember, fully two-thirds of these should be correct, going by past performance. Although please remember that your home may be at risk if you bet it on any single one of these things happening.So without further ado, let's get under way …Apple1) Apple will launch a tablet computer. The drumbeats and careful leaks all point to it happening, in only a few days' time. What, you want more? Oh, all right: a multitouch interface that uses a 3D paradigm (as per the patent revealed recently). And in some models has mobile connectivity, like a big iPhone.2) Apple will sell 5m tablets in the first nine months or so. (Itsold 4m iPhone in its first six monthsin 2007.)3) No viruses or self-replicating worms will be discovered that affect Mac OS X. Still a banker of a prediction, year after year.4) Steve Jobs will remain as chief executive of Apple through to 2011.5) Apple will not release a netbook. It doesn't need to – the tablet will do the job.Microsoft6) Windows Mobile's share of the smartphone market, as measured by Canalsys, will continue to fall, while Apple, RIM and Palm grow theirs.7) Steve Ballmer will continue as chief executive of Microsoft through to 2011, but shareholder pressure will grow as the company's revenue growth fails to match that of rivals.8) Internet Explorer, having been revealed as the avenue for far too many hacker attacks, will continue to lose market share to Firefox and especially Google's much-advertised Chrome browser.Google9) The Chrome operating system for netbooks will be advertised on the basis that, among other things, "you don't need virus protection" (because the OS and apps can't be changed, except by Google itself).10) Google's market share will continue growing in the US and Europe, prompting privacy investigations11) More devices will be sold that run the Android operating system than the Windows Mobile. (This will be tricky to measure because Microsoft has recently become all shy about announcing sales figures for Windows Mobile, at just the time that Apple leapfrogged it with the iPhone.)12) Eric Schmidt will not remain as chief executive of Google through to 2011, though he will probably stay as chairman.ComputingWe now have hard drives that can hold more data than we can ever create, and computers that can process faster than we can generally find use for. What we don't have is really long battery life and really light machines, except at a premium. So there's a market to go for …13) Three of the big computer makers (for example HP, Dell and Apple) will begin to offer solid state (Flash) hard drives for a growing number of their laptops, with SSDs becoming the primary option for some by the end of the year. (I'm not including the MacBook Air, which has an SSD as standard.) SSD prices are dropping fast: you sacrifice some storage capacity, but gain battery life and a lighter machine.14) OLED screens will become a build-to-order option on laptops from major manufacturers (probably starting with Sony, Acer or Asus): they're brighter than LED-based ones.15) On Apple's lead, more companies will tout their tablet (more precisely, keyboardless "slate") computers – but won't see anything like its sales, despite Windows 7's multitouch abilities.Ebooks16) Despite all the excitement at CES about ebooks and ereaders, and the subsequent excitement about Apple's iTablet, they won't show much growth in revenues compared to 2009. Free ebooks are fine, but they're just a sop to people who have ereaders and consequently no cash left.17) Copyright, and particularly file compatibility arguments, will continue to dog ereaders and ebooks, while the popularity of physical books will grow: more physical books will be sold in the UK in 2010 than 2009.Government18) The Digital Britain bill will fall as the election (in May?) intervenes and kills off legislation in progress.19) The freeing of Ordnance Survey map data (in April) will see rival companies vying to produce paper maps specialised for various niches such as ramblers and climbers, and an explosion in websites that mash all sorts of government content against maps.20) If elected, the Tories will also back the freeing of Ordnance Survey data (rather than privatising it) and of other government data.Hackers and hackingThe Chinese attacks on Google and other high-profile US companies have put a strong spotlight on web security.21) The use of Microsoft Windows in security-critical organisations will be seriously questioned. Although the developers of many of the high-profile companies such as Google, Facebook and Twitter use Linux or Mac OS X, there is still a notable security hole in the people in those organisations who use Windows – for example, in lower-profile areas such as accounting and finance. What's the cost of switching from Windows? And what's the cost of losing your source code through a hole in Windows? For a growing number of companies, the first number will become smaller than the latter. And what did those adverts for Google Chrome OS say?22) Suddenly, encrypted email will start to look like a good idea. It might be time to investigate GPG, the freeware encryption system.23) Hackers will resort toDNS poisoning(already used in some situations) as a corollary to phishing, because you're directed to sites that look like they have the correct URL (such as paypal.com) but are in fact fakes.Broadband and video24) The demand for data through the BBC's iPlayer will make ISPs complain again about the strain on their networks. (Isn't it odd how that complaint went away, though demand went up?) Even so, iPlayer use will show a rising (if not exponential) growth. As a consequence, ISPs still won't offer truly unlimited broadband packages.25) 3D TV and 3D Blu-ray will arrive and will be wildly popular among early adopters. Other people, who can't afford to upgrade their TV every two years, will sniff that they "still like their old DVD, thanks very much" while secretly coveting the new stuff.26) Thegovernment consultation on how to encourage the building of next-generation broadbandwill generally get the response that government ought to encourage "outside-in" construction – putting fast broadband in the far-flung places where it would never arrive if the market ruled. That's because those are the people who generallysuffer the most from high transport costswhen travelling to work.Being social27) Facebook's growth will level off in the western world. There's only so many people you can encourage to poke and friend you.28) Twitter will start making money – not just through searches (it charges Google and Bing), but also through charging companies for various sorts of access to its network and data.29) AOL will sell Bebo and/or News Corporation will sell MySpace; in either or both cases, at a substantial loss.And finally ...30) Mobile phones with geolocation/GPS will comprise 5% of those sold in the UK. Ambitious, but we can hope.There you go. Let's meet again to evaluate them on 7 January 2011. And what have I missed? Tell me in the comments.
The first person in the UK to be prosecuted for online music sharing has been acquitted of conspiracy to defraud, scuppering the music industry's hopes that it would have a homegrown equivalent of last year's high profile Pirate Bay case in Sweden with which to deter British music pirates.Alan Ellis, 26, was accused of making hundreds of thousands of pounds from the Oink website, which he operated from his flat in Middlesbrough. Before it was shut down in a police raid in 2007, the website had more than 200,000 members who had downloaded more than 21m music files.Music industry figures last night blasted the verdict at Teesside Crown Court as completely out of line with successful prosecutions in other jurisdictions.Last April, a court in Sweden found the four men behind the The Pirate Bay website guilty of breaking copyright law and handed down jail terms and a $4.5m (£3m) fine. Neither The Pirate Bay nor Oink actually hosted unlawfully copied material; both merely made it easy for active members to find other people on the web who were prepared to share files.Unlike the Pirate Bay, which was open to all-comers, Oink was invite-only, with users earning the right to ask their friends to join. Reports from the seven-day trial said that the court was told that users had to pay a donation in order to be able to ask friends to join; the court heard that these donations amounted to $18,000 (£11,000) a month for Ellis. [This was later disputed by some users of the site. One of those contacting the Guardian through Twitter said that while it was possible to make donations to Oink, invitation rights were granted for contributing material to the site, not in exchange for donations.]"This is a hugely disappointing verdict," said a spokesman for music industry body the BPI. "The defendant made nearly £200,000 by exploiting other people's work without permission. The case shows that artists and music companies need better protection."A jury at Teesside Crown Court unanimously cleared Ellis, who maintained that he created the website to help him hone the computing skills he was learning as a student at Teesside University. He created it from a free template on the web and it was a hobby. The prosecution said he told police officers: "All I do is really like Google, to really provide a connection between people. None of the music is on my website."News of Ellis's acquittal came as senior figures from the music, film and television industries as well as sports and union representatives yesterday published an open letter supporting Lord Mandelson's controversial plans to grant the government wide-ranging powers to change copyright law to combat any new forms of online piracy that may emerge in the future.The business secretary's proposals, included at the last minute as clause 17 of the Digital Economy bill currently progressing through the House of Lords, have been roundly attacked by privacy campaigners as well as internet giants including Google, Facebook, Yahoo and eBay as paving the way for a future administration to introduce "arbitrary measures" in the fight against piracy.Earlier this week, the government tabled a list of amendments to the Digital Economy bill which watered down the controversial clause so that the law can only be amended in future if there was a "significant" new threat of infringement, but the government has resolutely refused to comply with demands that it be scrapped completely.In their open letter, 17 industry figures – including TUC general secretary Brendan Barber, head of independent television producers body Pact John McVay, Christine Payne from the actor's union Equity and Premier League chief executive Richard Scudamore – warned that copyright infringement jeopardised British jobs."Without the action proposed by the government in the Digital Economy bill (DEB), before Parliament, job losses will be felt right across the chain – not only for recording artists, but technicians, manufacturers, musicians, writers, freelance photographers and many others.""Given new technologies are constantly evolving, the DEB needs to deal not only with the harm caused by current techniques for unlawful filesharing (particularly peer-to-peer), but the emerging and future threats too. Clause 17 of the Bill does precisely that, by giving parliament the ability to approve amendments that keep the law up-to-speed with technology."Responding to the initial concerns raised by the House of Lords, the government has made a further amendment, which will increase the levels of scrutiny and consultation required before any changes are made. On behalf of the employers and workers whose livelihoods depend on the passage of the Bill, we support this change," the letter added.• This article was amended on 20 January 2009, to insert rebuttal of a court report that members earned the right to invite friends to join Oink by making donations to the site.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?My Mac or BlackBerry – probably my MacBook Pro. I use it to create music and to design stuff, and I use Firefox or Safari to browse for information and to do research. It's my access point for everything.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Right now – I'm using it to listen to music.What additional features would you add if you could?It's hard to improve on it, but some kind of replacement for the keyboard and screen – a virtual keyboard with optical recognition, something really futuristic like that.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Yes, probably – technology moves so fast, who knows.What always frustrates you about technology in general?When something new first comes out there are always problems with it and you have to wait ages for a better version and for them to correct all the problems. They need to test things better.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?Not that I can remember, I would have just taken it back straight away.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?I never read the manuals, but that would probably be a good tip, it really helps! There are so many things your gadgets can do that you would never know about if you didn't read the manual.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Probably a nerd, if I'm honest.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?My car I suppose, but other than that, my speakers probably.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?The only thing I buy physically now is video games, everything else is downloaded – legally, of course. My last purchase was Fire Flies by Owl City, a single I downloaded.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?As long as you don't give them free will, or it could end up like I, Robot.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A plane … with a pilot. Not the most environmentally friendly choice, but it would be great.•Taio Cruz's latest album, Rokstarr, is out now
Just a quick post to direct you toward two interesting sets of predictions about the videogame business in 2010.Thefirstis fromWanda Meloniat California-based market research company, M2 Research. She points out that wildly escalating development costs on current-gen consoles might mean that more developers and publishers turn to iPhone and mobile games for a healthier return-on-investment. She also expects major growth in the browser-based, casual and online gaming sectors. Microtransactions might also grow to become a major revenue generator with titles likeAPBandStar Wars The Old Republiclikely to explore options in this area.She also thinks that middleware will become more important as developers seek to cut costs, and that middleware providers will have to learn to support new elements such as microtransactions and multiplayer hosting services. She mentionsUnity, one of the most interesting and wide-ranging middleware propositions out there at the moment (and the source of my second predictions blog). Finally, she sees the three key tech trends to be 3D in the home (i.e. 3D TVs and 3D-compatible consoles), motion controls and cloud gaming via the much-hyped likes ofOnLiveandGaiKai.Then, we haveDavid Helgason of Unity.He sees 2010 as the year of 'gamification' in other words, non-game companies using game technologies: for example, architects, TV producers, big corporations looking to train staff with simulations. Of course, Unity has a vested interest in all of this - it supplies its 3D engine to these sorts of clients. But it's valid nonetheless.He also sees game design principles being adopted to sell more mundane products and services:A boring site like Mint.com has experimented with turning personal financeinto a game, social networking experimentFourSquaremaintains high-score lists for people who bar-crawl, and natural-language search startupSirihired an accomplished game designer to design their user experience.TAGR: is it a game, or is it a way for Microsoft to get us to do its image-tagging dirty work?I'm definitely seeing this trend emerging too. For example,Blockdot, a veteran developer of advergames has just created TAGR for Microsoft Office - it's a browser-based word game that gets you to think up and input words that you feel describe each image that pops up on screen - points are based on how many other players have used your word. But it's not just a game; Microsoft Office hopes to use players' words as tags to make its clip art images easier to find. As Helgason argues, it's a use of game design principles to enliven an otherwise laborious process. You can play the gamehere.Like Meloni, Helgason also sees lot of activity in the indie sector with a rise in the number of small one and two person development teams producing million-selling games for the casual market, through a growing range of distribution option (i.e. console digital distribution, Steam, iPhone, Facebook, sites like Newgrounds and Kongregate...).Elsewhere, he predicts more console-style 'closed development environments' - in other words, things like App Store and Facebook, in which coders create games for a specific platform, rather than going their own way with open PC development. He also reckons this is the year that Facebook will launch some kind of reliable and effective payment platform in tandem with Facebook Connect, allowing developers to properly charge for their apps and implement microtransactions across platforms. "If they do this right, it will finally enable the web-wide microtransactions which we've been dreaming of since the dot-com era," he writes.Interesting stuff then, mostly about the spread of gaming beyond traditional platforms and out into new sectors and new audiences.Nothing about whether Gran Turismo 5 will actually come out...
Ricky Gervais has quitTwitter, branding the site "pointless" and the adults who use it "undignified".Leaving the microblogging site after less than a month of tweeting, he complained that celebrities used it for "showing off" and he did not need to make "new virtual friends".The comedian and creator of The Officestarted tweetingon 14 December after Golden Globe bosses told him to promote the awards ceremony, which he is hosting on Sunday. However, after only six tweets he announced he was stopping."As you may know I've stopped with Twitter," he wrote on hisblog. "I just don't get it I'm afraid. I'm sure it's fun as a networking device for teenagers but there's something a bit undignified about adults using it. Particularly celebrities who seem to be showing off by talking to each other in public."If I want to tell a friend, famous or otherwise what I had to eat this morning, I'll text them. And since I don't need to make new virtual friends, it seemed a bit pointless to be honest."During his brief dabble with Twitter, Gervais amassed more than 13,000 followers.The site has been popular with celebrities, includingJonathan Ross,Philip SchofieldandGordon Brown's wife, Sarah, who have attracted millions of followers.Gervais is just the latest in a string of famous personalities to stop tweeting. Miley Cyrus posted a rap on YouTube to mark her departure from the site in October, in which she said Twitter should be "banned from this universe".Stephen Fry, one of the most popular British celebrities on the site, threatened to quit after a fan called his tweets "boring", but then relented. He later said he was taking a break from the site to write his memoirs.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; IsApple'scease-and-desist against Gawker(which is offering a bounty for anyone who will leak it photographs of any forthcoming tablet computer) tacit admission that the device actually exists? The letter published by Gawker from a California law firm is careful with its language - "anyone who might have access to such information would be bound under the strictest contractual obligations not to disclose the information to third parties" - but why would you threaten legal action over a product isn't real?&bull; Following the news thatRob Glaser is leaving Real, another veteran - this timeMicrosoftWindows boss Bill Veghte - has said he isparting ways with his company. Veghte, a 19-year executivewho I spoke to last summer for this piece, says the reason is there just wasn't enough room at the top of the company any more. Why? Because of an ongoing reshuffle of top positions that appears to be concentrating power, largely into the hands ofSteven Sinofsky.&bull; And finally, for a little bit of light relief as the weekend rolls in, how about a bit of funny dataviz? Jack pointed out this venn diagram from Maxim which helps youunderstand the characters played by Denzel Washingtonduring his rather illustrious movie career. It's all so true!You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Microsoft has admitted that its Internet Explorer browser was the weak link used by hackers to attack Google's systems in China.The world's biggest software company today issued a security advisory and warned of a loophole that was used by Chinese hackers to attack dozens of US companies - the same attack that led Google on Tuesday toannounce its plan to drop the censorship of its search engine in China."In a specially-crafted attack... Internet Explorer can be caused to allow remote code execution," said Microsoftin its security alert.The company added that it had not yet fixed the vulnerability in the world's most popular web browser, which is used by around two thirds of internet users.The attacks, which apparently attempted to steal personal information on Chinese dissidents and the code that runs some of Google's critical services, also hita number of other companies, said to include Yahoo and US defence contractor Northrop Grumman.Microsoft confirmed the existence of the loophole after an investigation by internet security firm McAfee and information from Google and Adobe."As with most targeted attacks, the intruders gained access to an organisation by sending a tailored attack to one or a few targeted individuals," said George Kurtz, McAfee's chief technology officer, adding that the hackers would then use the Internet Explorer bug to infect the victim's computer."Once the malware is downloaded and installed, it opens a back door that allows the attacker to perform reconnaissance and gain complete control over the compromised system. The attacker can now identify high value targets and start to siphon off valuable data from the company."The company's admission is at odds with earlier consensus -largely based on a report from security firm iDefense- that it was Adobe's own software that had been used for the attacks.Earlier this week experts had suggested that a "zero-day vulnerability" - jargon for a previously unknown software loophole - had been used to exploit a "major document type", thought to be Adobe's PDF format. By sending an infected document to target users, iDefense suggested, the hackers had been able to compromise victim's computers and launch further attacks.Now, however, it appears that the strike - which analysts are now calling "Operation Aurora" - was carefully orchestrated using the hidden bug in Microsoft's systems.The Chinese government yesterday issued its first response to the claims by Google, saying that it was opposed to computer crime and had been the victim of cyberattacks itself in the past. However, the statement, issued by the country's foreign ministry, also contained a veiled threat to other companies who may be considering following Google's stand."China has tried creating a favorable environment for internet," said a spokeswoman. "China welcomes international internet companies to conduct business within the country according to law. China's law prohibits cyber crimes, including hacker attacks."
Intel has unveiled blockbuster results for the financial quarter to December 26, about a third ahead of Wall Street estimates. Net profits increased by 875% to $2.3bn on revenues that climbed 28% to $10.6 billion (PDF).That looks like a return to normal: Intel made profits of $2.3bn in the same quarter in 2007, before a 90% plunge to $234m in 2008. However, the latest figures include a $1.25bn litigation settlement with chip rival AMD. Without that, operating income reached $3.75bn, a 45% increase on the year's third quarter.Intel's chief financial officer Stacy Smith said in a statement: "We have seen a return of consumer demand and replenishment to normal inventory levels after the precipitous demand drop at the end of 2008 and beginning of 2009. Operationally, the fourth quarter of 2009 was one of our most profitable quarters ever." (PDF)Revenues for the full year dipped by 7% to $35.1bn, with net income down by 17% to $4.4bn. The full year figures include a $1.45bn fine paid to the EU.Intel's fourth-quarter results reflect a resurgence in the PC market following the economic recovery, and other factors, such as launch of Microsoft Windows 7. Research firm IDC said PC sales in the US increased by 24% to 20.7m units in the quarter, while worldwide PC sales grew by 15.2% to 85.8m units. Most PCs, including netbooks, use Intel microprocessors.Intel's results may lead to increased optimism about the string of technology industry financial results that will follow.
In case you haven't seen this elsewhere, Mitch Lasky, once VP of mobile and online at Electronic Arts, has posted a stinging criticism of the company and its CEO John Riccitielloon his personal blog. Commenting on the decision tolower profit projectionsonce again,  Lasky stated that, "EA is in the wrong business, with the wrong cost structure and the wrong team, but somehow they seem to think that it is going to be a smooth, two-year transition from packaged goods to digital."He's in no doubt about the cause of the company's problems - an inability to react quickly enough to changes in the business from a retail model to digital distribution; plus a paucity of genuine Triple A titles. While the sports sims are doing well, profits have been strangled by higher licensing costs, and, man, don't even get Lasky started on the EA Games division:"But by far the greatest failure of Riccitiello's strategy has been the EA Games division. JR bet his tenure on EA's ability to "grow their way through the transition" to digital/online with hit packaged goods titles. They honestly believed that they had a decade to make this transition (I think it's more like 2-3 years). Since the recurring-revenue sports titles were already "booked" (i.e., fully accounted for in the Wall Street estimates) it fell to EA Games to make hits that could move the needle. It's been a very ugly scene, indeed. From Spore, to Dead Space, to Mirror's Edge, to Need for Speed: Undercover, it's been one expensive commercial disappointment for EA Games after another. Not to mention the shut-down of Pandemic, half of the justification for EA's $850MM acquisition of Bioware-Pandemic. And don't think that Dante's Inferno, or Knights of the Old Republic, is going to make it all better. It's a bankrupt strategy."Ouch. But there's more."It's equally amazing that the board continues to support the existing management team through this debacle. Since JR took over, the company has destroyed over $11 billion in market value. Certainly, some of that was the economy and the general erosion of value on NASDAQ, but Activision has experienced far milder effects from the recession."Lasky, now a partner with venture firm Benchmark Capital, goes on to wonder why EA, in its weakened state, has not been subject to a takeover bid. "Certainly, Disney has been looking at them since I was at the house of the mouse back in the early 90's. And there are Chinese companies, like TenCent, that could easily swallow EA whole."Lasky is certainly not alone in his criticisms.Reportingon EA's forecast-slashing hijinks, Reuters had a snaking line of industry pundits queuing to put the analytical boot in. "Anytime you underperform, you should be worried about your job," said Mike Hickey of Janco Partners, while regular industry chin-stroker Michael Pachter suggested that the EA management team had "zero credibility" with investors.The publisher seems to be pinning hopes on its digital and iPhone titles this year, as well as console offerings such as Army of Two: 40th Day, Mass Effect 2, Dante's Inferno, Battlefield Bad Company 2 and Medal of Honor. Will these titles be enough to keep Lasky and co at bay?
Kodak has launched lawsuits alleging that the iPhone and BlackBerry - two of the world's most popular mobile phones - infringe its patents.The photographic pioneer said on Thursday that it had filed a case in the Western District of New York against Apple and Canadian handset manufacturer Research in Motion, as well as an extra one against Apple, amid claims that they that were unfairly using technology patented by Kodak Eastman."We have invested hundreds of millions of dollars creating our industry-leading patent portfolio," said Laura Quatela, the chief intellectual property officer of Eastman Kodak.The dispute revolves around a system for displaying previews of images that have been taken with a digital camera, which Kodak says it has patented. The second Apple case, meanwhile, involves the interaction between a camera and the software on a computer.Kodak said that it did not want to block sales of the iPhone or BlackBerry - which are among the most profitable and lucrative handsets in the mobile market - but instead sought "fair compensation"."We've had discussions for years with both companies in an attempt to resolve this issue amicably, and we have not been able to reach a satisfactory agreement," said Quatela. "In light of that, we are taking this action to ensure that we protect the interests of our shareholders and the existing licensees of our technology. Those devices use Kodak technology, and we are merely seeking compensation for the use of our technology in their products."The company did not put a value on the damages it was seeking, but said it would enjoin the two companies  - which could prevent Apple and RIM from selling their products.But the case - filed in Rochester, New York - is not the first time that Kodak has launched a legal action to protect its intellectual property. A long-running case against Sun Microsystems, first started in 2002, was finally settled in 2004. More recently, Kodak won a case against Samsung for infringements by the Korean manufacturer's mobile phones.The Kodak case is just the latest in a series of patent disputes surrounding the iPhone, most notably a bitter tit-for-tat conflict between Apple and the world's largest mobile phone company, Nokia.In October, Nokialaunched a legal attack on the Californian technology company, alleging that the iPhone infringed 10 of its "fundamental" patents relating to wireless technologies.Apple countered with its own lawsuit in December, accusing Nokia - which has lost significant market share in recent years - of copying its technology."Other companies must compete with us by inventing their own technologies, not just by stealing ours," said Bruce Sewell, Apple's general counsel and senior vice president, at the time.Since thenNokia has launched further legal actions, including one that claims that "virtually all" of Apple's products infringe one or other of its rival's patents.Kodak has struggled in recent years as the rapid transition from film cameras to digital cameras to cameraphones has taken place. Five years ago itbegan a reinvention of its business– which started with 15,000 job losses – to try and remain relevant in the digital age, but a year ago it announced that4,500 more jobs would go worldwide as losses mounted.
To the casual observer, there was little to distinguish the Java Bean internet cafe in Wembley from the hundreds of others dotted around the capital. But to surveillance officers staking it out month after month, this unremarkable venue was the key to busting a remarkable and sophisticated network of cyber criminals.From the bank of computers inside, a former pizza bar worker ran an international cyber "supermarket" selling stolen credit card and account details costing the banking industry tens of millions.Renukanth Subramaniam, 33, was revealed today as the founder and a major "orchestrator" of the secret ­DarkMarket website, where elite fraudsters bought and sold personal data, after it was infiltrated by the FBI and the US Secret Service.Membership was strictly by invitation. But once vetted, its 2,000 vendors and buyers traded everything from card details, obtained through hacking, phishing and ATM skimming devices, to viruses with which buyers could extort money by threatening company websites.The top English language cybercrime site in the world, it offered online tutorials in account takeovers, credit card deception and money laundering. Equipment – including false ATM and pin machines and everything needed to set up a credit card factory – was available.It even featured breaking-news-style updates on the latest compromised material available, while criminals could buy banner adverts to promote their wares.So vast was its reach, with members in the UK, Canada, US, Russia, Turkey, Germany and France, the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca), which helped bust it, said it was "impossible" to put a figure on how much it cost banks worldwide.Subramaniam, who used the online soubriquet JiLsi, was remanded in custody at his own request at Blackfriars crown court today after pleading guilty to conspiracy to defraud and five counts of furnishing false information. Judge John Hillen warned it was "inevitable" he faced a "substantial custodial sentence".A Sri Lankan-born British citizen, Subramaniam was a former member of ShadowCrew, DarkMarket's forerunner, which was uncovered by the US Secret Service in 2004. "JiLsi was one of the highest in cybercrime in this country with what he managed to achieve setting up a forum globally. No JiLsi, no DarkMarket," said one Soca investigator.Its 2,000 members never met in real life. Quality, not quantity, was the key. DarkMarket was fastidious in banning "rippers" who would cheat other criminals. Honour among thieves was paramount.It operated an "escrow" service, with payments and goods exchanged through a third party – "like a PayPal for criminals", the judge observed, and an arbitration service resolved disputes. To keep off the radar, the rules were strict: no firearms, drugs or counterfeit currency.Built on a pyramid structure, administrators decided who joined, moderators ran specific site sections, and reviewers vetted wannabes – each demanding 5% or £250 per transaction as a fixer's fee.To get on, criminals had to present details of 100 compromised cards free of charge - 50 to one reviewer, 50 to another.  Reviewers would test the cards and write an online review of customer satisfaction – just like eBay customers. "If the cards did what they were supposed to … they would be recommended. If not they weren't allowed in," said the investigator.Payment was via accounts on WebMoney, or E-Gold. "It was the QuickTime method of sending money anywhere."Subramaniam was one of the top administrators. He kept his operating system on memory sticks. But when one was stolen, costing him £100,000 in losses and compromising the site's security, he was downgraded to reviewer. Surveillance officers caught him logging on to the website as JiLsi unaware the fellow criminal MasterSplyntr he was talking to was, in fact, an FBI agent called Keith Mularski.Considerable money was exchanged, though actual transactions took place away from the site for security reasons. One buyer spent £250,000 on stolen personal information in just six weeks.Described as "a very quiet man", Subramaniam worked at Pizza Hut and as a dispatch courier. "He owned three houses but was largely itinerant," said Sharon Lemon, Soca deputy director. "The key to investigations of this sort is finding the evidence to connect the online persona with a living, breathing person."Harendra de Silva QC, defending Subramaniam, said the "evidence was unchallenged" but said the "question of interpretation does arise in certain areas" and there would be submissions on "nuance" of the fraud in so far as it applied to his client. He is charged alongside John McHugh, 66, known as Devilman, also a site reviewer who has pleaded guilty to conspiracy to defraud and at whose Doncaster home officers found a credit card-making factory. The two will be sentenced later.But the battle against cybercrime continues. "This was one of the top 10 sites in the world, but there are more than 100 we know of globally, and another 100 we don't yet know of," said the investigators.In the DarkMarketDarkMarket price listTrusted vendors on DarkMarket offered a smorgasbord of personal data, viruses, and card-cloning kits at knockdown prices. Going rates were:DumpsData from magnetic stripes on batches of 10 cards. Standard cards: $50. Gold/platinum: $80. Corporate: $180.Card verification valuesInformation needed for online transactions. $3-$10 depending on quality.Full information/change of billingInformation needed for opening or taking over account details. $150 for account with $10,000 balance. $300 for one with $20,000 balance.SkimmerDevice to read card data. Up to $7,000.Bank logins2% of available balance.Hire of botnetSoftware robots used in spam attacks. $50 a day.Credit card imagesBoth sides of card. $30 each.Embossed card blanks$50 each.Holograms$5 per 100.
An American internet security firm says it has traced the sophisticated cyber-attack against Google and 30 other US companies back to the Chinese government "or its proxies". In its announcement that itmight quit China, Google stopped short of accusing the Chinese government of responsibility for the attacks. However, the report from Verisign's iDefense Labs said the internet addresses "of the attack correspond to a single foreign entity consisting either of agents of the Chinese state or proxies thereof".Internet attacks are difficult to trace to their source as attackers often use several computers, sometimes in different countries, to cover their tracks. The researchers traced the attacks to the servers used to control software involved in the attack. Researchers at the security lab interviewed several sources from defence and intelligence contractors to back up their allegations against the Chinese government.In Britain, Gordon Brown's spokesman said: "The Google statement contained serious allegations on privacy and freedom of information. We are not privy to their discussions with the Chinese authorities. But we will be watching closely. Clearly internet freedom is a fundamental right and an essential component of a modern economy. At the last bilateral human rights dialogue with China the government lobbied specifically on internet access."Two years ago,MI5 warned 300 British companiesthat Chinese hackers were targeting corporate networks. In a briefing last year, the US defence contractor, Northup Grumman, warned that the Chinese army was training troops in internet warfare. In addition to Google, theWashington Post reportedthat Yahoo, Symantec, Northrop Grumman, and Dow Chemical were also targets of the cyber-attack, which may have begun last summer.China has stood firm against Google's challenge over censorship, reminding internet firms to abide by government controls. In its first direct response to hacking claims, a foreign ministry spokeswoman, Jiang Yu, said: "China's internet is open, China welcomes international internet enterprises to conduct business in China according to law."She added: "China administers the internet according to the law. We have an explicit stipulation of what information and content could be spread over the internet." Asked about claims the intrusion into Google originated from China, she replied: "Chinese laws prohibit any form of cyber-attacks including hacking."Google cited a growing clampdown on the internet and a December attack by hackers, which it said targeted human rights advocates as well as stealing intellectual property, for its decision.A source with direct knowledge of Google's senior management said the internet giant moved quickly to announce it would stop censoring its Chinese service after realising dissidents were at risk from attempts to use the company's technology for political surveillance. The source said the company's decision was influenced by the experiences of Sergey Brin's Russian refugee background."The notion that somebody would try to turn Google's tools into tools of political surveillance was something he found deeply offensive." When it became clear that the cyber attacks were about political surveillance, people at the very top of the company "decided they no longer wanted to participate in this kind of behaviour," said the source.
Yahoo and Adobe appear to be among the companies that suffered the sort of cyberattack that led Google to threaten to withdraw from China.In its original announcement,Google said that "at least 20 other large companies from a wide range of businesses – including the internet, finance, technology, media and chemical sectors – have been similarly targeted".However, Google did not name any names, and it did not actually say that the attacks were made by people acting on the behalf of the Chinese government.Most large companies "face cyber attacks of varying degrees on a regular basis," as Google said, but so far none of them seem to have come forward.Adobe said in a blog postthat it was investigating a "coordinated attack against corporate network systems managed by Adobe and other companies", and the timing suggests it could well be related to the attacks on Google.Bloomberg reportedthat Yahoo "was targeted by a Chinese attack similar to the one that affected Google Inc, according to a person familiar with the matter", but this has not been confirmed. The company said: "Yahoo does not generally disclose that type of information, but we take security very seriously and we take appropriate action in the event of any kind of breach."The Washington Post, reporting a "vast espionage campaign", claimed that "at least 34 companies – including Yahoo, Symantec, Adobe, Northrop Grumman and Dow Chemical – were attacked, according to congressional and industry sources."The attacks seem to have been performed by "spear phishing" – that is, targeting company employees with infected email attachments.According to a widely-reported statement by Eli Jellenc, head of international cyber intelligence at Verisign-owned iDefense: "The attack bears significant resemblance to a July 2009 attack in which attackers launched targeted email campaigns against approximately 100 IT-focused companies."This type of attack has been part of the computer scene for several years, and Chinese involvement has often been suspected. It would be surprising if Google had not been attacked before. In this case, it's not the attack but the response that is unusual.
As mentioned hereyesterday, Siôn Simon, Minister for Creative Industries, said in a debate that "we are committed to ensuring the implementation of a combined station guide, which is similar to an electronic programme guide, that will allow listeners to access all stations by name, irrespective of the platform. Future sets will simply have a list of station names."This was news to me, so I asked Tony Moretta, chief executive of the DRDB (Digital Radio Development Bureau), what it was all about. He said the DRDB would be releasing something shortly. In the meantime, he offered the following explanation:The WorldDMB receiver profiles we are moving to include FM as an option, but in the UK we are working with the manufacturers to make this mandatory, to ensure that radios will always be able to still receive those stations that for whatever reason are not being broadcast digitally.However, at present DAB/FM on a radio works in a similar way to analogue FM/AM receivers where the listener has to physically press a button or flick a switch to change from one to another. There is no technical reason why this should continue to be the case for new radios.We are therefore working with manufacturers to develop a standard whereby a digital radio will scan for both digital and analogue stations and display both on its channel list (or more detailed EPG, if the radio supports it). Obviously we will need to ensure that duplicate stations don't appear (ie both analogue and digital) and that it is easy to use for listeners.With this in place, those stations which haven't made the move to digital broadcasts, including smaller local commercial stations and community radio stations will be as easily accessible on digital radios as digital only stations.This sounds like a good idea, as long as listeners are not obliged to select the DAB version of a station if they would prefer the FM version.It would be even better if the "EPG" could also include the internet radio feeds of stations in radios that have an internet connection. As I noted in myCES 2010 opener, Pure, the DAB radio maker, is now entering the US market with DAB-free internet radios because the US doesn't have DAB.However, given that radios must generally be sold on a global market, it's not clear how far the UK government can reasonably go to get manufacturers to do what it wants.
For a phone that seemed to cause such a stir in the US when it launched last year, the Motorola Milestone (called the Droid in the US) has barely raised a ripple this side of the pond. No network has signed up for the device – in fact, only Orange lists Motorola handsets at all in the UK – and while enthusiasts snapped up the first batch from online retailer Expansys before Christmas, it has all gone very quiet since then.It's easy to see why Motorola might now be feeling a little bit sheepish about its much vaunted iPhone killer. There is a new kid on the block:Google's Nexus One, which sports  an updated version of the Android operating system that the Milestone contains, a better screen and a sexier look.It's also easy to see why Google has got fed up with mobile phone manufacturers putting its increasingly elegant Android software into a bunch of ugly bricks and decided that it needed to be in complete control of its own handset in order to stop the iPhone stealing the smartphone show. From the uninspiring T-Mobile Pulse and the chunkyMotorola Dextto the HTC Hero, with its weird "chin", and the temperamental Samsung Galaxy i7500, Android devices have hardly been trend setters.The Motorola Milestone continues disappointingly in that vein. It is a similar size to the iPhone, though slightly heavier and when placed on its side so that the qwerty keyboard slides out – in an admittedly reassuringly solid manner because the build quality is excellent – it juts out past the screen on the right-hand side. This makes using the keyboard rather awkward as it is off-centre. The screen on the Milestone is inferior to the active-matrix organic LED (AMOLED) touchscreen on the Nexus One,which certainly dazzled our reviewer Bobbie Johnson.But the Milestone does include multitouch, unlike the Nexus One, Dext and its US variant the Droid. Like all Android devices, however, the Milestone is still waiting for developers to start creating the sort of applications – not least games – that really bring multitouch to life. For an example of what multitouch can become, look no further thanthe game Elissbeing played on an iPhone.The Milestone is far more responsive than the Motorola Dext – which in my experience suffers from dreadful lag – in part because Motorola's first stab at an Android handset was running version 1.5 of the software as opposed to the Milestone's Android 2.0. The Nexus One, meanwhile, is on Android 2.1. But the Milestone actually represents something of a step backwards for Motorola.The Dext – sold as the Cliq in the US – included Motoblur, which brought social networking updates direct to the device's homescreen rather like Vodafone's 360 service. But Motoblur is conspicuously absent from the new device.All the usual Android features are, however, present: email integration is easy, setting up contacts and downloading what applications there are from the Android marketplace is simple. The Milestone also has a better camera than the iPhone – weighing in at 5 megapixels and including a similar variety of bells and whistles, such as flash and a digital zoom, to those included on the Nexus One – but I found it incredibly slow to process images. The Milestone can take a 32GB MicroSD card, the same as the Nexus One. Both the Nexus One and Milestone, meanwhile, allow for multitasking, meaning you can flit between applications without having to close them down, which the iPhone has yet to achieve.The ultimate question with the Milestone is why bother to buy it when the Nexus One is a better phone? Yes it has a keypad, but anyone who desperately needs a keyboard should just buy a BlackBerry – RIM is the only handset manufacturer that can be trusted to produce one that will not end up inducing carpal tunnel syndrome in long-term users. The Milestone's off-centre keyboard will cripple you in a matter of weeks.The big drawback with the Nexus One is it is currently only available direct from Google. This makes it expensive – at about £425 – as there is no network operator to subsidise it and leaves any customer who has problems with the device with no other option than emailing Google and waiting for a response. That, however, is going to change later this year as Vodafone, and possibly T-Mobile,will sell the Nexus One in the UKlater this year. Anyone desperate for an Android phone would do well to wait; treating this latest Motorola attempt as a Milestone on the road to something better.Pros:It's not an iPhone – for those that cannot bear the thought of becoming "one of those people that has an iPhone".Cons:It's not a Nexus Onemotorola.com
There are two great short-term challenges left for mobile phones: knowing where we are and knowing who we are.It looks as though 2010 will be the year in which the first of these problems will be cracked because of the increasing accuracy of tracking devices thanks to location signals extracted from satellites, mobile transmitters and Wi-Fi hotspots.If that happens then phones will already have gone a long way towards finding out who we are. If a phone knows what cafes, theatres and shops we frequent and whether we are on a plane or a train, it will know a lot about the kind of person we are.It sounds like paradise for the advertising industry, but it is also useful for those of us who don't seem to mind  information about ourselves being released to acquaintances as long as it is done with our permission.As with CCTV cameras, the social benefits are deemed to outweigh the intrusive inconveniences. The mobile phone is rapidly becoming a kind of CCTV camera turned on ourselves for our friends to see where we are, what restaurants we like and what videos we have just taken. Location-based services have followed the usual syndrome of a new technology – a slow year-by-year improvement until critical mass is reached as it becomes cheap and reliable enough to attract developers to exploit it for profit. That critical mass is happening this year.A turning point for me came recently when one of my favourite mobile networks,qype.co.uk, found two restaurants within 0.2 miles of my home (in central London) that I hadn't realised existed. One was a French restaurant hidden inside a hotel and the other a cafe recently converted into a tapas bar.I then downloaded the mobile version of the Michelin Guide (to my iPod Touch) to find several Michelin-mentioned restaurants within 0.4 miles that I had also been unaware of.Whether these location-based services will ever make anyone any serious moneyis a moot point but they are certainly a boon to consumers as long as the phone can find where you are speedily.Having a location-based weather service, giving temperatures along the route you propose to travel plus access to motorway webcams (through the BBC's regional websites) is proving a boon during the cold snap. There are now hundreds of location- based services and new ones are popping up all the time, including Google's Near Me Now, Foursquare.com andblockchalk.com(mainly just in the US at present) which enable you to explore local areas or to leave location-based messages at the end of your road or in a cafe, as kind of green graffiti that doesn't despoil the streets. Twitter plans to expand its location-based aspects to encourage interactivity among users at the local level to compete with other services that have been developed independently.Satnav in cars – usually regarded as the cutting edge of location – has also been slowly improving and, equally important, collapsing in price.Copilot Live GPS Navigation(available for £25.99 as an iPhone, Android or Windows application) claims 200,000 downloads in its first six months. That's an amazing bargain compared with the high cost of dedicated satnav devices but is, itself, being  undermined by Google's turn-by-turn navigation application which will be free.The underlying problem of satnav – that they are brilliant when you don't need them (eg, in open country) but flaky in towns – remains true despite recent improvements. A new one I tried over the Christmas break,Vexia's Econav, adds a green dimension claiming that it can save you up to 25% or more in fuel charges.Apart from offering what have become standard services, such as speed camera warnings, Econav tells you on the screen what gear you should be in from data gleaned from a database of 9,000 modes of vehicle. This suffers from the same weakness as satnav itself in that it is not much use on the motorway when you know there is no alternative to, say, fifth gear but in towns it can get irritating as it switches from two to three and back again in lagged response to rapidly changing traffic conditions.It is excellent in directing you along the greenest route to your destination – preferring shorter cross country routes to motorways – but impatient with deviants. We decided to go by a quicker, though longer, motorway route and it was 20 miles on before Econav accepted it was beaten and re-adjusted its route. For most of the time it gave good clear directions but more than once took me down a country lane that led nowhere.In its favour it was easy to use as it picks up where you are quickly so you just need to type in a destination post code. It is also very compact, almost the size of a smartphone – and there's the rub. Satellite navigation systems are shrinking to the size of mobiles while mobiles are acquiring the features of satnav and offering them for nothing. It is becoming the latest consumer device to be gobbled up by the mobile phone. The biggest manufacturer of satnav devices, as of cameras, calculators, music players and so forth is almost certainly – yes, you've guessed it – Nokia.twitter.com/vickeegan
Nintendo has announced the launch date of its latest DS update. The Nintendo DSi XL, sporting two 4.2 inch screens (93% bigger than the screen on the Nintendo DS Lite) will arrive in Europe on 5 March.The overhauled device also boasts a wider viewing angle, and a more pen-like stylus - great for those of us with three-year-olds who lose the small ones down the back of the sofa on a daily basis.The DS newcomer will ship in two colours - 'wine red' and the attractive-sounding 'dark brown'. According to Nintendo's press release, there's "a glossy sheen" on top and a matt finish on the underside, "that provides excellent grip when resting on a table or other surface during gameplay". As an added bonus the unit comes pre-installed with two DSiware titles - Dr Kawashima's: Little Bit of Brain Training: Arts Edition and Dictionary 6 in 1 with Camera Function. The Nintendo DSi Browser is also included to allow for internet access via a Wi-Fi connection.The device has been drawing positive responses from initially skeptical reviewers. Screen quality is apparently excellent, and the larger screens help with the precise moves in games like Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow. The general consensus is, this is a DS for those who play mostly at home, rather than gamers who want to take their handheldeverywhere. Either that or you're going to need a bigger pocket.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Google moved quickly to announce that it would stop censoring its Chinese service after realising dissidents were at risk from attempts to use the company's technology for political surveillance, according to a source with direct knowledge of the internet giant's most senior management.China this morning issued a statement saying it resolutely opposed hacking and was itself a victim of cyber attacks, in its first response to Google's hacking claims. In a statement posted on the state council information office website, cabinet spokesman Wang Chen reminded companies of their need to abide by internet controls, citing their "social responsibilities". The remarks did not mention Google directly. The source told the Guardian the company's decision was largely influenced by the experiences of Sergey Brin's Russian refugee background.The Google co-founder "felt this very personally", the source said."The notion that somebody would try to turn Google's tools into tools of political surveillance was something he found deeply offensive."When it became clear that the cyber attacks were about political surveillance, people at the very top of the company "decided they no longer wanted to participate in this kind of behaviour," said the source."It was felt that whether it's censorship or whether it's surveillance or threats to people who speak out this is all about suppression of free speech and was something the company no longer felt in conscience they could stand by that."The US government intervened in the confrontation yesterday, urging Beijing to answer Google's claim of a massive hacking attack. Chinese authorities initially responded cautiously to Google's announcement. In the government's first public remarks, an official said it was "seeking more information". The unnamed official from China's state council information office – the cabinet spokesman's office – added: "It is still hard to say whether Google will quit China or not. Nobody knows."It is thought that as many as 20 other companies including internet and mobile phone businesses were also being attacked in order to carry out political surveillance, or industrial espionage, according to the source. Google acknowledged that it might have to withdraw from China.The US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, said: "We have been briefed by Google on these allegations, which raise very serious concerns and questions. We look to the Chinese government for an explanation. The ability to operate with confidence in cyberspace is critical in a modern society and economy."Google is understood to want to try to work with Beijing, according to the senior company source, who added it was "hopeful that they can accept that this is a new century, it's a new time. I don't think it's the Chinese government as a whole … but I think there are some left over elements of totalitarianism in China, be it in government or be it in hackers or what not. But those elements – it's time for them to go. It's time the Chinese people had unfettered access to information."In a CNBC interview, David Drummond, senior vice-president of corporate development, chief legal officer, and author of the Google announcement, said: "We are not saying one way or the other whether the attacks are state-sponsored or done with any approval of the state."We do know that it was very organised and the attack came from China and political dissidents and people interested in human rights in China were clearly targeted."Google spoke to the Chinese government yesterday but has not disclosed what form the contact took or who was involved."We have talked to the Chinese authorities and we will be talking to them more in the coming days," it said.The Google source said the company decided to move quickly once it realised what was happening because they felt "a moral obligation to the dissidents to let them know they might be at risk"."Unfortunately we could see the dark side of technology, when they tried to subvert the things we're building into tools of political suppression, which is the ultimate inverse of everything we stand for. So that was also troubling, but the connection, once we saw and understood – that's when it really hit home." News portals in China were reportedly told to downgrade coverage of the issue, but articles on several sites including the English language Xinhua site carried accounts of Google's decision, including references to censorship, but not hacking.While campaign groups such as Human Rights Watch praised the firm's decision, it received a mixed reception in Beijing, even among admirers. Several people left flowers at the entrance to its headquarters, along with a sign reading: "Google – a real man."But prominent liberal blogger, Ran Yunfei, wrote: "Google leaving China is definitely not good news." Comparing the company to dissidents who emigrate, he added: "Those who would remain are obedient citizens and [that is] satisfactory to the authorities."Isaac Mao, a Chinese blogger who in 2007 published a widely circulated open letter to the firm criticising it for self-censorship, said: "I think Google has eventually made the right decision to fight back based on their principles."When it launched google.cn in 2006, the company said it believed the benefits of increased access to information for people in China outweighed the negative impact of self-censorship. But it was widely criticised for the decision.Googlehas around a third of the Chinese search market, lagging far behind the domestic firm Baidu. Kaiser Kuo, a Beijing-based expert on the internet, said: "There are two schools of thought on this. One says that this is a mere smokescreen of sanctimony meant to hide a retreat from a market Google was unable to conquer for business reasons ... The other is that this is a true act of moral bravery."White House spokesman Robert Gibbs said Google had briefed the Obama administration before its China announcement. He said the president believed in the "freedom of the internet".
Just over two years ago the head of MI5, Jonathan Evans, wrote to about 300 British firms warning them to be wary of Chinese hackers trying to monitor their systems or break into them remotely via the internet: Rolls-Royce, the jet engine maker, and Royal Dutch Shell had both fallen victim to computer intrusions. It was only part of an ongoing strategy of "information warfare" that China's government – through its People's Liberation Army (PLA) – is carrying out across the world.The latest targets in a scheme appear to be companies in Silicon Valley, where companies including Google andAdobe, which makes hugely popular Flash software (used for the vast majority of video online, such as the BBC's iPlayer and YouTube), have discovered ­intrusions into the computers where they store their "source code" – the millions of lines of programming, readable by humans, that comprise their software. Those are, effectively, their crown jewels: if they fall into rivals' hands, the programs can be copied, altered, or produced for free under another name.For America's hi-tech firms, the idea that their source code falls into Chinese hands is the worst nightmare: intellectual property protection is notoriously poor in China, and the code could be rewritten into a piece of Chinese software – or even sold on the world market to compete with the original.What makes it most worrying is that the hackers have the sanction of Beijing (though it always denies any link). Abriefing paper produced in October by the US military security firm Northrop Grummanfor theUS-China Economic and Security Commissionlooked in detail at Beijing's strategy, including a roundup of hacking from China over the past 10 years.Its summary was bleak, predicting a world of "information warfare" via the internet, using a strategy it dubbed "integrated network electronic warfare": "The PLA is training and equipping its force to use a variety of [internet warfare] tools for intelligence gathering and to establish information dominance over its adversaries during a conflict. PLA campaign doctrine identifies the early establishment of information dominance over an enemy as one of the highest operational priorities in a conflict; Inew appears designed to support this objective."Such warfare is carried out by expert hackers with a range of skills: some will know how to hack into web servers, while others are skilled at finding previously undiscovered weaknesses – known as "zero-day vulnerabilities" – in commercial software. Standard antivirus and warning systems simply won't detect their use, meaning that computers can be compromised without warning.Northrop Grumman did not think it was lone hackers with a grudge against the west, either: "The depth of resources necessary to sustain the scope of computer network exploitation targeting the US and many countries around the world  coupled with the extremely focused targeting of defence engineering data, US military operational information, and China-related policy information is beyond the capabilities or profile of virtually all organised cybercriminal enterprises and is difficult at best without some type of state sponsorship."In other words: though China might deny it, Beijing is behind the intrusions – such as Titan Rain, the name the Pentagon has given to a series of attacks since 2003 on groups such as Lockheed Martin, Nasa and the Sandia National Laboratories. Or the attempts to"phish" members of the UK parliamentin autumn 2005.What makes it obvious that these are state-sponsored attacks, as Northrop Grumman notes, is that the information being targeted is not credit card or bank account details but engineering, source code, and detail about military preparedness and networks.According to the US Air Force, by 2007 the Chinese had "exfiltrated" (copied back to their own computers) at least 10 to 20 terabytes of data from US government networks. Since then the number will only have grown. One terabyte is 1,000 gigabytes – the average home computer now holds half a terabyte."Chinese espionage in the United States, which now comprises the single greatest threat to US technology, according to US counterintelligence officials, is straining the US capacity to respond," the report notes."This illicit activity both from traditional techniques and computer-based activity are possibly contributing to China's military modernisation and its acquisition of new technical capabilities."In short, the report notes, "Chinese industrial espionage" is providing a source of new technology without investing time or money for research.The present problem is the "reactive" nature of  internet security. It is not an inherently secure network, having been set up by academics to swap information. But if Google's withdrawal of censorship (and possibly itself) from China has one effect, it may be to make more firms realise  China's hackers are not to be ignored.• This article was amended on Thursday 14 January 2010. We previously said the average home computer now holds half a gigabyte. This has been corrected.
&bull; No let up on the coverage of Google's decision tolift the censorship of its Chinese search engine. As reaction to the move spread around the world, it was widely welcomed - but significantly,most of the company's major rivals remained tight-lipped. Details on the hack are beginning to emerge, but there is still no movement from the government in Beijing, however.&bull; Potentially positive news forGary McKinnon, the hacker accused of damaging US military networks and awaiting extradition to face trial in the states. A high court judge granted a judicial review of his case,suggesting that the home secretary's decision to extradite him could be unlawful.&bull; Rob Glaser, the founder and chief executive ofRealNetworks, isstepping down after more than 16 years in the job. Why? Last week a San Francisco judgeruled against Realin its ongoing battle over the legality ofDVD ripping software. But aninternal memo(from PaidContent) suggests that it was just a matter of time after such a long stint in control, adding that it is something he's "been thinking about for a long time". He'll remain chairman, but is passing the torch over to Robert Kimball.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
ComputerWorld is reporting that the malware used by Chinese government-sponsored hackers to break into Google's systems wasable to target its internal systems used to assist law enforcement authorities.According to ComputerWorld, the hackers"apparently were able to access a system used to help Google comply with search warrants by providing data on Google users, said a source familiar with the situation, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak with the press. "Right before Christmas, it was, 'Holy s***, this malware is accessing the internal intercept [systems],'" he said."That, in turn led to a Christmas Eve meeting led by Google co-founder Larry Page to assess the situation. Three weeks later, the company had decided that things were serious enough that it would risk walking away from the largest market of Internet users in the world."Interestingly, Microsoft and Yahoo have not specifically said that their internal systems have not been affected. Yahoo "declined to say" whether it had been hit, ComputerWorld said, and issued a short statement that these "kinds of attacks are deeply disturbing".Microsoft however only said that "We have no indication that any of our mail properties have been compromised".But Microsoft may have been hit by Chinese hackers before - on an equally serious level. In 2000,Microsoft's internal network was hackedafter a Trojan was planted on a programmer's computer. At the time Microsoft spokesman Rick Miller called it "a deplorable act of industrial espionage" and added: "We're taking this very seriously, and have both an immediate and long-term solution to protect our internal corporate network."The hackers who broke into the company's computer systems in 2000 gained access to some of its key programs but did not change them, Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer said at the time. "It is clear that hackers did see some of our source code," Ballmer told Microsoft programmers and reporters at a seminar in Stockholm.The source of the hack has never been revealed. But the fact that it targeted the internal systems and the source code of Microsoft's products now, in retrospect, may be significant.
It was just a blog. Another post on a page filled with snippets about technology, advertising and new applications. But the 762 words that Google put online early  this morning will reverberate throughout the corporate and political world for years.Under the heading, "A new approach to China", the world's most powerful ­internet company said it had been under attack from hackers and government censors.The blog went on to push almost every button guaranteed to enrage China's ­rulers, raising the spectre of intellectual theft, corporate espionage and human rights violations. It called for users to strengthen their defences against malware and internet scams, raising doubts about existing security arrangements. Defiantly, it declared that its google.cn search engine would no longer censor information as ordered by the host authorities.Critics said this sounded like sour grapes from a company with a low market share, weak revenues and unfair competition during its four years inside the Great Fire Wall. But if anything, this strengthens the overall message: it is no longer worth compromising with China.Coming from a company that is known for being ahead of the corporate curve, it was a savage indictment. If it proves a turning point for foreign investment and information sharing, the significance of that blog would be cataclysmic.China is a country transformed in recent years by an influx of capital, business and ideas. It has not come without doubts and soul-searching on both sides. In the ­developed world, concerns about human rights have been overridden by investors and western governments who have argued persuasively that engagement more than criticism improves people's lives. China has been uneasy about potentially destabilising foreign influence, but it fudged this by prioritising economic growth and keeping a tight hold on the information available to its citizens.The compromise has led to a dramatic shift of fortunes. Hundreds of millions of people have been lifted out of poverty. In the past five years, China's GDP has not just overtaken Britain's, it has doubled.But with the global economy weak, optimism waning and the communist government increasingly assertive internationally, the trade-off seems to be less lucrative and politically harder to swallow, particularly for the former powers now being eclipsed. Britain's relations with China have hit the roughest patch in more than a decade as senior UK ministers condemned Beijing's intransigence at the Copenhagen climate conference and over the execution of British citizen Akmal Shaikh. The US is increasingly vocal in criticising China for its trade deficit and undervalued currency.Google's re-evaluation of the compromise goes a step further. It was one of the last big corporations to accept a compromise with China when it set up google.cn in January 2006. It joined a realm of insidious self-censorship, created not just by instructions from propaganda officials, but by a constant need to second-guess how far to push an invisible line of government tolerance.Since then it has been typically creative in trying to find solutions to the problems it faced in China. Recognising the ethical wrong of censorship, it insisted on telling users that their search terms had been filtered. To avoid having to hand over emails to police, it did not set up a gmail service in China. Recognising that rampant music piracy was a competitive advantage for its main rival, Baidu, it bought up the rights of tens of thousands of songs and offered them free to Chinese users. That the authorities let them not only do, but announce, these things suggests there was a degree of flexibility on both sides.But not enough. Four years ago, Google said it would "carefully monitor conditions in China" to see if its objectives were being achieved. Since then, it has made modest profits by its standards, failed to challenge the dominance of local rival Baidu, and censorship has grown more intense.Hopes that the internet would change China have given way to fears that China is changing the internet. Since a brief and partial opening around the 2008 Beijing Olympics, more websites have been closed than ever. Last year was the worst with the blocking of Twitter, Facebook and numerous other sites. Google suffered disruptions to its service, several of its applications were restricted and the company was criticised by the state media for promoting pornography. The intensified hacking problem, which was highlighted in the company's blog, appear to have added to the sense that the Chinese trends are all in the wrong direction.The Chinese government has yet to respond directly to Google, but given ­Beijing's recent uncompromising stance on everything from climate change and the death penalty to currency rates and trade deficits, it is impossible that it will roll over and accept that a foreign firm can rewrite the censorship rules. A counter-offensive against the western ­demonisation of China is more likely, but it will have tread carefully.Attacking the foreign media was very successful in distracting attention away from protests over the Olympic torch relay, but China's patriotic young netizens are far more fond of Google than CNN, and while they will defend China to the hilt, no one will stand up for censorship. The Trojan Horse might not be a Chinese classic, but the propaganda department may well be looking now at Google in much the same way and regretting that it ever let the company inside the Great Firewall.During a period of optimism, reaching out and opening up seemed like the right thing to do for both sides. That this atmosphere has changed is the most disturbing reading of Google's blog.
Google's decision to reverse its censorship of search engine results in China received a warm welcome in Silicon Valley last night.Human rights campaigners, ­freedom of speech advocates and dotcom ­entrepreneurs all applauded the ­Californian company's decision to stop cooperating with the Chinese government.The move, which threatens to end the internet giant's business in China after four troubled years, was seen by many as a turning point in the relationship between corporate America and Beijing.Jonathan Zittrain, professor of ­internet law at Harvard and a prominent ­anti-censorship activist, said he thought Google could wield significant influence in a fight to bring more uncensored ­information to Chinese citizens."In a world in which we are so used to public relations massaging of messages, this stands out as a direct declaration. It's amazing," he said. "I think the Chinese are going to say, 'bye-bye Google' – but just think about what happens if Google's engineers set about making information as accessible as possible in China."Others agreed the company was ­beginning what could be a wider shift in attitudes.John Battelle, a former managing editor of Wired magazine who covered the rise of Google in his 2005 book The Search, said others could follow."In this case, Google is again taking a leadership role, and the company is ­forcing China's hand," he wrote on hisblog."This is politics at its finest, and it's a very clear statement to China: we're done playing the game your way."While many threw their support behind Google's decision to stop censoring its search index, others – particularly those with significant business interests in China – were more circumspect.Most of the company's major rivals – including Microsoft – refused to ­comment on Google's announcement, while Yahoo released a terse statement in which it denounced the hacking attacks that Google said had prompted the decision."Yahoo is committed to protecting human rights, privacy and security," said the company."We condemn any attempts to infiltrate company networks to obtain user ­information. We stand aligned with Google that these kinds of attacks are deeply disturbing and strongly believe that the violation of user privacy is ­something that we as internet pioneers must all oppose."Microsoft and Yahoo have been ­criticised in the past for their activities in China, which have included removing websites belonging to dissidents, and the handing over of information which led to the jailing of several outspoken critics of the government.In 2007, a congressional inquiry ­criticised Yahoo's complicity in the ­imprisonment of Chinese journalist Shi Tao, ­leading to claims that Yahoo's co-founder Jerry Yang – who was born in ­Taiwan – had acted as a "moral pygmy" by bowing to pressure from Beijing.But while some leading ­technology companies have colluded with the ­Chinese government to silence its political opponents, others have been even more intimately involved in attempts to disrupt and silence dissidents.At the same time that Google was announcing its decision to lift the ban on certain words and phrases, Cisco Systems – which was instrumental in building the systems used in the Great Firewall of China – announced plans to increase investment in its businesses in the country.Sarah Lacy, author of the book Once You're Lucky, Twice You're Good: The Rebirth of Silicon Valley, and writer for the influential Silicon Valley blog Techcrunch, said Google's decision was a pragmatic example of dotcom realpolitik, pointing out that Google's business was not doing well in China."They're taking a bad situation and making something good out of it, both from a human and business point of view,"she wrote."I'm not saying human rights didn't play into the decision, but this was as much about business."
In this life, there are some people who look at a mountain and think: "What an amazing challenge, I must climb it." Then, there are those who think: "Look, there's a cable car. We could go up, admire the view, have a picnic and not get any blisters at all." Conversations between these two groups are doomed to revolve around the phrase, "but you're missing the point".As with mountains, so with gaming. There are the purists, who pride themselves on completing every level of a game without looking up online hints, and then completing it again in "hell" mode. But cheat codes, hints and walkthroughs have been around almost as long as games: evenSinclair User magazine(1982-93) used to carry cryptic hints for puzzles.Some of us, while accepting that using an "infinite money" code inSim Cityor reading a strategy walkthrough for Grand Theft Auto is cheating, just don't see how that's a bad thing. We don't care about the challenge, we just want to see the game.I'm firmly in the cheaters' camp; last week I watched a YouTube video to learn how to defeat a boss inZelda: Spirit Tracks. That's a game for ages 7+. The video was probably made by an eight-year-old. I used a walkthrough forHarvest Moon, a farming simulation game, to ensure I grew perfect sweetcorn. But I'm not ashamed. Cheats help novices or those without lightning  reflexes to enjoy the latest games.And while I'm breezily cheating my way through game after game, I can only feel gratitude to those who made it through the hard way and created the walkthroughs and guides. After all, it would be a waste of a cable car if none of us ever took a ride.
