Never mind mists and mellow fruitfulness. Nowadays, a surer sign of autumn is an electoral registration form arriving through the door.Despite tweaks in recent years, the annual ritual of updating the register has changed little since the great reform acts created a mass electorate of Victorian male householders. Registration is still based on households - and it's still done largely on paper. For the health of democracy, let alone any possibility of e-voting, this has to change.E-registration is some way off. Although "registering to vote" is listed as an option on the "do it online" section of the government's web portal, the service stretches the definition of online. It links to a form published by the Electoral   Commission: you'll need to print it off, sign it and post it to your local authority. The good news is that, because of the rolling register created by the Representation of the People Act 2000, you won't have to wait for the annual update for your name to go on the roll.For people already on the roll, at least some councils offer a useful e-service: automated telephone registration. The London Borough of Islington, for example, allows electors to confirm that their details are correct by dialling a freephone number and entering a 10-digit unique reference number sent out on registration forms. A couple of further key strokes enables voters to opt out of the new edited register which can be sold to junk mail firms.The automated service was a painless and pleasant surprise,   taking me less than a minute. A colleague in St Albans, Hertfordshire, timed his council's automated telephone registration procedure at 73 seconds. George Allan, Islington's executive member for customer focus, says that about 10% of voters used the service last year, and this year he hopes for more. "It doesn't result in much saving of money, but because it's more convenient, it encourages responses."Sadly, this is about as far as e-registration is likely to go in the immediate future. One barrier, as with much of e-government, is the difficulty of authenticating identities over the web. Another is the parliamentary timetable: changes in procedure need changes in the law.Earlier this year, the Electoral Commission called on the govern ment to get a move on. It urged wholesale modernisation of the process, starting with individual rather than household registration. It also backed the creation of a national electronic register, capable of being updated right up to election day and allowing people to vote at the polling station of their choice. (The Treasury earmarked &#163;12m in 2001 for a central electronic register, but the money has not been released.)Finally, the commission said voters should be able to register online and by telephone. Registration, it says, is the "linchpin of the electoral system", and efforts to get more people to vote should start here. That's worth thinking about as we complete our annual 73-second chore.www.ukonline.gov.uk
Smart phone gets a longer lifeOrange has launched a new smart phone running the Palm operating system to diversify its Microsoft-based range. The quad-band Treo 600 is a smaller, smarter version of Handspring's first go at the format, and looks more like an ordinary phone. It comes with a stylus and touch-sensitive screen, but forget about writing in Graffiti: most dial-ling and texting will be done using the tiny keyboard. The steeply domed keys make this easier to use than it looks, and it is faster and far nicer than multi-press systems.There's a VGA (640 x 480) camera in the back of the handset, and the software makes it easy to capture, annotate (write on) and send pics by MMS or email. SMS freaks will love how sequences of messages are stored: threaded together in a chat format. The 144MHz Arm and 24MB of memory are generous by Palm OS standards, but the colour screen is still 160 x 160 pixels: it doesn't look as good as Orange's Microsoft-based SPV (176 x 220 pixels), and isn't as easy to read. At least the batteries last longer.CamerasCompact classicCanon will soon be offering its classic Digital Ixus camera in its most compact form yet. Due in the stores next month for &#163;200, the Digital Ixus i weighs just100g. It can take four megapixel images, which are stored on its 32MB Secure Digital (SD) card. Other features include a 5.7x digital zoom and the option of taking video clips of up to three minutes. The Digital Ixus i comes in four colours, with an optional all-weather case, suitable for snorkelling, skiing and surfing.www.canon.co.ukHardwareNo glasses requiredA year after the launch of a 3D mobile phone in Japan, Sharp is poised to deliver a PC notebook that displays stereoscopic 3D images on its 15in screen. Ostensibly aimed at gamers and the Cad market, the 2.8GHz Pentium 4-based Mebius PC-RD3D uses a screen that features a pair of LCDs. Between them is the Parallax Barrier, which works to create the 3D image - no glasses are required. The screen can also work as a conventional 2D screen. Basic 3D content creation software is built in to the laptop, although Sharp is hoping that third parties such as gaming companies will offer 3D content. The notebook goes on sale in Japan next month, with a US launch soon after.www.sharp.co.ukVideo phonesColour me beautifulSony Ericsson will release a 3G video conference phone in January. The Z1010, which will work with existing 2G   networks, has two displays - one in high-quality colour - and two cameras. It will work with Sony Memory Stick Duo technology, allowing data to be moved to and from the phone. Sony Ericsson says the phone, announced in February, will be available in the UK if an operator is found. Three new phones will also be available in the UK in the last quarter of this year, including the Z600, with Bluetooth capability, a built-in camera and a colour screen.GadgetsSteal a marchYet another company has set its sights on stealing market share from Apple in the hard disk-based MP3 personal market. The latest alternative to the iPod is the X-Clef Personal Jukebox. Slightly chunkier than rivals, the player features 20 gigabytes of storage, playback of MP3 and Windows Media Audio (WMA files) and a USB 2.0 connector. With a battery life of 12 hours, it also includes an integrated FM radio and is compatible with Windows, Mac and Linux PCs. Possibly its best feature is its price - &#163;229 -making it one of the cheapest hard disk MP3 personals available.www.firebox.comPen your thoughtsDigital pens that can archive a person's handwriting and then transfer it to a PC have been around in the US and Japan for a while. The UK is, however, about to get its first taste of the digital pen when Logitech launches its &#163;149.99 io writing system next month.The large pen features an optical sensor that behaves like a camera. Users write on special paper available for &#163;4 per pad or Post It notes for &#163;2.99. The information is then stored in the pen's 1MB memory (up to 40 pages can be saved at one time). When the pen is placed in its USB docking station, the handwriting is transferred to the PC via the dedicated   software. Users can then store their handwriting on the PC, export it into applications such as Word or Adobe Illustrator or convert the text using handwriting recognition software (a month's free trial is included).Each page is kept as a separate document, although the software has the facility to search for handwritten key words. The io will be available via Logitech's website from October 1, with a roll out to UK stores planned for later in the month.InternetHotspots to surgeThe number of public wireless hotspots in the UK and Ireland will multiply by 7.5 in three years, from 1,210 this year to 9,170 in 2006, according to UK analyst Datamonitor. This is double the predicted rate of growth worldwide, where 31,580 this year are expected to become 135,000 by 2006, with the number of users exploding from 1.53m to 23m. The firm says BT's enthusiasm for the technology, which it is calling OpenZone, will drive UK growth. BT has more than 400 locations; it plans to have 1,300 by year's end and 4,000 by next summer.Wi-Fi for LewishamThe London borough of Lewisham is giving free, unlimited high-speed wireless internet access to residents of its Winslade housing estate in New Cross Gate, as long as they have a PC. The estate's residents can also use a com puter centre for online access, including to their own Winslade email account and web page, as well as council services. The communications firms Avaya and Echostar Communications are also involved in the project.www.winsladeonline.comVirtual porridgeThe Home Office has set up a virtual tour of a prison, to help families of prisoners and staff understand life inside. The site offers a Macromedia Flash or text-based tour of a typical prison, with information on arrival, daily life, keeping in touch with those outside and leaving. Phil Wheatley, director general of the Prison Service, says the site aims to help prisoners' families maintain links, a key factor in reducing re-offending. The site was developed with the help of two charities, the Prison Reform Trust and Action for Prisoners' Families.www.cjsonline.org/virtual/prisons.htmlStat of the week: Downloaded musicTwo thirds of all US households with internet access had at least one digital music file on their hard drives, according to research by NPD. Of these, 56% had between 1 and 100 files but 8% had more than1,000.
Thought provokingThe Adam Smith Institute claims to be the first UK thinktank to launch its own weblog, although the Work Foundation's iSociety weblog would probably argue with that assertion. This multiple-authored online journal with a passion for free markets is likely to provoke debate among Guardian readers: early posts include a dressing down for No Logo author Naomi Klein and left-wing satire.www.adamsmithblog.orgwww.lucidcafe.com/library/96jun/smith.htmlwww.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adam_SmithWeather chartWhat will the weather be like in 2050? You can help to predict climate change by harnessing the power of your PC at school, home or work. Climateprediction.net, the world's largest climate prediction experiment, is following in the footsteps of the SETI@home project by asking people to run a unique version of the Meteorological Office's climate model.www.climateprediction.netwww.metoffice.comhttp://setiathome.ssl.berkeley.eduPolitical intrigueCould K Street be the next Sopranos or Six Feet Under for HBO? This reality TV series, which delves into the murky world of political consultants, premieres on US television this week. If the success of other HBO shows in the UK is anything to go by, K Street could be on its way across the pond before long. The HBO site offers audio interviews with directors George Clooney and Steven Soderbergh and a chance to sign up for the K Street newsletter.www.hbo.com/kstreetBeefier bloggerBlogger has announced some new features that should make life easier for users of its free weblog hosting facility. Spellchecking, saving drafts and a daily archiving option are among the improvements. Beefing up Blogger's features also means that the paid-for Blogger Pro is no longer to be offered as a separate product.http://new.blogger.comPool of moneyThe Victoria Baths in Manchester is celebrating this week after gaining &#163;3.4m in restoration money for winning the BBC's Restoration programme. The baths' website includes a virtual tour of the now-derelict building, art projects, and archive photographs from the pools' heyday. More memories of the Longsight area of Manchester, where the baths are situated, are available at Manchesterhistory.net.www.victoriabaths.org.ukmanchesterhistory.net/longsight.htmlwww.bbc.co.uk/history/programmes/restorationHit recordingThe Electronic Frontier Foundation is asking for signatures for its online petition condemning the Recording Industry Association of America's moves to sue music downloaders. The petition, which will be delivered to the US Congress, easily passed its goal of 10,000 names and is on its way to having more than 30,000 backers.www.eff.org/share/petitionwww.riaa.comSite to sewThe VidaVerde seed company's 2004 catalogue is now available online, featuring rare, unusual and mainly organic fruit and vegetable seed varieties such as white beetroot, Amaranth and tomatillos. The site is offering online ordering and payment via PayPal or Nochex for the first time.www.vidaverde.co.ukwww.hdra.org.uk/hslHung questionIs he really in that glass box? You can watch David Blaine's latest stunt live on the Channel 4 website, provided you are prepared to stump up &#163;4.95 a month to subscribe to its 4Broadband service. However, you don't have to pay to join the debate on the website's forum on whether Blaine really is starving himself for 44 days while hanging from Tower Bridge.www.channel4.com/davidblaineqs/q3.htmlwww.davidblaine.comNew &amp; notedP2P telephonywww.skype.comRugby World Cupwww.rugby2003.com.auInternational Talk Like a Pirate daywww.thomasscott.net/yarrSix of the best: Dictionaries and reference booksComputer termswww.webopedia.comCrosswordswww.oneacross.comTranslatinghttp://allwords.comEnglish slangwww.peevish.co.uk/slangScrabblewww.hasbro.com/scrabble/home.cfmRhyming wordswww.rhymer.com
A lonely battleI read with great interest the story regarding an attempt to defraud Barclays Bank customers (Barclays calls in cyber-police, September 15), by sending dummy Barclays forms (via email) to Barclays online banking customers to get them to reveal account information. The bank immediately assured customers that any loss would be refunded and it has moved quickly to trace the fraudsters and block their activities.I am impressed by their response. In a similar case that affected me involving eBay and the online payment service PayPal, these companies' responses were quite different. I was a PayPal customer using this service to receive payments from all around the world for items sold on eBay (which also own PayPal).Over the past four months, I have been receiving emails, purporting to be from PayPal, advising me to divulge my credit card details, including my Pin. While I recognised this to be a scam, not once did I receive a "warning" email from the company. Furthermore, the fact that these emails were arriving over a period of four months led me to conclude that PayPal's attempts to protect its customers are apparently non-existent.EBay, the huge online auction site, seems no better at tackling fraud. Last week, I was unable to access my account for five days because it had been hacked into and my password and email address altered. The hacker then tried to use my account to sell (non-existent) luxury items to users bidding on similar items.I emailed eBay who "returned" my account by allowing me to reset my   password. This, however, was done via an automated email and no explanation or apology was given. Furthermore, having lost five days' worth of trading, I have not received a penny of compensation.The ease with which fraud can be perpetrated online is no surprise. But with vigilance and targeted resources, companies can tackle the problem and help - and keep - customers. I, for one, cannot risk being exposed to online fraud and not receive any help from the companies in question.Markus HollerSugarbush RecordsApple happyBuying a portable PC (September 11), was informative in the way it made distinctions between notebooks, ultra-portables, tablets and desktop replacements - but faltered when it concluded by saying that Apple "only offers general purpose notebooks" with its G4 PowerBooks "edging towards the desktop replacement market". The entry-level Powerbook measures 28 x 22 x 3cm, weighs 2.1kg, has a 867 MHz G4 proccessor, a CD-RW/ DVD drive, built-in Bluetooth, respectable graphics card, full-sized keyboard and a five-hour battery life. Surely this makes it a notebook, an ultra-portable and a desktop replacement.Dr Dennis LowHullContent hostsSimon Bisson's article on content management tools (No site too small, September 11) left out one of the best approaches for smaller business and local government websites: hosted services. Anyone who has used online banking facilities or web-based email will be familiar with the idea of using a hosted service and its many advantages, but they may not be aware that more complex applications (such as managing a website) can also be delivered entirely online. Web-based content management is taking off and not just at small companies.Danny Soferkitsite.comCD-conI remember when the great new CD began its obliteration of the venerable LP. The things we were told: they never wear out (wrong); the price will come down when that factory in Scotland gets going! All lies, in hindsight.My CD collection is on my hard drive (I never share) as none of the disks will play in any CD player I can find. I'm never buying a CD again. Internet radio is far superior. Why don't bands just sell themselves online and ignore record companies? I would prefer to buy direct from the artist. Maybe this is what the corporates are scared of.C MorleyNot immuneJoseph Haig (Feedback, September 11) seems to suggest that Linux is immune from infection by viruses. This is not true, since all operating systems can be infected (by a virus or internet worm). Users of Linux regularly receive notices of potential security threats and updates are made freely available. GNU/Linux has nothing to hide. After all, the source code is there for everyone to see.Gordon JolyLondonRogue processI'm sure if any Linux user looks for super user executable files that have write access, any of those can be overwritten, provided the user running a rogue process has the permission to access the file. That's just a simple starting point and only requires one accident from an unwary super user, let alone ordinary users.As to how the file is overwritten; how much software do Linux users download, compile and run without checking a single line of the code? Anyone could change a "standard" version into a nasty version at the drop of a hat.Richard Chandler
When social workers called at the home of Victoria Climbi&#233; in the last weeks of her life, no one answered the door. They assumed the family had moved. In fact, the appallingly injured eight-year-old was almost certainly only a few feet away, tied up in an unlit and unheated bathroom.At least a dozen agencies had data that, in retrospect, show Climbi&#233; was being mistreated. But no one put the big picture together until she was dead.Would better government IT systems have saved the little girl's life? Probably not. In the words of one official report: "Victoria was murdered by deeply wicked individuals consciously acting so as to evade detection by the authorities." But modern, joined-up information systems might have given her a chance. Hence the emphasis on IT and information sharing in the government's official reaction to the case, a green paper endorsed by the prime minister.Every Child Matters, published earlier this month, proposes urgent steps to help councils set up shared electronic databases of every child in their area. For the first time, every child will have a unique government ID number (probably the NHS num ber). The idea is that if a child comes to the attention of one agency, for example by missing school, other agencies will automatically be informed.The government acknowledges that the proposals are likely to be controversial. The green paper invites views, for example, on whether information about parents' criminal records or drug problems be available on the registers.However, moves are already afoot to remove legal and technical barriers to the sharing of information between different agencies and tiers of government. The Queen's Speech is likely to include measures to allow more information to be shared, and the government will decide in the autumn which identity numbers will be used in the system.These moves will come as a relief to local authorities that have already begun setting up central registers of children. The green paper commends several councils, such as Telford and Wrekin in Shropshire, for creating IT   systems that allow professionals to register early concerns about a child's needs.However, the databases proposed will go much futher, to integrate information about all children across all services. "To achieve this," the green paper says, "we want to see a local information hub developed in every authority, consisting of a list of all the children living in their area and basic details". Apart from name, address, school and GP, this will include a "flag stating whether the child is known to agencies such as education, welfare, social services and police". Where a child is known to more than one agency, the system will identify a lead professional who takes overall responsibility for the case.The system would show up anomalies that humans might not notice: it would flag up if a child is known to social services but does not have a current educational record. (This alone might have helped Victoria Climbi&#233;; no one apparently noticedshe was not attending school.)Creating local information hubs will need changes in the law and prompt technical decisions, the paper says. "The government intends to legislate at the first opportunity to enable information sharing to happen at an earlier stage to prevent problems escalating." Parts of the   technology jigsaw are already being put in place through the modernisation of NHS and criminal justice IT systems, around XML standards that allow systems to share information.To test the technology, the government is funding 15 councils as "identification, referral and tracking" trailblazers: first results from these projects will be available by the end of this year, the green paper says. "By the end of 2004, we aim to set out how the lessons from the trailblazers can be reflected across the country."The green paper also reveals that the government is within weeks of deciding to allocate a unique ID number to every child (at present, the UK is one of the few countries in Europe not to issue multi-purpose numbers to residents and citizens). "The government plans to announce, by the end of 2003, how it will define a single identifying number to support electronic information transfer. This could build on the use of existing identifiers such as the NHS number or the national insurance number."Of the two, the 10-digit NHS number is the likelier, as it is newer and much less compromised by fraud. Since last year, every child has been issued an NHS number soon after birth (proposals are under way to issue one while they are still in the womb). The number is already being   used to support national initiatives such as the screening of newborn babies for deafness.The snag is that when the NHS numbering system was reformed in the mid-90s, Conservative health ministers promised that the identifier would not become a creeping national ID number. The present government is likely to argue that times have changed and that, increasingly, people expect the NHS to share data with other agencies. However, any extension of the number's use will give ammunition to privacy campaigners as a classic example of "function creep".Another possible objection to the register surfaces in a report on the Climbi&#233; case by the House of Commons health select committee. It doesn't object to the child register as such - but doubts government's ability to build it. "We believe that establishing a national database for children... would represent a major practical and technical challenge that should not be underestimated." Instead, it proposes a feasibility study.The green paper says that the government is still open to persuasion, particularly on questions of privacy. "The government wants to prevent situations where a child does not receive the help they need because of too rigid an interpretation of the privacy of the child and their family. In order to get the balance right, we are consulting on the circumstances (in addition to child protection and youth offending) under which information about a child could or must be shared, for preventative purposes, without the consent of the child or their carers."The paper asks for views on:&#183;What currently gets in the way of effective information sharing, and how can we remove the barriers?&#183;What should be the thresholds and triggers for sharing information about a child?&#183;What are the circumstances (in addition to child protection and youth offending) under which information about a child could or must be shared without the consent of the child or their carers?&#183;Should information on parents or carers, such as domestic violence, imprisonment, mental health or drug problems, be shared?&#183;How can we ensure that no children slip through the system?&#183;What issues might stand in the way of effective information transfer across local authority boundaries?&#183;Should a unique identifying number be used?But the proposals in Every Child Counts already have backing in high places: the green paper was introduced to parliament by the chief secretary to the Treasury, Paul Boateng. And, in a foreword, Tony Blair adds his personal stamp: "We all desperately want to see people, practices and policies in place to make sure that the risk &#91;of abuse&#93; is as small as is humanly possible." Against that, opponents of universal child registers will find it hard to argue.&#183;www.dfes.gov.uk/everychildmatters
The launch of the Oracle 10g platform was the big news at last week's OracleWorld conference in San Francisco. Its new enterprise grid strategy overshadowed the saga of Oracle's hostile bid for PeopleSoft, with industry luminaries walking (or hobbling, in the case of Michael Dell, who had just broken an ankle) on to the Moscone Center's stage to extol the virtues of the grid. It's a big vision for Larry Ellison's database company, and one that seems targeted at the trends affecting IT departments all over the world.There's confusion about what Oracle means by "grid". It's easy to think of complex, large-scale distributed computing projects, often used by universities to share resources. This isn't what Oracle is delivering. Instead, it is taking some academic concepts and mixing them with improved clustering technologies and the trend towards server and storage virtualisation. The move is closely aligned with the IT industry's desire for increased returns on investments.The first 10g product to be launched will be a new version of Oracle's Java application server. The application server market has many different products vying for corporate budgets. Oracle is going to have to work hard to compete - especially as Microsoft's .Net application server is built into the operating system. Oracle is hoping its grid technologies will give its 10g Application Server the edge it needs.With businesses worried about server costs, a cluster of 10g Application Servers will help manage resources, by shifting applications   between servers to respond to changes in demand. As demand increases, extra servers can automatically take up the load. It doesn't need to be a scheduled change: it can be based on server demand or end-user response times. Oracle will also be introducing development tools to use this approach to build service- oriented architectures, with adapters for many common applications and integration protocols. The 10g Application Server isn't just for new applications: you can run existing Java code, using grid technologies without additional development costs.Any grid solution needs appropriate management tools. Clustered servers and virtualised storage are complex systems, and need specialised management tools. Oracle's Enterprise Manager 10g will monitor   and control more than just your Oracle applications, using open management standards to link to third-party tools and systems, and giving you an end-user's view of your applications. This approach should make it easier to find application bottlenecks, and to tune solutions to meet demand.Despite a flourishing applications business (and its associated battle for control of PeopleSoft), Oracle is still best known for its database. While the 10g platform is being advertised as a new way of computing, the new release is best thought of as an evolutionary step. Most of the grid features in 10g are direct descendants of Oracle's existing clustering technologies, or are tools that simplify existing management tasks - especially those associated with managing storage.Clustering isn't a new technology.   Oracle has been clustering its databases for 14 years, ever since Oracle version 6. Chief executive Larry Ellison is confident about his company's approach to the enterprise grid, and its benefits for businesses that need to scale applications across storage, database and applications. "We are the only ones who can solve that problem," he says.He's also clear about the benefits of the new technologies, pointing out that they allow companies to use small, fast servers to scale out their Oracle implementations. While he admits that large servers aren't going to disappear overnight, and that it will take years to see the majority of Oracle customers move to grid technologies, he expects the move to small servers will be driven by their price/performance advantages.Oracle isn't alone in working with distributed computing technologies. Microsoft's .Net strategy encapsulates some of what Oracle is offering, as does IBM's work with Java and web services. All three approaches are different, and all three can work together using web services. One of the biggest threats to Oracle's domination of the database market comes from the same open source movement that it has embraced in its 10g architecture. The MySQL database has proven popular for small applications, and will remain a strong competitor even with Oracle's announcement of a smaller-scale strategy in its web-managed HTML DB solution.It will take some time for businesses to start using Oracle's new technologies, and there remain questions about how they'll be licensed - especially as the grid's on-demand deployment and adaptive architectures aren't really suitable for traditional per-processor or per-user licensing schemes. Oracle is trialling site licenses with customers, offering unlimited access to all of Oracle's tools for a yearly fee.There's a big vision and a possible bright future here for Oracle. If 10g's management tools work half as well as promised, they'll make it easier to run enterprise IT systems. The grid technologies built into the platform could help make more efficient use of computing resources. One thing is clear: Oracle doesn't want to be seen as just a database company. But, after all the glitzy presentations, will Oracle be able to deliver the goods?
Tighter access planOnly a few kinds of government organisation, essentially those fighting serious crime, will get access to sensitive "traffic data", under orders laid before parliament last week. Traffic data includes location data generated by mobile phone users, as well as web-servers visited online. The orders define precisely which individuals, in which organisations and in what circumstances, can apply to see what kinds of communications data - information about communications, rather thantheir contents. Most organisations will only get access to less sensitive data, such as the name and address of a phone or email user. However, the government faces opposition over plans to force telecoms and ISPs to retain this data for up to a year, under the Anti-Terrorism Act.E-successFour out of 10 local councils already have all their services available online - nearly two years ahead of the government's target. Local government minister Phil Hope gave the figure annoucing &#163;14m for new local government innovation. England's 400-odd local authorities have until 31 December 2005 to make all their services available online. Hope said that 39% are already there.Can for spammersItalian spammers face up to three years in prison if they cause damage or benefit economically from their activities, under a new law. Italian senders of bulk email must verify that each address owner has given consent or face a fine of &euro;90,000 (&#163;63,000): email addresses are presumed private, even if published online. Anti-spam group Spamhaus says Italy is the first country to implement the European Union's anti-spam directive. Elsewhere, the Internet Society of China - a country seen as a haven for spammers - has blocked 127 servers for sending spam. However, only eight are in China, with 90 in Taiwan, which the Chinese government sees as a renegade province.www.spamhaus.org/newsdog.Joy divisionSun Microsystems' chief scientist Bill Joy is leaving the company he helped found in 1982, though for many years, he has lived in Aspen, Colorado, far from Sun's Silicon Valley offices. During his time with Sun, Joy has been a major influence on its technical direction, and he was one of the leading promoters of Java. While at university, he helped de velop the Berkeley Software Distribution, or BSD, Unix which added the Internet TCP/IP protocol to Unix. At Sun, he helped develop its Network File System (NFS) and co-designed the Sparc processor. His responsibilities will be taken over by executive vice president Greg Papadopoulos as chief technical officer. Joy has not said what his immediate plans are.Personal driveIntel is demonstrating its vision of the portable device of the future: a high capacity disk drive with processor and wireless connectivity, but no user interface. The Personal Server was aired at Intel's Developer Forum in San Jose this week, where Ray Want, a senior engineer at Intel, proclaimed it to be the way ahead. He dismisses PDAs and mobile phones as being too small and claims that weight and size makes notebook PCs too cumbersome. The Personal Server is the size of a cigarette packet but, Want predicts, will have a capacity of 3TB by 2011. To access the server, the owner would connect wirelessly to desktop screens and keyboards in shops, banks and offices or through information kiosks.www.intel.com/idf/us/fall2003IBM storeIBM is raising the stakes in the tape storage market with its TotalStorage Enterprise Tape Drive 3592. The new format, developed with Fujifilm, hits a new high for cartridge capacity, exceeding current technologies by 100GB. The 300GB drives have a transfer rate of 40MBps, and can be stacked in IBM's 3494 tape library to give a maximum of 5PB of storage. Speed and capacity come at a price and the ETD drive costs around &#163;20,000. Fujifilm's contribution is its Nanocubic medium of ultra-small particles spread thinly on a substrate but still claiming more than 30 years of tape life. IBM developed the read-write heads.www.storage.ibm.com/press/announce/20030909.htmlLive meetingsMicrosoft has entered the web conferencing market with a service called Office LiveMeeting. This heralds the change of name of Microsoft's Office suite to Office System 2003. The idea is to take Office to a higher level by adding more software products topped off with services. LiveMeeting stems from Microsoft's purchase of PlaceWare, a web conferencing specialist, in April. The new software offers the ability to view presentations, collaborate on documents, do instant polls and provide feedback to a moderator. The system can handle up to 2,500 participants in a single meeting. Meanwhile, Office 2003 is available now to many corporate users, will be preloaded on some PCs by the end of this month and will get its retail launch at a big event in New York on October 21.www.microsoft.com/office/preview/livemeeting
"As expected, European wireless carrier Orange has officially announced that it will be carrying the Treo 600 smart phone. However, the device won't be available until next month," saysBrighthand.Comment: I've had a go with this and it's covered briefly in tomorrow's Online.
The new 3.2GHz Pentium 4 Extreme Edition "will have about four times the cache memory of the fastest current Pentium 4," reports theMercury News.
"Microsoft is updating Internet-enabled Xbox game consoles with a software patch that blocks users from installing the Linux operating system on the machine, and also apparently deletes some files Linux users have stored on the Xbox's hard drive, according to the Xbox Linux Project," reportsZD Net.
A dose of blogging-as-a-business reality fromNick Denton. "Here's a reality check: Gawker and Gizmodo do about $2,000 in ad revenue a month... if you're a starving freelance writer-blogger, and a magazine offers real money and benefits: take the deal."
Greetings, all, from MacExpo in Paris. Due to the lack of Wi-Fi in the keynote hall I wasn't able to repeat the live blogging extravaganza of last time, but Jack's done a great job of covering it live from South London :-)Nogreatshakes here - the laptops were expected, the wireless keyboard and mouse less so. The demo of the next iteration of Mac OSX - Panther - made it clear that's going to be a really lovely operating system, but we still didn't get a date for release - just that it would happen this year. Earlier than Longhorn, I suppose...But there was no mention, as fellow music-loving Euros will note, of an iTunes music store for this side of the pond. There were rumours it was going to happen this month, but these have now been quashed. We quizzed Steve Jobs after the keynote, at a briefing for business press. He refused to be drawn on when the store might open here, saying only that "we're working on it" and that it "might" happen next year.Looks like what music industry sourcestold me last month- about the store heading for a Spring 2004 launch - might be about right. Apple blames the labels, the labels blame Apple.Meanwhile, I've filed avoice reportfor Guardian Unlimited - 'fraid you'll need the Real player to listen.
"Apple on Tuesday announced a new wireless keyboard and mouse, which the company expects to be available in two weeks. Apple CEO Steve Jobs debuted the products during his Apple Expo keynote in Paris France," saysMacCentral."Apple was the first to fully integrate Bluetooth support in its operating system with Mac OS X and the first to make Bluetooth standard across our entire line of professional notebooks," said Philip Schiller, Apple's senior vice president of Worldwide Product Marketing.Comment: along with all those important firsts, it is nice to see Apple catching up with what Microsoft announced about a year ago.Microsoft Readies Bluetooth Keyboard, Mouse
"Chief Executive Steve Jobs (news - web sites) said on Tuesday the company had launched three new laptop computers before the key holiday selling season," reportsReuters. "The new machines will be faster and better-equipped versions of existing laptops with 12-inch, 15-inch and 17-inch screens, Jobs said during a keynote speech at the Apple Expo."
The American music industry last week turned its collective gaze on to a 12-year-old schoolgirl from Manhattan.But it wasn't Brianna LaHara's precocious musical talents the record executives were interested in. She's not the next Britney. It was her newfound fame as one of the first targets in a crackdown on internet piracy. The bespectacled honours student, guilty of downloading songs by Madonna and Paula Abdul, looked an unlikely villain."I got really scared. My stomach is all turning," she plaintively told the New York Post. "Out of all people, why did they pick me?"The Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) has turned to desperate tactics for desperate times. The suit was among a first wave of 261 filed against ordinary people for allegedly making copyrighted material available for copying online.The industry organisation has offered an amnesty to anyone who comes forward and signs an affidavit swearing never to download copyrighted music again, in an attempt to soften the bludgeoning effects of the legal action. It has, however, promised that thousands more lawsuits will be filed.In the past few years, the US recording industry has suffered an eye-popping collapse in sales. While revenues have held up in Britain, they have dropped precipitously in America where internet piracy is rampant. Some estimates suggest that 60 million Americans have downloaded songs illegally.Music sales in the US have fallen by 30% in the past three years as file-sharing services such as Kazaa have flourished. In 2000, the ten top-selling albums in the US sold a combined 60m copies. In 2001 that dropped to 40m and last year was 34m.  By May of this year, Kazaa had become the world's most in-demand software, with 230m downloads. It has been adding new users at a rate of 13 million a month."Nobody likes playing the heavy and having to resort to litigation," said Cary Sherman, the president of the RIAA. "But when your product is stolen, there comes a time when you have to take appropriate action."There have been other signs in recent weeks of how fearful the music business has become. The North American division of Universal Music, the firm behind Eminem and Shania Twain, announced plans to slash the price of compact discs by up to almost one third in an attempt to jump-start sales. At the same time Universal said it intends to substantially increase its advertising.Universal CDs will now retail in the US for as little as $12.98 (£8.20), underlining how relatively expensive they continue to be in Britain.The other four majors have not yet followed Universal's example. But Universal is by far the biggest music group in the US with 29% of the market and rivals will be under pressure to do the same. "We are in the middle of a terrible situation where our music is being stolen," said the Universal chief, Doug Morris. "We need to invigorate the market."The music firms have begun licensing their material to the likes of Apple Computer and Microsoft, which have launched competing services allowing consumers to download songs onto a portable device for as little as 99 cents.It is in this area that perhaps there is the most optimism. Apple's iTunes has been an unqualified success. Since its launch in the US in the spring, 10m songs have been downloaded. Microsoft, though, stole a march on the company when it launched its pay-as-you-go service in Europe two weeks ago, allowing users to legally download any of 200,000 songs from 8,500 artists.Sony said earlier this month that it was developing a similar offering that would launch early next year.The music industry catastrophically failed to deal with the arrival of the internet - viewing it as a threat instead of recognising it as an opportunity to build a potentially exciting new distribution method. For an industry that markets much of its product to young people, it became woefully out of touch with its audience. It could, however, have reached a turning point.The day after the uproar over the RIAA suing Brianna LaHara, the case was settled when her mother agreed to pay $2,000. Under federal law, the RIAA could have extracted up to $150,000 a song. In a flash, the schoolgirl turned into a penitent example, used to strike fear into other internet surfers.She was quoted in the accompanying press release apologising for what she had done and admitting that it was wrong. "I love music and don't want to hurt the artists I love," she said.What initially appeared to be a public relations disaster turned into a chillingly effective tactic. Newspapers, by identifying and humanising the individuals, are playing into the music industry's hands. The media turned swiftly from outrage to practical guides for avoiding being sued: New Parent-to-Child Chat: Do you Download Music?, read a front page headline in the New York Times.
We are currently in the middle of a fairly Apple-intensive fortnight. At one time, the company's chief executive, Steve Jobs, used to make a speech to showcase new products two or three times a year.Not much happened between those speeches, apart from rumours created by Apple's obsessive secrecy.These days, the secrecy remains, but the party begins a week before the speech. Last week, we had new iMacs and iPods and, in Paris tomorrow, Mr Jobs is expected to unveil yet more gadgets that will keep the company in the news for a few more weeks.Why this constant attention? Partly, it happens because Apple is very good at attracting it by keeping everything secret until the last minute. But it is also because the company has more products - and product lines - to furnish with new models than it used to.They range from dinky iPods to powerful G5 towers, via iMacs, laptops and even a rack-mounted server.Then there is a burgeoning software line-up which goes from email clients through presentation software and digital media to pro-quality video editing and - the jewel in the software crown - Mac OSX, on and through which all this works.On the software side, Apple is both taking on development of its most important applications - a good web browser, top-notch digital media apps and a presentation package - and defining where the company's main appeal should lie.What is that appeal? As a straight replacement for a Windows PC? For a long time, Apple used to attempt to compete with the Windows world in a fairly direct way, proclaiming early on, for instance, that its easy to use PCs were "computers for the rest of us".That is why it was important to have Microsoft Office for Mac. It was a way of saying: "We can do that stuff too - and we've got a cuter interface."However, in the dark days of the early to mid-90s, those looks faded fast. With the birth of the new OSX operating system, Apple has had a wonderful facelift, but the company is a little older and wiser now.It knows that beauty by itself will not do. For all that Windows XP might still feel clunky and rough at the edges to those of us more used to Mac OSX, it is good enough for most.Similarly, some Mac fans, and more than a few PC diehards, moan about the expense of owning a Mac. This weekend, I went shopping for a PC system of similar capabilities to the newly revised top-end 17-inch iMac, which sells for £1,712.99 including VAT and delivery. At Dell, I could have assembled a similar system for £212 less.The fact is that, for Apple, price is not really the point. For a start, Dell leads most of the PC world on price: Apple is not the only computer manufacturer left standing by the the PC giant.Instead, Apple has bet the ranch that Mac customers are not being led by price, performance, or even compatibility with the PC world when they buy a Mac.Apple wants to flog much more than just a PC. There's that aura of cool - nice-looking machines that you would have in your living room or a smart office space.More practically, there are creative applications to make the most of digital photographs and movies, superior digital music capabilities when a Mac's iTunes software is twinned with an iPod music player, and a robust and secure operating system.In short, the company is selling lifestyles and (in the pro line-up) workstyles, a computing platform that makes a statement when you buy.And these are all niches. You could argue that, from the moment Mr Jobs returned to the company and launched the strategy being pursued by Apple today, it has been about pursuing small parts of the market left unsatisfied by the beige boxes and cheap clunkiness of the PC market.In any other business, chasing niches is a perfectly acceptable plan. Look at the car industry, retail, or the rest of the consumer electronics industry and, around the mass-market players, there are successful, profitable companies serving specialist needs or high-end, high-margin markets. It is a strategy that could easily work quite nicely for Apple.However, the problem, for some, is Apple's early promise to make a "computer for the rest of us" - a vow which still defines the Mac experience for many of its users.The company's new strategy is clearly not that, and some would argue that Apple has never really followed its own mantra, producing machines that have consistently cost more than their PC counterparts.Apple serves its niches well these days: a renewed focus on digital media and music creation in OSX has brought huge benefits for people working in those fields. The new, much more powerful G5 chips from IBM will help both there and in publishing.But the result of all this effort may be hard for some Mac diehards to accept.Yes, the new-look Apple might be beautiful, and the functionality may be wonderful in some, mostly creative, fields, but all pretence at going for the real mass market has long since been dropped.Today, the "rest of us" are mostly using Windows, and Apple is no longer concerned with changing that.
"Customers on Enterprise Agreements or Software Assurance will be able to download as of Monday, as will MSDN subscribers, said Dan Leach, lead product manager for Microsoft's Information Worker Product Management Group," reportsCRN. "Leach said hardware OEMs will start shipping the first machines preloaded with the Office suite by the end of September. After that, the next major event will be October 21 New York launch of the retail product where Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates and Group Vice President Jeff Raikes will hold court."
"The service, called LiveMeeting, is based on technology the Redmond, Wash., software maker obtained when it acquired PlaceWare in early 2002. LiveMeeting, like similar services on the market, is largely designed to enhance conference calls with Web content," reportsCNet.
Business television programmes have been around for ages, of course, but what if you could interrupt and ask the presenter a question? What if, instead of making everyone go to a television screen every time you wanted them to see a video of your chief executive's presentation, you could deliver the TV content to their computer screen - everyone across the company?A number of companies and their partner organisations are doing precisely that, or heading that way. Audi, for example, has started training its dealer network through web TV, and has noted an upturn in its sales as a result. Dixons is using web technology to keep employees informed of developments and may webcast its annual conference later this year, while electronics and computing retailerDabs.comhas been sufficiently impressed with itsdabs.tvsite, which offers short explanations of products by a presenter, that it will be starting a digital TV channel proper in the new year. Meanwhile financial site ADVFN is starting what it believes is an entirely new medium - TV broadcasts over its networks, which will allow the audience to talk to the presenter at the same time.The means of getting this sort of web TV hybrid to a customer are many. Audi opted for a completely outsourced system, through the communications specialist twofourTV. Twofour chief operating officer Mark Hawkins says the starting point with all clients is to find out about their requirements and work from there. "They can use their own equipment, do a webcast from a webcam if they want, although that will be lower quality - or we can turn up and do everything for a customer after they've made the first phone call."Becoming your own TV channel, whether on the internet or otherwise, should be a good business move, says Hawkins. "Research from Manchester University says the brain really likes watching TV," he comments. "Their tests showed that people remembered 166% better when presented with learning from TV than from audio only or other media."Outsourcing everything is certainly an option, and the one that a software system called Goodmood from twofourtv can help with. Others prefer to play the system differently. Phil Birbeck, operations director for the PC World business at Dixon's, explains that the company's use of TV as a training medium started from necessity and grew from there. "When we had 10 or 20 stores it was easy to stay in touch; now that we have 135, even a simple heads-of-stores meeting is quite an event."To keep the small-business feel, in which everyone knows everyone and the bosses are accessible, Dixon's elected to broadcast rather than liaise in person with all its staff. "It was a huge success; it was entirely voluntary but 70% of the staff came in before their shift to watch."More daring stuff is under consideration for the stores. "We haven't decided for certain yet but we're considering webcasting our Christmas conference," says Birbeck. "It's a bit daunting, not least because we're retailers rather than broadcasters."The quality issue is certainly a concern for anyone wanting to use this form of communication in future. The last thing any company wants is for its MD to appear on someone's screen looking hesitant - image is important to these people, particularly when their recall is going to be heightened by the medium. This is why computer and technology retailerDabs.comdecided to hire a professional presenter, Kate Russell, late of.TV, for itsdabs.tvsite.People logging on to this will find Russell explaining and presenting facts about a range of computer products, and if you have broadband you can get her on quite a big window on your PC. "It's easy to list the technical specification of a product," says Jonathan Wall, marketing director of Dabs. "But there are always things you just can't explain with a list and you need to be shown." Technically it wasn't difficult. "We spoke to our internet provider, Energis, last year and it suggested doing streaming on emails to people; we decided we'd rather do streaming on the website."Crucially, in the case of Dabs, Audi and numerous other companies interviewed for this article, the presence of the TV presentations is making a difference to the sales figures. Even so, the companies involved are only using the web at its most static; there is little interaction other than the "click here to buy this product" element of the Dabs site.For Clem Chambers, chief executive of financial website ADVFN, which serves day traders and other investors with live share information and charting, the challenge was to move beyond that. "I saw what was being done in America with technical support through computers and a live person at each end, and thought, this isn't computing, it's television."The key attraction for him was not just the ability to issue bulletins read by a professional presenter to customers on their PCs, however; it was the idea that they could have live charts and data feeds at the same time and even interact with the presenter until the numbers grow to a critical mass. "Our presenters, understandably, are thinking about this along the lines of a TV programme and it's not quite," he says. "It's a new medium."As such, isn't it a bit of a risk? Chambers concedes that the decision to adopt it as a business model has as much to do with instinct as anything. "We've done our research but I had what I call an epiphany moment; I'm the prime user of our service and it was when I thought, look what we can do and how much better the service becomes, that I decided we had to do it." And like Dabs, he insisted on doing it in a manner that works through an ordinary dial-up connection as well as broadband. Start-up costs are something he won't discuss, but he insists they're minimal: "You might remember the Money Channel; we'll be doing the same without the &#163;10m costs."The question is whether this sort of webcasting, interactive or otherwise, will replace standard broadcasts in the niches it serves. Initial signs suggest it will supplement rather than replace, as has happened with other new media in the past. Dabs clearly doesn't think so: "Our next step is to launch a Sky TV channel in the new year," says Wall. There will be regulatory niceties to overcome: "We'll have to clarify with the ITC whether we're a shopping channel or not; personally I'd like it to be informational rather than two people on a sofa."It'll miss Christmas because the company wants to be certain it's red-dot compliant for further information for viewers, but it'll be there in some form.Which in turn raises other issues. Dabs.TV has certainly succeeded in raising the sales figures, but will it necessarily work in a new medium? Wall refers to Sky's.TV as a predecessor with similar viewer demographics, but that was a service Sky switched off because of insufficient profits and viability. The examples above and others suggest web television as a business tool has made a solid start and probably has a solid future; Dabs' decision to take it a step further towards the mainstream via Sky's services should prove an intriguing test bed.
"As part of this alliance, Microsoft and Motorola said they will develop wireless phones and handheld computers and will collaborate on developer programs and marketing. The companies said the phone will be available in Asia next month, and in the United States before the end of the year," says theMercury News."Mobile network operator Orange SA will distribute the phone for use on its UK network from October, and AT&amp;T will offer it in the US in the fourth quarter," saysIDG News.The Inquirerhas photos of the clamshell design.
Barclays has called in the cyber-police and slapped a limit on online cash transfers in an attempt to head off an email fraud aimed at its internet banking customers.The scam is similar to recent frauds involving Citibank and auction website eBay. Over the past week, emails claiming to come from Barclays have asked customers to log on to a fake website and enter personal details and passwords, which could then be used to withdraw or transfer funds.The email carries a link to a website that is very similar to the bank's site, and uses a redirection ploy so it appears to bewww.barclays.co.uk.Barclays is taking necessary action against the fraudulent websites and closing these down as we become aware of them," the bank said. "As a precaution, we have decided to protect further our customers' interests by temporarily reducing the daily payment limit to &#163;500."The bank introduced the temporary limit and called in national law enforcement agencies' hi-tech unit to investigate after 400 customers contacted Barclays regarding the emails. Barclays has a total of 3.5m online customers.The bank said eight customers admitted entering personal details on the bogus websites and have had their accounts frozen as a precaution.The fraudulent emails first came to the bank's attention last week when the emails - sent to random addresses - were picked up by internet se curity companies. "We are stopping hundreds of &#91;email&#93; spams an hour directing Barclays bank customers to fake login sites where you are invited to enter your user name and password," Alex Shipp of security firm MessageLabs told The Register IT website."The bad guys then log these and clean out your account."The URL &#91;website address&#93; looks like it points towww.barclays.co.uk. However, it points to one of at least eight fake sites."The bogus sites appeared to be run on commercial internet servers based in Maryland and California, in the United States.Barclays said it had contacted the commercial hosts, closed down five out of six sites it had identified and had the sixth site locked.The bogus email is signed "Barclays Customer Care," and begins: "Dear valued customer, our new security system will help you to avoid frequently fraudulent transactions and to keep your investments in safety."It then tells users: "Due to technical update we recommend you to reactivate your account." It ends: "We appreciate your business. It's truly our pleasure to serve you."Barclays said it does not ask customers for complete details such as a full password when they log on and they should be wary of providing personal information over the internet.The bank has established a telephone helpline for customers who are concerned about the fraud. The number is 0845 600 2323.
"Windows 2003 continues to increase in total hostname and active sites, with the number of active sites growing 109% to 185K since July 2003," reportsNetcraft. "Notably, the number of sites switching from Linux [to Windows] has proportionately kept pace since July when many commentators thought the 5% of sites switched to Windows 2003 from Linux was an aberration."
Up to a third of drivers in inner-city areas do not have any insurance, show figures which are much more alarming than the national average published last month.When the government announced plans to find new ways to crack down on this growing hazard, there was an estimate that one in 20 drivers did not have insurance, the second-worst rate in Europe.But a regional break-down of figures from the Motor Insurers' Bureau shows a much more extreme picture of inner-city hotspots with very large numbers of drivers not bothering with insurance.Merseyside is believed to have the worst record, with areas in which it is estimated   that one in three drivers are not insured. Also at the top of the insurance-dodging league are inner-city Sheffield and parts of south London. And it's estimated that any low-income urban area with a high concentration of cars is likely to have a level of uninsured drivers far higher than the average.Roger Snook of the Motor Insurers' Bureau, which provides compensation for the victims of uninsured drivers, says there is a culture of insurance avoidance. "None of their associates have insurance, so they think they don't need it, either."These figures back an earlier study by the AA and the police, which found that in parts of Manchester one in four drivers were without insurance. In terms of the likelihood of having an accident   with one of these drivers, the statistics are even gloomier.Mr Snook says that the typical uninsured driver, in his early 20s, in an old car, is likely to have an above-average chance of a crash.So if you're involved in a collision in any of these inner city areas, the odds of the other driver being uninsured are worryingly high.In terms of insurance claims, there is a safety net. The Motor Insurers' Bureau will pay out in the absence of an insurance company to claim against, and this can include compensation for personal injury as well as damage to the vehicle.But this isn't an act of charity - we all pay for this reserve fund, with estimates that it adds between &#163;15 and &#163;30 to every policy.It's also not a complete   protection for the innocent driver. If an uninsured driver bashes into your car and then disappears in a cloud of exhaust smoke, the claims process can turn to the Motor Insurers' Bureau, but there is a &#163;300 excess and the Association for British Insurers says it can also mean the loss of the no-claims bonus.So what's being done to make it less easy for dodgers?The AA says that fines for those caught without insurance are &#163;100 to &#163;200, while a typical fully comprehensive policy costs around &#163;446.Andrew Howard of the AA Motoring Trust, the public policy section of the organisation, says penalties need to be more imaginative to tackle the kind of youngsters who buy an old banger for fifty quid and aren't going to be bothered about a fine that   is going to be as small as their income.But he believes that technology could begin to close the net. In particular, the Home Office has been developing number-plate recognition technology which would allow cars to be matched against an insurance database. The Department for Transport has commissioned its own review of how to tackle uninsured drivers, with the consultation due to finish next March.But Mr Howard seems unconvinced about two other proposals. One is that cars should carry insurance discs, like tax discs. There are questions about how this would be enforced and the ABI says it is open to forgery.Secondly, it has been suggested we should switch to the European system of in suring the car rather than the driver. Mr Howard is sceptical about whether the benefits would outweigh the cost given the confusion that would accompany such a changeover.There has also been a suggestion that cars could be electronically tagged with details of tax and insurance.As things are now, if you're in a collision it's not obvious whether the other driver has insurance. He can give a false name and address and even the registration number isn't a guarantee of tracing the owner. And the AA describes as "frightening" the number of cars which have slipped out of the registration system and have no traceable owner.So if you have a collision in the wrong part of town, your chances of finding an insured owner might be slim.
Although once seen as the preserve of geeky, anti-social teenagers, comic books have come to be recognised as a teeming ocean of intellectual properties and have duly been plundered regularly by both film and TV.Although comic fans may have balked at film faux-pas such as Spiderman's organic web shooters (in the comics he invented them) or argued about whether Hugh Jackman was too tall to play Wolverine, computer games have been able to pillage something different from comics in a much more faithful way - namely their very recognisable graphics - and adapt them into interactive worlds.One of the most popular techniques used in games development to make graphics look like they've come from a comic is known as cel-shading and was first pioneered back in 2000 when Sega's development studio Smilebit created Jet Set Radio for the Dreamcast.The game saw you donning a pair of rollerblades and taking to the streets of Tokyo with a can of spray paint in order to paint the town and battle rival gangs in graffiti war.Since then cel-shading has been used for racing games like Auto Modelista and the arcade classic Wild Riders and also in role-playing titles such as Dark Chronicle and Breath of Fire: Dragon Quarter.When it was announced that Nintendo's famous Zelda series was making the move into cel-shading with The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker, fans were divided about whether this would make the much-loved gaming franchise seem childish, yet the results were widely praised and the game has gone on to win numerous awards.The most recent example of cel-shading was seen at this year's European Computer Trade Show (ECTS) where Ubi Soft's XIII (which is based on the popular French comic-book series of the same name) walked away with not one, but two awards for best game in show and best console game. As well as racking up the awards before it's even hit the shops, XIII also marks the first time a first-person shooter has used cel-shading."Cel Shading places the player in a graphically refreshing FPS &#91;first person shooter&#93; environment and offers comic style story-telling but with a mature edge," explained Julien Bares the producer of XIII to Actiontrip.com, when commenting on what the cel-shading technique would bring to FPS games.XIII starts with the player waking up on a desert beach, with no memory of who they are or where they've come from, and with nothing to give them any hints but a key to a bank box and a tattoo of the number XIII on their chest. Soon your character is caught up in a web of political intrigue and shady backroom deals, which is loosely based around the assassination of President John F Kennedy.XIII represents an interesting divergence in a genre that up until now has always thrived on creating as much of a realistic experience for the player as possible, with true to life weaponry, locations and physics. Military sims like Ghost Recon, Operation Flashpoint and America's Army have thrived on offering players the simulated experience of going to war without stepping outside their front door, while games like Conflict: Desert Storm have taken their inspiration from real world events.But is there such a thing as being too dedicated to blood and guts realism? Sony certainly tested the boundaries on the subject earlier this year when it attempted to register the phrase 'shock and awe', which was originally used to describe the bombing of Baghdad, for use in an upcoming online PS2 title. After a flurry of outrage from both the hardcore games press and the wider media, Sony backed down and admitted that the application had been "an exercise of regrettable bad judgment".Games like XIII and the up coming cel-shaded, superhero-inspired Viewtiful Joe may stray away from the usual quest for photo-realistic graphics and the desire to depict real life as much as possible, but instead through cel-shading they show a different way of creating worlds which are equally as atmospheric, somewhat more stylish and also manage to fire our imaginations.When war and its repercussions are played out daily on our TV screens, scrutinized in the papers and especially during the anniversary week of September the 11th, a break from the real world maybe exactly what we need.Charts - full price softwareOfficial UK Leisure Software Charts (c) ELSPA compiled by Chart-Track1) Eyetoy: Play (PS2) Sony - £39.992) The Great Escape (PS2, Xbox) SCI - £39.993) Beyblade: Let it Rip! (PL) - £19.994) Pokemon Sapphire (GBA) Nintendo - £29.995) The Sims (PC, PS2, Xbox, GM) Electronic Arts - £32.996) Pokemon Ruby (GBA) Nintendo - £29.997) Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PC, PS2) Take 2 - £29.998) Tomb Raider: The Angel of Darkness (PS2, PC) Eidos Interactive £29.999) Indiana Jones and the Emperor's Tomb (PS2, Xbox, PC) LucasArts £37.9910) Norton Antivirus 2004 (PC) Symantec £39.99
I have seen many football matches in my time, yet probably none quite as bizarre as the one I witnessed in Le Palais des Congr&#232;s in Paris on Friday last week. For chasing a ball around a makeshift pitch was not a group of small boys, but a collection of robot dogs. Judging by their display though Wayne Rooney has little to worry about.The clever canines were a star attraction in an exhibition called Sony's Dream World - an annual showcase for Sony's current and upcoming products.Like the dogs, much of what was on display was superbly designed and technically brilliant, though, to purloin a footballing analogy, not always on target.With the worlds of the computer and consumer electronics moving ever closer, Sony, above all manufacturers, seems best placed to reap the benefits of convergence. Several years ago it took the plunge into the world of computers, unveiling the first in what has become a very successful series of premium quality laptops. It also boasts another key convergence product in the PlayStation.Yet judging by some of the products Sony displayed at Dream World it seems intent on letting rival manufactures grab a much larger slice of the pie than they really have any right to expect.In many key areas the consumer electronics wing of Sony is being forced to make compromises to pacify other wings (namely the music and film division) of its company.Add to this Sony's tendency to go it alone in developing formats that the rest of the industry care little for and you have a company that potentially could the wipe the floor with its rivals, yet at the moment in some areas can't actually compete with them.Take the personal audio market. For decades this has been prime Sony territory with its cassette and CD players dominating the market. With the arrival of MP3, however, Sony has largely ceded the market to Apple, whose brilliant iPod is often talked of as the Walkman of the 21st century.Rather than deliver a smaller, sexier and smarter hard disk-based personal MP3 player Sony has stuck with MiniDisc (a format that has never meant much outside of Europe and Japan) while delivering a range of undeniably cute, but largely useless network Walkmans.These are tiny, cigarette lighter sized music playing devices that looks superb but are way  too expensive in compared with other personal music players. This is because they use Sony's memory stick flash memory for storage. The largest memory stick is currently 512MB as opposed to the largest capacity iPod, which has 80 times as much storage.As few other companies use memory sticks in their devices, the cards tend to be more expensive than other types of flash memory.Even more annoying for the consumer is that the players don't actually play back MP3s. Almost certainly as a sop to Sony's record company they take MP3 files and convert them into another compression format called ATRAC3, developed by, you guessed it, Sony.This offers better sound quality than MP3, but has a degree of copyright protection built which limits the way the  files can be used. Needless to say consumers haven't warmed to either the products or the format.Another classic Sony fudge was the European arrival of its network media receiver. This is a small box that enables the user to access audio, still image and video files stored on their PC's hard disk on a TV or hi-fi system. It works either via a wired ethernet connection or wirelessly using the 802.11g format.In theory, Sony should sell millions of these boxes. If, however, consumers do their homework and realise its limitations, Sony will sell a great deal less. For starters the device currently only works with Sony Vaio PCs.Secondly it won't stream internet content like radio stations and music videos. Lastly it will stream MP3 files, but only if they have been converted into ATRAC3 - fine if you only have a few MP3s, a non-starter if your hard disk houses hundreds or even thousands of music files.Philips, Kiss Technology and very soon many others will be offering streaming boxes that offer all of the above, some of which will also be significantly cheaper too.Sony is also losing ground in LCD display and plasma screen technology, where Korean companies appear to be racing ahead. Also its super audio CD (a better-sound quality than CD music format) hasn't captured the public's imagination, while its DVD players aren't the cash cow they once were.To be fair, Sony did unveil some fantastic products at Dream World. The Vaio W1, its first real crack at producing a PC that can also moonlight as a TV, is superb. The W1 really is a design triumph in the way in which it can morph from a PC to a TV thanks to its clever base and foldaway keyboard. It's only a shame that its price tag is around £1,500.In terms of its specifications, the PC part of the product is very similar to the Windows XP media centre PCs, which Microsoft launched in the US last year and will be arriving in the UK in the next month or so.These PCs are stuffed with home entertainment facilities (TV tuner, hard disk recorder with electronic programming guide, DVD/CD player) and can be controlled by their own handset. Sony is rumoured to have produced a media centre PC that also features some of its own software including its excellent GigaPocket video recording application.It should be enormously successful. For come the future when there is just one box under a TV set catering for all your entertainment requirements wouldn't you prefer it to be a Sony one, boasting superb build design quality and innovative facilities, even if it does run a Microsoft operating system.It's an opportunity Sony really can't afford to miss.
A group of Labour MPs is planning to hold a world summit in Britain next Easter in an effort to combat the rising tide of unwanted spam emails, warning that if no action is taken the internet could grind to a halt within a year.Derek Wyatt, the chairman of the parliamentary internet committee, today warned the level of spam, including the high volume of pornographic material, had reached epidemic proportions because US politicians were reluctant to face up to the issue.The European Union has passed legislation forcing any company advertising its products through blanket emails to send them only to users who have agreed to receive them.However, the US continues to follow a policy that requires computer users to opt out of receiving spam.Without an opt-in agreement from the US and other countries, the EU decision is virtually worthless because spam can be sent from anywhere in the world."Unless the US plays ball, I think servers around the world will start to pack up by February," said Mr Wyatt, who will next month lead a delegation of MPs, including the e-envoy, Andrew Pinder, to Washington to press the case for reform.This will be the first time UK politicians have crossed the Atlantic to appear at a constitutional hearing in Washington."They keep saying forcing customers to opt in would be against their constitution but they need to realise this is a world problem and not just a US problem," said Mr Wyatt.The MP for Sittingbourne and Sheppy, who launched the Sky Computer Channel for BSkyB after a career in publishing, also hit out at the Florida governor, Jeb Bush.Two hundred of the worst offenders are thought to operate from Boca Raton, the spam capital of the world from which 50 million emails are believed to be sent every minute.Mr Wyatt claims the president's brother has showed no sign of acting against the offenders using existing US laws such as the Computer Misuse Act.Forcing consumers to opt out of receiving the spam emails, which advertise everything from porn to septic tanks, was flawed because it confirmed a particular email address was active, encouraging further spam, said Mr Wyatt.He claimed the issue was not being taken seriously enough by the UK government because many MPs are still not computer literate.The global Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development is planning to hold a world summit on the issue of spam late next year but Mr Wyatt said that might be too late.He hopes to host a summit on the issue, in conjunction with the Oxford Internet Institute, for government representatives from around the world.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857
connecting to server...Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:Parliament's intelligence and security committee report accuses Geoff Hoon of misleading committee members about the depth of dissent over the Iraq dossier within the Ministry of Defence. Is Hoon's cabinet career now at an end? What do you think?Pashmina:they siad they woud fix it 2-day but they aint hereHost_Chris2:nevertheless the report is quite clearLadeezMan:at least u get the day off workPashmina:I know but I cant stay home 2morrow!capitalistpiglet:they're using Hoon as a fall guy; he's not the real problem.*Bronco has entered the NewsRoom*Pashmina:hi Bronco hows uBronco:fine hows yr nanHost_Chris2:who thinks Hoon should go?Pashmina:still stuck halfway up the stairsBronco:wot is hoon*bitracy has entered the NewsRoom*Host_Chris2:Hoon is the topicbitracy:hi everybody. I'm newPashmina:hiLadeezMan:bitracy wot u look likebitracy:well, I'm tall &amp; slim w dark hair &amp; blue eyesPashmina:brb, theres me doorbellBronco:hoon*Pashmina has left the NewsRoom**jenni@boughtledger has entered the NewsRoom*jenni@boughtledger:hi roomLadeezMan:so bitracy is you really bicapitalistpiglet: the real question is whether intelligence was misused in the dossierbitracy:no I'm not bi. I'm just a bit racy, that's alljenni@boughtledger:I said HI ROOMBronco:hoonLadeezMan:then y do you call urself 'bi Tracy' then!!!bitracy:I don't call myself 'bi Tracy' I call myself 'bit racy'!!!!!!jenni@boughtledger:I'm looking for a venue for the next permachat meet-up. Any thoughts?Host_Chris2:permachat.co.uk does not endorse unofficial get-togethersLadeezMan:thats ok I like racycapitalistpiglet:i'm off to the arms fair . . . Let me know abt the meet-up.*capitalistpiglet has left the NewsRoom**Pashmina has entered the NewsRoom*Pashmina:hooray 4 the man from stena!!LadeezMan:so your name aint Tracy thenjenni@boughtledger:I'll just do everything myself shall Ibitracy:no it's Martin.LadeezMan:ohPashmina:hi martinbitracy:hiHost_Chris2:let's return to the topic peopleBronco:hoon&gt;connection to server has been terminated...
"The inevitable has happened: The Beatles have sued Steve Jobs over Apple iTunes and the Apple iPod -- at least the band's company, Apple Corps, has sued Apple Computers," reportsFox News."When Apple Computers first came into existence, the Beatles' lawyers sued -- and won -- over the use of the corporate name. The Fab Four, it was widely known, already had their own company called Apple Corps. (Ironically, Jobs admitted to naming his company as a tribute to the Beatles.) The result of the suit was a huge cash settlement and a promise that the Apple logo and name would only be used for computers -- and never for a music company."Update: NowThe Mercury Newshas a piece, too.Comment: It's hard to imagine that Apple launched its music services without due consideration of the terms of its promise to Apple Corps. Perhaps having $4bn in the bank means it doesn't have to care, but some of us assumed Apple might well have done the obvious thing and quietly negotiated a settlement first....
A piece of history comes to town. Tomorrow (Friday) Salam Pax, the Baghdad Blogger, will be live online on Guardian Unlimited. You can post your comments and suggestionsnowand join in the discussion at 1.45pm. Read hisweblogor hisGuardian columnsor learn more about hisbook.
I'm dreaming of an empty mailbox. Since my office email address is widely circulated, I have been inundated with copies of the SoBig virus - something like 3,000 copies of it. SoBig.F was due to turn itself off yesterday, so things should be quieter, until SoBig.G arrives.However, from the circumstantial evidence, it looks as though the coincidence of SoBig.F and Blaster has woken up America's Federal Bureau of Investigations. So far, the internet has generally been compared to the Wild West, and the local sheriffs have been noticeably ineffectual. Today, the FBI is putting a lot of effort into tracking down the criminals, and whoever wrote SoBig could face from five to 20 years in jail.One reason is the cost. An average user could waste about &#163;100-  worth of productive time dealing with an attack like SoBig.F - more than &#163;10, and less than &#163;1,000. A company with 10,000 employees has therefore been hit for &#163;1m.According to the UK-based analysis company Mi2g, SoBig.F was responsible for a record $14.62bn of economic damage worldwide, measured in terms of lost productivity, by 10:30am on August 29. Even people who think this particular number is silly should accept that SoBig.F and Blaster have caused a significant amount of harm.Another reason is the degree of risk. Computers are no longer used just for stock control. The public infrastructure, including health and emergency services, now depends on information and communications technologies. From November 1, the US Sentencing Commission is therefore introducing even tougher penalties for some computer crimes, including life sentences for actions that could kill people. Member states of the European Union are also modifying laws to provide prison sentences for some of those who commit computer crimes.There have been few legal successes. However, a teenager in Minnesota was arrested for allegedly disseminating a modified variant of the Blaster worm, as was a 24-year-old former student in Romania. These may be straws in the wind, but they show which way it's blowing.In the future, governments will not just put much more effort into tracking down computer criminals, they will also try to enforce the kinds of systems that will help them catch wrong-doers, including hackers, swindlers and child   pornographers. Those include logging internet traffic, and trawling through the records that ISPs will be compelled to keep. I would not be surprised to see increasing pressure to control and verify email.This is one lesson that carries over from the Wild West: if you abuse your freedoms, they will be taken away.Internet supporters will argue that the internet has been a huge success simply because it has lacked controls. Freedom has encouraged a wonderful flowering of creativity, and that will be lost.This is probably true, but I suspect most ordinary people no longer care. They are now much less bothered about the exciting new developments that may be over the horizon than they are about the abuse of the ones they are using today.LinksSoBig.F breaks recordwww.net-security.org/press.php?id=1635How the FBI Investigates Computer Crimewww.cert.org/tech_tips/FBI_investigates_crime.html
"By end of day today, most of the advanced Pro features will be available to users of the free service. A few advanced features, notably XML syndication and the ability to post via email, are still available only to those former-Pro users (ie, those features will remain active for those who had paid for the Pro version), but ... they plan to roll those out to the free platform soon," saysMarketing Wonk.
"Enterprises that want to migrate their desktop computers to the Linux operating system (OS) must first weigh several factors that go beyond Linux hype, myths and anti-Microsoft sentiment. These factors include the composition of your application portfolio, the requirements of your users and the all-important migration cost and return on migration investment" etc etc.Here.
American music industry officials have agreed to settle a copyright infringement lawsuit against a 12-year-old New York girl for $2,000 (&#163;1,258).The announcement of the settlement came a day after the Manhattan schoolgirl, Brianna LaHara, was identified in the US media as a target of the Recording Industry Association of America's first wave of lawsuits aimed at cracking down on internet piracy.In a statement, the RIAA said it had reached a settlement with the schoolgirl's mother, Sylvia Torres.In an apparent attempt not to turn Ms LaHara into a  cause c&#233;l&#232;bre, the statement included an apology from her for downloading music from the peer-to-peer service Kazaa. "I am sorry for what I have done," she said. "I love music and don't want to hurt the artists I love."She could have faced fines of up to $150,000 for each copyright infringement.Mitch Bainwol, chairman and chief executive of the   RIAA, said: "We're trying to send a strong message that you are not anonymous when you participate in peer-to-peer file sharing and that the illegal distribution of copyrighted music has consequences. As this case illustrates, parents need to be aware of what their children are doing on their computers."Ms LaHara had more than 1,000 copyrighted songs stored on her computer hard drive. By using the desktop file-sharing programme, the songs were available for other users to copy for free.According to court papers she had copied songs from other computer users including Madonna's Material Girl, Dido's Here with Me and Paula Abdul's Opposites Attract.The first wave of suits has also included a Yale University photography professor, two New York University students, a music programmer for a commercial radio station and a 71-year-old Texan grandfather.The RIAA has said that thousands of other suits could be filed.
Mention Radio 4 drama and the first thing that probably springs to mind is that much-loved tale of country folk. But if The Dark House, due to air on September 23, is successful, there may soon be more to audio drama than The Archers.A horror mystery set in present-day London, The Dark House brings a measure of interactivity to its story, which follows Lucy, a radio journalist, exploring a haunted Clerkenwell flat. As Lucy begins her report, the lights go out. She suspects a practical joke, then hears other voices - Kelly, a young girl locked in a room, and Jim, who claims he's in charge of the building. As Lucy stumbles around in the dark, she realises that something very strange is going on.Listeners can't change the direction of the story line. However, they can change the perspective. During the drama, we hear the characters' inner thoughts as they encounter each other. The audience can vote, either by text or telephone call, to hear a character's interior monologue. The votes are totted up in real time and, every two minutes or so, the perspective shifts to the most popular character. There's a series of points in the story where the perspective can change. "I did the maths," says Izzy Mant, the director (and co-producer with Nick Ryan), "and there are over half a million possible journeys through the story."In other words, though there is a definite storyline that can't be changed, there's no definitive cut of The Dark House as a whole. A version, determined by the audience, will play out on September 23. People who don't enjoy the perspective chosen by the majority of the audience will be able to listen again from a different point of view on the webwww.bbc.co.uk/darkhouse. During transmission, at 11pm, visitors to the site will be able to listen to the drama in real time, vote and see the results of the voting in real time.The Dark House was created and developed by Mant, a theatre director working in BBC Radio Drama, and Ryan, a composer/sound designer doing consultancy work for Creative R&amp;D, a BBC department set up to explore ways for the corporation to take advantage of new media technologies. The pair met more than two years ago at a BBC innovation and learning session. Encouraged to think of ways to bring interactivity to radio drama, they came up with the basics of the Dark House idea.Mant brought in Mike Walker, an experienced radio writer, to help develop the story. Funded by both BBC Radio Drama and Creative R&amp;D, the trio spent time exploring how to bring interactivity to audio drama."We felt you couldn't change the direction of the plot," says Walker. "Then you wouldn't have drama - you'd have something more like game-playing." Instead, says Walker, they came up with the idea of using interactivity to help the audience get closer to the characters. In a way, says Mant, this is an extension of what happens with drama generally, when the audience identifies with a particular character.Their ideas about interactivity have changed, Ryan admits. Originally, he thought it would heighten the story's scariness. But giving too much control to the audience seemed to lessen the potential fear. "You have to give the audience the illusion they have control when they don't really, which is what all interactive media do."You also need to give the audience a reason to interact. That's supplied by the mystery strand of the story. By switching perspective, the audience has the chance to find out more about Kelly and Jim in particular, what they're doing in the flat, and how it may affect Lucy.This version of interactivity brings a sense of shared experience. Via the character perspective shifts, someone listening to The Dark House knows what the rest of the audience is feeling. "Radio's normally a medium that people listen to on their own. I love that element of interactivity that exists naturally between an audience and the performers and I loved the idea that you could get a version of that on the radio," says Mant.In this respect, The Dark House has similarities with reality TV such as I'm a Celebrity - Get Me Out of Here!, where regular votes give the audience power over content and a sense of itself and what it thinks.Interestingly, the drama uses technology used on I'm a Celebrity - specifically Gallery Manager, developed by Red Figwww.redfig.com, a program that collects and aggregates audience input from multiple different sources/platforms in real time.The Dark House doesn't pose that big a technical challenge for Red Fig, explains the business development manager, Dorian Spackman. Having the imagination to see how their technology could be used is another thing. It's a testament to the BBC's willingness to experiment, he says. "Historically, interactivity has been used via voting within entertainment formats or current affairs or news. This is taking things to the next level."Indeed, as Ryan says, through The Dark House he and Mant have put together a technological/ dramatic format that could easily be used again.
From Snake to Tomb Raider, the mobile gaming industry is maturing fast. This year will see the mother of all growth spurts.It has been said that buying mobile phone games is like scoring drugs: you pay your money, but you're never sure what you'll get in return. For the past few years, the European industry has been populated by hundreds of tiny developers providing anonymous Java games to a confusing array of faceless aggregators. Apart from the network operators and phone manufacturers, it's very difficult to work out who the big players are or what anyone is really offering.Or at least that was the case. Now the industry is being taken out of the shaky hands of entrepreneurs and chancers. After years on the margins, it is becoming acceptable.One sure indication of this is the recent glut of film tie-ins and console conversions. Most of this summer's blockbuster movies - including The Matrix 2, The Hulk, Charlie's Angels 2, Terminator 3 and the Italian Job - have now become mobile games. A year or so ago this would have been impossible. No one in the mobile industry had the cash or confidence to deal with movie studios, and those   who did found the market wasn't big enough to make a profit.By contrast, the studios are now getting directly involved in mobile game development - another indisputable sign that there's gold in them handsets. The imaginatively named Sony Pictures subsidiary, Sony Pictures Mobile, launched a Charlie's Angels racing game earlier this year and has just developed a first-person shooter, based on a forthcoming Samuel L Jackson movie, Swat (incidentally using a new mobile games 3D engine developed by the British company Superscape).The giants of the traditional videogame industry are also swarming across to the mobile sector. The multinational publisher THQ has its own mobile department, THQ Wireless, churning out good versions of franchises such as MotoGP.Most recently, Eidos has commissioned the talented Southampton developer Iomo to produce a Tomb Raider spin-off for Java phones, subtitled The Osiris Codex. According to the Eidos technical director, Simon Protheroe, this should be just the beginning."We've watched the market with some interest for quite a while and have carried out a number of trials within the mobile gaming area. We've taken a fairly low-risk approach to the market to date, but we're planning on developing games for a number of mobile platforms."Slowly but surely, mobile phones are becoming just another essential stop on the multi-platform release schedule, alongside PlayStation 2 and PC. And Alan Welsman, the head of games at Orange, knows this is the holy grail. "There is no question that over the long term, the ability to seamlessly develop titles across console, PC, mobile and online will be paramount to the success of all of us."Meanwhile, another big videogame publisher, Acclaim Entertainment, is coming from a completely different direction and exploring the concept of mobile game as marketing tool. In October, the company will release a football simulation, Urban Freestyle Soccer, on all the major videogame consoles.Before that, however, a Java version of the game will be released on Vodafone Live!, effectively advertising its more profitable console siblings. You'll even find codes in the Java game that unlock components in the console versions - mimicking the way Nintendo allows gamers to swap data between GBA and GameCube versions of its games.But this maturation process isn't just about the traditional videogame megacorps moving in and taking over. Veteran mobile game publishers you may not have even heard of are growing, too, feeding off increasing consumer interest. Gameloft's quarterly revenue rose an incredible 355% last quarter to &#163;1.5m, and In-Fusio has gone from 450,000 registered customers in August last year to more than 4m today.Globalisation is rife. In-Fusio, a French company, has now moved into the American market, while US bigshots such as Jamdat and Mforma are coming the other way. Most excitingly, the key Japanese publishers - Namco, Bandai and Capcom - are converting their DoCoMo mobile titles to Java and selling them to the likes of Vodafone Live! Don't be surprised to see the excellent mobile versions of Ridge Racer and Resident Evil arriving soon.In contrast to this trend of gradual maturation, perhaps the important event in the history of mobile gaming is going to take place on one day: October 7. The launch of N-Gage, Nokia's advanced handheld gaming console, will set a technological benchmark. It will show mainstream gamers what high-end mobile devices can do. But more importantly, it will be backed by the biggest marketing campaign mobile gaming has ever seen. Nokia won't talk specifics but a multi-million pound onslaught is guaranteed.This is what the industry has been waiting for. Genuine cross-demographic exposure. It is why Vodafone is running a Vodafone Live! tour across the UK, holding mobile games championships in high streets. "Most people still think mobile gaming is about Snake," complains Toby Robson, a Vodafone press officer. "Don't get me wrong, Snake was a great game, but that's not where we're at now, and we have to get that message across."And if  you still think Snake when someone mentions mobile gaming, consider this. Later in the year, the UK will see its first sophisticated 3D mobile games, the first real-time multiplayer games and the first location-based games. Forthcoming phones will have bigger processors and better screens. You will have an increasingly powerful games platform in your pocket, which you carry everywhere, and which is latent for long periods. The mobile industry wants you to spend that time downloading games. It is getting greedy.
Mrs Tanaka is 84. Today, as usual, she wakes just before 7am, slips on her dressing gown and flips a switch to start water boiling for her first green tea of the day. She's about to get dressed when she pauses. She turns to the low table near the door, where a soft toy sits incongruously, and greets it in her distinctive west-Japan accent."Good morning Teddy. How are you today?" "Pretty good, thanks Tanaka-san," comes the reply. "Have you remembered to take your pills? It's the pink ones this morning," the robot bear continues.A scene from AI 2 or a vision of a slightly over-cooked future nanny state? Actually, it's here and now in Japan, and could be just around the corner for more of us, if Kuni' ichi Ozawa, director of the hi-tech Sincere Korien retirement home in Korien, just outside Osaka, has his way.Four years ago, Ozawa had a vision of using technology to cope with his country's rapidly greying populace. A senior employee of the electronics giant Matsushita, he was better placed than most to do something about it.He recalls: "We needed a concept that would differentiate our home from others, so we developed the 'digital nursing home'. Since Matsushita possesses the digital and IT technologies, as well as the know-how, we felt we could provide a comprehensive care service."He adds: "We expect nursing homes to become a lucrative business."Those technologies have served the company well in building a reputation that allows retirees and their families to trust Matsushita with the task of caring for Japan's venerated "silver" population.The company is already well-known for its operating theatre monitoring system, wherein high-definition images of surgery are beamed to students with a detail that should define "reality TV". The system also pioneered the recording of surgical procedures to DVD.More mundane, but equally important, monitoring goes on in Sincere Korien. This includes the "nursing care support system", which monitors residents throughout the complex, using a variety of bio-sensors checking for changes in heat or mass, for example, when a patient prone to nocturnal strolls leaves their room, as well as the more traditional cameras.There are also ceiling sensors in the private bathrooms tuned in to the length of time a resident spends there, and linked to a help station, where an assistant is permanently on call. Data is tracked with a view to spotting worrisome trends.Fears concerning over-protectiveness and patient privacy have not been overlooked by the Matsushita Care Business Company, which runs Sincere Korien. Ozawa explains: "Before moving in, residents and their families are informed of all the special mechanisms and we ask permission from the families for data storage."Central to the Ozawa doctrine is adding value through technology. Japanese law requires a patient-staff ratio of 3:1. He offers a 3:2 ratio, promising to use technology not to cut staff, but to supplement their skills and to better care for their charges.Even the most conservative projections show that Japan's population will start to shrink next year, possibly by as much as 1.3 million people. By 2025, there are expected to be 10m fewer Japanese.A steadily falling birth-rate will reduce the active and working population by 6m, while better healthcare should see the 65-plus sector increase to 30% of the total population by the later date. Social security payments are expected to increase sharply from the present 65 trillion yen (&#163;0.3 trillion).The need for cost-efficient residential homes is clear. Unlike in most western countries, communal retirement facilities are the exception, rather than the norm.Junsei Watanabe, the head priest of Kousaiji-Temple in west Tokyo and an authority on the ageing of society, agrees with the need for change: "I live with my wife and her 78-year-old mother, but feel that the care of the elderly should be socialised. The nuclear family is important, but it is not sufficient."Watanabe also hinted at the prosaic Japanese acceptance of the inevitable, perhaps as a factor in their legendary longevity. "My temple forms part of what I call the Triangle of Death. On one corner, there's us, on another, the crematorium, while the third point is marked by the town's funeral parlour."A public nursing-care insurance system was recently introduced, which provides subsidies to retirees opting for nursing home care.Sincere Korien residents benefit from both that tax-funded subsidy and Matsushita's good fortune to own the land on which the complex stands, having converted it from a company dormitory in 2000. Move-in costs are just over half those at typical retirement facilities, while monthly fees are 250,000 yen, or &#163;1,395 - &#163;320 less than elsewhere.Ozawa's flow turns again to the bigger picture: "Even if we are conservative with our forecast in the number of households that need some kind of care, we estimate that the care business is &#91;worth&#93; about 100 trillion yen.The technology employed by Matsushita is discreet. It may be a test bed for the company's care technologies, but the maximum of 107 senior citizens (with a long waiting list) living within its walls are anything but guinea pigs.Take the teddy bear robot. Western eyes may consider the use of stuffed toys to be a touch patronising, but Japan is the land of Hello Kitty and all things kitsch. Of those who welcomed it in their rooms, we could not find one resident - average age 82 - who had the slightest problem with the idea of talking to a toy.The celebrated cartoon mechanoid, Astro Boy (Tetsuwan Atomu in his native Japanese), is an oft-cited example of how the Japanese like their robots cute. Robodex 2003, held in Tokyo, was an endless parade of innovative robotics, but 99% of the consumer devices on show wouldn't look out of place alongside Aibo, Sony's famous robot, in a child's playroom.The main exceptions were the robots intended for more than mere entertainment or companionship. These included machines that defuse minefields, droids for the disabled and robots to aid care-givers.Most notable in the latter category was the Power Assist Suit, from the Kanagawa Institute of Technology. It is an 18kg, $20,000 exoskeleton to be worn by carers lacking the strength to lift bedridden patients. The institute expects to make it lighter and far cheaper before commercialisation.Professor Keijiro Yamamoto, the lead developer of the suit, explained: "We had two motives in developing it: one was from an educational viewpoint, and the other societal changes. As society ages, we are going to run short of young carers. Our power suit reduces the physical burdens imposed in caring for the elderly."He sums up: "Our purpose is to solve social problems. In the future, living with robots will be a reality in Japan."Sincere Korien's robot bears aren't as spectacular as the Power Assist Suit, but they also act as proxy pets. Their core function is to record patients' response times during simple conversations powered by voice-recognition software and to relay anything unusual to staff via the company Lan. Although Teddy is networked via physical cables, the potential to take things wireless is obvious.A host of data on the residents is stored centrally, with some available via the internet to specialists and concerned families.One benefit of the Matsushita technology can be seen in routine physical examinations, such as reading blood pressure. Typically, residents have this done quickly in their rooms, with the data transmitted for analysis elsewhere. Patients no longer have to "wait three hours in the hospital for a three-minute consultation", says Ozawa. "I want to use the technology to change from a 'move people' concept to a 'move data' concept."As we left Sincere Korien, needing reminding of the fact that its residents are people, too, and not just part of an experiment on the cusp of a brave new world of automated health care, one look at the notice boards in the communal areas confirmed there is plenty of time to get away from the bits and bytes that are the centre's nuts and bolts.The timetable for September revealed a schedule loaded with activities as diverse as music therapy, flower arrangement and traditional calligraphy classes. Written large in the striking  katakana script reserved for loan words, and as if to prove this really is Osaka and not Metropolis, the ubiquitous Japanese pastime of karaoke gets a regular look-in, too.
So Andrew Pinder, the e-envoy, is to step down next spring after three-and-a-half years of taking the blame for every IT cock-up in British government, the continuing digital divide and half the Big Brother conspiracies on the internet. That's a lot of flak; perhaps the New Year honours list will be generous.Pinder has never revealed any ambition to renew his contract, so his plans, confirmed by his office this week, are no surprise. But they have provoked a new round of gossip about the future of his office - including whether it has one.The question is legitimate.Most of the e-envoy's current responsibilities could or should sit with other government agencies. For example, promoting the internet to digital "have nots" should be the responsibility of the Department for Education and Skills. The e-envoy's other main brief, e-government, will technically become obsolete as the 2005 deadlines pass.Broader "e-communication" responsibilities, such as the UK Online portal and e-democracy activities, seem likely to be subsumed into the proposed office of government communications. Setting technical standards for government IT systems, including the e-government interoperability framework, could be passed to the Treasury's office of government commerce.Finally, the e-envoy title itself, an embarrassing hangover from the 1990s, should be consigned to a museum of dotcom memorabilia.All sorted? Not quite. There's still a case for having a central agency in charge of government technology policy - and giving it real teeth to get things done.In a written submission to the Phillis review of government communications, which published its interim report last week, Pinder points out that the real work of transforming government through IT is only just beginning.For example, he reveals plans to set up a single "Online Government Store", which will offer public services from different agencies "under a single-government delivery brand". It is due to be launched in autumn. "Used properly, technology offers us the chance to build one-to-one relationships with citizens," Pinder enthuses.Used properly. There is not a lot of point in building a huge central customer relationship management (CRM) system for public services if it merely duplicates existing systems run by individual agencies or tiers of government, or if those agencies refuse to take part because their responsibilities are "unique".This is where Pinder, or rather a successor equipped with real executive authority, comes in. They should be backed up with a small technical team bearing the cabinet office's seal and political clout. This would include powers to compel recalcitrant agencies to cooperate, and to pension off redundant departmental systems.Of course, this is less a job for an envoy than a chief information officer, which is the title Pinder's successor should bear.One aspect of the job will remain the same, however: someone will still have to be available to take the blame for government IT cockups.www.cabinet-office.gov.uk/reports/commrev/pdf/pmguidance.pdf
Dear diary ...Yahoo has launched its own blogging software, following on from Google (which owns Blogger) and America Online. But don't expect to hear much more about it, because you have to read Korean to use it. This doesn't mean the service will appear in other countries, only that other South Korean portals are also starting to offer blogging. However, America Online's blog software, AOL Journals, is now up and running in the Hometown area, and you don't need to subscribe to AOL to use it. You do need an AOL screen name, but you already have one of those if you use CompuServe 2000, AIM (AOL Instant Messenger) or Netscape.kr.blog.yahoo.comhometown.aol.comedit.journals.aol.com/_do/create_blogPrivacy mattersPrivacy and Human Rights, the sixth annual survey of the state of Big Brotherdom, has just been released by the Electronic Privacy Information Center (Epic) in Washington, DC, and Privacy International in London. It includes a round-up of threats to privacy and 55 reports on different countries, and you can read it online.www.privacyinternational.org/survey/phr2003IdolatryPop Idol fans may be looking forward to the arrival of the official Pop Idol game on PC and PlayStation 2 in November - at least, Codemasters hopes they are. Until that arrives, they can try the Flash-based online version. Just what you wanted: a virtual Simon Cowell. There's also a message board containing one message, from Codemasters: "We're looking for a Pop Idol Community Liaison Officer". The site also has links to the ITV site, and Nestle's version of the game: Choc Idols. People who want Pop Idol ringtones and Upstaged, the official Java Pop Idol game, can scour the Ringtones site.www.codemasters.com/popidolwww.itv.com/popidolwww.nestlechocidols.co.ukWhittle itIan Clarke, founder of The Freenet Project, has quietly rolled out a search engine called WhittleBit, which lets you "whittle down" Google searches to get what you want. However, in its current state, it is not going to challenge the sometimes-useful Teoma.freenetproject.orgwhittlebit.comwww.teoma.comBBC styleNot many people know that the BBC runs training courses for money, and probably even fewer have picked up its free online courses. These include a DV camera shooting guide, interviewing for radio, MiniDisc for radio, and a two-parter on using Cool Edit Pro software. Any real or would-be journalist, blogger or student would certainly benefit from reading the 92-page BBC News Styleguide, which you can open in Adobe PDF format by clicking on the "Open Guide 1" button on the course page (masl.to/?G2AF527D5). The Guardian also publishes its style guide online and in PDF and Word formats. The Economist and The Times have them, too.www.bbctraining.co.uk/onlineCourses.aspwww.guardian.co.uk/styleguidewww.economist.com/research/StyleGuidewww.timesonline.co.uk/section/0,,2941,00.htmlWebbysThe call for entries is about to go out for the 8th annual Webby Awards, to honour the web's best sites. You can nominate your favourites from September 15.www.webbyawards.comPrints charmingIt is not always easy to find out how well a printer will work, but Canon has a solution. Go to the site, pick one of its printers, upload a photo, and the company will post you a sample 4 x 6in print - if you live in the UK or Ireland. The service is free, but if you take advantage of it, they will know where you live ...www.yourprint.canon-europe.comPie writerJim Fann's site about understanding American Pie, the much-parodied Don McLean song, has now moved to the logical address.understandingamericanpie.com
Security tipsThe limitations of reusable passwords have been known for decades (Second sight, September 4). The question we must ask, then, is why are they still being used for authentication in most systems? The reason is that they are simple and easy to use, and are effective at discouraging system abuse on a casual basis.Problems such as the PayPal frauds are solved by common sense. For instance, a PayPal website will always beginwww.paypal.com(seewww.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd= p/gen/fraud- prevention-outside).Choosing a good password is very important. A quick search on Google will give you many pages with tips but, in general, a mix of numbers, punctuation and letters is good. I am told that a password of 14 characters in Windows is the strongest.System administrators should also enforce users changing their passwords on a regular basis. A properly configured system should not allow a user to install or run key logging software (or for that matter any software) unless the user is root or administrator.A good practice is to not log in, or use your password, at public computer terminals. Make sure your password for sites such as PayPal and online banking is different from that of your webmail account etc.The days of passwords are not numbered. They are going to be here for a long time yet, until some new technology is developed for authentication.Thomas GrahamManchesterAccess for allYour article Access all sights (September 4), while welcome in helping to increase awareness of accessibility, was sadly lacking in other areas. In particular, the repeated statement that the internet is a visual medium is misleading - it is primarily an information medium.Accessible design is about more than adding Alt Text: it requires a different mindset. Out with all the horrific legacy code resulting from the "browser wars". Use style sheets to separate content from presentation. Out with table-based design. Out with tricksy JavaScript navigation, unless you can provide an alternative for those without JavaScript.Most websites that claim to be accessible do so on the strength of passing the  automatic Bobby tests (bobby.cast.org). While commendable, it is not enough. The same sites almost always fail the manual checking of the Bobby tests.If you are quoted a higher price for an accessible site, it is safe to say that the designer has little idea of how to make a site accessible. The standards that accessible design is based on have been around for more than three years - an eternity in computing.Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the world wide web, summed it up best: "The power of the web is in its universality. Access by everyone regardless of disability is an essential aspect."Ste Andreassenwww.accessibilitygroup.co.ukBuilding bridgesIan Kearns' interesting article (Confounding the sceptics, September 4) failed to mention one government initiative that could overcome "the continued failure to bridge the digital divide". These are the UK Online Centres, which have funded a network of 34 centres in Brent and Harrow. This is delivered in partnership with local community groups such as Harrow Association of Disabled People, where we run a class for hearing-impaired learners, and with Brent Indian Association, whose volunteer facilitators offer support through six Indian languages.To meet its agenda, the government must recognise that sustainable funding must follow in the footsteps of good ideas and new initiatives. After all, e-government starts with e-community.Don MacdonaldProject manager, North West London OnLineIt's harder in LinuxIf Chris Morgan (Feedback, September 4) believes it can be trivially easy to write viruses for any operating system, I would like to ask him to explain exacly how he would do so for Linux. I do not doubt that viruses would be possible, but I object to the suggestion that they are as trivially easy as in Windows.To accidentally run such a virus in Linux, the recipient would need to "accidentally" save the file to the disk, "accidentally" change the permissions of the file to make it executable, "accidentally" log in with the administrator account, "accidentally" type in the administrator password correctly, and then "accidentally" execute the virus. This is a far cry from the point-click-infect of Windows.Joseph HaigManchesterTrust issues? Me?It's an interesting suggestion (Steve Barrett's letter, September 4; Jack Schofield, August 28) to insist Windows should have built-in firewalls, anti-virus software and trojan checking.Windows XP does have a firewall, but it only checks inbound traffic.Given this, and the fact that Windows has repeatedly been shown to have more holes than a rusty colander, would anyone trust a Microsoft firewall, anti-virus package or trojan checker? Not me!Antony HawkinsUniversity of Sheffield
Wireless is becoming increasingly popular as a way to connect to the internet, whether it's using a mobile phone, a Wi-Fi "hotspot" or getting a broadband connection in places where BT doesn't provide ADSL. Some people are saying that, eventually, wireless will be the only way to connect.There's some truth in this because there's no real limit to the speed of wireless communications, whereas the phone line will never do much more than about 25Mbps - unless BT starts laying fibre-optic cables to all the homes and offices in the UK.But while it would be nice to have a "wireless cloud" that can provide broadband to your PDA or notebook wherever you are, how do we get there from here?There are quite a few places where you can get a wireless broadband connection. On the mobile side, the 3G networks will soon offer speeds of about 300Kbps and perhaps more. The current fixed wireless broadband systems, offered by companies such as Firstnet, use a wide variety of proprietary systems, but most are based on some standard and offer speeds up to 2Mbps, much the same as ADSL. And there are many community groups popping up, often offering access via Wi-Fi (802.11b). The Access to Broadband campaign is a useful source of information.But in the future we will need new standards, which are already being developed. We can therefore get some insight into what's coming by looking at what the standards bodies are doing. In this area, the leading group is the US-based IEEE (Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers), famous for the 802.11 wireless Lan (local area network) standards.The IEEE has a group called 802.16, which has been working on wireless broadband for several years and has produced the 802.16 family of standards. The initial work was for extremely high frequency bands - up to 60GHz. The radio technology is difficult at these frequencies and 802.16 has not yet caught on. However, the IEEE was aware of the problem and started the 802.16a project. This is based on 802.16 but uses lower frequencies, down to 2GHz. The standard was published in July.Interest in 802.16a has been intense because it can offer rates up to about 75Mbps and longer ranges than previous systems, though not both at the same time. Unlike today's systems,   it doesn't require a completely unobscured radio path but can make sense of signals reflected from buildings.An industry body, WiMax, has been set up to encourage the use of 802.16 standards and ensure that different products work together. It has also made a selection from all the different options available in 802.16a and the European standard, HiperMan. That specification is also called WiMax. This simplifies the products that manufacturers have to make and should ensure there is no transatlantic squabbling.Intel was quick off the mark and announced it will be making chips for 802.16a and setting up a partnership with Alvarion, a leading broadband wireless company. Alvarion said it would be using Intel chips in a new range of products. Mohammad Shakouri, vice president of business development at Alvarion and a board member of WiMax, says: "The wireless broadband market needs proper standards to maintain its growth. WiMax will expand the market and improve the quality of products." He expects to see fully qualified WiMax products in about a year's time.What's happening in the mobile area? Again, the 802.16 committee has been involved, and has spun off a group called 802.20 to write standards that will offer broadband on the move. The work hasn't been going long, but it is clear it will make use of adaptive antennas. The idea is that the base station antennas change their beam patterns on the fly to create an area of good quality signals around the user even when whizzing along in a train.It looks as though 802.20 will offer speeds of at least 1Mbps over quite large areas. This is where it differs from 3G mobile networks, which can only offer those speeds close to a base station. ArrayComm is one of the leading companies in 802.20, and its chief technology officer, Marc Goldburg, says: "Our existing iBurst technology can deliver rates of 20Mbps to mobile users, and we expect 802.20 to offer similar performance." 802.20 will only be used in licensed bands, so that it can be protected from interference.However, the mobile scene is confused by the fact that 802.16 has almost finished another standard, called 802.16e. This is derived from 802.16a, with enhancements for mobility. Shakouri says it will be possible to move seamlessly between 802.11 wireless Lans, 802.16a, and 802.16e mobile broadband. He says the 802.16 standards are aimed at high-quality services, while 802.20 is for services with less quality but more mobility.The idea of having broadband wherever you are is appealing but, as usual, there are too many standards. Only time will tell which will dominate but, whatever happens, users will benefit.
Before you pull your phone out of your bag to answer it, wouldn't it be handy if you could glance at your wristwatch and see if you want to talk to whoever's calling? Instead of squeezing a keyboard into a phone and ending up with tiny keys or a PDA phone that's the wrong shape to comfortably hold up to your ear, why not use a small gadget with a keyboard and screen that lets you send messages without pretending to be a phone as well. If your PC and your camera both have Bluetooth, why can't your pictures transfer automatically as soon as they're in the same room?Bluetooth has always promised separate devices working together. But even though there are more interesting devices arriving, such as Toshiba's Hopbit Bluetooth hard drive, most people only use Blue tooth for hands-free headsets, for getting online from a laptop with a mobile phone without lining up infrared ports, or for synchronising a PDA without putting it in a cradle.Replacing cables with Bluetooth saves you a tangle of wires, but using an invisible wire is a long way from a personal network connecting all your devices and making them more useful. One problem is that connecting two devices only works if they both have the same profile and the profile limits what information you can send - the headset profile works for voice calls but not caller ID or playing music. Most devices have only two or three profiles and few explain clearly which they have, so you need to do your research.The Bluetooth Special Interest Group is encouraging manufacturers to settle on a standard set of profiles for devices, with implementation guides on the web to get you started more quickly. But Anders Edlund, the marketing director for the SIG, warns that getting everyone to agree is a slow process: "It will probably take a year before we see devices in the market with more uniformity of implementation."Even with matching profiles, connecting multiple Bluetooth devices can be a fraught process; software interfaces are rarely simple. Bluetooth connections tend to assume an active user for each device, typing in the passcode or accepting the connection - fine for sending a business card to someone's phone, less useful for an MP3 player retrieving more music from your hard drive when the track finishes. The Personal Area Networking profile has been certified, but this is for connecting similar devices. You can also use it for connecting via an access point, to use broadband from your PDA via Bluetooth.The next version of the Bluetooth standard (1.2, due this month) makes connecting to another device faster and can connect more devices simultaneously. But none of the developments improve the experience of trying to get your gadgets to share information. Bluetooth is really just a connection and as always, doing anything useful needs the right software.IXI thinks it has the solution with its mix-and-match Personal Mobile Gateway. You start with a PMG phone - a Bluetooth phone with the IXI-Connect software - then add extra devices such as a headset or camera with the IXI-Sleek software. The Network operator runs the IXI-Manage software and the three layers of software tie everything together.One of the first PMG devices will be Smart's Mobile Messaging Terminal, for sending and reading text messages, instant messages and emails via your phone: so far, so Bluetooth. But because the device, phone and network are all running the PMG software, if you have an IM address, phone number and an email address for a friend, the MMT can find out if they're online or their phone is switched on and pick the best way to contact them.A PMG watch can show the caller ID, news headlines, weather reports and titles of new messages. It's a similar idea to Microsoft's Smart Personal Objects Technology (Spot) devices but uses the phone you have rather than putting an FM radio in every device.The IXI software does use Bluetooth to send information, but adds some smarts - and gives the networks more services to charge you for. Sending a picture from your camera as an email by Bluetooth means creating the email yourself; with a PMG phone and camera, you'd subscribe to a service that automatically uploads photos to a web page.You can configure devices remotely, from a web interface, so you're not restricted to conventional interfaces. How about a voice memo pen that records your message, with three buttons on the side to email them to your three favourite addresses, or a thermometer that sends your temperature into your medical records? A PMG phone wouldn't have to look like a phone; use a headset and pick numbers to dial from the messaging terminal and you don't need a screen or keyboard, giving you something small enough to hang on your key ring.The software also shares the phone connection. If you're browsing the web on a PDA from a Bluetooth phone, you can't email an image from   your camera. A PMG phone gives all your PMG devices temporary IP addresses and lets them share the connection - although with a 56kbps GPRS connection you can't send too much information at the same time.Convenient as PMG devices sound, Ross Forman at Smart points out the phone networks are interested in the revenue opportunity. If it's easier to send and read texts, you'll send more; if you're listening to music your phone is downloading or sending pictures, you're transferring data, and paying for it. Remote configuration could make getting new games for your handheld gamepad as easy as buying as a new ringtone.The good news is that networks are likely to subsidise the devices, to encourage you to buy more. Adding PMG functionality to a phone that has Bluetooth isn't expensive, and simple, single-function devices can be cheaper than multi-function smartphones. And while you won't replace a phone for a couple of years, especially if it has built-in extras like a camera, spending another &#163;40 for a camera isn't nearly as painful.PMG phones (from Samsung and Chi Mei) are already available in Korea, along with a gamepad from Game Park and a camera from Infohand; Seiko is working on a PMG watch and Sanyo has a variety of credit card-sized prototypes including a photo viewer and a voice recorder. We won't see anything here before the end of the year, or even the first quarter of next year, because the networks need to develop services.Separate devices won't suit everyone. And for PMG to succeed, the phones will need to be cheap, and services easy to use. But if it takes off, you might never miss a call fumbling for your phone again.
Empty office?Speculation is mounting about the future of the office of the e-envoy in the current cabinet office reorganisation. A web news service reported this week that the office, charged with putting government services online and ending the digital divide, may be absorbed into the proposed new office of government communications. Andrew Pinder, the current e-envoy, plans to leave his post next April, when his contract expires. This is 20 months before his principal deadline for putting all government services online by the end of 2005.According to The Register, the office of the e-envoy is "set to take on an influential new role at the centre of the government's new media machine" proposed by the Phillis review of government communications.Windows painThe cost and complexity of migration is inhibiting the uptake of Windows XP in many companies, claims the market analyst firm Vanson Bourne. In a survey commissioned by ON Technology, only 11% of 100 medium and large British business say they have migrated to Microsoft's two-year old operating system. Of those yet to start the move, 45% are concerned that the cost and complexity of rolling out Windows XP will be too demanding and 40% feel that their company infrastructure does not meet the specifications. Reports that Windows XP's successor, codenamed Longhorn, may not now appear in 2005, may cause some companies to re-evaluate Windows XP.Mission creepThe NHS's &#163;2.3bn national IT programme has quietly added electronic transfer of prescriptions (ETP) to its main integrated care records scheme (ICRS) contract, designed to create a national electronic health records scheme. This follows the end in June of trials on ETP, which allows GPs to send prescriptions electronically to pharmacies, or patients to order repeat prescriptions online. Although the Department of Health denies a decision has been taken, Health Service Journal magazine saw a detailed specification for ETP, which sources said had been added to the ICRS contract. This would mean either BT or IBM setting up a national ETP system, following Lockheed Martin's withdrawal from bidding for the contract.Fast ironCast Iron Systems is testing the waters for a new category of network appliance, the Application Router. The device han dles the protocol and data transformations required to route information as part of a business integration system. Unlike XML-based approaches, the router does not require information to be stored in a particular format, and it can be rapidly configured to do the necessary transformations on the fly, the company claims. This can be used to create applications using mixed databases and financials packages to create a more flexible business information environment.www.castironsystems.com/products.shtmlSimple sign-onNsure SecureLogin, Novell's single sign-on package, is no longer dependent on a Novell client for the full-feature set, but will now work with any standard LDAP (lightweight directory access protocol) client. The software allows the numerous passwords for entry to domains and applications to be hidden behind one user login name and password. The use of multiple passwords has led to security weaknesses because users tend to write them down. The announcement this week included details of support for Java's Abstract Windowing Toolkit and its Swing interface components, and the addition of more Windows applications and terminal servers to the portfolio.www.novell.com/products/secureloginSignature tuneE-commerce and other online business could be more secure if users could sign for things, without companies having to invest in expensive peripherals to capture signatures. Well, you could always get users to sign with their mice. Biometric software developed in the computer science department at Queen Mary, University of London, learns an optimum set of mouse-movement characteristics unique to each signature and uses them to authenticate later signatures. The programme's artificial intelligence can also adapt over time to cope with changes in the user's mousing characteristics, and it works with any Java-enabled web browser. The technology is being patented and the group is hoping to find companies to develop or license the technology.www.dcs.qmul.ac.uk/~pmco/Biometricdemo.htmAdverts for LinuxIBM is personifying the open source operating system Linux as a blond nine-year-old boy keen to gather information, in a US TV advert with the slogan: Linux. The Future is Open. The advert was shown during last Sunday's men's final of the US Open tennis championship. IBM, one of Linux's biggest supporters, says it will not be showing the advert in the UK. It comes as the US firm SCO, which claims ownership rights to code within some versions of Linux, prepares to sue IBM for $3bn and invoice large Linux users. Open source software is meant to be free of licence fees.
The dotcom boom may be over but people are still paying large sums for powerful content management systems to support their websites. As corporate knowledge portals become more important, so does managing the content in them. But it's not only for large corporations. Look beneath the buzzwords and the promises of "end-to-end content lifecycle management" and you will find a technology that every web-enabled business needs.Large content management systems (CMS) can cost hundreds of thousands of pounds - and that's just for the software. So how can a small business or government agency take control of its web content without losing control of its budget?In the past, many companies developed their own CMS solutions from scratch, but that is a dangerous road. IT budgets are getting smaller, and spending time and money building your own system isn't always worth it. Even if you start with free software, you are still paying for the development time, and the time it takes to get it right. There's less risk with buying off-the-shelf tools, and nowadays there are plenty of options to choose from, including commercial products and open source solutions.Low-cost CMS packages are often based on familiar web development tools. For example, PaperThin has built its CMS - CommonSpot Content Server - on top of Macromedia's Cold Fusion Application server. This approach saves time and money: PaperThin doesn't need to develop its own application platform, administrators get a familiar environment on the server, and power users can add more features to their site using the Cold Fusion programming language.This approach works well for e-government. With tight deadlines, tighter budgets and a drive to put as much information as possible online, a low-cost CMS could be high on the shopping list. The City of Westminster is using CommonSpot to run its web presence, and has been able to deliver the same content to its public websites and to on-street kiosks, just by using different templates.Content management isn't just about implementing servers and databases to store content. What really matters is having a strict policy for managing and updating your site. Macromedia's Contribute uses this idea to turn content management on its head. Instead of massive databases and publishing systems, all you need is a web server and a group of site publishers and content authors.A professional designer produces the design for the site and sets up the permissions to control how it is updated. Contribute then uses the web server to store page backups, controlling exactly who can make changes and how a page is edited. Users just navigate to the page they want to change, open it in Contribute, make their changes and save to update it. It's a cheap and efficient way of keeping control of a small site.For really small companies, there are web design tools that give you features you'd normally expect in a more complex tool, such as the venerable NetObjects Fusion (which survived the death of the company that developed it). Think of it as one-person CMS, because there aren't really tools for collaborative working. The site is stored in a local database, and edited using familiar desktop publishing-style tools. It's an attractive approach, but one editor-cum-designer isn't enough for most medium-sized web sites, even if they can change the design of the entire site from a single screen.Another inheritor of the NetObjects legacy is Merant's Collage, a multi-user CMS that implements many of the features found in larger and more expensive products. As well as in-browser editing and integration with most common page design tools, there's a full workflow implementation, and tools that make it easier to manage and control content. Collage is a tool you'd use to run a relatively large web presence, and customers include publishing companies, banks and government agencies.You don't need to go down a commercial route to get your CMS. Open source content management solutions are a quick and easy way of developing content-rich web sites. Technologies such as Nuke and its various derivatives, which now include Java and Microsoft.net implementations, simplify the process of building and managing content sites. Web-based tools allow groups of users to create and publish content, and a huge number of add-ons mean additional functions are easy to find and install. It's also easy enough to turn the standard Nuke portal layout into something that looks considerably more professional.Another popular open source solution is Zope, which is based on a programmable site publishing tool with its own content database. Its thriving developer community means there are extensions and plug-ins to turn Zope into a complete CMS solution. It also has the support of a commercial organisation in the shape of Zope Corporation.A straightforward installation of Zope will need work to turn it into a full CMS, but it's a tool you can extend at your leisure, while you gain more confidence in working with extensions and its development tools.It's important to get your online presence right. A CMS system helps you control what you publish, and - just as importantly - who can change that information.Content management won't make your site easy to understand, but it is an important tool for managing the web content on which your business may depend.
The average gamer is 29 years old, says an Entertainment Software Association survey. Women aged 18+ now make up more of the gaming population than 6-17-year-old boys, although men aged 18+ are still the biggest single group.
Mobile phones don't come dinkier than Panasonic's GD55. The length of my little finger (ex aerial) and the depth of a thumbnail, it weighs 65g, the lightest phone I have come across. It packs in an impressive number of facilities for its size, including polyphonic ring tones, monochrome screen, Wap, texting, a free game, melody composer, vibration alert and hands-free option.It makes perfectly good telephone calls even though you think you are speaking through an earpiece. After a while, even those with big fingers can make a go of navigating the keyboard. It is too small for my fingers - but it is not aimed at me. Colleagues found it increasingly seductive the more they played with it.Who will buy it? Those with nimble fingers, and those wanting to forget they are carrying a phone or want to wear their mobile as jewellery around their necks. Or will such dinky phones persuade people they need a second leisure-time phone? The GD55 is sold by Vodafone at &#163;100 (pre-paid).
What's the secret of eBay's continued success?I think it's partly the fun factor - it makes shopping a fun experience for people who don't normally like shopping. It turns the whole world into your personal car-boot sale. It's that classic adage of "it couldn't work without the internet" ... there are 75m registered users now!Is eBay use rising in the UK?Very rapidly - I'd predict that within five years, more than half of the UK's net users will have registered with us. I think a lot of people start with the site through nostalgia but, once you get to trust the system, it grows beyond that. It can go two ways and either allow you access to that global car-boot sale or it unleashes the "nation of shopkeepers".It's a good way to recycle as well?I love the "green" part of eBay. It is amazing that everything you own has a value, and possibly a higher value than you attach to it, to somebody else. Apparently, we throw away something like 100,000 PCs a year in this country!Has the purchase of PayPal made security less of an issue?It has in that PayPal (www.paypal.com)is very good at analysing fraud and security risk - the two things that a payment company has to be good at to stay in business. They've brought in a lot of expertise in that area.Are we now more willing to give out our details online?I have to point a finger at journalists here, as I don't think the security issues were ever as bad as was made out. It's getting progressively more secure as you now have every leading brand in the world needing to trust internet security and they won't do that without investing in it.Any plans for accessing eBay content via mobile?You can already. Probably the most useful application is Bid Back, where if you have signed up and you're outbid on something, the system will text your mobile and you then bid back via text, too.Five quirkiest items auctioned on eBay.co.uk?Lady Thatcher's handbag - &#163;103,000; Max the Mammoth (petrified pre-historic skeleton) - &#163;61,000; Joanna Lumley's Ferrari - &#163;35,000; decommissioned nuclear bunker - &#163;14,000; Cold Feet (to be an extra on the set) - &#163;4,000. The most expensive item ever sold on eBay worldwide was a Gulfstream jet for $4.9m (&#163;3.2m).Gadgets?I'm a gadget freak. I bought the first XDA (www.mmo2.com/docs/services/xda_details.html), which I thought was going to allow me to browse with an ISDN-speed connection but it didn't quite perform that well. I've got my eye on an Orange SPV E100 (www.orange.ch/vrtmobilephones/spv) phones, which syncs with Outlook. I'm also going to have to give in and join the MP3 generation.Windows or Mac?Windows, although I worked for Apple in the mid-90s on the launch of the Newton (www.oldschool.net/newton/) and I intend to retire at some point by selling Apple Newton number 000001, which I have gathering dust in my loft. It still works as well, amazingly!Visit:www.ebay.co.uk
Notebook PCs are growing rapidly in popularity, but they do have disadvantages, apart from price. Portable cases don't have much space for cooling fans, so they can run hot. They don't have the expansion space for extra hard drives and accessory cards, which makes them hard to upgrade. And usually they don't have the good quality movable keyboards, mice and adjustable screens you need for all-day use.There are four general types of portable PC: notebooks, ultra-portables, Tablet PCs and desktop replacements. It is important to work out which type you need.Notebooks are general-purpose portables, and usually have Mobile Pentium processors and some sort of built-in CD-Rom drive. However, you might not want to carry one around all day. Real "road warriors" go for ultra-portables. These sacrifice the built-in floppy and CD for lower weight and longer battery life, and may use low-power processors, such as Intel Centrino and Transmeta Crusoe chips. The special Pentiums designed for the Centrino chip sets are much faster than their clock speeds suggest.The Tablet PC is an established business format that Microsoft has revived for the consumer market with the launch of Microsoft Windows XP Tablet PC Edition. All Tablet PCs let you write on the screen with a stylus or pen, and this adds to the price. Some are "slates" but others are "convertibles" and have keyboards.Currently most successful are the "portables" designed to replace desktop PCs. They have large cases to hold desktop processors such as the Pentium 4, large screens (up to 17in), and DVD drives for playing movies. They won't run for long on batteries, but will normally be used indoors, plugged in to the mains. Compared with ultra-portables, they offer a lot of power for the price.Here are the points to watch:1.You may have to decide between an IBM-designed TrackPoint mini-joystick and a touch sensitive panel, though some notebooks have both.2.Look for a PC Card (or PCMCIA) expansion slot, especially if you plan to add a Wi-Fi card.3.Look for wireless IR (infrared) or Bluetooth ports that will talk to peripherals such as PDAs and mobile phones.4.Look for ports that let you plug a notebook into an external monitor or perhaps a TV set.5.Look for a Kensington lock so you can attach your PC to an immovable object and discourage theft.6.some suppliers now offer one or more storage slots for memory cards instead of a floppy drive. These are handy if you have   memory cards for a camera or PDA.Higher education students buying Windows notebooks should go for the extra networking features of Windows XP Pro, and could be tempted by the entertainment-oriented Media Centre Edition, which will appear soon.Apple only offers general purpose notebooks. The iBook models have slow G3 processors and sell mainly on price. The more stylish PowerBooks have G4 processors and screens that go up to 17in, edging towards the desktop replacement market.
Play with demonsOtogi: Myth Of DemonsXbox, &#163;39.99 Sega, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Fantasy role-playing games are 10 a penny, and it is easy to dismiss new examples of the genre. But Otogi: Myth Of Demons manages to restore some faith. For a start, it eschews turn-based gameplay in favour of full-on action. And, most importantly, it creates a general ambience that is agreeably surreal, unmistakably Japanese and much darker than the sub-Tolkienesque norm.You play Raikoh, an undead warrior returned to Earth to battle an invasion of demons (single-handedly, naturally). The gameplay involves working your way through 25 levels, laying waste to increasingly extensive hordes of increasingly sophisticated zombies - interspersed with the odd boss monster - plus carrying out a few slightly more cerebral missions. This, admittedly, is not at all revolutionary, but the game's execution is so accomplished that it never feels tired or derivative.Otogi is endowed with an exemplary learning curve and, most importantly, incredible graphics (hence the Xbox exclusivity), which employ all manner of visual trickery. Add a disembodied female narrator, Japanese music that alternates between decorous and disturbing and you have a deeply atmospheric, filmic game which fans of action-RPGs, as well as those who value Japanese anime, will find deeply satisfying.If you were feeling churlish, you might lament the lack of a multi-player mode, but if that does not worry you, Otogi should hit the spot.Steve BoxerFight to the cosmosMace GriffinXbox, PS2, &#163;39.99 Vivendi, &#42;&#42;&#42;On paper, Mace Griffin sounded great. A seamless mix of first-person shooting and space combat looked set to breathe life into these tired genres. One minute your bounty hunter avatar would be running around, blasting enemies inside the giant space cruiser, the next he'd be launching his craft from the hangar, taking the fight to the cosmos.Sadly, what threatened to be exhilarating turned out ordinary. This is most obvious in the space combat sections. These feel tacked on, rather than integral, and leave the main action concentrated in interior corridors. The action is fairly enjoyable, if utterly generic. Some of the later levels take hours to complete and it's easy to get wrapped up in the atmospheric action.Unfortunately, the niggles annoy. Jumping rarely works in first-person games, and Mace Griffin is worse than most. But most important is the nagging suspicion that without the inclusion of space combat, this would be a very average blaster. Despite the controls and shield system being pilfered from Halo, Mace Griffin is more reminiscent of Red Faction - a solid FPS whose USP is DOA.Greg HowsonPark the actionWildlife ParkPC, &#163;29.99 Koch Media/Novatrix, &#42;&#42;Back in 1994, Theme Park tweaked a particular area of the gaming brain and instilled in us a love of building things to entertain little computer people. Since then, almost every possible park and entertainment complex, from roller coasters to golf courses, has been given the simulation treatment, and Wildlife Park is one more in the long line of such titles.Visually, the game bears a striking resemblance to Microsoft's Zoo Tycoon, and the premise is also much the same: build enclosures, buy and look after animals and encourage the tourists, while cramming them with as much virtual fast food as possible.In its favour, Wildlife Park has more focus on creating a suitable habitat for the animals to aid their mental as well as physical health, which will appease animal activists. They might, however, be a little displeased at the fact you can train your animals to perform for onlookers, but it's still shameless (if non-politically correct) fun trying to encourage tiny penguins to jump through hoops.However, the game is all too similar, both in its antiquated visuals and its formulaic gameplay, to many other titles that should have stopped copying and started innovating years ago.Rhianna Pratchett
GadgetsSony's dreamingSony's annual products showcase, Dreamworld, rolled into Paris last week with the company displaying a host of PC and consumer electronics-based devices. Due next month, the &#163;1,500 Vaio W1 is a desktop PC that can morph into an attractive TV set. It features a base that contains a 2.80Ghz Intel Pentium 4 processor, a foldaway keyboard and a 17.5in widescreen LCD monitor.Sony's Network Media Receiver, as mentioned here last week, will add an extra &#163;100 to the cost of Sony Vaio desktop PCs, with the wireless version adding an extra &#163;300.The company also confirmed the October launch of its new high-end Palm-based PDA, the Cli&#233; PEG-UX50. It has Bluetooth and Wi-Fi, a selection of entertainment facilities, an innovative design with a swivelling screen, and an easy to use keyboard. Also breaking new ground for a PDA is the UX50's 65K colour landscape screen. Its is due next month for around &#163;600.Sony also unveiled a selection of high-end AV products, which will be launched under the Qualia banner, and an intelligent two-legged walking robot called the QRio.www.sony.co.ukMobileLG's flash phoneLG, the Korean company, will launch the first camera phone with an integrated flash for the UK market . Available next month via Orange, the clamshell shaped LG7100 also features a main screen that can be swivelled through 180 for easy display of images. Another unique feature is that the camera's lens is on the side of the hinge, not in its usual place on the outer shell. Other features include a 65K colour TFT screen, polyphonic ringtones and Java. The phone is dual-band, but there is no Bluetooth wireless connectivity. It will retail for around &#163;240.www.lge.co.ukwww.orange.co.ukHardwareReturn of the MacApple has unveiled updates of its iMac consumer computer, and iPod digital music player. The all-in-one iMacs now feature faster G4 processors running at 1GHz in the 15in model (&#163;999, including VAT), and 1.25GHz in the 17in model (&#163;1,499). New USB 2.0 ports should help make the iMacs that bit more snappy.You could use that new USB 2.0 connection to plug in one of the company's new top-end iPods, which sport 20 or 40GB of storage. They use the new standard - as well as FireWire - to auto-synch with your music collection. The &#252;bergadgets cost &#163;299 or &#163;399, and join a 10GB iPod which goes for &#163;249.www.apple.comBose keeps quietBose has unveiled the QuietComfort 2, the latest version of its noise-cancelling headphones. Aimed at airline passengers, they feature several enhancements over their predecessor. Crucially, the company claims its newly designed circuitry helps reduce the hiss from personal audio devices, improving sound quality. Bose has also eliminated the rather bulky battery box of the original phones by integrating the electronics into the headphone's earcups. They go on sale next month for &#163;275.www.bose.co.ukCreative smallerCreative Labs has taken a different tack with the launch of its new MP3 player, which joins the new market that appears to be emerging for tiny MP3 players with 1.5GB hard disks. Following recent announcements of similar products by Philips and Rio, Creative Labs has unveiled the MuVo2. The model, which goes on sale next month, mea sures 66 x 66mm, can store around 450 MP3 tracks (twice that amount if you use Windows Media Audio files) and comes with a fast USB2.0 connector. Battery life is rated at around 10 hours. It costs &#163;200 - &#163;50 less than its rival from Philips, the HDD60.uk.europe.creative.comLinksys on screenLinksys' Wireless-B Media Adapter (WMA11B), a box that allows PC owners to stream audio and image files from their PC to their TV or hi-fi system, goes on sale in the UK this week for around &#163;160. The device connects to a TV and hi-fi using S-video or conventional AV cables. It then accesses files on the PC via either a wireless 802.11b network, or using Ethernet cabling. Unlike some rival devices, it doesn't stream content from websites. The WMA11B does, however, enables users to create playlists of MP3s or fashion a slide show of images that can be controlled via its accompanying handset.www.linksys.comSky+ via SMSBy early next year, owners of the Sky+ satellite hard-disk-based video recorders will able to tell their boxes to record programmes remotely simply by sending an SMS message. The broadcaster has confirmed it is working with NDS and Open TV to develop a system that can also be operated via the internet.Sky also said that the company was confident of reaching 300,000 subscribers, three times its current level, by next June. To help attract new customers, it has waived its &#163;10 per month subscription charge for viewers who take its premium sports and movies TV packages. Users now just pay &#163;200 to own the 40 gigabyte hard disk box.www.sky.comVideoFirebox camcorderThe British gadget site Firebox has taken the wraps off its latest version of the pocket camcorder. Manufactured by German company Aiptek, the Pocket DV4 camcorder shoots moving images in the MPeg4 format at a rate of 20 frames per second. The small device, which looks like a cut-down version of a traditional DV camcorder, also features a two-megapixel still image camera with a 4x digital zoom and an onboard flash. It will also play MP3 music files and can moonlight as a voice recorder. Content is stored on a Secure Digital (SD) card. It is available for &#163;150 on its own, or &#163;229 with a 256MB SD card.www.firebox.com
Vanishing sitesI have regularly accessed BBC radio programmes, until a week ago. Now all I get is a failure message, even when I try to go in through the RealOne player, and I cannot even access the BBC home page! I have NTL broadband, Windows 98 and the Sygate firewall.Mike RiceJack Schofield replies: Several readers have submitted similar queries about the BBC and sites such as eBay and Hotmail: it seems NTL has, or has had, cache problems (seewww.nthellworld.com/forum/showthread.php?s=&amp;threadid=44045). The cache stores copies of web pages locally. You can often make it fetch a new version by pressing Ctrl-F5, but there are alternatives.If you have an isolated problem, you can usually get to any site by using an anonymous web-based proxy service. I use Megaproxywww.megaproxy.com, which is excellent, and IDzapwww.idzap.com. If it is an endemic problem, then you can try to avoid your ISP's cache and use a different proxy cache. Robin Walker has provided a guide to the cache problem athomepage.ntlworld.com/robin.d.h.walker/cmtips/trancache.htmlwith detailed information for NTL and Blueyonder users. Many thanks to Hersh Mann for recommending this valuable site.AV spamOver the past week or so, I have been receiving a large number of automated replies from systems that have blocked emails containing viruses that purport to come from me but are to addresses of people who are not in my email address book. The subjects include things like That Movie, and many contain infected files.Stephen ConnellJS:We are all getting them, thanks to the SoBig.F mass-mailing virus, which uses its own mail server. The problem is that many anti-virus and mail scanning companies include routines to "bounce" mail back to its sender. Unfortunately, these routines are far too stupid to work out the address of the machine that actually sent the email, and even if they could, there would not be much point in returning a copy of SoBig. So many people are now using scanning software on their servers that bounced mail is becoming a significant problem. It seems to me that, under the circumstances, this bounced mail is basically advertising - Look at us, we blocked a virus! - and therefore little better than spam. If you are bouncing viruses, it is now adding to the problem, not solving it.Ask JackI've been unsuccessfully trying to locate the Ask Jack archive, to find the article about how to turn off messenger pop-ups in Windows XP.Alan RawsthorneJS:There is no archive of Ask Jack, as such, but there are links to recent issues atwww.guardian.co.uk/online/askjack. These articles are also included in the Guardian Unlimited database, and you can search for Online and Ask Jack articles specifically at the Online page atwww.guardian.co.uk/online. In theory, the Ask Jack search should be quicker, but the index is about three months out of date, so it's better to click the Online button. You can sometimes get better results by using Google, if you include both "ask jack" (including quotes) and site:www.guardian.co.ukto limit the search. In this case, you would search for site:www.guardian.co.uk"ask jack" "windows messenger" and get about 17 hits.Stop pop-upsWith regard to the frequently asked question about messenger service pop-ups, Microsoft now has an official answer, which is to turn on Windows XP's built-in firewall - see Messenger Service Window That Contains an Internet Advertisement Appearssupport.microsoft.com/?kbid=330904. However, I would still recommend using a better firewall, such as Sygate or Zone Alarm, and if you are not on a corporate network, turning off this messenger service (which is not MSN Messenger) altogether, as described on May 1masl.to/?Q3C122DD4.Backchat&#183;Ronald Press wanted to create a whitelist in Outlook Express 6 and I suggested downloading some utilities. Thomas Graham says: "How about downloading Thunderbird, a new project from Mozilla.org, currently at version 0.2. This allows whitelists, and other such featureswww.mozilla.org/projects/thunderbird. I've already written about Thunderbird - they quoted me in their press release - but it is some way from version 1.0, and to reach a non-geek audience, it needs a proper installer.&#183;Sometimes, internet users need to know their IP (internet protocol) address, and I've previously given the address of sites that will tell you what it is. There are several with names likewww.whatismyipaddress.com. John Ward says: "A simpler solution is provided byYourIPnow.comwhich just copies it straight to my clipboard." It may, depending on your security settings: it doesn't copy it to mine.&#183;We all struggle with spam. Harry Bruhns suggests reading a white paper by David Harris, which is on the web atwww.pmail.com/spamwp.htmSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.
