"The web is dead. Long live the internet" was the headline for anarticle by Chris Anderson and Michael Wolffin the latest issue ofWiredmagazine. "Over the past few years," burbled Anderson-Wolff, "one of the most important shifts in the digital world has been the move from the wide-open web to semi-closed platforms that use the internet for transport but not the browser for display."It's driven primarily by the rise of the iPhone model of mobile computing, and it's a world Google can't crawl, one where HTML doesn't rule. And it's the world that consumers are increasingly choosing, not because they're rejecting the idea of the web but because these dedicated platforms often just work better or fit better into their lives (the screen comes to them, they don't have to go to the screen). The fact that it's easier for companies to make money on these platforms only cements the trend. Producers and consumers agree: The web is not the culmination of the digital revolution."The keystone of this striking argument is the kind of scary graph much beloved of glossy magazines. It purports to show the proportion of US internet traffic taken up by various internet applications (web, email, file-sharing, video, file transfers, etc) over the period 1990-2010. And lo! – the proportion taken up by the web peaks in about 2001 and appears to be in decline ever since. QED?Not quite. First of all there is the strange distinction made in the graph between the web and "video". This is puzzling because much if not most online video travels via the web: that's why the address of YouTube iswww.youtube.com; or that of the BBC iPlayer iswww.bbc.co.uk/iplayer. At this point, as PG Wodehouse might observe, a distinct aroma of rodent assails even the least sensitive nose.No sooner had the Anderson-Wolff thesis hit the net than numerate sceptics began to dissect it.Over at BoingBoing, for example, Rob Beschizza decided to have a closer look. What aroused his suspicions was that theWiredgraph didn't take into account the increase in web traffic over the 10 years in question. "The use of proportion of the total as the vertical axis instead of the actual total," he wrote, "is an interesting editorial choice."For "interesting" read "misleading". Between 1995 and 2006, the total amount of web traffic went from about 10 terabytes a month to 1,000,000 terabytes (or one exabyte).  Beschizza pointed out that, according to Cisco (the sourceWiredused for its projections), total internet traffic rose then from about 1 exabyte to 7 exabytes between 2005 and 2010.  Beschizza then plots these numbers on his own graph, with predictable results: web traffic continues to increase, and video and file-sharing (a significant proportion of which is embedded in the web) increases even faster. It looks, in fact, very much like exponential growth. If this is death, then let's have more of it.It's possible, of course, that the Anderson-Wolff scare story was the product of an innocent mistake. But let us, for a moment, refuse them the benefit of the doubt. The core of their argument is that the popularity of apps (as on iPhone and Android phones) signals the death knell of the web. "The marketplace has spoken," they write."When it comes to the applications that run on top of the net, people are starting to choose quality of service. We want TweetDeck to organise our Twitter feeds because it's more convenient than the Twitter web page. The Google Maps mobile app on our phone works better in the car than the Google Maps website on our laptop. And we'd rather lean back to read books with our Kindle or iPad app than lean forward to peer at our desktop browser."That's the message. Now, who is the messenger? Answer: Condé Nast, the publishing conglomerate that ownsWired— as well as theNew Yorker,GQandVanity Fair.The web has posed a serious threat to their business model (as it has to almost all print publishers) because they have thus far failed to find a way to get people to pay serious money for online content. The arrival of iPhone (and, later, iPad) apps was the first good news that magazine conglomerates had received in a decade. Why? Because, in contrast to the Wild West Web, apps are tightly controlled (by Apple) and consumers willingly pay for them. As a result, print publishers have fallen on the apps idea like ravening wolves. It enables them to exert tight control over the content, prevent sharing and earn revenue. It represents, in short, the glorious online future.Oh, by the way,Wiredhas asumptuous iPad app. Only £2.39 a pop.
Recentlya man bought a space station for $330,000, while last month Small Planet Foods, a subsidiary of General Foods, introduced a new brand of organic blueberries. What have these two products got in common? Neither actually exist. Well, not except as pixels in the virtual worlds where they are traded. Only the money is real.The space station was sold in the virtual worldEntropia Universe, which has its own economy and currency. The buyer, who converted his $300,000 into 3.3m PED (Project Entropia dollars), is convinced that virtual shops on his virtual space station will produce virtual profits that can be converted back into real dollars. The blueberries represent a "brand extension" of a product that exists in the real world as US company General Foods aims to establish a presence inFarmVille, a game which exists as an application on Facebook and which at its peak has had nearly 80 million players. It is a classic example of a new genre.Farmers in FarmVille buy cartoon-like virtual farm animals, which have to be regularly fed, or crops that require fertiliser (virtual, of course) to help them grow, in order to be more successful than their friends. The real-time game has its own virtual currency that makes it easier for members to trade and for the game's makers to profit. Parent company Zynga has revenues of more than $600m a year which come mainly from FarmVille, despite competition from half a dozen other farm games on Facebook. Zynga is reckoned to be worth between $4bn and $5bn, based on the value of investment stakes that have been taken in it.To many, this seems crazy: why spend real money to buy a virtual currency to purchase food in order to stop a pig that doesn't exist from dying through lack of food? The easy answer is why not – if that's what you want to do. It is arguably a lot more "real" – whatever that means these days – than, say, sitting like a couch potato watching a soap on&nbsp;television.This might still seem the stuff of fantasy but it's where real life seems to be heading: according to some analysts, we are in the midst of a virtual revolution that might one day be considered as important as the industrial revolution. Nic Mitham, founder ofKZero, a Cambridge-based consultancy, says that there are 175 virtual worlds that are live or in live beta and that the number of registered users to them has risen from 880 million in the fourth quarter of 2009 to 1.1 billion today, a 25% increase within six months in the middle of a recession. The registered population of virtual worlds (even if this is not the same as active users) is greater than the populations of the US and Europe combined.Children are already, and perhaps inevitably, very familiar with all this. Habbo Hotel, a virtual world where teenagers trade goods and clothes, has increased the number of its registered residents to 175 million from 160 million a year ago and the London-based Moshi Monsters, a sub-teen world where kids meet and trade virtual goods with each other now has 20 million members compared with 12 million at the end of last year.Meanwhile, going in the opposite direction to General Foods, Moshi Monsters recently announced that the branded goods it has developed within its virtual world are to be sold in the real world, an example of something else we will have to get used to: a convergence of real and virtual&nbsp;products.Little wonder that Will Walsh, CEO of Sharpcards, which creates virtual cards for people to send to each other from their mobiles, believes "there will be a time in the future when kids spend more money in certain areas on virtual goods than they do in the real world."Second Life, where you can choose your own avatar, build your own house and buy and sell clothing, is still the best-known virtual world in this country. Launched in 2003, it claims up to 20 million registered users, although only about 1.4 million have been active in the past 60 days. For some it's been a rocky road: its San Diego-born creator Philip Rosedale stepped down as CEO in 2008, but is now back in charge following recent redundancies at developers Linden Lab.The latest published figures claim that virtual transactions (sales of land, clothes and artefacts) in Second Life came to $500m last year and that the volume of user-to-user transactions (selling each other clothes, furniture and land) rose between April and May this year from $49.9m to $52.6m. However, it would be surprising if this growth were maintained in view of Second Life's managerial problems and a sharp decline in the value of land within the virtual world. Casual visitors are arriving in fewer numbers and long-term residents seem increasingly to keep themselves to themselves – focusing on niche educational projects, virtual business meetings, sex or art.I joined Second Life five years ago and, with the help of a neighbour there, set up an art gallery. To begin with, I displayed other people's artworks before  – after I realised that the game's tools enable anyone to transform creative ideas into (virtual) paintings or sculptureswithout formal training – showing off works of my own.My neighbour Juanita Deharo (her SL identity – in real life she is Judy Barrass and lives in Australia) now produces artworks thatbridge the real and virtual worlds. But citing falling sales of her work because of problems there, she has thought about leaving Second Life. "There are signs the community is on the move into other virtual worlds," she says.Other virtual worlds? Competing with Second Life now are several similar online communities, includingOpenLife,Blue MarsandInworldz. The former bills itself an an open-source alternative grid for Second Life, set up in Australia in 2007, "to create a user content created virtual world orientated towards users, affordable ownership and community".Blue Mars is more restrictive than Second Life in terms of allowing its users to make their own content, but this 3D virtual world platform (developed in Hawaii by a company called Avatar Reality) has let more than 200 developers – mostly individuals or indie game designers – loose on creating cities, games and 3D environments on a terraformed version of Mars. Opened to the public in September 2009, and still in beta testing, it promises users better graphics and a more streamlined experience as a result. Blue Mars further differs from Second Life in that avatars cannot be fully customised and the emphasis is on shopping and gaming rather than social interaction.Nonetheless, successful (virtual) fashion designerEstelle Parnallis taking her business away from Second Life into Blue Mars. "Everything will be better, once the content gets created," she says. "The graphics, and in particular avatar appearance and clothing, are of a much higher standard than could be reproduced in SL and in virtual platforms relying on social engagement, this is of paramount importance."For Juanita Deharo, "what keeps me in Second Life is the international community of artists, audience and curators, and these new grids can't match the diversity, stability, performance and security of SL at this stage." She acknowledges none the less that "the scene is changing rapidly".The growth in virtual worlds for children is also continuing. Last month, for instance, saw the launch of  Innerstar University, created by a US toy company, in which pre-teens can create doll avatars to navigate the campus of a virtual university, earning stars by competing cheerleading or horseriding games that can then be redeemed for pets or a haircut.Closed virtual worlds dedicated to business or education are also flourishing. Based in Florida and Boston, ReactionGrid was founded by three Second Life programmers in January 2009. They build bespoke virtual worlds for business clients (including Microsoft and a number of universities) – usually as a "fun" way of facilitating business tutorials, such as an interactive arcade version of a PowerPoint-like presentation. Worlds created include classrooms, campuses, and bar lounges.Side by side with the trend to build escapist worlds such as these is a dash to construct 3D reproductions of actual places in the real world in the hope of attracting people to buy goods and entertain themselves without an irksome journey to town. There is a virtual London in Second Life, with a 40,000-strong community, which according to its founder Debs Regent  (or Debs Butler, as she is known offline) made a small profit last month, mainly from renting out shops and clubs. But at leastfive virtual versions of the capital have been built or are in the throes of constructionby companies such asTwinity,NearGlobaland Microsoft, as well as by University College, London.Vistors to Twinity can also enjoy virtual replicas of Berlin, Singapore and Miami. Earlier this month, the company hosted a virtual barbecue in (its recreation of) South Beach, Miami, while in a game of one-upmanship with the mayor of London, the company's vehicle engineers have just built a (virtual) motorcycle that lets visitors tour the cities (without ever being required to wear a helmet).For sheer ambition all these projects are dwarfed byProject X, the brainchild of Mike Fotoohi from Egham, Surrey, who intends to reproduce the entire planet as a virtual world in which members will be able to build replicas of their homes on the same street as in real life. Project X is still in closed beta and at the moment Fotoohi and his team have only finished building central New York and a few other places, but after merging the open sourceOpenstreetmap– a free and open source editable map of the world – with publicly available satellite image mapping from the US government to produce a 3D skeleton of practically every road on the planet, users will be invited to take over the planet.Fotoohi and his colleagues believe that virtual worlds – in which social media will integrate with a three dimensional web – have a great future. "We have only scratched the surface," he says. "As bandwidth increases and technologies likeray tracing[simulating 3D effects] and video delivery become more realistic thanks to increasing processing power and faster connections then we will have worlds that will look very real in the future."Project X is the initial phase of what I believe will be the next generation of how people will use the internet."One feature being developed using mobile technology aims to synch the virtual and the real worlds – so that your avatar in a virtual world will follow you in real life wherever you go. "Shopkeepers who advertise their products in our virtual world can actually see customers attracted to their store as a result of that advert," says Fotoohi. "This is something that has never been done before and for the first time you can measure accurately the pounds and dollars that you spend. The person who uses this system will also get a revenue share, which is great for the consumer and advertiser."The early virtual worlds,  most of which have been grossly underperforming for their investors, according to Nic Mitham at KZero, found it difficult to establish their virtual brands in real life. Mitham now sees two trends. First, virtual worlds are changing from levying monthly subscriptions to charging small amounts for virtual goods, a practice made popular by FarmVille. The second driver, he says, is brands creating their own virtual worlds to sell their products. Virtual goods that carry real-life brands, Mitham says, have 10 times the buying power of virtual brands.How big is the virtual revolution? Factor in games like FarmVille, massively multiplayer online games such as Entropia Universe and World of Warcraft and other virtual services and it is a case of pick your own number. Some unofficial estimates claim that virtual products are worth $1bn in the US and $5bn in Asia. This is a woeful underestimate since one part of Facebook, FarmVille, may soon be worth a billion and it is already capitalised at more than $4bn. In the future, too, the mobile phone, is likely to be a major incubator of virtual products.FarmVille may one day be seen as a milestone in accustomising non-geeks to the idea of online currencies and virtual products. Virtual products have a particular attraction to businesses because beyond the cost infrastructure already in place, overheads are few and manufacturing costs zero. Carbon footprints become less of a concern, too. And in a recession, virtual worlds offer their colonists the chance of a cheap escape from everyday&nbsp;reality.
Who owns the sky? According to Rupert Murdoch, he does: his BSkyB is challenging the right of Skype, the internet phone service, to register its name as a trademark in Europe, claiming that it is too close to its own Sky brand. Skype is one of the great unheralded success stories of the internet: where Facebook and Twitter are busy shortening attention spans and relieving us of our sense of private space, Skype has quietly changed the way we talk. That Facebook has 500 million users is well known but there are 560 million registered Skype users who have made a total of 250bn minutes of calls since it was founded, seven years ago this month.Using it is easy: all you need is an internet connection and a laptop that has a microphone and, ideally, a webcam. When I first visited the US, 20 years ago, I would ring home by shovelling sackloads of quarters into pay phones; these days, thanks to Skype, I can talk daily to friends from anywhere in the world. Calls are free to other Skype users and cheap to everyone else. As a habitual Skype user I have become accustomed to its failings – the frozen webcam image, the metallic sound of the human voice when transported through the air, and the timelag that afflicts some long-distance conversations. There is also the sensitive issue of Skype etiquette – making business calls when still in nightwear is fine, makingvideobusiness calls when wrapped in a towel less so. And yet it is still one of the few things online that has indisputably improved our lives and made the world that much smaller and chattier.
Are you in a relationship? What are your political views? And where did you go for breakfast this morning? What would once have been details of our lives known only by those we know and trust, many of us now willingly display online.From the surveillance entertainment of Big Brother to CCTV and celebrity magazines, the boundaries of what is regarded as appropriate to put in the public domain are shifting dramatically. But nothing is challenging our notion of privacy more than social networking, with 26 million of us using Facebook to share the minutiae of our lives every month in the UK alone.Facebook has proved irresistible to many because we are lured into joining by friends and family. Browsing, reading, comparing and nosing is instinctive, impulsive and reflects our tendencies offline, our "social graph", as Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg likes to call it. Having executed the social networking business idea better than its rivals – MySpace, Bebo, Friendster and Hi5 have been left for dust – Facebook has seen astonishing growth, from a Harvard dorm project in 2003 to a global phenomenon that had500 million monthly usersby July this year. That's already one in 13 people on Earth, andZuckerberg recently predicted it was "almost a guarantee" that his site would reach 1 billion users, with growth in relatively untapped markets such as Russia, Japan and Korea "doubling every six months".On Thursday, Facebookunveiledits latest gambit in the battle to remain top of the social networking heap with a move into geolocation services, which harness the GPS functionality of increasingly powerful mobile smartphones.Facebook Placeswill launch first in the US and later in the UK, allowing users, if they choose, toshare their locationwith friends on the site by checking into public venues. Sensitive to intense public scrutiny of its privacy controls, Facebook was careful to make the service opt-in but every geolocation service – includingGoogle's Latitude,GowallaandFoursquare– has prompted renewed debate about the protection of personal details online."This is a seminal moment where we're seeing new thinking and new practice starting to emerge around the issue of privacy," says Stephen Balkam, chief executive of theFamily Online Safety Instituteand member of Facebook's safety advisory board. "The battle lines are being drawn between generations. Facebook is headed by someone who hasn't hit 30 yet, but has very different perceptions and assumptions about what is private and what is not. We need to recognise that with social networking, geolocation and digital technology, the privacy bar is being reset."Facebook has come under significant pressure to make its site safer for users. Incidents of serious crimes facilitated by the internet such asthe murder of British teenager Ashleigh Hall by Peter Chapmanearlier this year, are tragic but rare. More common is the embarrassment from a compromising tagged photo of a drunken night out.The rapid pace of development by technology companies often throws up new cultural and ethical challenges.Google's Street Viewhas frequently been challenged by privacy campaigners who question whether the logistical and commercial benefits of making every property in every street visible on the web are worth the sacrifice of the individual's right to privacy. Facebook users first raised their pitchforks in 2006 when the site introduced a news feed for each user, summarising their friends' activity. More recently it came under pressure to simplify its privacy controls with some high-profile commentators and groups – organised on Facebook pages, naturally – encouraging others to remove their profiles. It responded in May with simplified privacy settings.Richard, now Lord, Allan is aformer Liberal Democrat MPandFacebook's European policy director. "The internet is here to stay as a ubiquitous way for every individual citizen to capture and share information. The challenge is how you manage that increasing flow of information and that's where Facebook is at the bleeding edge, allowing people to navigate that world. Expressions of concern and criticisms are really of that direction of travel, rather than any particular product, like Facebook."Allan thinks it is an exaggeration to characterise privacy as a natural state of man, citing societies before mass transport where a large community would know every intimate detail of each other's lives. The modern sense of privacy came much later, with modern transport and cities. "Notably with new technology, you end up with a utopian viewpoint and a dystopian viewpoint, but a lot of things those dystopians feared did not come true. To say you're 'living in Facebook rather than the real world' is a complete misreading of what's happening. The reason it is so compelling is because it is so connected to the real world. With every wave of technology we need to get used to it."Our personal information can broadly be categorised as trivial data such as music preferences, behavioural information about our activity and connections, and confidential information including credit card numbers. But even seemingly innocuous information can be used against us, says security expert Rik Ferguson ofTrend Micro. "In isolation, much of this data may be trivial but from a hacker's perspective, any information is good information," he says. "Use search engines to discover the extent of your online footprint and tailor it. Keep tabs on yourself before anyone else does."Balkam describes the internet's two biggest privacy problems as reputational damage – inadvertently posting drunken photos that your boss might see, for example – and physical safety, the latter being the issue for women particularly wary of location tools. Burglary is another concern, when users of location services announce they are out of the house; in February three developers builtPleaseRobMe.comto raise awareness about the implications of broadcasting location to a public audience.Currently location games such asFoursquare, where users check in at public venues to earn points and prizes, tend to have a small, enthusiastic and largely trustworthy group of dedicated users comprised of so-called "early adopters". For them, this period of intensive invention and opportunity is a golden age.Christian Payne–  who describes himself as a "social technologist" – abandoned a career as a photographer in early 2008 when he had a "car crash epiphany". Within minutes of tweeting avideo of his crashed Land Rover, he had an offer of help from a local crane operator, his AA membership number sent to him and a call from BT asking for the serial number of the telegraph pole he'd crashed into. He worries that spirit of helpfulness will dilute as social media becomes more commercialised, and its users more sceptical."We'll never see it like we do now – more nefarious people will come later," he says. "But it would be more risky for me not to take the chance of building meaningful connections with acquaintances who then become friends when one of you needs some help."Payne seems to put a lot of intimate information into the world, but still skillfully manages to keep his personal life, and that of his partner and son, almost completely private. It's up to the user to decide what they want to keep private, he says, though he's uncomfortable with the idea that he is unknowingly creating a public persona for himself. "I'd hope I'm doing this naturally and not thinking about it. But then asking me that is like taking me out of the play I'm acting in as myself – and asking me to direct it."Online privacy is intrinsically linked to identity. Author Peggy Orensteinwrote in the New York Timesrecently that her reflexive compulsion to tweet a pleasant moment with her daughter had also spoilt the moment, and mused that our online personas are elaborate constructs that we, knowingly or unknowingly, craft into an identity we want the world to see. The internet has provided a platform that seems to challenge us to present a single identity to the world, yet we struggle to balance the profiles we share with family, friends and work colleagues.Stories of employers sacking staff for drunken Facebook photos will be replaced by an acceptance that drunken university pictures are the norm, saysDr Joss Wright, Fresnel research fellow at theOxford Internet Institute. He hopes sites will develop more intuitive ways to share information with the appropriate people; when his grandmother joined Facebook it "severely curtailed" what he could share with his friends."I'd like to believe people will learn how to guard their privacy, but we're more likely to see societal shifts in what is seen as acceptable for privacy," Wright adds. "Privacy has tended to be something quite intrinsic, and there hasn't been a mechanism for privacy violation in general society until the arrival of the internet. The rise of Facebook and Foursquare show we don't really understand privacy or what it means to preserve it, and don't have an ability to understand the consequences of violating it either."Regulators struggle to keep up with the pace of technology and enforcement of what rules there are is weak, meaning the onus for education should be on the services themselves, says Wright, who doesn't think they are closely scrutinised enough. Though sites like Facebook have a duty of care, "the economics are against that, because their entire business model is built around getting us to share as much information as possible".But there are upsides, too. Sharing personal information is beneficial in giving insights into different aspects of society. "If you can see the details of people's lives, when you can see someone's actual persona, it's harder to be biased and bigoted," said Wright. "But a balance has to be struck between the amount we share for the positive and negative."Eric Schmidt, Google chief executive, recently reiterated his suggestion that internet users may one day be able to change their identities in order to distance themselves from personal information shared so freely in their formative years. "I don't believe society understands what happens when everything is available, knowable and recorded by everyone all the time," he told theWall Street Journal.Zuckerberg takes a different tack. "You have one identity. The days of you having a different image for your work friends or co-workers and for the other people you know are probably coming to an end pretty quickly … Having two identities for yourself is an example of a lack of integrity," he was quoted as saying inDavid Kirkpatrick's book, The Facebook Effect.Part of Facebook's success has been to demand people's real identities. In that way, it represents the maturation of the internet where the previous norm had been a wisecrack pseudonym and a world of "trolling", where faceless, nameless commenters could easily post abusive messages and attack each other. The improvement in the quality of communication and debate online is in no small part down to the trend towards using real identities. However, anonymity still has its role in whistleblowing sites such asWikileaks, or in debates where a contributor to a discussion on rape, for example, deserves protection.If you think the current internet landscape is frightening, don't think too much about what's coming next. Already served with targeted ads based on keywords in our Google email, or picked out by our age and interests on Facebook, the future is more personalised still. "Sites will get much better at filtering information and predicting our behaviour, serving us what we want to buy and finding new ways to share information, like location. Three years ago, people wouldn't even have dreamed of sharing their location," says Wright. While the sensitivities and sensibilities of managing our online data still need to be clarified, there will be benefits in personalisation, which promises more meaningful, relevant advertising for consumers and consequently, for advertisers, far more effective bang for their buck.So what next? Three years ago, rival social networking siteMySpaceseemed invincible. Could Facebook still lose its edge? Anything is possible.Balkam recently suggestedFacebook recruit a philosopher to help interpret some of the demanding and unprecedented ethical and sociological challenges it faces."No company in the world has ever attracted 500 million users, and they are having to come to terms, at lightning speed, with what is good and what is abhorrent behaviour. Aristotle and Plato struggled with that – and the average age at Facebook is 28."Where the Twitterati draw the lineZoe Margolis, bloggerWhile I'm very active on social networking sites such as Twitter and Facebook, I have so far avoided all the location-based tools on my phone. Primarily, this is because I do not want to publicly announce where I am - I wish to protect my privacy and safety - but also because I don't want to bombard people with incessant, dull, information; I've unfollowed people on Twitter and Facebook due to their too-frequent (and, might I say, very annoying) Foursquare updates being fed through to their timelines.I can see the point of location tools – they're an easy way to connect people who might otherwise be unaware of their proximity to their friends – but given the amount of information we already share using social networking sites, it almost seems like overload to add yet another method of input, and it's pretty much redundant if not all of your friends/social circle are using the same tool.I have some major concerns with Facebook Places though and believe it is a huge threat to people's privacy. It is already live in users' settings(though the feature has not yet been rolled out in the UK) and while there is the option of limiting the location info to friends only, they have to de-select the automatically enabled "Include me in 'People Here Now' after I check in" box in order to opt out of their location being included on a public list for all to see.In addition to this, people's friends can "check' " them into locations, so even if someone has limited the information about themselves that they are sharing, there might still be a breach of their privacy from others.Most of my friends on Facebook have never heard of Foursquare or Gowalla, let alone used a location-based tool on their mobile phones; I assume the majority of people who use Facebook are similar. Given this, it concerns me that Facebook Places appears to be lacking transparency about privacy. The ability to change the settings to ensure personal information is protected seems more geared to the tech-savvy, than the lay-person; I fear many people will discover their privacy has been breached only after the event.Privacy on any social networking site or location-sharing tool should start off being intact: 100% protection, with the chance to opt-in to less privacy, should you wish to share information with others. Facebook seems to take the opposite view, making the default position little/no privacy with the need to opt-out; I won't be using Facebook Places any time soon.David NobbsI don't believe total privacy is possible so I never telling anybody anything on line that I wouldn't be happy for the nation to know (if it was interested!).I think some people are so hungry for celebrity they're happy not to have a private life at all. I'm very careful with my tweets. People can never be quite sure whether they're true or false, and I never reveal when I'm going to be away.Sorry this is so short but I'm off to Portugal now for five months. Only joking.Max Tundra,musicianI probably spend too much time online, sharing details about my life with anyone who has the remotest interest in my music. I don't like the idea of letting people know exactly where I am right this second, but as my fans tend to be fairly sane and unstalkerish, I feel comfortable letting them know what I'm up to in a general sense.I don't use Foursquare or any applications which might reveal my geographical co-ordinates, although I am often easily locatable, as I play advertised concerts. I did, however, recently delete my personal Facebook profile, as that seemed to be a cluster of unnecessarily pertinent information about my life and the people I share it with, as well as being a colossal waste of time which could be better spent telling people on Twitter that I prefer the Henry vacuum cleaner to the Dyson.Graham Linehan, comedy writer:I always hated Facebook because it made me very uncertain about what I was and wasn't sharing with the world. The privacy settings were, famously, a bit of a maze, and seemed subject to sudden changes that you hadn't agreed to. I felt like one day I might open up the site to see a picture of myself in bed asleep with my wife, like in Hidden'.Twitter is different because it forces you to be very selective with what you choose to share, and so forces social media back to a more private place. I personally don't tweet much stuff about my home life, because I don't want to accidentally tweet something stupid like "Holiday starts tomorrow!" along with a geotag to my home address. So my tweets are generally links to things I find funny or interesting, and my home life only gets a look-in when something truly interesting or funny happens.Once I made a mistake and posted my home number while trying to send a direct (private) message to someone and we had to change it, but that was a valuable lesson to learn early on, because now I'm a lot more careful with what I put out there. It wasn't too much of a problem, though. We only got two or three callers who hung up as soon as my wife said "Hello, Dreambeds". I asked her who Dreambeds were and she said "Dunno. I suppose they sell beds."I think people should start to claw back as much privacy as they can. Services such as Twitter show that it's possible to share selectively. Sharing selectively should be the default setting on every social network service. Which, again, is why you won't see me on Facebook any time soon.John Prescott, politicianTwitter has been a&nbsp;revelation. In the past if I needed to get message out I'd have to convince a paper to publish it. Now I can tweet my thoughts and, if interesting, it'll get pick up. My Milburn tweet was running on rolling news within 10 minutes.I share a lot of content like my blogs and vlogs along with links to stories and virals from others I like. Twitter is also great to run campaigns and organise tweetups.We did the first pastiche of the Cameron airbrushed posters, which then inspired mMyDavidCameron.com. Suddenly hundreds of thousands of people were doing their own versions. It destroyed Ashcroft's poster campaign and cost nothing.And when the founder of the National Bullying Helpline said people were bullied in No10, someone tweeted me a link to the industrial tribunal which proved she was accused of bullying herself! It killed the story within 24 hours.I've found Twitter to be a fantastic way to communicate, learn from others and show the real me, not the distorted view peddled by the media.But I'm not convinced about geolocation applications. You have to have some privacy.Suzanne Moore, journalistDon't mistake personal information for honesty. Personas are created and people play as well as tweet their hearts out. If you don't want to bare your soul you don't have to, but the dividing line between public and private is now generational, one that neither mainstream culture nor government appears to understand.I don't much care what people think of me and was wondering who some guy on MasterChef was the other day on Twitter and wondering if I had slept with him. Turns out I hadn't which was a relief. And a joke!
Lara Croft And The Guardian Of Light, PC, PS3 &amp; Xbox 360Lara Croft returns, this time without the Tomb Raider subtitle, in a lightweight downloadable format that does away with most of the plot so you can get down to blowing away whole rooms full of monsters, both supernatural and on one occasion prehistoric. In the style of aged arcade hit Smash TV, you evade multiple waves of enemies using the left joystick and direct your stream of fire with the right, until Lara's the only one still running around, then scavenging artefacts and power ups to enhance her abilities. Although secondary to the action, its simple, satisfying puzzles – some of which take up entire halls – crop up frequently enough, and while the game's forced 3D perspective sometimes gets in the way, the deaths it causes rarely set you back far. Played either solo or  with mirror guardian Totec in cooperative mode, this is quite a different if undeniably Lara-flavoured game.Square Enix, £10 downloadSimCity Deluxe, iPhone &amp; iPod TouchSimCity Deluxe.Your job in SimCity Deluxe is the same as it's always been in this venerable franchise: build a city with as large a populace as you can. To do that you zone land for housing, commerce and industry, supply power stations, water works, roads and public transport, then levy taxes to keep building. Unfortunately for iPhone owners, rather than recreate the game or interface around a very small screen, Electronic Arts has, with a few tweaks, simply shoehorned the entirety of SimCity 4, a PC game from 2003, on to iPhone. The result is an awful, fiddly mess in which the act of building roads that actually join up with each other becomes a wrestling match of gorilla-sized fingers versus microscopically small tasks. While just about playable blown up to twice its normal size with an iPad, on its intended iPhone and iPod Touch, the fumbling undermines any sense of fun.Electronic Arts, £3.99Link'n'Launch, Nintendo DSiLink'n'LaunchIn Link'n'Launch, you connect a cheerfully plump cartoon rocket to blobs of fuel to make it fly as high as possible. To do this, you use Pipe Mania-style tactics, connecting differently shaped blocks to form a conduit between fuel and rocket. Divert fuel to the right hand engines and the rocket veers left, making it possible to engage in crude steering as you complete each puzzle, as well as directing the fuel line through time-extending clocks and spare parts, three of which add an extra stage to your ship, enabling it to fly higher. With each level lasting three minutes, time pressure is central to the rising panic that ensues, but with an essentially repetitive nature, Link'n'Launch is more a mild diversion than a classic.Nintendo, 500 DSi Points (£5)
The Medium Is Not EnoughBilling itself as "officially the fourth most popular UK TV blog", there are several whimsical regulars here that could help it climb as high as number three. Our favourites are the clips from Big Train – the brilliantly funny but too short-lived sketch show from the makers of Father Ted, which featured a young, pre-Spaced Simon Pegg in the late-90s – which are being served up in weekly bite size chunks. There's also Sitting Tennant, a series of posts dedicated to David Tennant pictured "sitting, lying down or in some indeterminate state in between"; a possibly unhealthy obsession with Richard Armitage and an analysis of opening credit sequences. All of this, plus TV news and some ahead-of-the-curve (in Britain at least) moaning about Mad Men not being as good as it used to be.Suicide FoodFat Belly BBQ from Suicide Food.Though we all know that bacon comes from pigs and beefburgers come from cows, seeing the animals we eat on food packaging and restaurant signs – especially if they're in cartoon form, wearing a bib and wielding a knife and fork – is always a little unsettling. Here, this macabre art is celebrated in all its gory but oddly hilarious glory. Take, for example, a tin of herring which features one fish smiling in delight as he pours creamy sauce over another herring – who seems absolutely delighted about the idea of being lunch. Elsewhere there's a whole section dedicated to cartoon chickens winking suggestively, lobsters waving moments before being boiled and a poster of a pig from a Bath market that appears to be a rather twisted tribute to 80s drag queen Divine.Blog roll: PsychMalcolm Gladwell. Photograph: Brooke WilliamsYou Are Not So SmartDebunks the many myths and illusions we believe about ourselves.Channel NPsychology-related video clips including a boffin discussing "memory inception during sleep" and an Australian who thinks the pursuit of happiness causes misery.NeuromarketingHow fast food is sold, proof that women are smarter than men and why confidence beats competence.Mind HacksThe rap guide to human nature, booty call research and the Plastic Bertrand lawsuit.Love, Sex, Attraction… and ScienceA new penis shape theory, "hypochondriacs prefer macho men" and other sex research revelations.Malcolm GladwellArchive of New Yorker articles plus blog and book extracts.What we learned on the web this weekSalvador Dali with his pet anteater.Salvador Dalíhad a pet anteaterTen fakewebsites featured in moviesThe mythologyof Princess Leila's hairPlumbers don'twear tiesPokemon isfull of filthNostalgia for2002 has begun alreadyThe mostcomfortablest chair everWhere tohear some new tunesSome thingssound better in your imagination that they do in realityWhere toget lost in translation• This article was amended on 25 August 2010. The original referred to Neuromarketting. This has been corrected.
Google has announced plans to hire 200 staff as it expands its European headquarters in Dublin.It will open a new operations centre with developers working on some of its location-based products, including Maps and Places, but not Street View.This is the first time Google's location-based products will have had Dublin developers working on them on such a scale. The European headquarters opened in 2004 and has more than 1,500 staff, making it the company's largest base outside the US.David Martin, director of geo-operations for Google in Europe, said: "This operations centre will help to manage these data sources to give Google Maps users even more local information than before."With the increasing proliferation of smartphones and Google's Android platform for mobiles, more and more people are using local and mapping products on a daily basis."We want to ensure they have a great experience and that the information we give them is accurate, useful and up to date."The new centre is expected to be fully operational before the end of the year.
There was no doubt about which game was the star of the show at Gamescom: Bioshock Infinite, the third instalment of the quirky and innovative steampunk action-adventure franchise created a massive stir. Part of which was fuelled by general surprise that 2K Games and developer Irrational were even showing it – it won't come out until 2012. Bearing that in mind, the sheer polish demonstrated by the demo (which, presumably, was specially cobbled together for Gamescom) was nothing short of mind-blowing.Before the demo, Irrational's director of product development, Tim Gerritsen, talked us through some aspects of the game. For starters, it is clearly a franchise reboot: there won't be a Big Daddy or a drop of water to be seen, as it moves back from the first two games' 1950s setting to 1912. When, apparently, a bunch of boffins, excited by new technologies like electricity, the movies, telephones and so on, decide to create a city which floats in the air, called Columbia, in order to mount a World's Fair which could tour around the entire globe.Before long, there was a violent incident involving Columbia, which revealed it was actually a battleship, and far from enlightening people, it was designed to subjugate them. The American government, embarrassed, disavowed it, and it floated off into the ether never, apparently, to be seen again. Except random sightings of it did occur of the years.Gerritsen was keen to point out that, in Bioshock Infinite, "You play an interesting, complex character, not a mindless cipher." His name is Booker de Witt, and he is an ex-Pinkerton's man, drummed out of even that notoriously dodgy outfit for going beyond the bounds of acceptable behaviour. De Witt establishes a reputation as a fixer, and a man comes to him with an irresistible mission: his daughter, Elizabeth, has been captive for 12 years – on Columbia. And he knows how to get onto the battleship.Cutely, Irrational played through the demo without saying a word.Bioshock InfiniteColumbia itself is clearly a place so eerie it makes Rapture look like Surbiton. It is split into self-contained districts, at different heights, linked by a rollercoaster-like system of rails. Each district, by the look of it, is in the grip of a different sort of weirdness. One of the first things we saw was a horse-drawn cart sparking down the road with one wheel broken; a skyscraper de Witt walked past was engulfed in flames, yet an old woman swept the floor nonchalantly in its lobby.Propaganda fliers and posters fluttered by, bearing messages about man's inalienable right to bear arms against foreigners – ideologically, Bioshock Infinite's philosophical theme is an extreme rightwing take on violent xenophobia. Before long, we encountered a delightful gentleman called Saltonstall, preaching violent hate from a chocolate-box bandstand. Piles of rifles lay around – Saltonstall's desire clearly being to instigate as much violence as possible. De Witt picked one up and fired it at him, which was the cue for an outbreak of mayhem.A small boy appeared – the preacher's sidekick, and clearly endowed with enormous powers (continuing a strong theme from the first two Bioshock games). His was the ability to summon flocks of crows which were then wielded as a weapon. Saltonstall went ballistic, and a big fight took place. He hopped off to another district and began lobbing huge shells at de Witt who, it became clear, was able to manipulate objects with kinesis. At one point, de Witt found a crow-shaped bottle of booze, necked it and seemed to gain power for fiercer attacks. The action moved around when de Witt unveiled a hook in one hand and jumped onto one of the rollercoaster rails with it. Saltonstall was finally dealt with when he approached on an adjacent rail in the opposite direction and was sent spinning to oblivion with a well-timed blow from a wrench.Bioshock InfiniteWe soon came across Elizabeth, revealing another of the game's key dynamics: de Witt instantly began wielding his powers in tandem with hers, which were very considerable, but clearly took a lot out of her and required time to recharge. She produced a localised rainstorm at one point, enabling de Witt to take out a gaggle of enemies standing beneath it with a plasma-like electricity bolt.Later, she fused a pile of scrap metal into a red-hot, molten ball which de Witt could direct with his kinesis.The end of the demo was a spectacular intermediate boss-battle on a bridge, again with Elizabeth launching attacks that de Witt had to ram home by using his powers at the key moment. And it ended with a tantalising glimpse of a black, crow-like boss, who Elizabeth identified as the creature that had been pursuing her.One always has to be cautious when describing demos of games that are two years away, but if what we saw of Bioshock Infinite is at all representative, it will be a contender as one of the freakiest and best-looking games ever. All the omens are good: Bioshock fans will be pleased to hear that original creator Ken Levine (conspicuously absent for Bioshock 2, which was created by 2K Marin, originally spun off from Irrational) is back on board. The wait for it will be a long one, but it's worth keeping an eye on its progress, and we'll keep you updated.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?In my studio I've got Pro Tools on my Mac, and it's made it a lot easier to record. Pro Tools was a big leap in digital recording.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I've just been recording my son's band, called Darkroom, and we did about 10 songs – written by my son, Waylan, and some of his bandmates. It came out great.What additional features would you add if you could?I wish it was just a little more user friendly, you know? It seems there's a lot of meaningless keystrokes you need to get around. I'm sure they'll sort that out in the next couple of years.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I would say three years – usually every three years you need to get something new in the recording world.What always frustrates you about technology in general?Built-in obsolesence – no matter what it is, they keep changing it on you and you have to keep upgrading.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I've got this Blu-ray [player] and can't work out if it's any better than DVD. Plus it takes a lot longer to load – it really pisses me off. I also hated floppy disks.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?I would say "read the manual" – which is something I don't do very often. But you'll have a much better time if you take the time to read that manual.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I think I'm more of a luddite. Instead of a digital guitar box, I stil use the analogue one – and I still use the Fender amplifier. I like old guitars, and I like old cars. I think too much technology ruins everything. I wouldn't mind going back to pre-electricity days.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I guess it's the Pro Tools on my Macintosh.Mac or PC, and why?Oh, it's Mac, because it's more set up for artists than the PC is, and you don't have to worry about the viruses so much.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I usually download, although I always pay for it. The last thing I bought was the DVD of Alice in Wonderland for the tour bus.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?Yeah, I don't see anything wrong with it. I'm sure it's going to happen sooner or later. There's a lot of menial things that could be done by robots that would save us a lot of time.What piece of technology would you most like to own?One of the new 3D TVs. I haven't seen one yet, but it sounds great.•When You're Strange: A Film About The Doors is released on DVD and Blu-ray on 30 August
Like nearly all the Guardian's content, what you are about to read was – and this will hardly be a revelation – written using a computer connected to the  internet. Obviously, this had no end of benefits, mostly pertaining to the  relative ease of my research and the simplicity of contacting the people whose thoughts and  opinions you are about to read. Modern communications technology is now so familiar as to seem utterly banal, but set against my clear  memories of a time before it arrived, there is still something magical about, say, optimistically sending an email to a scientist in southern  California, and then talking to him within an hour.But then there is the downside. The tool I use to write not only serves as my word processor and digital postbox, but can also double as – among other things – a radio, TV, news-wire portal and shop. Thus, as I put together the following 2,000-ish words, I was entertained in my more idle moments by no end of distractions. I watched YouTube videos of Manic Street Preachers, Yoko Ono, and the Labour leadership candidates. Via Amazon, I bought a £4.99 teach-yourself-to-spell DVD-Rom for my son, which turned out to be  rubbish. And at downright stupid hours of the  day – 6am, or almost midnight – I once again checked my email on either my phone or computer. Naturally, my inbox was usually either  exactly how I had left it, or newly joined by something that could easily have waited – though for some reason, this never seems to register.Obviously, I am not alone in this affliction. Yesterday, scores of headlines focused on a new report by the media regulator Ofcom, which found that Britons spend more than seven hours a day watching TV, going online, sending texts and reading newspapers, and that web-capable smartphones are now a fixed part of millions of people's lives. Superficially, all this hardly seemed revelatory – but at the lower end of the age range lurked  evidence of the world to come. Among 16-to-24-year-olds, television was not nearly as dominant: half their "media time" was devoted to mobile phones and computers – and in turn, two-thirds of that time was spent doing two digital things at once. The younger you are, it seems, the more your media consumption finds you multitasking; I'm a relatively ancient 40, but my habits are increasingly similar.It often feels as if all this frantic activity creates a constant state of twitchy anxiety, as any addiction usually does. Moreover, having read a freshly published and hotly controversial book about the effect of digital media on the human mind, I may have very good reason to feel scared. Its thesis is simple enough: not only that the modern world's relentless informational overload is killing our capacity for reflection, contemplation, and patience – but that our online habits are also altering the very structure of our brains.The Shallows is a 250-page book by American writer Nicholas Carr, just published in the US, about to appear in the UK, and already the focus of a noisy debate. Two years ago, Carr wrote an essay for the Atlantic magazine entitled "Is Google making us stupid?" This is the full-length version: an elegantly written cry of anguish about what one admirer calls "the uneducating of Homo sapiens", and a rewiring of neural pathways and networks that may yet deprive the human race of the talents that – ironically enough – drove our journey from caves to PC terminals.In the book, Carr looks back on such human inventions as the map, the clock and the typewriter, and how much they influenced our essential modes of thought (among the people whose writing was changed by the latter were Friedrich Nietszche and TS Eliot). By the same token, he argues that the internet's "cacophony of stimuli" and "crazy quilt" of  information have given rise to "cursory reading, hurried and distracted thinking, and superficial learning" – in contrast to the age of the book, when intelligent humans were encouraged to be contemplative and imaginative.But here is the really important thing. Carr claims that our burgeoning understanding of how experience rewires our brain's circuits throughout our lives – a matter of what's known as "neuro- plasticity" – seems to point in one very worrying direction. Among the most hair-raising passages in the book is this one: "If, knowing what we know today about the brain's plasticity, you were to  set out to invent a medium that would rewire  our mental circuits as quickly and thoroughly as possible, you would probably end up designing something that looks and works a lot like  the internet."Surprisingly little research has looked into the internet's effects on the brain, but the work that forms Carr's holy grail was carried out in 2008, by a trio of psychiatrists at UCLA led by Dr Gary Small, himself the co-author of a book titled iBrain: surviving the technological alteration of the modern mind. Under their supervision, 12 experienced web users and 12 digital newcomers used Google, while their brains were scanned. The results, published under the title Your Brain On Google, pointed up a key initial difference between the two groups: in an area of the brain called the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, which deals with short-term memory and decision-making, the rookies showed hardly any activity, whereas the web veterans were really firing.Six days later, the novices having been told to spend an hour a day online, the two groups' brains were scanned again – and this time, things got even more interesting: in images of both sets of brains, the pattern of blobs representing mental activity was virtually identical. As Small put it: "After just five days of practice, the exact same neural circuitry in the front part of the brain became active in the internet-naive subjects. Five hours on the internet, and the naive subjects had already rewired their brains."Small is the director of the Memory  and Ageing Research Centre at the  University of California, Los Angeles, a specialist in the effects on the brain of the ageing process, and the co-inventor of the first brain-scanning technology to detect the physical evidence of Alzheimer's  disease. "Even an old brain can be quite malleable, and responsive to what's going on with technology," he tells me.He goes on: "It's a basic principle that the brain is very sensitive to any kind of stimulation, and from moment to moment, there is a very complex cascade of neurochemical electrical consequences to every form of stimulation. If you have repeated stimuli, your neural circuits will be excited. But if you neglect other stimuli, other neural circuits will be weakened." This is the nub of Carr's argument: that the online world so taxes the parts of the brain that deal with fleeting and temporary stuff that deep thinking becomes increasingly impossible. As he sees it: "Our ability to learn suffers, and our understanding remains shallow."Small is only too aware of what too much time spent online can do to other mental processes. Among the young people he calls digital natives  (a term first coined by the US writer and educationalist Marc Prensky), he has repeatedly seen a lack of human contact skills – "maintaining eye contact, or noticing non-verbal cues in a conversation". When he can, he does his best somehow to retrain them: "When I go to colleges and talk to students, I have them do one of our face-to-face human contact exercises: 'Turn to someone next to you, preferably someone you don't know, turn off your  mobile device.' One person talks and the other one listens, and maintains eye contact. That's very powerful. One pair of kids started dating after they'd done it."He also fears that texting and instant messaging may already be dampening human creativity, because "we're not thinking outside the box, by ourselves – we're constantly vetting all our new ideas with our friends." He warns that multitasking – surely the internet's essential modus operandi – is "not an efficient way to do things: we make far more errors, and there's a tendency to do things faster, but sloppier." Of late, he has been working with big US corporations – Boeing is the latest example – on how they might get to grips with the effects of online saturation on their younger employees, and reacquaint them with the offline world.When I ask him how I might stop the internet's more malign effects on my own brain, he sounds slightly more optimistic than Carr: we have the capacity to pull ourselves back from the mental brink – though only if we know what's at stake. "The brain can right itself if we're aware of these issues," he says. "But we have to make decisions as to what we can do about it.   Try to balance online time with offline time," he tells me. "What's happening is, we're losing the circadian rhythms we're used to; you go to work, you come home, you spend time talking with  your kids."What about the idea of calming down when you're online? I'm actually pretty good at offline time, but as soon as I'm back at my desk, it's all YouTube and compulsive email checking, and it's rather doing my head in."It's hard," he says. "There's a pull. The internetluresus. Our brains become addicted to it. And we have to be aware of that, and not let it control us."Among the people with walk-on roles in The Shallows is Scott Karp, the editor of a renowned American digital media blog called Publish2, whose reading habits are held up as proof of the fact that plenty of people's brains have long since been rewired by their enthusiastic use of the internet.Despite a degree from New York University in English and Spanish literature, Carr claims that Karp has given up reading books altogether, perhaps because of what a working life spent online seems to have done to his mental makeup. One of Karp's online posts is quoted as follows: "I was a lit major in college, and used to be a voracious book reader. What happened? What if I do all my reading on the web not so much because the way I read has changed . . . but because the way I THINK  has changed?"As it turns out, Karp has only stopped reading non-fiction. Contrary to Carr's thesis, he says he still has no problem reading novels, and thinks his long-term memory is in as good shape as ever. What he attests to, though, is a radical shift in the way he consumes information, which may or may not have caused his mental circuits to change.This, he tells me, is all down to his appetite for connecting multiple bits – and, it seems, only bits – of information, rather than digesting big chunks of stuff from single sources, one at a time. "I thrive on that connectedness of information," he says, "so now, I maybe read a given author's argument in much briefer form than a 10,000 word article or a book – and then jump to another author's argument, and follow that train of thought. And sometimes I find that I make leaps in thinking by reading things from different perspectives, and going from lily pad to lily pad."He assures me he understands any argument's strengths and weaknesses before flitting to the next one, but I'm not so sure. Aren't there thousands of books that have to be read in their entirety before we can really get our head round the author's point of view? The last thumping great book I read was the biography of Barack Obama by David Remnick, the editor of the New Yorker – and the idea of boiling it down to a skimmable extract seems almost offensive. The same applies to, say, any number of books by Marx and Engels, or even (possibly) Ozzy Osbourne's autobiography."Absolutely," he says, rather guiltily. "I completely agree with that. And I'm sure that I have come up shallow, if you use Nicholas Carr's argument. But I've only got a finite amount of time."Whatever, Karp is not fazed by the idea that heavy internet use might be reshaping his brain. "Everything changes our brain," he says. "Everything. That's what the brain does. It's constantly changing and adapting to every experience. It's almost axiomatic to say: 'The internet has changed our brain, and its processes.' Yes, we spend less time concentrating on single sources of information. But when it comes to making value judgements, it becomes difficult to say, 'And we are worse off because of that.'" As we end our conversation, I have a vision of him frantically pinging from blog to website to pdf, and I'm really not  so sure.I get a more convincing antidote to the Carr  thesis from Professor Andrew Burn of the University of London's Institute of Education, who has long specialised in the way that children and young people use what far too many people still call "new media", and its effects on their minds. Equating the internet with distraction and shallowness, he tells me, is a fundamental mistake, possibly bound up with Carr's age (he is 50). "He's restricting what he says to the type of activities that the middle-aged blogosphere-addict typically engages in," says  Professor Burn. "Is there anything in his book about online role-playing games?"Not much, I tell him, and he's off. "Carr's argument privileges activities of the skimming and browsing kind. But if you look at research on kids doing online gaming, or exploring virtual worlds such as Second Life, the argument there is about immersion and engagement – and it's even about excessive forms of immersion and engagement that get labelled as addiction. The point is, to play successfully in an online role-playing game, you have to pay an incredible amount of attention to what your team-mates are doing, to the mechanics of the game. You can set up a thesis for The Depths, just as much as The Shallows."And what of all these worries about the transformation of the human brain? "Temporary synaptic rewiring happens whenever anybody learns anything," he says. "I'm learning a musical instrument at the moment, and I can feel my synapses rewiring themselves, but it's just a biological mechanism. And it seems to me that to say that some neural pathways are good and some are bad – well, how can you possibly say that? It could be a good thing: people are becoming adaptive, and more supple in their search for information." Carr, he reckons, is guilty of a "slippage into an almost evolutionary argument", and he's not having it at all.He's also not impressed by the way Carr contrasts the allegedly snowballing stupidity of the internet age with the altogether more cerebral phase of human progress when we all read books. "What if the book is Mein Kampf? What if it's  Jeffrey Archer? Or Barbara Cartland? Am I not better off playing a well-constructed online game, or reading Aristotle's poetics online? I really don't see why books should particularly promote worthwhile thought, unless they're worthwhile books. And the same applies to what's on the internet."This all sounds both comforting and convincing, until I return to The Shallows, and a particularly sobering sentence on page 222 (contrary to Carr's darker predictions, I easily made it to the end). "We are welcoming the frenziedness into our souls," he writes. There's something chilling about those words, and even 20 stupid minutes on YouTube and an impulse buy from Amazon cannot quite remove them from my brain.• The Shallows: How the Internet is Changing the Way We Think, Read and Remember will be published next month in the UK by Atlantic Books, price £17.99.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
North Korea's Twitter account: "uriminzok" means "our people"South Korea has blocked access to the official North Korea Twitter account, a matter of days after the secretive state started posting messages.North Korea'snewest channel of communicationhas amassed more than 8,500 followers since its first post a week ago, but authorities in South Korea have moved quickly against it.A statement by South Korea's Communication Standards Commission saidthe accountwas classified as containing "illegal information" – "contents that praises, promotes and glorifies" North Korea – and is banned under the country's national security law.Han Myung-ho, a commission official, said: "We decided to act immediately, after having considered the unique nature of social networking services like Twitter, where specific information can be dispersed to thousands in a short period of time."The commission has restricted access to 65 sites that is says either pro-North Korea in nature or run by North Korea, although theYouTube channel that the North launched last monthwas given a reprieve.In 32 tweets – at the time of writing – the North Korean regime has moved to repeatedly denounce its southern neighbours, saying reports that Pyongyang sank a South Korean navy ship were a "conspiracy".Gilles Lordet, chief editor at the press freedom body Reporters Without Borders,told the Guardian earlier this weekthat North Korea's move into social media is the natural extension of regime's long and animated history of propaganda."This is about the abroad image of the country. Now they're trying to work on the image of North Korea outside of the country because they have the possibility of the tools, that's what is new," Lourdet said."Now, with the access to the technology it's easier to do, like with access to Twitter. Perhaps there is a need to get across its own image more, because of events like the sinking of the South Korean boat."
It was always going to be a hard sell to the mainstream, though for the tech crowdFacebook's location featureswere a little overdue.But careful attention to the behaviour on and response to location-sharing social networking websites such asFoursquareandGowalla– and an extremely carefully constructed set of privacy controls – have created a basic but robust location option. Crucially, the whole service is opt-in, though that won't be enough to deter the privacy campaigners who say that we share too much with Facebook, and that the system could be open to exploitation.Here's howFacebook introduced the feature.How does it work?If you access Facebook through the latest update of the iPhone app, you'll notice a new Places option in the menu. If you're familiar with Foursquare or Gowalla (or any of the others) the rest is straightforward: your phone will present a list of nearby venues so you can pick from and check in accordingly.What's new here is that friends – that is, people you are friends with on Facebook – can check you in, but you will be asked to agree to that the first time you use the service.If you don't want your friends to be able to check you in, you can click "not now" or disable friend check-ins entirely. If you agree, you will be notified each time a friend checks you in and can untag your location if you chose.Facebook's thinking here is that you're likely to be out with friends, and as their aim is always to encourage as much sharing as possible, it makes sense that one person in the group could check in everyone. Foursquare addicts will understand why that's quite practical, though it wouldn't make as much sense to do that on Foursquare as you're effectively competing with fellow layers rather than sharing social information.Check-ins and People Here NowHere Now shows who else on Facebook is at a venue. Users who have set their master privacy setting to "share everything with everyone" will find this switched on by default, so if they then choose to start checking in at venues they will be visible to other people at that location for a short period of time after checking in.For most of us, though, we'll show up in Here Nowifwe chose to check in somewhere and that will be visible to everyone. If you don't like that, you can switch it off.The default setting for all this stuff is to share the information with your immediate Facebook friends. You can turn it off completely, or broadcast to everyone. But even though the default is set to tell your friends where you check in, they will only be updated if you start checking in to places.In short: unless you chose to start using the Places feature on the iPhone app (which is only available in the US for now anyway) you can't broadcast your location to anyone.Has anyone thought that actualrealpeople who are strangers will be able to see usactuallysitting in the real venue – we don't have a problem with that, do we? Of course ultimately, this is about sharing more information, creating more data and making more money for Facebook.But the tradeoff is that this will be very useful too – it just takes time and patience to learn how to benefit from it. Location will be a standard part of early every app we use, so get used to it.
I have had my email address at fsnet.co.uk for many years, and I use it to send emails to my professional contacts from my desktop PC using Outlook Express. However, when I use Orange webmail from my laptop, I have a different address, which Orange says I chose, but it looks rather anonymous and faintly suspicious. Orange insists that it cannot be changed, though I could have a new identity with the suffix @orangehome. Do I have to start all over again, possibly with another ISP, which would involve changing my email address? As I do not especially like Orange webmail anyway, what would you recommend?Jane PYou're lucky to have retained your Freeserve address for so long, but there's no guarantee that any ISP's email addresses will survive takeovers, or that the email service will continue to work adequately. Having two completely different addresses is another problem for you, and for your clients.I think you should start by registering your own domain name, because you will be able to use it for as long as you like, no matter which ISP you choose. It looks more professional to have your own name or company name as your email address. The cost is not prohibitive. At the moment, you can buy YourOwnName.com for £80 for 10 years, and/or YourOwnName.co.uk for £9 for two years. These prices are fromEasily.co.uk– if you click to "buy a domain" on Orange's webmail site, that's where it takes you.There are lots of domain name suppliers who provide hosting and email forwarding. The main thing to watch out for is that the domain name is registered in your name, not theirs. This avoids being held to ransom if you decide to move your name to a different host.Once you have your domain name, you can log on to your Easily account and tell it where you want it to forward your email. In my case, it's Gmail, and this may well be the best choice for you too. Open a Gmail account with YourOwnName, click on Settings and use "Import mail and contacts" to try to retrieve email from both your previous accounts. Also, use the "Check mail using POP3" section to keep fetching new email from these old accounts as they gradually fall out of use.I'm not sure if you can collect your old email from Orange Webmail, because itshelp pagedoesn't even explain how to download email with Outlook Express. However, try the settings pop.orangehome.co.uk (incoming) and smtp.orangehome.co.uk (outgoing).The next step is to go to your Gmail account's Settings tab, and select Accounts and Import. This time, click on "Send mail as" and tell Gmail you want to send email from JaneP@YourOwnName.com (ie, using the email address you entered at Easily for the domain name you registered). You will have to verify this address, but the email that Gmail sends to JaneP@YourOwnName.com will appear in your Gmail inbox. To verify it, just copy the code from the email and paste it in the verification box. Now you can send emailsfromJaneP@YourOwnName.com and your clients canreply toJaneP@YourOwnName.com, though you are actually using Gmail.In the future, Google might go bust (unlikely), change the way Gmail operates (inevitable), or start charging for features that are currently free. If this happens, you can change to a different email service without changing your email address. To do this, simply log on to Easily.co.uk (your domain name host) and change the email forwarding address from Gmail to your new service.So far, we have set up Gmail for use as a webmail service. This works pretty well, but you have no copies of your emails, and Google could easily lock you out of Gmail or block your account without giving you any warning, or any reason. You must therefore download all your Gmail (which now includes your Freeserve and, we hope, Orange webmail) to an email program on your desktop PC.To do this, go to your Gmail account's Settings, click "Forwarding and POP/IMAP", select "IMAP Access" and enable IMAP. Next, go through the process to "Configure your email client (eg Outlook, Thunderbird, iPhone)". When you have finished, your email software will be able to download and store all your email, and you can back it up. IMAP doesn't delete anything, so all your email will still be on Gmail as well. This means you can use the website to answer emails from your laptop or mobile phone while travelling.There are advantages to using a desktop email client. It's faster and more efficient than a web interface, and you get more features, including real folders. Desktop software usually lets you sort email in date order or reverse date order, by sender, by subject line, or by size, etc. Gmail does not have these common features because it would put strain on Google's servers. Your PC has power to spare.I've used Mozilla Thunderbird – a companion program to Firefox – for IMAP email, but you could use something else. The obvious candidates include Microsoft Outlook, which is part of Microsoft Office, and Windows Live Mail, the free email program in the Windows Live Essentials suite. (WLM is useful because it lets people use Hotmail from their PCs instead of via the web.) The IMAP set-up is pretty much the same. However, KhimHoe.Net has an illustrated guide:How to setup Gmail's IMAP in Windows Live Mail.Either way, I would not recommend using Outlook Express, which Microsoft discontinued about three years ago. If you upgrade to Windows 7 – which is a good idea – then your new PC will have Windows Live Mail not Outlook Express. The latest (Wave 4) version of WLM has an Office-like ribbon interface, a calendar, and some good features such as Quick views and Photo mail (which is integrated with SkyDrive, Microsoft's free online storage). It might be a good idea to transfer all your Outlook Express email to Windows Live Mail now anyway.I've described the process for Gmail partly because it's what I use myself. You can probably do much the same thing with some other services, and possibly withWindows Live Hotmail. You can use itwith your own domain name, though I've not tried it. I've spent a lot of time switching people from Hotmail to Gmail, but the latest version has improved. While it still has teething problems, the whole suite – including Hotmail, Messenger, SkyDrive, Live Sync, and the Windows Live Photo Gallery – is powerful, and better integrated than Google's offerings. I'd still go for Gmail for professional use, and it has a lot of geek appeal, but the Live Hotmail/Essentials combination is worth considering as a home and family option.
Intel has agreed to buy the security software firm McAfee for $7.68bn (£4.9bn).The microprocessor giant, which controls more than 70% of the global market for microchips, will pay $48 for each share of McAfee, representing a 60% premium to Wednesday's closing price.A spokesperson for Intel said the deal highlights "that security is now a fundamental component of online computing".Paul Otellini, president and chief executive of Intel, added: "With the rapid expansion of growth across a vast array of internet-connected devices, more and more of the elements of our lives have moved online. In the past, energy-efficient performance and connectivity have defined computing requirements. Looking forward, security will join those as a third pillar of what people demand from all computing experiences."The deal has been unanimously approved by both companies' boards of directors, though still requires approval from McAfee shareholders and clearance from regulators.The McAfee president and chief executive, Dave DeWalt, said the deal "is big news for McAfee and big news for Intel, but bigger news for our combined customers, the security industry and the future of the internet"."We are joining forces to tackle this next-generation cybersecurity issue, which impacts everyone and anything connecting to the internet," De Walt added. "Security will be a third pillar in Intel's strategy, next to power efficient performance and Internet connectivity."The acquisition – Intel's biggest since buying Level One Communications for $2.2bn in 1999 – signals the company's intent to expand outside the confines of hardware, said Otellini. "In the past, energy-efficient performance and connectivity have defined computing requirements. Looking forward, security will join those as a third pillar of what people demand from all computing experiences."Industry observers are anticipating a "ripple effect" from the deal, saying that it highlights the importance of computer security."Intel's acquisition of McAfee will not only fundamentally change the security landscape, it will have a ripple affect throughout the industry," said the chief executive of software security firm Lumension, Pat Clawson. "With this acquisition Intel is addressing areas that we really need to get better at protecting – smartphones, televisions, medical technology and cash machines. Short term, it gives Intel a competitive advantage but will no doubt make other chip manufacturers, like AMD, consider whether they need to mirror the acquisition."For the security industry, it makes the top layer of the security stack – such as Symantec – obvious acquisition targets not only for chip manufacturers but also hardware providers, such as mobile device manufacturers. On the flipside, it could leave a wasteland of security companies as mid-sized security companies see a diminishing number of prospective acquirers."Earlier this month, Intel struck a deal with the US Federal Trade Commission requiring the company to modify its intellectual property agreements to give competitors more freedom.The deal followed charges that it exploited its market dominance by punishing computer-makers that opted to use alternative chips.Last month, Intel recorded itslargest quarterly net income in a decade, citing a stronger computer market as propelling its fortunes.Otellini said at the time: "Now that corporations have some breathing room in the economy and their budgets, you're starting to see those machines that were four or five years old get refreshed."McAfee shares surged 58% to $47.42 after the deal was announced today, while Intel shares slipped 2.5% to $19.11.
Facebook has finally taken the plunge into location-sharing with its Places feature, but what did the commentators make of the latest annuncement from the world's most popular social networking site?Geoffrey A Fowler, Wall Street Journal"Appearing at Facebook's announcement, some initial partners, including Foursquare and Gowalla, said they thought Facebook would be an enabler – not a competitor – by introducing a lot of new users to the world of sharing their locations."Nick O'Neill, All Facebook"I don't want to preemptively say that Foursquare is about to killed by Facebook (we would never say Facebook would kill anything … excepthere,here, and of coursehere). However I'm not quite sure what value-add Foursquare brings to the table at this point. Badges? Thatalready exists on Facebook. Perhaps check in tips? Maybe, except that's pretty much accesible in the new Places product."Foursquare happened to be the highest profile company to speak at the event because they were the most at risk of being damaged by Facebook Places. Dennis Crowley, CEO of Foursquare, is still optimistic however, despite appearing to be left in the dark on this one.He told VentureBeat, 'If Facebook thinks that location is a good idea, then we are on to something.' Yes Dennis, you were definitely on to something, which is why Facebook just took your idea."Adrianne Jeffries, ReadWriteWeb"Users can 'report' a place page that they believe violates Facebook's Statement of Rights and Responsibilities, but Facebook does not say how quickly place pages will be reviewed or what the criteria for removal might be. In addition, official representatives of a business will be able to claim their place pages using the same verification system in place for fan pages. (A fan page administrator will also be able to merge his or her place page with the official fan page on Facebook.)"We hope that Facebook has a plan and doesn't intend to do this kind of place maintenance by the seat of its pants. Otherwise, the Places feature could get messy in its first iteration – we're imagining check-ins from anywhere from the home of a teenager and her unsuspecting parents to 'the internets' and 'your MOM'S LOL!' "Leena Rao, TechCrunch"With these sorts of incentives and a potentially hot new feature that's will be put in front of hundreds of millions of Facebook members, what advertiser and business wouldn't want to create a Places page? Many businesses have already been flocking to Facebook as both and advertising and marketing platform, and now they can have their address, map, phone number, PLUS all the public social activity that is going on at a location. A merged Places page will include a considerable amount of information, including the number of check-ins, who checked-in to a place, number of Likes, the Places' Wall, and more."And by creating a social directory of local businesses, Facebook can turn on another massive revenue stream. We know that ad spending on Facebook is expected to be around $1.3bn in 2010 but Places could boost this significantly as Places lets Facebook tap into the market for local advertising."Alexia Tsotsis, TechCrunch"So Facebook, between the hoodie, the gong and this I'm starting to think you guys are just baiting me. And while I do not think this was intentional, I'm once again way too sober to opine. I'll let our resident MobileGear humorist Greg Kumparak take it from here: 'Bahaha. It's a 4. In a square. And on that night, tongue and cheek were reunited.' "Phil Nickinson, Android Central"Last time my friends checked me into somewhere, I woke up in a padded room with a single light bulb and a bunch of ink blots. Never again, folks. Never again."Walt Mossberg, Wall Street Journal"[...] Facebook also allows you to bar others from checking you in, and lets you hide yourself from others' 'Here Now' listings, though you can't customise this latter setting by, say, allowing only some people to know you're nearby."In my tests, these settings worked fine. But I wished a couple of other settings were available. For example, you can't keep check-in notices off your Facebook page, unless you broadly block other kinds of status updates. And you can't block merchants from including your check-ins at their establishments on their Facebook pages. Also, while Places omits some annoying aspects of its competitors, like the game features, it's more stripped down and leaves out some attractive features others include. Foursquare has a feature that lets you leave suggestions about a location. And Gowalla has a 'trips' feature that lets users string together places they've been into recommended tours."Overall, I found Places a good enhancement to Facebook and one that will likely make the booming social network even more attractive to some."Jon Swartz, USA Today"So-called location-based services, or LBS, are vying for a slice of revenue for mobile advertising, which is expected to soar in the US to $3.1bn in 2013 from $320m in 2009, according to market researcher BIA/Kelsey. Driving the growth are sales of smartphone, which are expected to account for a majority of phones in the US by the end of 2011, market researcher Nielsen says. About 5% of the more than 225,000 iPhone apps have location services."On that score, Facebook has a huge advantage: More than 150 million of Facebook's 500 million members access the social network from their mobile devices."Dean Takahashi, VentureBeat
With Super Mario Galaxy 2 and the upcoming Metroid: Other M this has been a good year for hardcore gamers to dust down their Wii. Disney's Epic Mickey looks like another good excuse.The platform/adventure - developed byWarren "Deus Ex" Spector- arrives later this year and is a game that could end up having Zelda-style universal appeal to the young and old (ok, 30-somethings) alike.Anyway, the latest trailer is here. What do you think? Excited or even just vaguely intrigued by Epic Mickey? Or too busy counting down till Halo/Call of Duty/FIFA?
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team•The History of the Internet, Visualized &gt;&gt; Gizmodo•Current ICT and Computer Science in schools - damaging to UKâ€™s future economic prospects? - Science News - The Royal SocietyThe Royal Society is launching a study because: "It is believed that design and delivery of ICT and computer science curricula in schools is so poor that studentsâ€™ understanding and enjoyment of the subjects is severely limited. The effects of this, coupled with dwindling student numbers, mean that, unless significant improvements are made, the deficit in the workforce numbers and capability could have a highly negative impact on the UKâ€™s economy."•The Tragic Death of Practically Everything &gt;&gt; Technologizer"Wired Editor in Chief Chris Anderson is catching flack for the magazineâ€™s current cover story, which declares that the Web is dead. Iâ€™m not sure what the controversy is. For years, once-vibrant technologies, products, and companies have been dropping like teenagers in a Freddy Krueger movie. Thank heavens that tech journalists have done such a good job of documenting the carnage as it happened. Without their diligent reporting, we might not be aware that the industry is pretty much an unrelenting bloodbath. After the jump, a moving recap of some of the stuff that predeceased the Webâ€"you may want to bring a handkerchief."•Accountability and Transparency Review Team - Independent Expert Case Studies &gt;&gt; ICANNIcann *isn't* going to review the application process for the .xxx TLD, despite having previously said it would. Something about this smells wrong. As Kieren McCarthy, former Icann PR, comments: "Worth noting dot-xxx is the largest profile accountability and transparency issue ICANN has ever faced. Now dropped from review."•Is the web really dead? &gt;&gt; Boing BoingTakes issue with Wired's use of a "total proportion" graph rather than an "actual value" version to support its (Wired's) claim that the "web is dead". Uh, seems it isn't.•iAd Approval Process Pains Sound Familiar &gt;&gt; The Apple Blog•iPhone 5 Feature? "Touch Your iPhone Here To Pay" &gt;&gt; Business Insider•Vimeo Releases Embeddable HTML5 Video Player &gt;&gt; Read Write Web•The BlackBerry Torch's Biggest Failure: RIM's Ridiculous Expectations &gt;&gt; Gizmodo•Facebook Facts And Figures [Infographic] &gt;&gt;All Techno BlogYou can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Gamescom isn't particularly renowned for its big, blockbusting announcements – those tend to be made a few months earlier in Los Angeles at E3. And this Gamescom hasn't bucked that trend.But the show really hits the spot when games presented as heavily choreographed demos at E3 have come on sufficiently that by mid-August, their developers feel sufficiently confident to let journalists get their sweaty paws on them. Multitudes of sins can be hidden by developers playing their own games and, anyway, the way a game feels to play can be vastly more important than its graphics and the like. We found Disney Interactive's Tron: Evolution  in a somewhat obscure part of the show – the Sony stand. The reason is that it was running in stereoscopic 3D and Sony, of course, is the greatest of all 3D evangelists (which may not be unconnected to the fact that it makes 3D TVs). Tron: Evolution is certainly high-tech: as well as running in 3D, its light-cycle element also works with a Move controller, which you hold as if it were a pair of handlebars – although we used a conventional controller.Before we got stuck in, Darren Hedges – game director at Tron: Evolution's developer, Propaganda – supplied the back story. First up (cue sighs of relief) Tron: Evolution isn't a game-of-the-film. The name gives it away: December's cinema reboot of the 1982 classic will be called Tron: Legacy. Hedges explained: "Tron; Evolution is a prequel to Tron: Legacy. It concentrates on Isos, sentient programs that don't belong to any particular user." This, of course, is a clever device which lets you play as something more or less indistinguishable from one of the film's two human protagonists (only two humans are allowed inside the world at any time), yet which technically isn't human.The game explores how the Isos came into being, which places it chronologically somewhere between the two films, and the one you play is called Anon. Basically, you control a typical-looking Tron character, who quests through the game world either at the wheel of a light-cycle or on foot.The first level, apparently picked from a point roughly in the middle of the game, was a light-cycle one, and it will definitely give fans of the film a warm glow – it has all that unique Tron atmosphere, and looks great, particularly in 3D. You're essentially racing to make it to the end of a long Tron roadscape, punctuated by jumps, obstacles, bombs which eat away at the road-surface and, of course, other light-cycles that paint orange lines on the landscape which you must avoid. It's pretty forgiving insofar as when you die, you respawn at the last checkpoint (and there are plenty of those). The controls are typical right trigger for accelerate and left for brake; brake while turning and you go into a power-slide. You can also throw discs in front of you. While the gameplay in this segment wasn't particularly original, it was fast-paced and enjoyable. We had to have a few goes at the more difficult bits of obstacle-avoidance, but it has been clearly pitched at a mass audience, so is pretty forgiving.Anon gets off his bikeThe second level we played, in which Anon dismounted from his bike and indulged in some free-running action and combat, was more innovative. Taking its cue from Assassin's Creed, the control system encourages you to hold down the right bumper, which makes Anon dash, but also means he automatically launches into free-running manoeuvres when you point him at designated surfaces (all of which are carefully signposted with marker discs). Thus, he can auto-jump, although there is a jump button as well, wall-run and haul himself to orange markers, grapple-style, with an orange disk (which is triggered by pressing one of the buttons).He also encounters enemies, and luckily has a number of attacks – namely throwing a disc, using it as a melee weapon, or charging it up and bringing it down on an enemy to cause more damage. Pressing the left bumper puts him in defensive mode. Late on in the level, we encountered some more challenging enemies which threw discs at us, so we had to defend and perform a button-press at the time of impact, to send the discs winging back from whence they came. Anon can also chain attacks, generating special moves.Overall, the signs are pretty good for Tron: Evolution, and you can certainly expect it to be a cut above the usual movie tie-in dross. It keeps things simple – nobody is going to struggle to understand what they need to do when playing it, and you wouldn't expect it to win a hatful of awards. But it completely nails that seductive retro-futuristic Tron ambience, and that should make it irresistible to those who idolise the film. It might even come out before Tron: Legacy, too – the film is scheduled for December, and Propaganda says the game could arrive any time between mid-November and early December (on PS3, Xbox 360 and PC). Worth checking out.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Last week, the New Yorker – certainly a contender for the title of best magazine in the world – published a longessayby novelist Nicholson Baker on video games. The piece begins, "I'd never held a video-game controller until last fall." Tom Chatfield, author ofFun, Inc, a fascinating survey of the gaming world, tweeted in reply: "Could they ever start a piece, 'I saw my first film last year'?"Of course they couldn't, except as a wry comment on a writer stuck in the past. To a gamer, Baker's essay reads strangely. It treats gaming as a fascinating but esoteric subject area: something that you might want to know about, but would never be able  to research yourself.It's an indicator of the curious position games are in. They are the largest entertainment industry in the world but it's very easy to find someone who has never played one. While the industry continues to grow, many people become ever more vehement in declaring that they have no interest in trying them.The comparison with films is instructive. It was around 40 years from the creation of the first jerky moving pictures to the explosion in popularity of the "talkies". It's about 40 years now since the creation of  the first commercial video games,  and we're in the midst of a similar mass-market boom. All indications are that in another short decade or two  it will be almost impossible to find someone who has never played a  video game.And in the meantime, those who are infuriated by the slow progress of these uncomfortable in-between years can console themselves  that, at least, this  neophobia is  nothing new.
Facebook risks an inevitable privacy backlash today when it launches a feature that shares information on the location of users with their online friends, despite devising a range of controls that require users to opt-in to the service.The feature allows users to "check in" at locations which will then be shared with their friends and Facebook network but it is likely to raise concerns over safety. Users will also be able to browse shops, clubs and nearby venues to see which friends are nearby, leading to concerns it could put individual's security at risk."What we see with Facebook is a massive learning curve. Every time they make a change, consumers scramble to figure out the privacy settings," said Rainey Reitman, spokeswoman for Privacy Rights Clearinghouse in the US. "Location data is tied to people's safety – if people know where you are, they know where you're not. Your location data is some of the most sensitive data we have. I expect we'll see from the get-go people who don't understand how to control the privacy settings."The service will launch in the US only at first. Reitman said users should be particularly judicious about who they accept as friends, and be aware that even information shared with an intimate network could be copied and pasted elsewhere. "Don't post anything online you wouldn't want to get out publicly to anyone."After a string of controversies around the safety of the site, Facebook simplified its privacy settings in May and will be acutely aware of the scrutiny to which its new location feature will be subjected.  Facebook Places product manager Ana Yang said the site encourages users to take control of the connections they have on the site. "People are already sharing their location on Facebook, so we looked at this to see if we could make it easier, more consistent and more social," she said."But if it means removing friends you don't know or even blocking someone, we support all those things because you'll have more control. People should be establishing the social norms that it's OK to block the sketchy ex-boyfriend and in some ways it's easier to do this on Facebook than in real life."Yang said protections include notifying a user as soon as they are tagged at a place, and offering a complete opt-out of "places" tags. Users under 18 can only share location with their immediate friends network and their real-time location will only be seen by friends at the same location."We believe that if you can control the audience you are sharing with, you will be more willing to share," said Yang. "We equate it with this existing mechanism where your friends can tag in photos – the control is that you are always notified and can remove those tags at any time."Critics will note that once a user decides to check in at a location, the primary location setting is switched on by default, which means any "places" tags automatically being shared with immediate friends. But the service does offer a range of protections and controls including the option to detag locations, notifications if friends add your location and the option to disable Places entirely.Facebook's solution to the challenges of location services had been hotly anticipated by Silicon Valley. Web and mobile developers have been exploring location-based features for several years but the combination of widespread smartphone take-uphas allowed services such as Foursquare and Gowalla to flourish.Facebook has been watching the development of these services, which are setting up a steady stream of promotions and prizes with venues and retailers to reward loyal customers who 'check in' regularly. In the US, Starbucks used a Foursquare promotion to attract a million customers to its stores in a day, while UK Domino's stores offered free pizza to 'mayors' – Foursquare users with the most points.Andrew Scott has been experimenting with location tools since 2002, and co-founded the personalised recommendations tool Rummble. "There have been big changes in the way we communicate with brands," he said. "That has been fuelled by Twitter, which made it credible that people could communicate with brands more directly, and Facebook's "like" button, which made it credible that information could be personalised."Initially available as an update to Facebook's app for Apple iPhone, updated apps for BlackBerry, Android and other handsets are expected in the next few months. A version will also launch for the UK, where research by Ofcom found that 45% of web browsing time on UK mobiles is spent on Facebook. Nearly one-third of Facebook's 500 million users access the site by mobile, it claims.• This article was amended on 19 August 2010 to add information about the service's opt-in controls.
More than 150 staff were made redundant today after a Scottish video game company, started by the creator of the hugely successful Grand Theft Auto franchise, collapsed with debts of £3m, following poor sales of its newest action release.Administrators have been appointed at Dundee-based Realtime Worlds, which was started by industry guru Dave Jones in 2002.Begbies Traynor, which is handling the restructuring, said it had been approached by potential investors from both the UK and America. The company's head office and online operations are in Colorado.Despite the notes of interest, three-quarters of its 210-strong workforce, who all worked at the firm's development centre in Dundee, has been made redundant."We are actively pursuing all these expressions of interest which have come from both the UK and US," said Begbies's Paul Dounis. "We very much regret the redundancies that we have had to make."Less than 12 months ago, the firm was awarded PricewaterhouseCoopers' hottest prospect award at a conference on technology investment.Begbies, which hopes to sell the business as a going concern, blamed the slide in fortunes on poor demand for Realtime's latest game, APB: All Points Bulletin, which was released six weeks ago.Jones's previous ventures have been very successful: the Grand Theft Auto series has sold more than 50m copies, becoming a favourite with gamers because of its realistic graphics and tongue-in-cheek humour, and despite the widespread controversy it attracted for its adult storylines. Another title, the puzzle game Lemmings, has sold more than 20m copies in 20 different formats.Realtime Worlds, which until yesterday also employed 42 people in the US, has raised more than $80m (£50m) in venture-capital funding since it was founded. Begbies has retained just 14 of the employees based in America, adding that the company owed trade creditors about £3m.The first game under the Realtime Worlds brand was Crackdown, released in 2007 on the Microsoft Xbox 360 format, to strong sales and critical acclaim.Throughout 2007 and into 2008, Realtime Worlds and Crackdown bagged numerous industry awards, including a record-breaking seven nominations at Develop magazine's industry excellence awards.But the games manufacturer has suffered since the delayed 2 July UK release of APB – a multiplayer online game, designed for Microsoft Windows, which involves battles between law enforcers and criminals. The game had a poor reception, with a 58% rating on Metacritic, the collated review website."Our intention is to continue trading while we attempt to find a going-concern buyer which will safeguard the future of the business," said Dounis, who added that all its servers were still running so gamers could play APB. "The game will continue and that is something we want all consumers to be aware of," he added.
The original Puzzle Quest was an addictive delight. It mixed Bejeweled-style match-three gameplay with role-playing game features such as levelling up and questing to create something unique. The sequel takes things further and makes something equally entertaining if slightly less charming.Veterans will feel right at home when they start. As before, you get to choose your character class from standard fantasy templates – barbarian, sorcerer etc – before heading out into the world. This time though the action is viewed much closer in, with your character given much greater flexibility to explore the villages, caves and dungeons that make up a lot of the world. The "match-3" gameplay has been tweaked too. Players still need to match the correct colour of jewels to earn the powers needed to cast spells – Bejewled players will know what to expect – but this time you get access to weapons too. These can be equipped and sparingly used in battle – if you match the correct number of gauntlet "jewels" – and add another layer of strategy to proceedings. The same method works with general items too and there is undoubtedly more potential to customise your character this time round.Unfortunately, the plot is wafer thin and without the novelty that helped the original game the action can occasionally drag. Perhaps realising this the developers added in some variety to the gem matching. When looting chests you need to match four or five colours to create keys. These – you've guessed it – need matching too and then allow you to unlock the chests. Locked doors too require some forward planning as you manipulate the board as time ticks down.Puzzle Quest 2 is out on Nintendo DS and Xbox Live Arcade. The former has the benefit of portability and a stylus – perfect for this kind of game – while the Xbox version is prettier and has online multiplayer. Whichever you go for Puzzle Quest 2 is unlikely to disappoint. It doesn't break the mould like the original game but Puzzle Quest 2 is a worthy sequel.
The Premier League's new season may have just started, but for some UK sports fans the real excitement is due next month when the latest NFL season gets under way.Thanks to a combination of live games at Wembley and more coverage on TV, American football has the highest profile in the UK since the Refrigerator/Channel 4 days of the mid 80s. Luckily then the latest Madden game is full of the series' trademark depth as well as being welcoming to newcomers. If anything, NFL 11 steers more towards the newbies with the "gameflow" option particularly helpful. Rather than flipping through reams of potential moves, gameflow recommends a play and is activated by a simple button click. Newcomers to the sport and the game can at least feel they are making a decent play call. But when the ball is in motion, skill is still paramount. The removal of the turbo button means players need to use more realistic tactics to gain ground and space. While not as viscerally entertaining as the recent Backbreaker game, crunching tackles and collisions are brutally realistic.As with any sports game, a lot of the fun is had on multiplayer. Madden is no different, although this time round you can also play cooperatively with friends. Unfortunately controlling a running back or lineman just isn't as much fun as playing quarterback. More successful is the Ultimate Team mode, where you build up a team via a trading card system. Using the game's virtual currency you can build up a decent group of players and use them against your friends. You can also buy training tips and other virtual items. Yes, virtual currency is a small but important part of Madden 11.Downsides? There does seem to be an over-emphasis on offensive plays, with some unnaturally high scores common. The gameflow option too will alienate more hardcore fans. The biggest issue though is that there isn't a huge difference from last year's edition. Yes it looks marginally better and there are some nice online enhancements. But good game that it is, Madden 11 doesn't feel like a huge step forward from 10. If you haven't played Madden for a couple of years then this a good place to jump back in, but only the hardcore need to upgrade to this year's model.
Facebook is set to unveil itsnew location featuresat an event in Palo Alto late tonight, our time.The site has been working on these features for months, enabling 'places' tags to video and audio back in March and, no doubt, carefully watching the surge in use of services likeFoursquareandGowalla. Both have built significant traction with audiences but are also building partnerships with fairly enthusiastic venues, who benefit from very explicit near real-time information about their most committed customers. And customers, in turn, get discounts and prizes if they check in the most.Photo by_Yuki_K_on Flickr.Some rights reservedNone of this will be lost on Facebook, who have also reportedly expressed interest inbuyingthe lesser-known location-based service (LBS)Hot Potato.LBS is certainly one of the hottest topics in technology right now, and after years of promises and experimentation is finally starting to take off thanks to a combination of interest in casual gaming, improved and widespread GPS in mobiles and the rise of apps, which has brought these services to a new audience.But as well as needing to be seen to innovate in this area, Facebook's interest is ultimately commercial. Those fledgling deals with venues and retailers have massive potential, picking up on the trend of downturn-friendly sites like Groupon that offer discounts to teams of well-organised consumers.Nearly one-third of Facebook's traffic is generated from mobiles, so adding auto-geotagging from mobiles to photos and possibly status updates is probable. The site could tag any location mention in a status update, on a wall, in a photo album - any content on the site, in short - as well as any geo-tagged media posted to it.Location will be probably added to Facebook's Platform for third-party developers, meaning Foursquare et al could plug in to Facebook's userbase. Eventually, we can expect a standalone tab for location, probably a map visualising the locations of your friends - if not now, with the launch, then eventually once the backlash has died down.And that's the most significant point. While the early adopters will be quite happy to play with this tool (and in fact wonder why it took Facebook so long) the wider public are still very uncomfortable with location features. That's a natural part of the technology adoption process, and also a symptom of the shifting peception of what is acceptably private and what is acceptably public. We are heading towards open, but cautiously, and it is right that these services are scrutinised to make them as robust and safe as possible. You can imagine the headlines.Facebook knows that, andthe only thing that matters about adding location data to Facebook profiles is how secure and uncomplicated the privacy settings are. One person's 'granularity' is another person's 'complicated', and Facebook had better hope users can turn privacy up to 11.I'd argue that of all the features Facebook has launched, and every&nbsp; momentary backlash, this is by far the biggest opportunity for a serious balls up. That's down to Facebook's scale of half a billion people, the public's discomfort with the commercial uses of their data (at least for those who care to think about it) and the uniquely risky implications of location services that go wrong.If they get it right, on the other hand, it could finally deliver the promise of location-based-services to the mainstream. In technology at least, that's big news.
We've dedicated this special Tech Weekly podcast to the unique and vast BBC Archive – home to a treasure trove of audio, video, programme material, props, scores, letters … the life of the BBC, on file.Asthe audio and video archive at Windmill Roadis being packed up and rehomed in a purpose-built centre Perivale, West London, Jemima Kiss meets BBC research and development engineerRichard Wright. He's  tasked with digitising more than one million hours of programmes, explaining how the task has been broken down to speed up the job and how open standards are being used in the process.We tour the collection with archivistAdrian Williams, who cares for priceless session recordings and news reports dating back to the 1930s. Adrian explains how some of the broadcast equipment worked – as well as the new setup for archiving programmes.And we meetRoly Keating– the strategic thinker who has had to untangle the thorny issue of rights which will unlock the archive for the public, for education and even for commercial use. He outlines the BBC's Genome project, which will publish online a digitised copy of the BBC's progamme information and schedules from the Radio Times – right back to the 1920s.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Nigel Cannings has already appeared in ourElevator Pitchcolumn with auto-tagging serviceJiglu,back in January 2008and also worked onmymission2, which launched in April 2008. Now he's back again with JumpTo, a technology that helps navigate video and audio.Cannings is technical director ofJumpTo's parent companyChase Information Technology Services, which employs 12 staff is run profitably. Based in London, Cannings says JumpTo is being used by 10 companies since the launch last week and is aiming for 50 clients in the next 12 months.Nigel Cannings, technical director of Chase ITS, which has just launched JumpTo• What's your pitch?"Find your way around video and audio recordings in the same way you do a book. JumpTo gives you bookmarks to guide you to the exact points in recordings where particular names or phrases can be found. Most importantly, we create relevant bookmarks automatically. If you want, of course, you can add others should you feel the need. It's simple to use and gets you to the right point in the clip you are interested in instantly. We can then aggregate thousands of audio or video clips, and look for trends within them.""It's designed as a service so we put customers' footage through our machines and deliver their JumpTo version back to them as a widget, streaming the video or audio from a highly-resilient dedicated backbone.  In the compliance/legal space, we present a tag cloud showing trends in all relevant audio/video and use it to flag suspicious transactions."• How do you make money?"Because it is a service it is charged as such. We are looking at the business market primarily and will develop a range of service packages to meet the needs of different users. Meeting compliance requirements for various professional markets will be incredibly important to us, making 'vocument' management (no that's not a typo – we enable voice to be used like text) an integral part of their system strategies. Weʼre certainly notYouTube, nor do we want to be. Our core market is not bookmarking videos, but instead processing thousands of vocuments, to spot anomalous trends.  The 'broadcast' side is a nice demonstration of the underlying technology."• How are you surviving the downturn?"A combination of a merger and tight cost-control.  As a result, weʼre showing a healthy profit."• What's your background?"I'm a lawyer by training and a techie by preference. I spent my formative years listening to thousands of telephone calls at a cost to my clients of hundreds of pounds an hour, and rather wish that someone else had released JumpTo technology 20 years ago."• What makes your business unique?"Voice recognition has been a technology looking for a problem to solve. We think that by combining voice recognition symbiotically with text analysis techniques, and not aiming to do straight transcription, we've found the piece that was missing to make voice recognition a valuable tool. Making the recognition algorithms feed back to the text analysis algorithms and vice versa gives us a real edge. Nobody else is taking our approach."• What has been your biggest achievement?"Seeing what we did to theBudget speech(now on our website).  That was the moment I knew we had done something really special."• Who in the tech business inspires you?"It sounds a bit creepy to say 'my father', but he kicked off the whole European personal computer business in 1978 when he started the Byte Shop, and has been innovating ever since."•What's your biggest challenge?"Inventing a whole new market segment.  Sometimes itʼs a lot easier to be the second to market, and let the other guy do the hard work."•What's the most important piece of software or web tool that you use each day?"Notepad++. By far the greatest text editor in the world, and a coder's dream."• Name your closest competitors"Autonomy.  We do things completely differently, but there are some overlaps in terms of output."• Where do you want the company to be in five years?"If you listen to my business partner - Jamaica.  Our plan, however, calls for us to float the company within the next five years."• Sell to Google, or be bigger than Google?"Take what we do, and combine it with YouTube?  I'm surprised they haven't offered to buy us already."j.ump.to
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
320GB PS3? Move confirmed for Sept 15th? A new Ratchet &amp; Clank game? Yes, Sony have just finished their Gamescom press conference. Read on for full details.12 months ago Sony used Gamescom to unveil PS3 Slim. SCEE CEO Andrew House said global PS3 sales are up by 57% year on year since Slim launched. This year though the hardware announcements were less exciting. Two new PS3 models - a 320GB and a 160GB - were unveiled and will take over from the current models in the marketplace.  Launching in September the 320GB model (which will replace the existing 250GB model) will come bundled with Move and cost around 299UKP.  A 160GB model PS3 will phase out the current 120GB model at the same price of £249.99.Talking of Move, Sony confirmed that the motion control system will launch on Sept 15th. The cost?The PlayStation Move motion controller is RRP £34.99, whilst the PlayStation Move navigation controller is priced at RRP £24.99. The starter pack that comprises a PlayStation Move motion controller, PlayStation Eye and a Starter disc is priced at RRP £49.99.The big software announcements were Resistance 3 and Ratchet &amp; Clank: All 4 One. The latter will - as you'd expect given the title - offer four player multiplayer and will hopefully see the franchise return to the form it showed in the first couple of games. The newly 3D and Move-enabled Virtua Tennis 4 was also shown.Elsewhere there was a "chat" update announced for PlayTV. This will allow users to mail each other while watching TV - think sports - and could help bring more interest in what is a rather nifty piece of hardware for the PS3. Xbox owners can do this on Sky Player of course, but they need to stump up 35 quid a month to do so. PlayTV - once bought - uses freeview and so is, er, free.The PSP may be out of fashion now but Sony seems to be pitching the handheld console towards the "youth" market. Digital comics and more cheap "mini" games are Sony's plan for the PSP.So that's basically it. More will come out of Gamescom when it opens tomorrow but for now what do you think about the Sony announcements?
If the tense heist sequences and pitched street battles between cops and robbers in the originalKane and Lynchpaid homage to Michael Mann'sHeat, then the blistering pace and verite stylings of its follow-up feel like a tribute to JJ&nbsp;Abrams's monster movieCloverfield. The handheld camera wobbles and shakes as it tracks our antiheroes' every move, dropping to the dirt whenever one takes a bullet and lurching woozily as they sprint down alleyways, while the nastiest moments are censored by a mess of blocky pixels. Splatter fans might miss the gory thrill of a headshot, but there's something grotesquely effective about this stylistic trick; the suggestion that it's too disgusting to show adds to the mock-doc realism. With some exceptional sound design capturing the shuddering intensity and near-deafening cacophony of a gunfight, the opening stages in particular are immersive and thrilling, the mean streets of Shanghai captured in authentic detail. It's third-person action as shown on YouTube and an invigorating aesthetic that will surely be imitated in future titles.The accidental shooting of a crime lord's daughter propels the plot, as Kane and Lynch are chased through the city by both police and gangsters, while attempting to locate the latter's Chinese girlfriend. The pursuit culminates in a gruesome and gratuitously shocking sequence from which the game never recovers, with the two forced through uninspiring locations such as factories, warehouses and train yards that could be in any city. The action, meanwhile, refuses to pause for breath, save for the odd profanity-laced cinematic moment, and the relentless, one-note pacing starts to pall. At a mere six hours long, the story tries not to outstay its welcome, though some will be disappointed at the abruptness of its ending.Fortunately, the inventive Fragile Alliance multiplayer mode makes a welcome return, offering a series of expansive stages for online heists, with the potential to betray your team-mates and claim the loot for yourself when the getaway vehicle arrives. There are several variants on this theme, including the single-player arcade mode, which suffers from the occasionally suicidal behaviour of your computer-controlled team-mates.Sadly, the visual verve isn't quite enough to compensate for the unconvincing shooting. Most weapons feel either underpowered or inaccurate; despite sounding like you're embroiled in urban warfare, you may as well be using water pistols. There's plenty of potential in both the characters and the game's coarse, naturalistic approach to gang violence, but ultimatelyDog Days' bark is more effective than its bite.
Spain has become the latest country to launch an investigation into data collected by Google's Street View mapping cars.A Google representative will appear before a judge in Madrid, Raquel Fernandino, on 4 October.Google has admitted to collecting fragments of personal data through Wi-Fi networks when its Street View cars mapped various towns and cities in 34 countries around the world.In May this year, Alan Eustace, a senior vice president in engineering and research at the Mountain View company,said Street View carshad been "mistakenly collecting samples of payload data from open Wi-Fi networks, even though we never used that data in any Google products".A string of code in the production systems of Street View cars allowed Google to retrieve and store information about the networks' location, names and Media Access Control (MAC) addresses on wireless networks that were not password-protected.The Madrid lawsuit, filed by an association promoting the rights of internet users, Apedanica, is made under an article of the Spanish penal code relating to the interception of communications without permission.A Google spokeswomantold Spanish daily newpaper El Mundothat the company is cooperating "in all countries with institutions and judicial authorities to answer any questions they have". "Our ultimate goal is to remove the data in accordance with our legal obligations and in consultation with the relevant authorities."Last week police officers in South Korea raided Google's Seoul headquarters, seizing computers and hard drives, as the country's authorities investigate the data collected by Street View cars.The UK's information commissioner set something of a precedent last month, saying that an investigation by the commissioner's office had found that Google is unlikely to have collected "significant amounts of personal data", and that there is "no evidence as yet that the data captured by Google has caused or could cause any individual detriment".The UK is one of many countries where the Wi-Fi data – amounting to 600MB – is being investigated.
Jonathan Zittrain offers a typically rational, insightful analysis of the Google-Verizon net neutrality pact onNewsweek, as interviewed by Dan Lyons. Professor of internet law atHarvard, and co-director of theBerkman Centre for Internet &amp; Society, Zittrain asks why Google is party to the agreement at all.How the internet might look without net neutralityIs it involved because of its role as a content provider, or as a potential provider of internet access? "The practical answer may be that Google has argued fiercely against any perceived attempt by telecoms carriers to charge for acceleration (or delivery at all) of Google's content to those carriers' subscribers, and their part of the deal is to climb down from public conflict with the carriers and declare what would suit it," he says, saying Google can be expected not to do much more than represent its own interests. It is ultimately up to the public, and politicians, to decide what to do with the proposal.The Google-Verizon document is just that - a document that commits them to nothing practical, which means they can "can get away  with being far more vague than a typical contract", says Zittrain on hisblog- where he fleshes out many of the finer implications of the pact.Language like "they can do reasonable network management" and "can't engage in undue discrimination" demands far more scrutiny to compose any coherent strategy, while "violations that cause meaningful harm" - is pointless jargon. "Would anyone care if a  violation caused no harm, or meaningless harm?" asks Zittrain."My worry is less about the concept of charging Amazon or eBay for access to one's own subscribers, and more about a complex web of individualized (and confidential) deals so that any new presence on the Web can't be assured of a universal audience until major ISPs are brought on board and made part of the deal."On a practical level, the Google-Verizon pact will frame the debate as legislators move the net neutrality issue forward - so either way the two have placed themselves right at the centre of the debate, in the US at least.
A former mercenary and a self-medicating psychopath respectively, Kane and Lynch return for a second slice of grisly, gun-heavy entertainment.This time around, Lynch is living in Shanghai with his girlfriend and Kane has one final job to complete. This last payday should be straightforward but straightforward does not a shoot-em-up make and, within a level or two, it's all gone mammaries skyward. A local crime lord's daughter is dead at their hands. Lynch's girlfriend has been abducted. Hundreds of well-armed gangsters are on their tail, former allies have turned on them and the police are also shooting to kill. And thus the scene is set for assorted stand-offs and carefully timed gun play.Given the ancestry and the typical evolutionary process of games, it won't come as a surprise that Kane &amp; Lynch 2 ups the intensity and gore quotient considerably. It cleverly masks some of the excesses with handily positioned, pixellated censorship – which, to be fair, adds to the documentary sense of the game. Yes, the shaky cam stuff is a shortcut to immediacy but, as Paul Greengrass will tell you, it works and it's that verité grit, and the realism of the visuals, that give Kane &amp; Lynch its not-so-unique selling point. Without those, and the not-bad-at-all multiplayer mode, this would be an alarmingly short disappointment.That's not to say this is a bad game. It's not. The impressive film-like visual quality is backed up with palpable tension, well judged AI and enormous, hard-to-monitor arenas that you can't get through with gung ho ultra violence: you need to be patient, pick your weapon, work out the lay of the land and make sure you have cover and ammo to spare. Enemies will not fall from a single gunshot unless you have the right weapon or get a perfect headshot. The chances of this – thanks to shaky cam, the gritty, grey (often almost photo-realistic) colour scheme, the distance between you and your assailants and the evident efficiency of their body armour – are small. Very small. As a challenge, Kane &amp; Lynch is a tough one. It's a shame then that the ending is oddly abrupt and it doesn't take a great deal of time – approximately 6-8 hours – to get there.Some extra value is provided by the returning Fragile Alliance multiplayer games. Here you and your mates can commit elaborate heists and either celebrate together for a job well done or attempt to screw one another over by stabbing them in the back and keeping all the swag. These games do give the Kane &amp; Lynch 2 package additional appeal, but on balance it's still not quite enough to break down genre barriers and make this an essential gaming purchase.
BlackBerry manufacturer Research In Motion will allow Indian authorities partial access to its Messenger chat services to placate security fears, a senior government source has told the Reuters news agency.The Canadian company is reportedly ready to allow authorities more access to data transmitted between its handsets, and is talking about how to allay government fears over BlackBerry Enterprise email services.India's Department of Telecommunications – the body orchestrating the discussions – has asked at least three mobile operators to put in place monitoring capability for the BlackBerry  Messenger and Enterprise email by 31 August.RIM has said it will provide a "technical solution" to the worries this week, a government source told Reuters. Indiahas said it will shut down some BlackBerry servicesby 31 August if no settlement is reached.A senior government source, who asked not to be named, told the news agency: "They have assured partial access to its Messenger services by 1 September and agreed to provide full access by the end of the year."Last week RIM issueda public statementto its approximately 800,000 BlackBerry users in the country, saying any negotiations over increased access to data transmitted between its devices would abide to four principles: that it was legal, that there would "no greater access" to BlackBerry services than other services, that there would be no changes in the security for Enterprise customers, and it would not make "specific deals for specific customers".India's main concern is thought to be with data passed between corporate BlackBerry devices using Enterprise services. When using the BlackBerry Enterprise Service (BES), an organisation hosts its own server and encryption key for access to transmitted content, offering a higher level of security.RIM said neither it nor the mobile operator has access to these encryption keys, meaning the only organisation able to decrypt data is the company hosting the server.India is seeking a solution where it can lawfully intercept messages passed between the devices, which may involve using internal servers hosted by a third party.Security fears over BlackBerry services in the country are thought to spring from the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attack in which 116 people died. Officials suspect the culprits used encrypted Blackberry services.RIM is facing the threat of a ban on some BlackBerry services in India, Indonesia, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates.
Europe's largest games event is kicking off around now with Microsoft first out of the block in terms of announcements. The most important is a launch date for Kinect. Microsoft's hands free - and potentiallygame changing, bar the rubbish driving title- control system will arrive in the UK on the 10th November. Xbox Live will also be arriving on Windows Phone 7 too.Kinect is clearly the main focus though, with Microsoft European VP Chris Lewis keen to stress the importance of the new device to the Xbox generally.We are bringing the Kinect experience to Europe for the first time at Gamescom because this is the biggest show in the region and we're committed to investing in Europe and the critical role it plays in Xbox's global success.  With Kinect launching on November 10, it's set to not only transform our business but also change how we use entertainment. With Kinect, YOU become the controller, giving you the choice in how you and your friends navigate entertainment and gaming experiences.Elsewhere on the Xbox it seems that Halo Reach and Fable III are - as you would expect - the main focus. Gamescom is unlikely to see Gears of War 3, the other core Xbox franchise.The PC hasn't been forgotten though, with Microsoft unveiling Age of Empires Online - a more casual reinvention of the venerable brand - and a new Flight Simulator game.Mobile too gets a look in with Xbox Live games coming to Windows Phone 7.Details of all these will come out over the next 48 hours - Steve Boxer should be seeing most of these while he is out in Germany - but what do you think so far? Does the Kinect launch date make any difference to your interest levels? Interested in the new PC or mobile titles?
Gamescom is the biggest European games event this year and in a first for the Gamesblog we've got the live streaming of one of the press conferences. We'll be streaming the EA conference from 3pm (UK time) and are hoping for fireworks – OK, some footage of Dragon Age 2 will do nicely instead. Maybe some Medal of Honor and Star Wars: The Old Republic too. You can expect updates on FIFA 11, Dead Space 2 and Crysis 2 as well. And who knows? Maybe an unveiling or two.4.15pm update:Hope you caught the updates on Sims Medieval, Dead Space 2, Harry Potter &amp; The Deathly Hallows Pt 1, Need for Speed: Hot Pursuit, Medal of Honor, Star Wars: The Old Republic, Mass Effect 2, Dragon Age 2, Crysis 2, EA Sports Active 2, FIFA 11 and more. The press conference is now over, but you can read more aboutEA's launches at Gamescom hereandthe latest news on Microsoft's Kinect and more here.
An Apple executive pleaded not guilty last night to charges that he took bribes from Asian suppliers in return for inside information.Paul Devine, a global supply manager at the company, is accused of accepting more than $1m (£639,000) in kickbacks over several years from manufacturers keen to supply accessories for iPhones and iPods. He was arrested last Friday, and appeared in federal court in San Jose in handcuffs yesterday to face 27 charges including money-laundering and wire fraud.Apple also filed a separate civil lawsuit against Devine last Friday, claiming breach of contract, racketeering and breaching fiduciary duty.Devine's alleged accomplice, Andrew Ang, used to work for Singapore's Jin Lee Mould Manufacturing.Apple's successmeans there is huge competition between suppliers to get their products inside its computers, digital music players and mobile phones.Prosecutors claim that Devine ran an elaborate scheme where several tech companies paid him for confidential data in the hope of winning contracts from Apple. The indictment accused him of opening bank accounts in his wife's name in order to take in the money, and states that he told his contacts to describe payments as "samples".One Asian manufacturer has already said that it paid money to Devine, but denied wrongdoing. Cresyn, a South Korean company which makes earphones and headsets, revealed yesterday it hired Devine as a consultant to receive information about consumer trends in the US."An Apple manager offered to provide us with business consulting to help us advance into the US market. So we signed a normal consulting contract, which was not illegal," Cresyn said in a statement. It added that it had not received any specific information about future products.Other companies named in the indictment include Pegatron, which is the manufacturing unit of the netbook PC pioneer Asustek; Singapore's Glocom/Lateral Solutions and Fastening Technologies; and Taiwan's Nishoku Technology.Devine was remanded in custody and will reappear in court tomorrow, when the judge hearing the case will decide whether to grant bail.
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology team• comScore: Here's how we're going to weed out bogus searches from our stats now that everyone is gaming the system &gt;&gt;Business Insider• Asustek lowers 3Q10 netbook shipments goal due to competition from iPad &gt;&gt;Dgitimes"Asustek Computer saw sales of its netbooks in the second quarter fall short of expectations mainly due to competition from Apple's iPad, and has downward adjusted its target shipments for the third quarter, the traditional peak sales period, to 1.4 million units, according to company president and CEO Jerry Shen at an investors conference on August 13." In fact, its forecasts for the year for netbook sales are 7m-8m, and in the first three quarters it's expecting to sell a total of 4.5m. Going to have to be a humdinger of a fourth quarter (though Christmas sales might make it).• Apple hires NFC expert as mobile commerce product manager &gt;&gt;NFC WorldNFC being near-field communications - the non-contact payment system.• The Handy Android Fanboy Detector &gt;&gt;Livedigitally"After lots of discussions with Android users, Iâ€™ve divided up the Android world into the following buckets: Android Newbies, Android Haters, Android Fanboys." Though you could use the same divisions for a number of products.• Malicious widget hacked millions of Web sites &gt;&gt;Computerworld"As many as five million Web sites hosted by Network Solutions have been serving up malware, probably for several months, a security expert said today."This is one of the biggest infections for drive-by download attacks that I've seen," said Wayne Huang, co-founder and CTO of Santa Clara, Calif.-based Armorize Technologies, a Web application security company."Network Solutions disputed Huang's estimate of between 500,000 and 5 million infected sites, but was unable to provide its own count."Then again, they're parked domains, meaning that they're less risky than usual sites would be.• Loic Le Meur Blog: How much can you really make developing mobile apps? &gt;&gt;Loic Le Meur• Investment in iPad and iPhone App Startups Up 220% &gt;&gt;ReadWriteWeb• BlackBerry Torch Launch "Underwhelming" &gt;&gt;Business InsiderYou can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
While North Korea was last month threatening to deal out "the severest punishment no one has ever met in the world" to its southern neighbour, the country's government was also quietly opening up a new front in the propaganda war – an official Twitter account.Using the Twitter username@uriminzok– Korean for "our people" – North Korea hastaken to the microblogging siteas part of a rejuvenated digital PR campaign. Last month the country's government also opened aYouTube account, uploading 78 news clips in four weeks.The regime'sfirst tweetroughly translates as: "Website, 'our nation itself' is a Twitter account."In other tweets posted so far, the account links topast speechespraising the regime's "dear leader" Kim Jong-il, and adenunciation of reportsthe country's military sank a South Korean navy ship.The move should not be seen as too surprising, said Professor Hazel Smith, a North Korea expert at the UK's Cranfield University."It's very interesting because North Korea is not a technologically underdeveloped country. It's extremely poor but by no means the image portrayed as totally isolated," Smith added. "For at least the last 30 years they've been investing in IT-related training, so it's not really a very big development for them to do this."The problem for North Korea in communicating, Smith said, is not the means but the message. "They clearly realise that they're not good at PR and so they're looking at ways to get the message out from different sorts of media and they're aware of the impact different forms of media can have, because they [government agencies] go abroad as well."The problem for them is not so much the use, it's the content because they're still politically stuck in a timewarp where they're going to – at a propaganda level – give out a stock, old-fashioned almost farcical interpretation of the reality."It's not the technology, it's how to make them compete with each other in terms of content. And they're fully aware of the impact of being able to access this type of content."Gilles Lordet, the chief editor at press freedom body Reporters Without Borders, said North Korea's move into social media is the natural extension of government propaganda."For people inside North Korea this makes no difference at all. I don't consider what they're going to say on their Twitter page as honest or objective, so it's not something we can welcome," Lordet said."This is about the abroad image of the country. Now they're trying to work on the image of North Korea outside of the country because they have the possibility of the tools, that's what is new."Now, with the access to the technology it's easier to do, like with access to Twitter. Perhaps there is a need to get across its own image more, because of events like the sinking of the South Korean boat."Relations between the two Korean states are at their lowest point in recent years after the sinking in March of a South Korean warship, which was blamed on North Korea.Tensions have been further heightened by a series ofnaval training exercises undertaken by the US and South Korea, which prompted threats of retaliation from North Korea.Last week North Korea seized a South Korean fishing boatfor an alleged violation of its exclusive economic zone.
The government has been accused of sabotaging its own broadband ambitions after reneging on a pre-election promise to reform the way high-speed fibre-optic networks are taxed in the UK.Several network operators are angry that Ed Vaizey, minister for culture, communications and creative industries, has not delivered on his pledge to review the business rates that are applied to fibre networks.Vaizey revealed last week that this review would not take place, following a meeting with the branch of HM Revenue &amp; Customs which taxes fibre networks in the UK. Instead, new guidelines have been issued which make little changes to a regime whichVaizey himself attacked last yearfor causing "huge damage to telecoms in the UK".The issue is particularly sensitive because the government has declared that the UK will have the "best superfast broadband network in Europe" by the end of this parliament, but is providing little public money tosupport this ambitious goal."If the government cannot provide funds to help roll out networks because they expect the market to do it, the least they could do is not put direct disincentives in our way," said Chris Smedley, chief executive of network operator Geo.Vtesse Networks, another fibre operator which brought legal action against the previous government inan unsuccessful effortto overturn the current regime, has also been angered by the failure to hold a review."They simply cannot expect us to invest in an area, and then tax it so that it is not economically viable," said Vtesse's chief executive, Aidan Paul.According to both Geo and Vtesse, the current ratings system pushes up the total cost of building and running a new high-speed fibre network by at least 10%. Fibre offers much faster connectivity than the copper lines that link most homes, but is expensive to deploy.The issue centres on the way that the Valuation Office Agency, a branch of HMRC, taxes networks. Under the current system, most operators are charged according to the length of their networks, incurring significant costs every time they "light" a stretch of fibre.BT and Virgin Media, though, who have the largest fibre-optic networks in the UK, are taxed in a different manner, based on their revenues and expenses. Smaller rivals have long complained that this gives the biggest operators an unfair advantage, resulting in a less competitive market that harms customers.In November 2009, Vaizey said that a Conservative government would make a review of the fibre tax a priority. Late last week, though, the VOA announcedupdated valuation guidancefor telecoms networks which only include two small changes to the previous system. This follows one meeting with Vaizey since the election.Trefor Davies, chief technology officer at internet service provider Timico, says that the VOA's changes will actually make it more expensive for smaller operators to build fibre networks, because the rateable value of a fibre line has increased sharply compared with five years ago."The upshot of this is that at a time when industry has been crying out for a level "rates" playing field the VOA has made it an even more unequal commercial battle in favour of the large incumbent operators,"Davies wrote on his blog.Vaizey has now welcomed the VOA's changes, and urged telecoms operators to give their feedback."Getting the conditions right to facilitate private sector investment in new high-speed broadband connections is a government priority and we are working to create an environment where businesses can get the most from the UK's digital infrastructure," a BIS spokesperson said.The VOA taxes fibre networks because they are a valuable resource. Paul, though, argued that it is wrong to impose such levies on companies that are trying to build new infrastructure, pointing out that the original telegraph companies were not taxed on their assets until many years after they started operating.Smedley added that it was "too early to say" whether Geo would have to take legal action against the current guidelines, saying he remained hopeful that the government might still start a proper review soon."I am hoping that the position will change. This is not what we were expecting," Smedley said.BT, though, denies that the current rating system is unfair and said there was " little justification" for a review."Over the past few years several parties have advanced arguments along the lines that BT receives preferential treatment in the way that it is  rated," said a BT spokesperson. "None of these arguments is true. They have been heard, tested and then rejected by the European Commission, the Lands Tribunal in the UK and the UK court of appeal - and leave to appeal the decision was only last month refused by the UK supreme court. In every case the authorities have found that the rating system is being applied fairly and does not confer an unfair advantage on BT."
If you skipped upgrading from CS3 to CS4, that was a good move, because this update, to CS5, is a big one and one that consolidates and builds on the changes in CS4.The full-fat Master Collection – which includes Photoshop, InDesign, Flash, Acrobat, Illustrator, Soundbooth and just about every other Adobe app you can think of – has been whittled down to two DVDs; and the install time seems to have been slimmed down too. It took about 45 minutes to install the lot on my PC.The most significant change, though, is that the suite is now 64bit. There are 32bit versions in the box, but you really need 64bit to be able to address lots of RAM – and lots of RAM is key to keeping a big app like Photoshop running smoothly. Having said that, I've been running it on my older machine, which is 64bit but which only has a single-core processor and 2GB of RAM, without any issues.Interface-wise, if you're coming from CS3, things are a little different – you'll be working in a minimalist cool grey GUI, though the familiar paradigms remain. Those upgrading from CS4 won't find it a change.As ever, this is a monster suite of software, and even the most experienced user will spend a lot of time digging around finding and playing with new stuff. A couple of highlights: I like the MiniBridge, which makes Adobe's file browser a palette inside the other applications so that you don't have to launch the main Bridge application.Probably the most fun new feature is Photoshop's Content-Aware Fill, which is really the ultimate airbrushing-out tool. You can kiss goodbye to laboriously cloning out pesky tree branches; content-aware fill will do it in a trice. And if you don't want to see your ex in an otherwise great picture of your friends enjoying themselves, he or she can be gone with just a couple of clicks.InDesign in Adobe CS5 alows multiple page sizes in the same documentIn InDesign, you can finally have different-sized pages in the same document, which as soon as you realise you can do it you think, "Why on earth couldn't I do that before?"Flash designers now don't have to grapple with code – Flash Catalyst is now your main interface, where you can build your apps using an intuitive and (if you're familiar with Adobe's interfaces) friendly GUI. The coding is taken care of behind the scenes in Flash Builder, where you can access it and tweak it to your heart's content.You can start with something that's been created in, say, Photoshop, and build out from there. And that sense of blurring the lines between the applications to arrive at the best final product runs through the whole suite. Want to do an animation in InDesign? Tick. Want to use Photoshop to turn a 2D image into a 3D one? Tick. Add perspective to a vector illustration? Tick. Embed an MP3 file into an InDesign document? Tick. In this release, it's not so much thinking "which app do I need to do this?", it's "I want to do this, and what I want to do will define which app I use to do it".Perhaps most interestingly, as we move into the age of the online edition, new tools in InDesign andthose due to come on stream for InDesign via Adobe Labsblur the boundaries between static pages and the rich interactive multimedia experience of the web. Using InDesign, you'll be able to add images that readers can pan and zoom, for example; slideshows and audio content. Have a look at what Wired magazine has been doing with its iPad app as an example of what these tools can do. The aim is to create online content that users will pay for –and that advertisers will pay for too.Also included in the Master Suite is the fruit of Adobe's purchase of Omniture: you'll get access to analytics tools to measurethe success of the content you've created via CSLive, a collection of powerful online tools that comes free for 12 months with a CS5 product.Make no mistake, CS5 is a big jump and getting your head around what it can do – and how you do it – will take some time. You can leap in and do familiar stuff, of course, but to get the most out of it, you'll need to think about your workflows and what you want to achieve. And, of course, it's total overkill – and far too expensive – for a home user, but sometimes as a home user, that's part of the fun.Pros:Huge range of new tools that focus on the content rather than the process, 12 months free use of CS Live, 64bit.Cons:A weighty install, expensive, probably far more complex than you could ever dream of needingPrice:Master Collection full £2,706.02; upgrade £932.95 from Adobe's online UK store.Adobe.com
Apple has had a slow start with its new iAd platform, theWSJreports.Only two of the 17 launch partners announced on 1 July started campaigns in that first month and only three more used it in August. Apple's tight grip over the creative process is cited as one of the reasons advertisers are being hesitant.Photo byJorge Quinteroson Flickr.Some rights reservedGiving a delightful insight into Apple's own painstaking production process, creating the platform's mobile ads is taking between eight to 10 weeks – and the building part, which is done by Apple, is taking two weeks longer than it should.Patrick Moorhead, director of mobile at the agency DraftFCB, said it is "a huge issue having Apple in the creative mix", while Chanel, one of the launch partners,&nbsp; doesn't have any iAd campaign planned.Campaigns packages start at a cost of $1m but one brand, Nissan, claim the click-through rate for its interactive ad is five times higher than the conventional online campaign.While working efficiently with agencies seems Apple's biggest challenge, it has claimed $60m in commitments this year from iAd's advertisers. It is also poised to take advantage of the continued growth in mobile advertising, despite increasing competition from Google's AdMob and Millennial Media, which eMarketer predicts will rise by 43% this year in the US alone – to $593m.iAd is due todebut in the UKthis autumn.
InstantAction, the online video game distributor, has today announced Instant Jam, a guitar game that you can play for free via your web browser. Like all InstantAction titles, Jam can be easily embedded into any website, blog, or Facebook page, and then streams over the web as you play, using the company's proprietary technology to ensure a smooth experience. Playable on PC (with Mac and Flash support following soon), the title gets you to strum along with songs in the same way as Rock Band and Guitar Hero – by plugging in a USB guitar controller, and hitting the correctly coloured notes as they fall down the screen.The key gameplay difference is that Instant Jam allows you to use music tracks stored on your hard drive. "We thought, if you're going to make a music game on the PC, why not use the player's own music library," says InstantAction CEO Louis Castle. "It turns out there are lots of reasons – it's really, really hard to do. But nevertheless, we set off on that course!"Importantly though, the game doesn't work by algorithmically generating note tracks for each song – the development team hand crafts the note system for every number, providing a much more accurate guitar-playing experience. So far, they've created tablatures for over 2000 songs, but more will apparently be made compatible on a regular basis. "We've actually chosen all the tracks from the Billboard Top Tens of the last few decades," says Castle. "A few years ago Rolling Stone did an article on the 500 greatest songs – we have 400 of them."Although free-to-play, the game includes a micro-transaction payment system. New players get a certain amount of 'plays', and must purchase more if they want to keep strumming along. However, there's an in-game currency earned by winning challenges and levelling up, and this will keep regular players in action. It's also possible to purchase new in-game guitars each with their own characteristics. As Castle explains, "Some are easy to play, but you get fewer points for using it, or you can buy a guitar that's very tightly tuned, which makes it difficult to play. But if you're good, you get higher points." Currently all the guitar models are ficticious but InstantAction is apparently talking to guitar manufacturers about licensed brands. There also are special note tracks available for purchase too, including Lucky Charm, which occasionally over looks  any bum notes you play. Purchase-able items range in price from $0.50 to "as much as several dollars".And naturally, as the game is accessible via Facebook, there's a range of social gaming features. Players can challenge friends with specific tracks, and send their best performances to their news feed for others to beat.InstantAction is currently in the process of updating its service to offer more games. The oncept is essentially a new kind of digital dsitrubition system for games, allowing customers to try titles for free via a web browser, before accessing the full product and either paying for it in episodic chunks or going for a one-off payment. InstantAction has its own range of titles, but is also signing deals with mainstream publishers as well as indie developers, to distribute their titles. Currently, however, the only announced deals are with LucasArts and Penny Arcade."The games can be big – 16-20GB, but we only need the first couple of hundred megabytes to get enough of the executable memory and assets to start the game," explains Castle. "There's no install process, it runs right in the browser, and it uses 100% of your computing power. It's not doing any kind of sand-boxing or intepretation, so it runs exactly like your machine could run the game, it's completely indistinguishable. If your machine can run Crysis, you'll run Crysis with no degradation in your performance. All your multiplayer features are completely available and in addition we can tie in some social networking features, like seeing which of your Facebook friends is playing the game right now so you can ask them to join you."In short, picture a version of Steam mashed up with the cloud-based gaming system OnLive and you've sort of understood the premise. "Everything is saved on the cloud," says Castle. "Once you're authenticated as a customer, either through InstantAction portal or Facebook Connect, we know who you are, we match it all up and we know what gear you have and where you are in the game. The game saves are always stored on our servers and the local system. As long as you are online your state is preserved.""The proposition is to let people find content anywhere on the web they might be, to share the content with their friends with simple links, to be able to experience the content for free for some period of time, and if they like it, to pay for it over time – and all this over one long stream." InstantAction has also arrangeda partnershipwith cloud-gaming serviceGaikaito provide streaming game demos.InstantAction is an intriguing concept then, even if currently the overarching business model is a tough one to predict. Cloud-based gaming is becoming a crowded market, even though all the competitors insist their services are totally different. And InstantAction's current lack of support from industry giants like EA and Activision will limit exposure in the early days. It will be fascinating to see how this all pans out over the next year.But back to Instant Jam, though. and Gamesblog is working with InstantAction to provide an exclusive demo of the game when it launches in a couple of weeks. Our taster is set to feature 20 of the songs picked by Gamesblog readers in myFriday Question a couple of weeks ago– and these won't be available with the main game. I won't give the titles away just yet, but let's just say those of you who'd like to be rocking in the free world may well be giving the demo a whole lotta love until they feel comfortably numb…
UK top 10 games chart, week ending August 14 2010PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Toy Story 3(3+)DS (36)PS3 (22)Wii (20)Xbox 360 (17)52 (5)Red Dead Redemption(18+)PS3 (50)Xbox 360 (50)133 (3)Dance On Broadway(12+)Wii (100)74 (8)Lego Harry Potter: Years 1-4(7+)DS (29)Wii (26)Xbox 360 (18)PS3 (14)85 (–)Art Academy(unrated)DS (100)16 (6)Just Dance(3+)Wii (100)367 (7)Dragon Quest IX: Sentinels Starry Skies(12+)DS (100)48 (2)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 2(18+)PS3 (51)Xbox 360 (44)PC (3)DS (1)409 (9)Super Mario Galaxy 2(3+)Wii (100)1010 (–)Madden NFL 11 (3+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (47)1Leisure software charts compiled by GfK Chart Track© 2009ELSPA(UK) Ltd
A study of British iPad owners shows the new tablet device is more than holding its own with people consuming news and playing games.Good news all round for Rupert Murdoch's planned digital-only "iPaper" asa study by Cooper Murphy Webb of 1,034 UK iPad ownersfound that more prefer reading newspapers, magazines and books on their new device to any other format.Of those questioned,31%said they prefer reading newspaper and magazine content on their iPad,26%prefer using their laptop or computer, and24%are sticking steadfastly to print.But how many are paying for iPad apps and how long do they spend using them, we wonder ...The margin widens for those reading books –41%preferring the iPad's iBooks, printed hardbacks/paperbacks account for36%of preferred reading, while alternative e-readers bring up the rear with7%. (Though I'd imagine a sizable proportion of respondents haven't tried another e-reader).Gaming is also proving popular (I wasted many a moment on Scrabble and Real Racing HD this weekend):As a word of warning: the earliest of early adopters would have had their iPad little more than two months when questioned for this research, so the honeymoon period was still in full swing.This perhaps accounts for62%never or rarely taking their new best friend out of the house.
Facebook has acquiredChai Labs,AllThingsD reports, citing unidentified sources. The deal is estimated to be around $10m. This is the latest in what's expected to be a string of acquisitions from Facebook and comes a month after the social netboughttravel review siteNextStop.Photo by[F]oxymoronon Flickr.Some rights reservedChai Labs is led by former AdSense product management director Gokul Rajaram. The Mountain View, CA-based companyraised$1.1m last fall for a total of $2.4m since January 2008.While Chai Labs hasn't been too clear in the past about what it is and what it does - it says its "mission is to build internet services that are as ubiquitous, as refreshing, and savored by as many people around the world, as a cup of tea." More specifically, it also says its platform will help publishers easily customise and launch "scalable, search-friendly sites in several verticals".AllThingsD's Kara Swisher says that the purchase is more about talent for Facebook than Chai Labs' platform. The "acq-hire" idea is a fairly common motivator for Facebook's buying strategy. Other sites the company has purchased and subsequently shut down include web conversation startup ShareGrove, whichit boughtin May 2009, and photo sharing startup Divvyshot, whichit purchaseda month before that.Just over a year ago, Facebookacquired FriendFeed. Facebook has kept that site alive, but that deal too was thought to be more about the company's ex-Googlers, which included Bret Taylor, who launched Google (NSDQ: GOOG) Maps and is now Facebook's chief technology officer.
