When the US first started to exhibit the symptoms of internet fever, politicians were quick to warn that the result might be a new division between haves and have-nots: the "information rich" and the "information poor".Since then, the 
price of PCs has plunged 
to the point where most Americans can afford one 
if they want one, and the debate has gone away. Except for cases of hardship, it's now assumed that any American who does not have a PC has chosen not to have one. 
But in the UK, Labour is still trying to promote "social inclusion" on the hi-tech road to "joined up government".This week, IT minister Michael Willis took things a step further by launching a series of "awareness days" whereby the Department 
of Trade and Industry 
hopes to promote the use 
of computers and communications technologies in poorer neighbourhoods. The lack of US-priced PCs 
is being mitigated by the involvment of Recommit, which refurbishes old PCs, many from government departments. But what about communications? Where are the refurbished phone lines?In the UK, the problem is not so much the price of PCs or the cost of internet services, it's the lack of US-style unmetered (which is not the same as free) local phone calls. BT does, of course, have the chance to refurbish all our phone lines by converting them to high-speed digital ADSL connections. It's expected to launch such a service this summer. But if it's going to keep the per-call and per-minute charging system, then eventually there won't be any problem identifying the information poor in the UK: it will be all of us.The Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions has also been busy, and today Richard Caborn, minister for regions and regeneration, will announce a three-year £800m programme to help the poorest neighbourhoods.What's interesting is that the government is trying to exploit the internet's potential to regenerate communities, as recommended last month by an independent study (Local Connections: Making the Net Work for Neighbourhood Renewal) reported in Online (Neglected Power, April 15).The project is expected to have a web site to provide the latest information atwww.regen.netLet's hope it works. The net has swung so far towards e-commerce it's important to remember it can be used for something else.
"Think of it as a Nasdaq for knowledge," says Nick Hynes, the chief executive of iqport International, referring to America's hi-tech stock exchange. "We're bringing liquidity to the knowledge marketplace. We're bringing cost effectiveness, quality assurance, convenience"Traditionally the internet has been a "gift economy" where people help one another out without asking for money. The phrase was coined by Marcel Mauss, a French anthropologist who studied the potlatch ceremonies of American Indians in the Pacific north-west in the 1920s and has been applied to other societies regarded as primitive.The internet may be a sophisticated example, but in general, people and companies are more highly regarded the more they give away, whether it's advice on Usenet and other conference systems or free software.But Hynes isn't apologetic about his intention to broker knowledge on the internet. "You can get cash money for it, and it's easy: you can do it anywhere!"Not that Hynes and his partner Freddie McMahon are selling knowledge themselves. They're providing an infrastructure, a "soup-to-nuts solution" that enables communities to trade in it. Each nugget of knowledge comes in a wrapper that describes it and prices it in US dollars. "You release it onto the trading floor: they pay to view," McMahon explains.The price can be varied according to supply and demand, and iqport bucks can be shared a hundred ways. Rather than marketing your knowledge yourself, you might want to go through a broker who will brand the content and take perhaps a 30% commission. Iqport also takes a transaction fee on every sale.So where are the nuggets of knowledge going to come from? Iqport is signing up business partners to form guilds. The first in the UK include the Business Solutions Guild, part of the NatWest's small business services division, and the World Trade Centre Ltd, the UK licensee of the World Trade Centre Association. Sanjeev Sood, director of WTC UK, says there are 338 WTCs in more than 100 countries and more than 500,000 corporate members. They're already trading knowledge among themselves, and iqport provides a complementary framework.David Jones, a NatWest manager, says that 90% of the knowledge the BSG will trade is already held within the bank but the cost of publishing means there hasn't been a viable way to distribute it. "We already have in excess of 100 assets at an average price of $10," he says.So far, working guilds include O2 Solutions operated by HRnet, a forum for human resources professionalswww.the-hrnet.com, the NatWest Group's Fountwww.fount-online.com, the Risk Guild for risk managerswww.riskguild.comand Leif Edvinsson's Stockholm-based Intellectual Capital corporationwww.icuniverse.com.  Of course, some of the knowledge that will be traded via iqport might be freely available on the net or easily obtained from a local bank, library, government body or other source. So why should people pay for it?Convenience is one answer. Hynes and McMahon reckon companies will pay a small sum rather than waste hours trying to find the same information for nothing. Another aspect is what Jones calls "accreditation". The quality of the knowledge is backed by the broker.  In any case, Hynes says iqport has run trials that suggest the idea will work. "We've already launched in Scandinavia and we're launching in the US in a couple of weeks, where we're working with some extremely large organisations," he says.And McMahon reckons there's a market need. One of the consequences of the recent fashion for "business process re-engineering" is that companies have been driving out people to cut costs "without due consideration for the knowledge walking out the door", he says. Many companies now have a "competency gap" which means they have to buy in knowledge, usually in the form of high-priced consultants.The amusing implication is that, through iqport, consultants will be able to sell their own knowledge back to the companies that fired them.
From blind Pugh to Stephen Hawking, you know where you are with disabled people. Their defects are obvious, their characters are forbidding and their care is expensive.As for kitting them out with computers - well, they do wonderful things but it must cost a fortune.   As the controversy over benefits illustrates, "disability" is a bureaucratic concept that defines entitlement to benefit. But how disabled people actually are depends on what society expects people to do; a person can be perfectly functional in a farmyard but useless on a PC.So when you begin to look at barriers to information technology access faced by the overwhelming majority of disabled people, forget the jumbled images of wheelchairs, guide dogs and sign language. There are quadraplegics who need special devices in order to do word processing and there are totally blind people who need special Braille devices to access the web. But there are also more than eight million people with hearing problems and almost two million with visual problems.   The statistics on physical disability frequently exclude accident victims with serious temporary disabilities, and many "low level" functional impairments such as arthritis and lower back pain.Cognitive problems stretch from the seriously autistic to the mildly technophobic. In other words, there are millions of people who have problems accessing the standard keyboard-and-mouse bundle who would not be classified as – and would not dream of classifying themselves as – disabled.  The major finding of a recent DTI report on IT supply and disability is that the industries simply don't understand the problem and, conversely, the market potential. It's not surprising; from lawn mowers designed for 30-somethings to corkscrews for right-handers, supermarket shelves built for giants and railway seats designed for midgets, design seems to have little to do with real people.Standard PCs, operating systems, applications, digital televisions and "smart" mobile phones might almost be deliberately designed to exclude up to one third of the population.   Among that third there are, of course, many people on benefits and people who require highly specialised peripherals.   The concept of design for all, whether for lawn mowers or computers, is functionally and economically sound; improved accessibility for disabled people almost always means improvements for everyone.   We would all benefit from better web page design, clearer speech on telephone menus, a variety of rats as well as the standard mouse, and a wider choice of keyboards.We could also do with greater predictability. A uniform numeric pad identical to the telephone would be a good start, and many would be helped by a standard remote controller for television sets.  A list of simple requirements at the design stage would cost nothing, improve access and expand markets. This would have the knock-on and crucial advantage of leaving special disability funding for access cases that cannot be met by design-for-all criteria.   Most systems already have disability assistance: modest variable print size, foreground and background, colour, contrast, speech speed and pitch.But customising is clumsy and of limited benefit. Microsoft, for example, publicly states that it does not want to give  such good disability accessibility that it puts small specialist developers out of business. Why make an exception for them, particularly as they are small, fragile and always two steps behind?  Information and computer technology access for disabled people has the potential to make the impossible merely difficult. But access denied will make many worse off than they were before the information age. Television, retail and banking could be a boon for the immobile, but if these services become replacements for local shops and banks and yet are inaccessible then disabled people will be even worse off. There is already a trend, exemplified by Abbey's announcement last week of a surcharge for manual payments, that the rich and connected will pay less for services than the poor and unconnected.There is a temporary but important problem with the cost of equipment and communication, but this will be rapidly overtaken by the social problems produced by near ubiquity and the ever higher social and economic cost of exclusion.   While information and computer technology has been the preserve of the bright and the rich, most of the population have not felt the sharp penalties of exclusion. But just as those who do not have televisions are subtly excluded from the mainstream of social intercourse, the "smart" mobile phone or digital television will soon be the information access standard, profoundly affecting education, employment, entertainment, retail, banking, health and citizenship.These new, cheap, universal technologies will alter the terms of learning and also the terms of self expression. Access will not be one of those grim issues espoused by Cromwellians like Brown and Blunkett, but a matter which crosses all ministries, all sectors, all jurisdictions and factions.   This is not a matter of altruism for a minority: most of us will need better general technological design if we are to function. The statistics don't say it could be you; they say it will be.  Kevin Carey is director of HumanITy, a charity that focuses on ICT and disadvantage, and surveys the major ICT/disability issues.
Solid startKonami's Metal Gear Solid is the best selling game in the UK so far this year, with around 263,000 copies sold for the Sony PlayStation. Electronic Arts' Fifa '99 is second with 167,000 copies spread across three formats - PC, PlayStation and Nintendo 64 - while Eidos Interactive's Championship Manager 3 (PC) is in third place with 148,000 copies sold. The year's top 10 is being tracked by MCV, a weekly games trade magazine. In the week ending May 15, the full- price best sellers on the various formats were: Namco's Ridge Racer Type 4 (PlayStation), Konami's Castlevania (Nintendo 64), Championship Manager 3 (PC) and THQ's The Rugrats (Game Boy Colour). The bestseller overall was Grand Theft Auto: London 1969 (Take 2 Interactive).Light fightLucasarts is working on another Star Wars game: a first-person shooter called Episode I: Obi-Wan. The graphics will be based on motion-capture video images that evince the special light sabre-fighting techniques of the Jedi Knights, of whom Kenobi was one. The game should be  out by Christmas.Big moneyBritish games players are being invited to enter the UK PC Gaming Championships, a £50,000 team event, with the first heat starting downstairs at The Playing Fields in Whitfield Street, London, on June 5-6. Other heats will be held in Birmingham, Glasgow, Cardiff and Manchester, with the grand final being held in London on September 18. Details are on the website atwww.ukpcgc.com, and registration for the London heat closes on May 29.Team EidosEidos Interactive has started sponsoring the West McLaren Mercedes Formula 1 team. The deal is presumably connected with Eidos's marketing of its Official Formula 1 Racing game, based on 1998 season data, where McLaren's Mika Hakkinen won the championship. It does not mean that David Coulthard is going to dress up as Lara Croft and take pot-shots at Michael Schumacher's tyres.Good buyNot a huge selection of great games due tomorrow, with publishers holding on for the start of the school holidays or just hiding from the hype for Star Wars. However, Hasbro  is capitalising on another popular old franchise by launching Star Trek: Birth of the Federation (Microprose, PC), while PlayStation owners will be able to pick up Square's superb Final Fantasy VII role playing game, which is being re-issued at half price on Sony's Platinum label. Game Boy owners could do worse than buy Acclaim's DropZone, which works on both mono and colour machines. The original Drop Zone was written by Archer Maclean(International Karate+ and Jimmy White's Snooker) for the Commodore 64/Atari 800 home computers in the 1980s, and bears a strong resemblance to Williams' immortal arcade classic, Defender.
Machines   Acclaim (0171-344 5000)   PC CD-Rom: £39.99   Windows 95/98, 200MHz Pentium, 32 megabytes or betterForget the futuristic scenario, this looks like a standard real-time strategy game based on a war between squadrons of machines: find resources, build units, fight. The 3-D graphics (below) and sounds (the machines talk) are very well done, though a little cute for my taste, but there's a strong sense of "seen it all before". What's different about Machines is that you can switch cameras (viewpoints) and move around to get a lovely cinematic effect, and you even move inside one of your droids for a shooter-style view.It's like switching from Total Annihilation to MechWarrior. It's not very practical, but at least it's different. In the end, Machines - written by Charybdis, in Nottingham - is a hybrid that falls between two stools. The artificial enemies aren't too bright, but Machines also offers multiplayer facilities, not tested. Up to four people can play on a network, or you can play on the net at the Microsoft Gaming Zone, and either should be fun.Jack SchofieldCricket World Cup 99   EA Sports (01753 549442)  PC CD-Rom  £34.99   Minimum spec. P166, 32Mb RAM, 1Mb video card, DirectX-compatible sound card, DirectX 6Match fixing and gambling? Cricket? Somehow they don't fit together but times are changing. What next? A decent game of computer cricket? Well, yes, actually.  There have always been difficulties in creating a game that captures the feel of the sport as well as the mechanics of a cricket ball. Until now the only real contender was Codemasters' Brian Lara Cricket. But with impeccable timing EA Sports offers its latest big money licence - Cricket World Cup 99.The usual polish is all present and correct, which in this case means fully accurate team and stadia details, sharp graphics and convincing commentary from Benaud and Gower. Replays and stats come as standard.Presentational glitz is no use without gameplay and WC99 does its best to play a convincing innings. Batting with the mouse is tricky but effective and you can quickly adopt the required stroke.Picking up bowling requires a decent spell in the nets. Using a golf-game inspired swingometer you can vary your seam, swing and pace and find your rhythm. Fielding is handled by the PC, but more cerebral players will appreciate this opportunity to tinker with out-field tactics.WC99 looks the part as players pull off gloriously animated strokes in the 3D stadia, although you'll need a meaty accelerator card for full effect. The sound is as lively as could be expected from a cricket game with players' diverse accents clearly audible, although the lack of barmy-army style chanting is a disappointment. The omission of left-handed players will be amended by a patch. Despite lacking a full test option, WC99 offers cricket fans a decent distraction when a live match isn't being broadcast.Greg HowsonOfficial Formula 1 Racing  PC CD-Rom £39.99  Eidos Interactive (0121 356 0831)  The latest entrant in a congested genre tries to distance itself from the pack by promising more realism.And for what it's worth, it delivers: the attention to detail is unparalleled, with accurate realisations of all 16 tracks and 22 cars from the 1998 world championship, fleshed-out 3-D environments (except for the distressingly flat crowds) and a bewildering range of variables (about the only thing you can't do to your car is add go-faster stripes). But will anyone really spend hours in a virtual garage   making footling adjustments to their tyre camber?Fortunately, disable all the twiddly bits and you're left with a pretty ordinary three-button racer. And even then, on novice level, the only way you'll get to the winner's podium is by crashing into it.Andy Bodle
Numbers upBritish Telecom has finally put its phone books online. Users tired of paying high prices for BT's limited directory enquiries service or CD-Rom directories can now go towww.bt.com/phonenetukorwww.phonenetuk.bt.com:8080and search for either a business or residential number.HarpySSEYOhas "discovered" two "powerful ultra-compact commusication devices from the planet VulKoan". Both Harps are less than 100K, but to play them, you'll also need Macromedia's Shockwave Flash and Sseyo's Koan 6.1 music plug in for Windows, or Netscape Navigator and Apple's Quick Time Musical Instruments  (QTMI) for the Macintosh. The harps are played using a mouse to pluck  on-screen strings.AmbushedGeorge Bush Jr, possible Republican candidate for the US presidency, does not like the site atwww.gwbush.combut hasn't managed to shut it down. Content for the parody site has been provided by RTMark (seehttp://rtmark.com/gwbush.comfor an earlier version), while the official site is atwww.georgewbush.comVote for meCloser to home, Elections '99 is hoping that 300 million voters in 15 European Union member states will go to the polls on June 10-13 to select 626 members for the European parliament. Most of thesiteat  is available in  11 languages, and all of it in English and French.About thisThe Mining Company has just changed its name to About.com and introduced a new design, "channels" (AboutHobbies, AboutTravel etc), personalisation facilities and free home pages. Otherwise the basic offering is the same: more than 650 human guides provide personal guides to different topics on the Web. The new address ishttp://about.comCyberbabeDiki has released her first CD in Korea and is apparently becoming popular with the local teens. Deprived Europeans can listen to her songs, watch her videos and become a fan atwww.diki.co.kr(or skip the Shockwave and go towww.diki.co.kr/main_b.html). You can watch streaming video clips in RealPlayer format, or download a whole AVI (49.5 megs) Long-time Netwatch readers may, however, recognise this cyberbabe as Kyoko Date (DK-96), who first came to fame with a pop song, Love Communication, launched in Japan in 1996. In sum, she's an artificial idol, like Lara Croft. She's in Korea promoting Japanese culture, which has been banned since Japan occupied the country during the second world war.UngluedWhat a difference a letter can make. In this case the Cluetrain manifesto, mentioned recently in Netwatch, has been subverted atwww.gluetrain.com"Through the Internet, people are discovering and inventing new ways to waste time at work, download naughty pictures, and build pipe bombs. As a direct result, things are getting weird faster than the parking lot at a Grateful Dead concert," etc etc.SportyThe playing schedule for  the 37-day final tournament of the next Rugby World Cup has now been posted on  the BT-sponsored official site atwww.rwc99.com. The finals, hosted by the Welsh Rugby Union, will kick off with a game between Wales and Argentina in Cardiff on October 1. Meanwhile The Sport Archive is offering prints of a range of agency sports pictures for sale atwww.thesportarchive.com
Joann Fletcher had barely moved into to her new home when she saw the body. "Literally, and as I moved in, and was saying goodbye to the removal men," she said, "I noticed what appeared to be a skull on the path near the gate."She cleared away a little of the soil. It was a human skull. She told the local police. They were, she says, very polite but obviously, a little doubtful, and not used to unexplained corpses near garden gates. "I said: ‘it appears we have a human skull', and they said they wanted to know how I knew such a thing. I said: ‘Well, it's my job, I look at human remains all the time'."Dr Fletcher, 32, freelance Egyptologist, first revealed the story of the Scarborough skull during a Bloomsbury summer school - organised by University College London - to coincide with the return of the mummy: the formal reopening of the British Museum's new Roxie Walker galleries of Egyptian funerary archaeology. She told the police that the incident tape they brought to cordon off the area was probably unnecessary: the find was ancient, and of more interest to the county archaeologist.The first careful excavation was begun. "We cleared away some more soil," she said "and it appears to be a full burial, so we re-covered it prior to proper excavation in a few weeks time."She had bought the house because of historic connections: it was on the site of what had been a medieval charnel house; it had served as a graveyard, and Cavaliers and Roundheads had fought over that soil in the English Civil War. She did not want to be too specific about where the remains were, she said. "Hopefully, there will be grave goods."Dr Fletcher began her career with a study of the things people took with them into the grave. She first achieved celebrity nine years ago in Manchester by identifying history's oldest nit - a head louse recovered from the skull of a mummy embalmed 5,000 years ago. She has since worked on mummies in Egypt, the Canary Islands and Peru, where the latest discoveries have begun to tell of remarkable pre-Inca civilisations. Embalming probably developed separately in several places, as a way of keeping in touch with the dead. "They were treated in Egypt and Peru particularly as living beings," she said. "They were clothed and fed and consulted."Archaeologists still consult them: mummies may be mute and bandaged but the things they carried with them to the afterlife can still speak volumes.Dr Fletcher began by making herself an expert on mummified hair and nails. A single hair can tell tales: it contains evidence of diet, and - even more contentiously - evidence of ancient substance abuse, with traces of cocaine or nictoine. It can tell moving stories of ancient lives.Dr Fletcher found the oldest hair extension, on a woman of between 30-35 from in a worker's cemetery in the south of Egypt, dating to 3400BC. Her hair was just starting to go grey, but had been rinsed with henna."It was absolutely fantastic. The hair had been worked into little dreadlocks and I was able to recreate the style from numerous fragments and it was almost like she had a modern Mohican crest going down the centre of her head," she said. "It was obviously created by someone else because this false hair was woven to her own hair, so hairdressers or people with hairdressing skills were kicking around which gives us an idea of her status: to have the time to create something like that."Nails, too, speak of the dead. "I was looking at the nails of a young queen, it was beautiful, she really did come to life for me, the fact that although the nails were all carefully dressed her left thumbnail had been bitten: under the microscope you could clearly see human teeth marks. She had a little nervous habit of biting her fingernails. In artistic representations you can see her lifting the same hand to her mouth to inhale the lotus flower she is holding, with the nail just in front of her mouth, and every time I see that image I think, I wonder if that was sketched in just before she started to bite the nails."She's not in the tomb raider business: the Edwardian obsession was for the golden artefacts, but the real treasures for archaeologists now are the bodies themselves. These were the people who created and supported the civilisations that still astonish, they were somebody's sisters and brothers, and they were cherished enough to be preserved for thousands of years. Usually, the archaeologists are called into rescue the tomb's inhabitants from demolition or desecration. "I take great comfort from the fact that we are going in to save these people," Dr Fletcher says.The Ancient Egyptians cropped or even shaved their heads, but created huge, elaborate wigs; they wore eye paint, probably at first as a means of shielding their eyes from infection by flies and dust. Cheeks and lips of the dead were treated with colouring to keep at least the appearance of life, fingernails and hands, too would be coloured with henna. Some fashions were statements about age, sex and status, others are more difficult to interpret."It's almost like a detective thing, trying to work out what they did and why they did it. In many cases what they are trying to replicate is an extreme version of what was worn in life," Dr Fletcher says."I'm fascinated by appearance, on a modern level as well as an ancient one: why punks dye their hair, why goths wear black, why all these people look a certain way, and what they are trying to tell people. I just project that back into ancient times and try to understand as much as possible from the way they dress. I think it is a very personal thing, the way one chooses one's appearance."She dyes her own hair orange. Her nose is pierced. A tattoo could be coming shortly, she says.
AT&amp;T, TCI, Media One, News Corp, Disney, Microsoft. These multi-media corporations are the stuff of everyday headlines in the business pages as they buy and sell stakes in a host of companies and technologies.For any chief executive in the multi-media business, the astonishing pace of change is making it all but impossible to forecast which technology and which form of entertainment is tomorrow's Microsoft or Disney.Meeting in Los Angeles earlier this month at E3, the games industry's main forum for software and hardware, buyers and developers had plenty to occupy their minds.Not only are more powerful games consoles on the way, so too are a host of other technologies which could have a massive impact on the way computer games are developed, published and marketed.Sega, Sony and Nintendo are transforming the games console from toy into sophisticated electronic device aimed at affluent adults. Online gaming is growing. The PC is attracting older buyers to games. Digital TV platforms are turning to games for the fun element in their otherwise rather earnest interactive services.Sales will grow faster, stimulated by the launch of more powerful consoles and other digital devices. Games are becoming a serious business. And as big money becomes more interested, so the 
gloriously haphazard cottage industry that is the UK games industry is changing.Instability is, of course, nothing new to the UK games industry. It has swung through one fierce cycle after another as technology pivoted around the Atari, the computers designed by Sir Clive 
Sinclair, consoles andPCs.Despite these swings of fortune, the British games industry has been very successful. Some estimates suggest that half the games written for the world market come from Britain. That world market is huge. Nick Gibson, a games analyst at the investment firm Durlacher, reckons the industry sells games software and hardware worth $15bn globally.Within Europe, the research company Datamonitor 
suggests sales of consoles and software, including games on CD-Rom, were worth $4.96bn last year, rising to $6.2bn by 2002. In the UK, Gibson reckons retail sales of hardware and software were worth £1.2bn in 1998.But trying to work out how much UK games companies make in domestic and foreign earnings is much harder. The trade organisation Elspa, which represents leisure software publishers, has calculated that that the UK exports more than £400m worth of games every year, and that more than 100,000 people work directly or indirectly for companies connected with the industry.Sales of leisure software now outstrip retail sales of videos, and cinema box office receipts. With one UK firm, Eidos, due to report its latest financial results today, cited as the world's top growth firm by the World Economic Forum, the games industry merits serious attention from the world's big investors.
But it was not always like this. According to Simon Cook, one-time games industry participant and now employed by 3i to make investments in new media, popular mythology has it that the British were good at computer games because of an unforecastable twinning of skills. The computers in the British homes of the 1970s had little memory compared with their more powerful Apple counterparts.This forced users to squeeze as much performance as possible out of their small machines, a discipline which became embedded in the culture of UK programming.
This discipline was then allied to the Britain's deep-rooted strength in the creative industries of music and film. This combination, so the myth goes, proved powerful in the creation of software for games consoles.The industry that has sprung out of darkened, smoke-filled rooms is no longer small but it remains vulnerable. 
Cook's second myth is that the British games industry is responsible for products that have sales of some $6.5bn. But only $500m from those sales flowed back to the creative community in the UK. The rest, he says, goes to publishers and distributors and retailers.In fact, the structure of the computer and video games industry makes it all but impossible to avoid this gap between the revenues and the income to the people who create the products.According to an industry survey carried out by Plimsoll Publishing and reported in a recent issue of the trade paper Computer Trade Weekly, half the computer games companies in the UK are in danger of going under unless they take swift action. A survey of 352 companies suggested that 127 were struggling. Some 61% were consuming the wealth of their owners rather than creating it.Next to this report in the same paper was an account of how Electronic Arts, the US games publisher, has just reported record turnover of $1.2bn, the first games company to break the billion dollar barrier.So why is the UK industry struggling despite surging demand for games, and while the US market leader becomes a billion dollar company? The answer lies in the way the UK games industry has split into two groups: publishers and developers.Although the UK has a handful of successful games publishers, they are weaker than their US counterparts because of the attitude of the investment community.
But first the developers. These creators are usually small studios. They have plenty of ideas - Eidos, the UK's most prominent games publisher, is said to get 100 proposals a week - but little in the way of resources to develop them. The bedrock of the UK games industry, these companies sell their intellectual property rights to the publishers in return for funding to develop the games.The publishers, companies such as Eidos, Codemasters, Gremlin, Empire Interactive, and SCI, fund the developers by advancing them a proportion - typically up to $1.5m over 18 months - of the royalty on the game. The payments are often linked to milestones in the game's development.The total royalty can be 25% of the publisher's net receipts, which sounds a lot but, as one corporate financier has pointed out, can amount to small sums if the publisher's costs leave little in the way of net receipts - a problem familar to anyone who has worked for a film studio.The publishers carry the risk that the game will fail, and must stump up the marketing costs - as much as $2m in some territories for some games. They are, however, bigger than the developers, and the negotiation over funding can be an unequal contest between the small team of ideas people and the publisher with an eye on the profit and loss account.Despite these difficulties, Gibson says developers can make steady sums so long as they produce the game to the publisher's specification, and so long as the publisher has read the market right.Yet both publishers and developers face testing times. Both need games which satisfy an ever-more demanding public. Competition for shelf space is growing. And the technical sophistication is proving costly.
 
Durlacher's Gibson calculates that development costs are likely to grow by 30% over the next two to three years and by more than 50% over the next four to five years as the new games consoles are launched.Cook says the problem for investors lies in knowing which company is most likely to produce a hit game. Firms such as Eidos have aped the music industry by going for a portfolio approach, taking stakes in development houses and funding a series of projects in anticipation that some will be big hits. Even though games development is, he says, in something of a creative rut at the moment, as with any fashion industry it is only a matter of time before a developer comes up with another trend-setter such as Core Design's Tomb Raider.The problem for both developers and publishers is how to fund new projects while keeping control of the intellectual property and, with it, their own destiny. The British industry has seen an influx of US companies as the Americans bring to bear their financial firepower in a market considered the most important in Europe. American and, curiously, French investors, value games companies more highly than their counterparts in the UK.The fastest-growing European games company, Infogrames, is French. It is in the process of buying the UK firm Gremlin. Other big French names include Ubisoft and Titus.Jeremy Furniss, managing director of Livingstone Guarantee, an independent corporate finance house specialising in unquoted companies, says the price to earnings multiple of a UK games company share will be in the low teens, against the mid-30s in the US. That rating will enable US firms to buy UK companies much more easily than vice versa.US companies are also shoring up their position by buying up the rights to games. Electronic Arts has built up a stong library of sports titles in this way.Furniss says British investors have been disappointed by the way some British games companies talked up their prospects at the time of going public, only to fail to deliver and leave investors sitting on losses as shares fell.He says several of his clients may seek a listing for shares in their companies, but that these listings will be in Paris and on the US Nasdaq exchange where investors 
are less averse to the risks inherent in backing the games industry.
But in the end the most sucessful companies will be those that foster creativity while dealing with the realities of the commercial world. Furniss acknowledges that venture capital companies are often reluctant to invest because the business model of the games company is so dependent on creative people. Cook admits that his job, picking potential winners for 3i, is a tough call.
But the UK games industry does need access to funds to meet the escalating costs of development and warding off competition.Cook suggests there may be a case for Lottery funding. He says: "We must push the boundaries out. Over the next 24 months the games industry will develop new markets, opening up with new technologies, to make the experience of playing a game more of a general media experience than simply a computer experience. We cannot take the creativity and technical excellence in the UK for granted."
Forget I-Spy! If the kids in the back of your car are restless, you'll soon be able to entertain them with Rugrats: The Movie on Digital Versatile Disc in cinema-style surround sound.In the next few months Panasonic and Sony are set to market advanced video-based in-car entertainment systems.Due in June is the Panasonic system which uses the CX-DV 1500 DVD player with the CY-AC300 Dolby Digital/DTS surround sound processor. Pictures are relayed to a 7inch LCD widescreen monitor  fitted to the back of the front seat's headboard. It will also play standard audio CDs, and the high-end DVD-Audio discs to go on sale later in the year.
The price hasn't been fixed, though it is expected to retail for around £2,000.The system has to be fitted into the car by a specialist dealer, a process that can take several days. However, the company is confident that in the near future many new cars will feature a built-in DVD cinema system.In September Sony plans to offer a similar set-up based around its portable DVD player, the PBD-V30. It also features a PlayStation games console and a TV tuner. Car owners can add a second video source, perhaps a VHS VCR, and have their monitors suspended from the car's ceiling. Passengers can listen to their movies either via the car's audio system or by using cordless headphones.In-car entertainment specialists like Alpine and Clarion may also launch their own DVD-based car cinemas.In-car DVD systems aren't purely about entertaining the kids. Philips Car Systems plans to bring a DVD version of its Carin in-car navigation system to the UK in 2000, to replace its CD-Rom-based  version.Philips' spokesperson Carl Hynes points out that while you can get a detailed map of the UK on one CD-Rom, a DVD-Rom can archive the whole of Europe.Key car manufacturers are also championing in-car video. Rover is especially offers a TV screen built into the dashboard as an option in its 75 Series models, and is keen to add a high quality video carrier such as DVD. It is also looking into DVD-Roms of its service manuals.Will passengers soon be able to surf the Internet?
"Technically speaking this is already possible," says Graham Baskerville of JVC. "The reason why no one has delivered a product is because of access costs. The PC would have to be connected to a GSM phone network and the cost of air-time is, at the moment, prohibitively expensive."Other manufacturers, notably Philips and Sony, are more optimistic. Both are developing in-car internet products which are likely to go on sale in the next couple of years.In-car cinema isn't  a totally new concept. Harrow-based specialist Prestige Audio has been fitting systems in the back of luxury cars since the mid 80s. Originally, the firm used Sony Hi8 video players, although  recently demand has grown for the JVC VHS-based system.The company's managing director Bob Hobson says: "In around five to six years I'm confident that most manufacturers will offer in car video systems as an option, and they'll be a standard in more expensive new models."We've been fitting TV tuners into cars for some while now, even though the pictures aren't that great. More recently there has been a big growth in demand for adding PlayStations and N64s."Adam Rayner, In-Car Entertainment Editor of Fast Car magazine, agrees. 
"One day we'll remember cars without TVs as being as quaint, as cars without radios are now."
No one hates grocery shopping more than me and so, as I have bought books, computers, clothes and sent flowers over the internet, Tesco Direct-a way of visiting the supermarket without the schlep- sounded like my saviour.Unfortunately, like many web services, the idea is grand but the execution is woeful.
My first Tesco Direct experience last February was frustrating, expensive and painful. The key problem is that the site is a dog's breakfast. Divided into inscrutable categories, badly designed and with a below par search engine,' it is also unbearably slow, regardless of the time of day.Worse, as the CD-Rom Tesco supplies for shopping is not compatible with my Macintosh I incur the phone costs while I wait for their slow web site to respond. My first order took about four hours to complete, including time searching for items and waiting for the system to come up. Even a dedicated supermarket hater like me would have preferred four hours queuing at the check-out to this torture.Once the order arrived (48 hours later as that was the earliest delivery slot) about 10 items were missing from my list. Even though I had taken the option for the store to substitute similar goods if those I ordered were out of stock, items like bananas were not included while others like diet tonic water which I had not ordered were. On top of that the delivery man got very upset that I lived up two flights of stairs (Hello? That's why I am paying you £5 to deliver) and very huffily dumped the products on my kitchen floor.I called the customer help line and the supervisor did sympathise; she had never seen an order so messed up, but, she said, she could not deliver any of the missing items for another 48 hours. She graciously added some points to my customer loyalty card, which in real terms would not even cover the £5 delivery fee.When I read last month that Tesco was extending its supermarket internet service from its 11 London stores to 100 stores in southeast and central England I figured they might have sorted things out and decided to give it another shot. I tried signing on over the weekend but the site would not let me enter, All I got was coded messages whether I used my own account or tried to enter as a new customer. The help line was closed (it was Sunday) and my emails to Tesco went unanswered. I waited until Wednesday to try again and got into my account details though I could not find my previous order-the one which took four hours to complete. I called the Tesco helpline and was told my shopping list was within the product search section (not a logical place) and that the server had been down all weekend, hence my problems.Armed with my previous shopping list, I imagined this order would be a breeze. The theory with grocery shopping services is that most people buy the same basic goods each time they visit the supermarket so reordering those core staples after the first go should be easy.Even with a list of 75 items ordered previously from which I could add and subtract it took me an hour to do the shop online, about the time it would have taken me to wheel around the local store. When I finished my order at around 1 pm there was only one delivery slot available the next day between 2.30-4.30pm. Luckily for me someone would be at home to accept the goods. (The fact that the delivery turned up at 2pm is another matter.)This time my order matched what I had asked for, though in many ways it was like unpacking someone else's shopping. Unless you know what 200 grams of fish or 156 grams of Pringles looks like, guessing quantities is a problem. With no pictures on the site of what you are ordering I ended up with mini sized mineral water, coke and crisps, and one rather lonely piece of salmon when I thought I had ordered four.The site itself still has major problems. Despite low rent graphics it can be very, very slow and the categorisation of goods is a mystery. Basic products like toilet paper are not found by the search function even when I enter the item as loo roll. When I tried under the categories listed it was not in the bathroom section but skulking in the general goods section as toilet tissue. Likewise orange juice is not in Drinks under fruit juices or adult soft drinks (whatever they are - the category, like many on the site, is empty) but can be found in the dairy section.The major drawback of internet shopping is not being able to examine the goods: a problem when buying fruit and meat. Another mark against the Tesco site is that there is no alert to this week's specials. There is also no chance for those "oops I forgot the milk" moments you have when you look through your trolley at the checkout. No surprise  that once I had unpacked my supermarket order I found myself popping out for some milk.
First, the word "twister" is never used. The professionals consider it gauche. Call it a stove, a spike, a tube, classify them as elephant's trunks, wedges, cylinders, hosepipes. They reach down to the ground, moving along at 20 miles an hour or more, containing a vortex of winds circling at 300mph or more, and one in 50 may do appalling damage.The Fujita scale of tornadoes goes from F0 to F6, and the F5 scale has "strong frame houses lifted off foundations . . . automobile-sized missiles fly through the air in excess of 100 metres; trees debarked, incredible phenomena will occur". People report asphalt peeled from roads, frogs sucked out of ponds, trains overturned, straws driven into tree trunks. Anemometers tend to perish in the attempt of measuring such winds.The US government in 1883 banned the word "tornado" from forecasts to avoid panicking the masses, feeling that panic could do more damage than the storm. This ban lasted till 1938. By 1948, when a tornado took out a US air force base, attitudes changed. Now, the US takes them seriously, especially in Oklahoma, just devastated by the most violent so far measured.Howard Bluestein is a professor of meteorology at the University of Oklahoma and a stormchaser. Storm-chasing, he says blandly, is not without its risks. These are not what you would imagine. It is frustratingly difficult even for skilled researchers to get near enough to a tornado to be at risk from flying debris. Not that they actually want that. "Our relationship with tornadoes is like that between lions and lion tamers," he says. "Experience allows us to get what appears to the uninitiated to be dangerously close, but we are not really that close."Even so, there are dangers. One of them is just driving on rural roads in bad weather. You could be struck by lightning. You could be stranded by flash floods. Lumps of hail the size of baseballs could crack your windshield or wing mirrors, or high winds could overturn your vehicle. And then there is the extra hazard; of all those other stormchasers converging on the same location. In 1996, one chaser was hit by lightning and hurt while filming. In 1984, an undergraduate was killed while chasing a storm because the driver lost control when a cow wandered on to the road.In this gem of a book - marked by wonderful photographs and clearly-expounded science - there are also fabulous stories, including the assault of a tornado on a drive-in movie theatre in Canada. The movie theatre was showing a film called Twister. 
And then there is the case of Professor Elias Loomis who, in 1842, fired a chicken from a six-pound cannon to test the hypothesis that tornado wind speeds are sufficient to pluck a hen alive. He shot the bird, mercifully already dead, to a speed of 341 miles an hour. 
And yes, the feathers were found to be pulled clean from the skin, although the skin was in small fragments by then. More recent experiments demonstrate, adds Bluestein, that the force needed to remove a chicken's feathers varies widely, depending on the condition of the chicken.
Hip to be a leopardPasha is a nine year old, 85lb snow leopard. He is only the second snow leopard in history to have a hip replacement. He travelled from Kansas City Zoo to the Missouri-Columbia College of Veterinary Medicine for treatment for hip dysplasia, a form of osteoarthritis which would have crippled him. Surgeons dealt with the right hip, and will turn to the left one in four to six months. Snow leopards are endangered. "We get the feeling that we are making a big difference in this animal's life," said James Cook, orthopaedics specialist and small animal surgeon. "If we can get Pasha functioning normally without pain and breeding with the zoo's other leopard, we have done a really great thing."Concrete thinkingStand by for the intelligent road. A University of Buffalo engineer called Deborah Chung has just proposed a highway made of smart concrete. It would know the speed and weight of the vehicles travelling over it. The secret, she says, lies in a few carbon fibres in the cement. As the strain on the concrete varied, its electrical resistance would change. The concrete couldn't tell the difference, but carbon fibres, being good conductors, would reveal all. The trick is to measure the relationship between resistance and weight. In the lab, Prof Chung used a car tyre between two concrete rollers - one of them a smart concrete roller - to prove that the scheme would work. The next trick would be to use smart concrete to measure vibrations in bridges and stress in buildings.Shaken, not stirredCinna Lomnitz is an earthquake engineer and seismologist at the National University of Mexico. He felt the 1985 earthquake, and guessed at its magnitude. He borrowed a plane, and flew over the city looking for damage. He saw very little. So did the government, which went on protesting that everything was under control. In fact, it wasn't until power came back and the television channels began broadcasting that the government - and the rest of the world - saw the extent of the damage to downtown Mexico."Incredibly, we had lived through the worst disaster in Mexican history, within a few kilometres, without realising what had happened," says Prof Lomnitz, who delivers a lecture to mark the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction at the Institution of Civil Engineers, London, this evening. The death toll from the earthquake was calculated at 5,300, yet at the same time the mayor of Mexico City continued to state: "There is no risk or danger. Mexico City is earthquake-proof owing to our advanced technology."Blowing in the windHurricane Mitch, which hit Central America in October, was the most deadly hurricane to strike the western hemisphere in two centuries. Around 11,000 died in flooding and landslides. In fact, say scientists from Greewich and Oxford Brookes Universities in Nature today, rainfall totals where they could be reliably measured were not exceptional: in 41 hours, a total of 698mm tipped down. But it was enough to trigger landslides in one fifth of the hill areas. The terrible damage in Honduras and Nicaragua happened because it was the end of the rainy season, and the soil was already saturated; because pressure of population had stripped the hillsides of forest cover - and because the locals had been told Mitch would move north and hit somewhere else.Fear eats the sole, etc"Riskfactorphobics" read health pages and overreact to each new scare. Then there is the "forbidden-fruit effect" which drives some people to scramble to beat the ban on beef-on-the-bone. Similarly, antismoking campaigns coincided with significant increases in teenage smoking. Most people suffer from "warning fatigue" eventually paying no attention at all, according to the Social Issues Research Centre at Oxford. "In 1995, riskfactorphobics stopped taking the contraceptive pill as soon as they read of possible health risks, resulting in many unwanted pregnancies and a 9% rise in the abortion rate."
Dave Turtle reckons he's hit upon a sparkling idea - one he hopes could make jewellery shopping the Next Big Thing on the web, and make him rich and famous into the bargain.Jewellery has been sold on the web for some time. But no site has offered surfers an à la carte menu of looks and styles, for them to create their own unique work of art -until now.Turtle is studying for an MA in Goldsmithing, Silversmithing, Metalwork and Jewellery at London's Royal College of Art, and is exhibiting at the College's degree show which opens today. It has taken him two years to create a web-based system which gives the shopper this ability to mix and match elements of several different forms of jewellery. Customers can then admire their creation, press a button and wait for their unique piece to arrive.He hopes that, by cutting out the chance that a piece of commissioned jewellery will not be exactly what you had in mind, it will remove the risk from buying these tiny, but expensive, works of art. Turtle wants what lands in a parcel on the buyer's mat to resemble exactly what they created on their computer screen.
So far his online collection takes five forms, including a customisable watch where users can colour and style the different elements of the watch face, two styles of ring and a zip identity tag, based on the concept of a future world where everybody has to display their identity all the time."The user has complete control over what they make," he says. "People are still very wary about spending money over the web, so the idea is to create something in reality which is exactly what they put together online."The first public chance to test the concept went online yesterday at www.project925. com - a website named after "a bit of an in jewellers' joke" referring, as it does, to the stamp which appears on every piece of sterling silver jewellery."I'm really excited about the site," enthuses Turtle. "It's never been done before. I'm going to use the show as market research, but I've been really encouraged by the feedback so far.""I hope that it will help reduce the costs associated with jewellery, because when your work is in a gallery they take 100% of your price. With this system, you can work in a workshop and still have access to the audience, so that something which might cost £120 in a gallery will only cost £60 online."
Turtle's existing system only has two-dimensional images of the various components at the moment. He admits there is much donkey work involved in scanning them all in.But that's still not good enough for Turtle; the post-show goal will be to enhance the site with the latest 3-D  technology, so that users can spin and examine their creations in cyberspace, before he uses his skills to bring them into reality.&#149; You can see Dave Turtle's exhibition at The Show: the Royal College of Art's Fine and Applied Art degree show, which runs from today until June 6 at the RCA, London.
There are diamonds in the sky. So, could we mine them? Unlike our Earth with its softcore of molten metal and rock, Uranus and Neptune have hardcore interiors of crystalline carbon. Diamonds, indeed, a huge fortune if only one could retrieve a few tons. But those planets are billions of miles away.Meteorites are manna from heaven for their finders. They may fetch large sums through their rarity value. But many meteorites contain diamonds, exciting astronomers because these provide vital clues about how the solar system formed.Are these cosmic diamonds of interest to jewellers? Unfortunately not. They are minuscule, far too small to set off an engagement ring. De Beers has no reason to worry about diamonds from space flooding their market.The value of a commodity is fixed not just by what it is, but also by where it is. To one stranded in the Sahara, a gallon of water is worth a king's ransom. A glass of water costs thousands of dollars to get into orbit. If we are to move into space, and still take a daily shower, we must identify extraterrestrial sources of water. It's too expensive to take it with us.Water's uses go beyond drinking, washing, and growing food. Splitting it into its constituent atoms produces oxygen to breath, and hydrogen for fuel,not to combust as in a conventional rocket (that would require oxygen again) but as the propellant in an ion drive engine. Hydrogen ions are optimal because the charge-to-mass ratio is high. A thruster using similar ideas, developed in the Star Wars programme, is now being tested on Nasa's Deep Space 1 mission.Space is a desert, but there is water about. Comets are largely made of it, and easy to spot because, although mostly they inhabit the frigid depths of space, as they approach the Sun their ice begins to evaporate, producing a vast vapour cloud and a tail millions of miles long, reflecting lots of sunlight.  The problem with comets is that they whizz past too quickly to grab a bucketfull.The economics of space are governed by a jargon term, the delta-vee, the change in velocity necessary to reach some target. To get from the ground into orbit requires a delta-vee of almost five miles per second, or 18,000 mph. So a huge rocket is required.But that's merely to get into a low orbit. To escape Earth's gravity necessitates a delta-vee of over 25,000 mph. Because comets mostly zip by at greater speeds, larger delta-vees are needed to rendezvous with them, so they are unattractive targets as water sources.What about the Moon? Our neighbour has less gravity than Earth so  its delta-vee is lower. But is there any water there? Recent data show that while most of the lunar surface is arid, deep within craters close to the poles, where sunlight never penetrates, are vast volumes of ice. These ice lakes were probed by the US military satellite Clementine.How did Clementine get its name? Think back to My Darling Clementine, a song from the gold rush days. Clementine (the spacecraft) was a prospector, looking for valuable resources in space, and it came up trumps. The lunar ice may be invaluable for a future moonbase.But to shift any to an orbiting space colony would require an appreciable delta-vee. The jargon here refers to gravity wells. The Earth's gravity well is deep, too deep for raising large amounts of water into space in an economical fashion. The Moon's gravity well is not so deep, but still substantial. We want water not down a well, but flowing by like a river.Several near-Earth asteroids have now been identified with small delta-vees, only a couple of miles per second. In essence comets and asteroids act like kids on playground swings. Comets oscillate between extreme positions, like a child going as high as possible, meaning that it streaks past the lowermost point.In contrast many asteroids do not travel even as far out as Mars, and so mimic the hesitant child gently swinging back and forth, never reaching breakneck speed. This makes them our most accessible targets.Paradoxically, many asteroids are easier to reach than the Moon. The distance is not important: it's the delta-vee that counts. Similarly it takes less energy to cycle three miles on the flat than to struggle one mile uphill, even if you can freewheel down the other side.Several space missions are soon to take advantage of low delta-vee objects. The Nasa discoverers of a particularly choice asteroid ran a public competition for suggestions of an appropriate name. Many asteroids are named after mythological gods. This one was similarly picked, but with a pronunciation to reflect its significance. Asteroid Nereus is indeed "near usÓ, and a prime target. The Japanese space agency will send a satellite called Muses-C to land on Nereus in 2002, bringing back a sample for analysis.While Nasa has some involvement, this is somewhat embarrassing for the Americans. 
Now US entrepreneurship has entered the fray. A San Diego company called SpaceDev plans to send the first commercial deep space mission to Nereus. On board, each for a $10m price tag, will be instruments built by customers. The name of the spacecraft says it all: Near-Earth Asteroid Prospector (or NEAP). The University of Arizona has already signed up for two modules, and other universities are interested.Nasa has long campaigned for smaller, cheaper, faster missions. If SpaceDev's plan works then it will do that, and still turn a tidy profit. After launch in April 2001, NEAP would spend some time near the Moon, again looking for water and collecting other data, then head for Nereus. The principal behind SpaceDev, Jim Benson, plans to land a probe on the
asteroid and claim it for his own, to "set a precedent for private property rights in space".This has long been a contentious issue, much-discussed by science fiction writers and the United Nations alike. Can one stake a claim to extraterrestrial real estate, or is it true that, as the song says, the Moon belongs to everyone?
SpaceDev has already run into some trouble with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, accused of making unsupportable projections of income and profit. As a listed company, it must justify its figures so that potential shareholders are not misled. But plans for NEAP are forging ahead.Asteroids like Nereus may be accessible, but what are they made of? Are they dry, or do they contain ice? We don't know. Many asteroids seem either rocky or metallic - materials which themselves would be useful for the exploitation of space - but others are thought to be comets which have literally run out of steam.Perhaps, though, some are just dormant, icebergs coated with insulating layers of rock and dust. Some comets do seem to sleep for centuries before a crack appears in their coating, bursting back into life. Nereus is a prime suspect in this respect. Looking at the sunlight it reflects, astronomers have classified it as a carbonaceous body, with a surface largely organic in nature, perhaps a tarry deposit keeping the inside cool.A one-mile lump like Nereus, if partially ice, would be hugely valuable.  Spectroscopic studies of comets and interstellar gas have shown many organic molecules existing in space, not the least being ethyl alcohol. Multiplying the anticipated alcohol content, one arrives at an entirely new meaning for the term scotch-on-the-rocks. There's booze in them there hills. The repercussions of the commercialisation of deep space are just being thought about, but it's clear that a revolution is around the corner. This extends beyond questions of mining the sky. If you are still convinced that there's a B-52 bomber parked in a lunar crater, as National Enquirer claimed, then rush to put a camera on NEAP.But if your interest is more serious - and I don't mean finding an inexhaustible source of alcohol in the sky - then commercial space missions may be for you. NEAP is the first real Starship Enterprise in what will soon be a fleet. And it's profit they're after, not Klingons.&#149; Duncan Steel is an astronomer now based at the Armagh Observatory and author of Eclipse (Headline, £16.99)
As Star Wars hype bloats into Jabba the Hutt proportions, industry analysts agree: filmgoers can't seem to get enough computer-generated special effects and animation.Effects don't come cheap. Titanic had a special effects budget of between $20m-$30m, while a good slice of the $115m cost of the Star Wars "prequel", Episode 1: The Phantom Menace went towards the computerised enhancements that feature in more than 90% of the film.But the highly-specialised companies that create the effects that leave audiences gawping are in a continuing state of financial crisis. "It's very hard to make money," acknowledges veteran animation programming specialist Ian Chisholm, who works for a London special effects start-up, Double Negative. The studios earn plenty off the films, he says, and "the people at the bottom" - the actual animators - "are really well paid. But in the middle" - the companies themselves - "no one makes any money off it."Tremors went through the animation industry last autumn when James Cameron, Titanic director and co-founder of Digital Domain, considered one of the best effects companies in the business, resigned from the company's board. Media reports and industry insiders maintain this was in part because the company failed to make a reasonable profit from its spectacular work on Titanic."One of the reasons no one makes money is that the business doesn't scale," says Craig Zerouni, an American who until recently ran the London-based animation and effects company Computer FX. Now heworks as a consultant to the film industry for special effects software company Silicon Grail.Zerouni says film studios tend to arrive with big projects which require animation studios to hire in extra, expensive animators and buy additional hardware and software. But costs for additional equipment  aren't figured into the cost of sale. Once a project ends, studios often find they have overstretched themselves."Being larger should make you more profitable and more successful," he says. "All that happens is you have a larger number to meet each month."There are plenty of people eager to get high-profile jobs from the film studios so it's a buyer's market for effects. "That's a very dangerous position to be in, having a lot of companies which are willing to undercut each other,"says Matthew Holben, who left large London post-production and effects firm The Moving Picture Company to form Double Negative.Work can be highly cyclical, leaving animation houses willing to charge less in order to keep work and income flowing in each month. Zerouni says it all spirals into a financially-draining routine of trying to balance high costs against sporadic income that, apparently in Digital Domain's case, can fritter away even a $30m budget."This has been the logic of this industry for the last five years: ‘I'll make it up on the next job'. But the next job never comes," he says.The one area of special effects which can generate income is advertising, where clients have big budgets and concise needs."More money per frame is spent on a commercial than on anything else," says Tim Morris, creative director at Windmill Lane Studios in Dublin and producer for FilmHouse, the studio's film and television special effects division. "The problem with &#91;feature&#93; film effects work is the margin is very low."Even large studios like Palo Alto, California's PDI, which created the animation for Antz, and Pixar, the animation company behind Toy Story and A Bug's Life (owned by Apple Computer founder and interim CEO Steve Jobs), relied for many years on advertising work.Animators say they don't know how the industry can right itself. But one development is already changing the landscape: larger animation houses like Pixar are being bought up by big Hollywood film studios. During 1998, Pixar went to Disney, while PDI, the company behind Antz, was acquired by Steven Spielberg's Dreamworks production company.Double Negative was created as a division of Polygram Filmed Entertainment, although the company does effects for other film studios as well. Holben says that given the economics of the industry, he wouldn't have set up an independent film effects studio - but being part of Polygram means film scripts keep arriving on his desk and the bigger company can help cushion the uncertainties of the film effects market.It's not an entirely new model: the success of Industrial Light and Magic, Star Wars producer and director George Lucas's own effects studio, has been attributed to its protected position within the wider arm of Lucas's production company, LucasFilms.But for the bulk of the small animation houses scrambling for work and film studio cash, no such safe havens are in sight. And, as Star Wars promises to whet viewers' appetites for more animated extravaganzas, animators may consider its undoubted success a poisoned chalice.Certainly, they will be hoping this will be the year in which they stumble, finally, over an effective business model.
How and when did you first discover computers?A ZX Spectrum that my dad bought me when I was about 15. After a quick skim through a book on Basic, I immediately started on a program that would completely computerise the entire house or at the very least would be a convenient filing system for household accounts. I got as far as a program that wrote out my name.Do you use a PC or an Apple Mac or something different?I've always used PCs ever since I was at IBM (a pre acting/ writing incarnation). At the moment I only have a laptop (Nex Star 150 MHz Pentium).How important are computers to you?And to the world in general? Very important, though not nearly as much as people or food, but definitely more than pets.What do you use the machine for? Writing scripts, although you do miss the organic nature of ink and paper, words and doodles; accessing the overwhelming amount of information via the net of course. Keeping in touch with family and friends in America, India, Hong Kong, Bahrain and even Bristol.Any particular favourite software?Being a big Simpsons fan, I had fun with Virtual Springfield recently. I've seen some great music editing MIDI programs but can't remember who made them. I haven't found a really decent script formatting software yet.Any favourite websites?I'm a real movie trivia fan so I do use the Internet Movie Database a lot (Imdb.com) and occasionally check in to theGoodness Gracious Mewebsite  at the BBC's Comedy Zone at Beeb.com (OK I'm biased but what the hell).Any favourite gadgets ?Any you would like? When I get my PC I wouldn't mind getting a DVD drive and one of those voice writer things.Do you use your own name when surfing?I did once, got recognised then got a long email of shite suggestions for sketches. I've never used my real name since.Are you a geek? Got any favourite geeks?No, but beware them bearing GIFs, apparently.On a desert island, a human or a computer for company?A human, no question. You can't beat a good cuddle.What do you see in the future for computers?I prefer to see a computerised future like in Woody Allen's Sleeper, shuffling butlers, mechanised Jewish tailors, all knowledgeable orbs and orgasmatrons. The alternatives are way too scary.What are you working on?Writing for Goodness Gracious Me, developing a new format sitcom with Hat Trick Productions and about to start work on a sitcom for Channel 4 with Perrier comedy champ Tommy Tiernan, written by GGM chief writers, Sardana and Pinto.
For five years now, Martyn Emery has had his New York Times Square suite booked for the next New Year, guaranteeing himself a comfortable spot in the middle of one of the world's biggest millennium bashes. But he won't be celebrating.Indeed Emery, a jet-set year 2000 guru, former government advisor and director of trouble-shooters Corporation 2000, fears quite a few people will not be enjoying themselves that night. He will be working for the United Nations over the millennium and, if his darkest predictions come true, his hotel room in the Big Apple will give him nothing more than the perfect view of an unfolding disaster, as the year 2000 bug comes out of hiding to wreak havoc across the world. He fears he could witness panic and civil disorder as electricity, gas and water supplies fail. Hunger as food supplies dwindle. Gridlock in major cities as traffic lights go out.The bug, of course, is one of the hottest issues in programming, and not just because of apocalyptic visions like Emery's. There are also the huge fees and bonuses programmers are picking up for checking millions of lines of computer code for flaws which could cause chaos at the turn of the year. Ironically, the problem has its roots in efforts to save money by only letting computers store the last two digits of numbers - 99, for instance, instead of 1999. Back in the early days, every byte of memory was precious. But the price of that thrift will be revealed when the calendars flip over and the computers start again at 00.Nobody is quite sure what will happen then. Will the computer systems running power supplies, oil lines, nuclear power plants become so confused by the date change they shut down, just to be on the safe side? Or will millions of embedded chips - isolated chips programmed to perform one particular function, and described by one expert as "the dirty little Y2K secret of all production facilities" - shut everything off further down the line?The government agency, Action2000, says preparations for the Year 2000 are well in hand, and companies whose services society has come to depend upon will soon have to prove they've taken precautions to make sure the millennium bug does not disrupt life to any serious degree. But even the government will, next month, launch a public awareness campaign to give each of us ways to reduce our vulnerability . They will issue a sort of Protect and Survive for the digital age which will detail what happens if the bug causes such a collapse in infrastructure that an emergency is declared.Some say it's too little, too late - and claim to have the evidence to prove it. Martyn Emery is one. He claims he spoke to Tony Blair twice about the millennium bug, before he publicly suggested the Greenwich millennium celebrations should "under no circumstances go ahead", because of the dangers of power cuts, emergency service communication problems and the ensuing chaos. Now he's not welcome at Downing Street. "They just didn't want to hear that," he says.The problem is nobody is sure exactly which systems are vulnerable  or what will happen. Emery has researched worst-case disaster scenarios on behalf of the Metropolitan Police, and presented his findings to the US Presidential Year 2000 Commission, but admits these papers are only to get people thinking. "There is a real degree of randomness in this whole crisis," he admits, "and it has become if anything more unpredictable and more difficult to determine exactly what's going to happen."Last week, sitting in his office in Washington, he was not feeling too optimistic. "Three months ago I was feeling confident about the preparations. But now I've met with  Year 2000 leaders from over a hundred different countries - and I've got a primary feel for how countries, and regions, are doing collectively. And I can also see the implications of things like Kosovo on places like Bulgaria and Hungary. They've actually gone back in the last six weeks in terms of Year 2000 compliance. In the last three months I've gone back to thinking that we're in a very serious situation."I know, first hand, that we have no minimum confidence in the Russian countries - they're just not making enough progress quickly - and it's the same for the African nations, and South America. The direct impact may be, firstly, be environmental - especially from Russia. The big unknown is, if the power grid goes down there. There are a number of nuclear reactors primarily from submarines which have been discarded, but need cooling. Everyone I've spoken to thinks there's going to be some sort of major nuclear accident."
Are we headed for a global catastrophe? He offers little reassurance. "There's no question it could well be a catastrophe," he says. "Our goal is to turn it into a disaster, really, to bring it down to a level where we can recover."Angela Henderson is not waiting to find out if Emery's bug busters reach their target. Last year, having researched 
  the millennium bug problem, and considered the fragile nature of our interconnected world, she took drastic action. In a blaze of publicity, she moved with her computer programmer husband Jeremy Perron and two young children from their home in Bath to rural Morayshire, in the north of Scotland, to make themselves more self-sustaining, and less vulnerable to the effects of the millennium bug - be they power failures, water, food and fuel shortages, or civil disorder.Now, the former environmental campaigner says she's happy to be out of the media spotlight. "We were a subject of ridicule", she says. But she is still ready to fight on and persuade others of the challenge the Y2K bug throws down to the world.She is now one of the leading lights of Y2K Community Action Network - Y2K CAN - a nationwide drive to get communities to prepare for the turn of the year. The network - a mix of computer experts, environmentalists and academics who met over the internet - began their campaign with a briefing in London yesterday for green and community groups, who they hope will help prepare neighbourhoods for the loss of key services on and after New Year - something they claim the government is failing to do."Theirs is the opposite policy to what has been adopted in the States," says Angela, "where the Federal Emergency Management Agency has taken a proactive line and actively encouraged the setting up of local preparedness groups."There are now, in the States, over 120 such groups taking it extremely seriously. It's because of the difference in psychology between the Americans and English. People in the UK have not dealt with any emergencies since the Second World War. People in the States are used to dealing with hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, and so on. They've had a lot more experience of having to store food."The American Red Cross has issued advice on their website that everyone should have at least two to three week's worth of food in stock, plus a month's salary and medicines, and fuel. What these preparedness groups are doing is storing on a central basis, because it's silly for everyone to buy Calor gas stoves, food and so on - and we need to get them in village halls, town halls and other central places."We're looking at, for instance, the storing of food as food insurance, not as panic buying, particularly if people do it now rather than later in the year. They should have canned and dried food, as well as a month's worth of extra essential medicines - especially if people are dependent on drugs like diabetics, when they might die if they don't have them. What people must think ahead of is that there may be disruptions in  countries that we import from. You will need an extra method of heating and cooking which is not dependent on electricity, like Calor gas and camping stoves, or solid fuel."Angela admits it's an uphill struggle to persuade people to prepare for the worst. "People in the UK are quite private and insular. They do have the Dunkirk sprit underneath the surface, but it does take quite a bit to mobilise that."But the group will push for the caring, community based reaction to the bug they've seen in the States. "The model we'd like to see adopted here is that groups set themselves up, using existing structures like our neighbourhood watch for example, to identify local people who would be vulnerable if there were power cuts. There are old people, disabled people, those living on their own or with a lot of children; if the worst case scenario unfolds, in the middle of winter, then people can help each other."No way to wipe out bug
Even Action 2000, the government agency set up to oversee the fight against the millennium bug, is unable to say all will run smoothly this New Year. Gwynneth Flower, the agency's managing director, says we should expect minor problems to appear before, during and after the big day."You cannot completely eradicate the bug," she says. "We have to make sure the problems and the bug are short-term and localised. We've already had problems with the bug, and will continue to have minor problems with increasing frequency. Of course, to the individual it happens to it isn't minor, but to the nation at large it is. 
 
"That will peak, in my view, in January 2000. Of course you mustn't forget there's a 29th of February, which is another vulnerable date, and even the following 31st of December.
"So I think the problems will continue, but will be within the normal capacity of business to right them, virtually throughout the millennium period."I think there will be a period over the millennium when the stresses, because of millennium activity, will put all the systems under stress - and that will have nothing to do with the bug."When I hear what's going to happen in London over that period I think ‘My God, I'm glad I'm not concerned sorting that out.'"None of us can be sure that there is not going to be a problem which affects us, but it isn't going to be of a severity that will cause major problems. If people want to rush for the hills then good luck to them, but I'm not sure I'd like to be in the hills in this country in the middle of winter."
"In Korea," Jeremy Clarkson recently wrote in Top Gear magazine, "a dog is not just for Christmas. There should be some left over for Boxing Day, too." Thus spake the seraph of motoring journalism. Winging my way to South Korea's third motor show, I checked the in-flight menu with justifiable apprehension. My bigger concern, however, was whether, after Clarkson's outburst, a British car writer in Seoul might not be seen as fair game and served up for starters.Two days later, taking a break from the media crush to test drive Daewoo's revised Nubira saloon, I edged carefully towards the crunch question. I asked my guide, Hyeon-Je Cho, whether he was familiar with Mr Clarkson's column. "Oh yes, we all know his work," he told me. "And does it hurt anyone's feelings that he doesn't seem to like Korea, or its cars?" At this point, Mr Cho seemed to indicate that he did not understand me. My attention was then rapidly diverted to the quartet of armed police who had emerged into the middle of the road, ahead of our Nubira.This was an unusual test route for what was proving to be a highly unusual show. The road ran parallel to the heavily guarded border with communist North Korea. I guessed that western car testers, even without jeans and curly hair, might not be very welcome in this potential combat zone. A debate ensued between the policemen over my license and home address (try explaining what a cottage is in sign language); my translator told me that they claimed I was doing about 40mph more than the national speed limit, which only goes to show how quiet and smooth these new Nubiras are. My grasp of Ural-Altaic languages was far weaker than Mr Cho's English, but I guessed enough to know I had been lucky and decided to drop the questions about Clarkson, or dogs.Up to 600,000 visitors were expected to attend Korea's third car show, 20,000 of them foreign. A word of advice, however, before you hop on the 11-hour flight: don't go unless you want to see only Korean cars. Though billed as an international event, the show is a three-  horse race. On the ground floor, there were stands for Korean makers Daewoo, Hyundai and Kia and, er, that's it. Upstairs, there were several humble booths for car parts makers, but the European influence, reflecting the buying habits of Korea's motorists, amounts to zilch.Up on the second floor, Mark Norcliffe, of the UK's society of motor manufacturers and traders, cut a lonely jib amid a sea of piston rings, exhausts and sprockets. The Korean automobile manufacturers association hired 3,142 pyong of space (a pyong is about 3.3 square metres), but Norcliffe's stand was barely a quarter of a pyong. In fact, if you subdivided his stand to show his respective responsibilities, makers like Vauxhall, Rover, Jaguar and Ford would each have to settle for a few square inches. The Korea Times, incidentally, said foreign makers had boycotted the event due to "differences", while UK car makers say they are habitually turned away because there is "no room" for them.But then sales of cars from anywhere outside Korea aren't huge there. Out of one million cars bought in Korea last year, 1,800 were foreign. A big reason for the imbalance is import tax, which stands at 30-40%. Buying foreign is also said to excite fervent interest in your affairs from the local tax man.There are, however, deeper reasons for Korea's home-alone philosophy. Having spent much time this century on the wrong end of Japanese and Chinese jackboots, the country   has learned that it should try to do all it can for itself.But the desire to be different does find occasional expression on the road, usually with rabid tastelessness. Try, for starters, the show's new Kia Retona-M off-roader. This retro Willys-lookalike has matt camouflage bodywork a bit out of place on the school run. Still with Kia, the latest version of the best-selling recreation vehicle, the Carnival, was also on show. Resplendent in glitter paint, this awkward lump has all the grace of a customised Transit, though it does have a drinks cabinet, cream leather and beige curtains.Kia's stand was called Spirit Of The Earth and had two model volcanoes, complete with mock flowing   lava. All of which proves that Korean makers can be just as silly and pretentious as British ones when it comes to exhibitions.A custom car, of course, can be anything from a firm promise to an outright sham. Daewoo seems to have its heart firmly set on progressing the Mirae, a futuristic design first conceived at the maker's Worthing offices. As looks go, the Mirae was the most innovative and elegant show offering. The idea is that you can have a sports car with all the implied sport but none of the implicit squeeze. Working models showed how the seats and dashboard innards can be moved around to match any permutation of family needs. Close details, however, were a little sketchy; as yet, there are no tangible instrumentation displays and most of the illustrations are virtual.One concept car from Hyundai which is solemnly promised for UK shores next August is the Santa Fe 4x4. It was designed in California, possibly by someone with a grudge against his bosses. Part Ford Focus, part Massey Ferguson, the Santa Fe is a big ugly brute that will certainly make many of its rivals look either effeminate or boring.For the most part though, my appreciation of Korean cars was skewed by the language barrier. The opportunities for misunderstanding are limitless. Take, for instance, Deawoo's Damas, a small van. The design makes sense, but if you bought one and your local bobby asked you to "Kindly move your damn ass out of the way", there could be all kinds of misunderstandings. Still on the commercial front, Hyundai's small pick-up, based on the Atoz, could be handy for plumbers or lumberjacks. But will they be happy being seen in something called a Tutti?For my money, the wisely named Matiz is still the most sensible Korean car money can buy, given the low costs, Prescott-friendly three-cylinder engine and interior acreage. Daewoo's Seoul display for the car, however, left me perplexed: "Potential power does not mean to harmonize only for smallization, but in the part of the century which standardization of great power and speed can be lasted forever, securing for thinking which moves freely should involve affection for uncertainty." My thoughts, er, precisely. Now which way was it to the airport?
What do you drive?I'm driving a Bentley S3 Convertible. I've always driven classic cars. The first one I got was a 1959 Mercedes, then a 1967 Mercedes I can't remember the models, but they were big ones. You see, I go for looks above all.Obviously.They were powerful, nonetheless. I went for a brand new car once. Although it was wonderful and felt fantastic, it just didn't feel right. It's like falling in love with a painting; it's the beauty of the thing an aesthetic.What does it say about you?I'd be a bit worried about that. Small man, big car.Clichés aside, what else?This particular one is a Chinese eye, and they're very rare especially the convertible. It just has the most beautiful lines. It's not about status, but it does make people fall madly in love with it, including me.How would you describe your driving, then?That depends on the day.Friday afternoon at 5.30?Stately. I'd be on the way to the country.12.30pm, on a Wednesday, in central London?Purposeful.Ever get erratic, or dangerous?The car doesn't want to do that. It's incredibly powerful and has an engine that just goes "RAAAR". I like it when it's purring like a puma. I'm a pretty ideal driver. I always look.That's a start. Ever had a prang?No.What would you do to the other driver if you did?Kill them. Road rage wouldn't even come near describing it. It would be very Hannibal Lecter.Cannibalism aside, how do you normally react to being cut up?It never happens. People just love it, and stand aside. I have a lovely time.Have you ever had sex in a car?No I haven't, but that doesn't mean I wouldn't. I'm open to offers.
CastlevaniaNintendo 64 £44.99Konami 01895 853000Castlevania has been around since the mid 80s, appearing on consoles from the NES to the PlayStation and now on the N64. Its vampire-hunting platforming action has always been popular, and like other classics, it has now been "updated" into 3-D. It is set in the mid-nineteenth century and your aim is to destroy Dracula and restore confidence to sleeping virgins everywhere. In a nod to sexual equality you can control either Reinhardt or Carrie, both of whom have access to individual levels in the game.Releasing a 3-D game on the N64 is a tough challenge for any developer as the system is home to the pinnacles of the genre, Mario 64 and Zelda. Any new release will be compared to these, and unfortunately Castlevania fails to match the high standards set by these works of gaming art.The main failure is with that crucial element of 3-D games: the camera. It is hard enough lining up gravity-defying jumps and avoiding the bloodsucking hordes without having to worry about being able to see what you are doing. Death is a common and incredibly frustrating occurrence. Add to this the blurry graphics, which lack colour and definition, and it seems that Konami has messed up the conversion to 3-D.But Castlevania does have a genuinely creepy atmosphere, which drives you on despite vowing never to play again after falling off the umpteenth ledge. The superbly eerie sound effects and well drawn cut-scenes involving vampires, mirrors and blood soaked rose gardens also inspire you to carry on with the Zelda-inspired night-to-day feature giving the find key/pull lever puzzles a bit of variety.Castlevania offers a flawed but annoyingly-addictive experience, although there is a coffin's worth of wasted potential.  If you are patient the thrill of hunting Dracula compensates for the jerky camera and some unforgiving levels. Less-restrained vampire stalkers may be better off waiting for the sequel at the end of the year.Greg HowsonDisney's Story Studio - Winnie the Pooh and Tigger TooDisney Interactive £29.99  PC/Mac CD-RomWindows 95/98Mac System 7.1 or later, 8Mb Ram, 10 Mb hard disk spaceDisney hasn't done much here beyond shoe-horning Pooh, Tigger and the rest into the standard conceptual format used for all its other kiddie cartoon spin-off CD-Roms. In contrast, Disney's first Winnie the Pooh cartoons play quite inventively with their status as much-loved books (there are lots of jokes about page numbers and dancing text).Nothing like that here, unfortunately. Indeed, if you've bought any Disney kid's CD-Rom, you pretty much know the drill. You can follow through the story (about Rabbit's attempts to stop Tigger's bouncing), click on various things to reveal little surprises, and then play various games.Though the general approach lacks imagination, that doesn't mean kids won't enjoy it. The visuals look good and run smoothly. Perhaps the real problem is the lack of depth. You really don't get much for your money.Jim McClellan
Access.govThe article Parliament Unplugged (OnLine, 13 May) was a little unfair, since it told only half the story. The official House of Commons/Lords site is excellent, with full text searchable Hansard, forthcoming business, Research Reports, Select Committees Reports etc just the way a web site should be. It's so good that I expect every day to have it taken away.Website access to government in general (the official UK government website) is pretty good, although not perfect. However, if we compare it to the official party sites we discover that the Labour Party site is laughably feeble in content, and rather flaky - especially if compared with the Lib Dem site or even (whisper it) the Tory party site. New Labour is still puffing to catch up with those fuddy-duddy civil servants in Parliament and Government that they can sometimes - sotto voce - be heard to deride.Paul WingroveUniversity of GreenwichWeb pages are OK, but not essential. The facility to email MPs is required. This is available on the parliament website. All the email symbols point to the same site with only the last three digits unique to the MP. So the system is up. But the MPs are not running. It would seem that all this was disregarded in the interest of a good unbalanced story.Keith Scottkscott@c-zone.demon.co.ukIt was a pity your cover story did not extend its political horizon beyond Westminster.
British MEPs were well ahead of their Commons colleagues in embracing the wired world. I established a website for Alex Falconer MEP about three and a half years ago. The irony is that Alex, labelled a dinosaur for his support of clause IV, was almost the first MEP to have a website.Dave SmithUntil parliamentary protocol and MPs' attitudes change, the very notion of "digital democracy" is specious.I recently searched for a list of MPs' email addresses. The parliamentary website - which you can search by area, name, consituency - doesn't summarise wired MPs: you can't, for instance, download a single file of email addresses.I eventually did find a file of some 260 email addresses  on a "decriminalise cannabis website". I set out to write to as many MPs as possible to engage in some kind of dialogue about the war with Milosevic.Fewer than a dozen MPs replied. Of these, a couple wrote at length attaching or pasting in press releases; one wrote at length - on paper.Alun Severnalun@ukiah.demon.co.ukUnder fireAlthough welcoming Fred Pearce's timely introduction to the World Fire Web Project (Fires Next Time, May 13), I cannot let his simplistic asides about the links between tropical vegetation fires and possible global warming pass unremarked.What people fail to grasp about tropical vegetation fires is that they have been going on for millions of years. They are not new, from the annual savanna burns to the more irregular forest fires. Moreover, between 18,000 to 12,000 years ago, under the drier conditions obtaining at the end of the last Ice Age, there were probably far more fires because most of the current forested areas were then savanna grasslands.Attempts to shift the moral and scientific blame for gas emissions to the countries of the South are totally unacceptable and blatant examples of neo-colonialist thinking.Philip Stott,Professor of Biogeography,University of LondonBullet pointI am unable to decide whether Steve Wright is misinformed or chooses not to reveal the primary reason so many police and special forces require dum-dum bullets (Lethal Weapons, May 13). Ammunition which dumps the maximum amount of energy on impact is unlikely to exit the body of an attacker and cause secondary injuries to bystanders or hostages. Airline security personnel  favour this type of ammunition. Normal high-velocity ammunition can puncture the skin of an aircraft.Noel K HannanCreweAddrssinge-mail:online@guardian.co.ukfax: 0171-713 4154Post: OnLine, The Guardian, 119 Farringdon Rd, London EC1R 3ERTelephone 0171-278 2332Please include a full postal address and a contact telephone number. Short letters stand a better chance of being published unedited.
What was your introduction to computers?My dad had a BBC Computer - one of those fabulous old clunky things with an Apple monitor. He used it for writing - for his work, and I think we used it to make pretty patterns.Are computers important?I am quick to adopt new technology - "gadget man" some people call me! I get great, great use out of computer technology for all aspects of my work. However, I do have to guard a bit against computers taking over my life.Does the internet threaten or enhance individual freedom?It's mostly liberating. However, nobody could deny that there is a sinister aspect to it, which will cause problems for some people. In moderation, it's a great thing.Do you use a PC or an Apple Mac?I committed to PCs for my business and have gone too far to junk them and replace them with Macs - although if Steve Jobs is reading this and can offer an amazing deal, I might be forced to reconsider. I really think that Macs have much more style, better design and they are faster.What do you use the machine for?Mostly for work - both in the office and at home. It's vital as far as the business is concerned: everything from our financial control, to all aspects of programme production and email. 
We use the Internet as a tool in radio programme production. It's great as long as you know when to log off!Anything you'd like but can't have yet?I'd really like the next step up from ISDN - a really fast connection. Even though my PC is a fast machine, I still seem to spend ages waiting for my mailbox to synchronise!Do you get into dialogues with strangers on the net?Only via email when people correspond with me about my shows at BBC Radio 1.Any favourite gadgets?I just got one of those Sony PCG C1F laptops which look more like a palmtop - except they have huge specifications and even a built-in camera - perfect for my gadget man mentality.Spend long at the terminal?If you asked my wife she would say definitely too long. Perhaps she's right!Are you a geek?I don't think so - but most people would say that, wouldn't they!On a desert island, a computer or human for company?Human every time!Professionally, what's taking up your time?Some new radio programmes and some new projects with my company.
In the year or so since The X-Stream Network pioneered the idea, free net services - on which users pay only for their telephone calls  - have changed everything. Now Dixon's Freeserve is far and away the biggest ISP in the country.Two months ago, it had 1.5 million registered users - almost double the number of AOL, the previous market leader. Scores of other companies have joined in: ISPs that used to charge (Virgin, LineOne, Tesco and UK Online), non-net companies (WH Smith, The Sun - via CurrantBun.com - and The Mirror Group - via ic24.net) and technology companies (games publisher Eidos and PC manufacturers Gateway).If you're just starting out online, should you go with a free ISP? Which should you choose? If you are paying, should you switch to a free service?Rather like AOL, the free services have tried to make it as easy as possible to get their software. You can get discs on the high street or phone up and have them sent over. If you're already online, you can download what you need from some free ISPs.To sign up online with many free ISPs, you need Internet Explorer. Also, you won't be able to connect with a free ISP if your telephone line withholds Caller Line Identity (CLI), information forwarded with calls from BT residential lines (it helps the 1471 function work). Basically you need to get your net dial up software to add 1470 at the start of your net account number. Most free ISPs can help you sort this out.New Gateway PCs are set up to access the company's free service. Perhaps Apple missed a trick with the iMac. As it is, if you have an iMac (or any other kind of Mac), you have to hunt around for a free ISP (try Virgin, CurrantBun, Tesco or UK Online).The WH Smith disc insists you install Internet Explorer 5 before you can connect. But the X-Stream Network lets you choose between browsers. Currant Bun's site requires you to sign up and download its software before it tells you what's on offer.Most free ISPs are offering roughly similar packages. Alongside basic access, you get software (usually Internet Explorer) email accounts and web space for your home page (anything from 10–20Mb). Some free ISPs don't offer access to Usenet newsgroups. All charge for calls to the tech support lines, though prices are coming down; £1 a minute was the standard charge, now it's around 25p.Critics suggest that the free services are clogged with ads.  True, X-Stream does pump ads at you. But the others just deliver the banner ads you find on the commercial web. More irritating is WH Smith's version of Internet Explorer, which features little company logos all over the borders of the browser frame.Most free ISPs have problems handling traffic when they start. Some Free-serve users told me the service was unreliable at first but had improved considerably. Some Virgin users complained that since it went free, the service has slowed down.If your free ISP is failing to deliver, try another. Some analysts suggest that people will have several free net accounts and switch between them. But having several free accounts can cause technical problems. Freeserve, in particular, reconfigures your browser so that it uses a proxy server – a computer that stores copies of popular web pages and hence helps speed up access times. This can be fixed; indeed, some of the smarter free ISPs have directions on the changes you need to make (try Yahoo! Online).Freeserve clearly thinks content is the way to keep users. Other free ISPs are following suit, building fairly standard portal sites which offer news stories, shopping, community areas and special webcasts. Most don't make their content exclusive to those signed up to them: Currant Bun is an exception.Both WH Smith and UK Online are going for family users via special content on their portals. You don't need to sign up with W H Smith to get the content but you do to get free use of the Cyber Patrol filterware package for a year - this will stop kids accessing "unsuitable" sites.Freeserve is planning to offer discounts on telephone calls soon which may persuade more people to switch. No-cost surfing is already available on Screaming.net. Set up by electronics retail chain Tempo and the Surrey-based telco LocalTel, it also offers free off-peak telephone calls; dial into the net at weekends or in the evening, you pay nothing. But you do have to get your telephone access from LocalTel.You also need a Screaming.net disc, available only through branches of Tempo, and the company is, rather sensibly, rationing their distribution, as it establishes its service.AOL recently announced trials of unlimited calls to a freephone number in return for a flat monthly fee. For a heavy net user, this would be cheaper than the free ISPs. 
If you're using the net for business, perhaps you should stick with one that charges. They can offer more reliable support and specialist services (eg forwarding email to your pager). But for home users, free ISPs seem the best bet.
 Experienced home users who think their monthly fees automatically buy them better service ought to try a free ISP. But don't stick with an ISP, free or otherwise, if it's not up to the mark. And keep looking for better deals.Free ISPs mentioned above:Freeserve:www.freeserve.netW.H. Smith:www.whsmith.co.ukCurrant Bun:www.currantbun.comYahoo! Online:www.yahoo.co.uk/yahooclickTesco:www.tesco.netLine One:www.lineone.netVirgin:www.virgin.netic24:www.ic24.netEidos:www.eidosnet.co.ukGateway:www.ukgateway.netBT ClickFree:www.btclickfree.netThe X-Stream Network:www.x-stream.comScreaming.net:www.screaming.net
Flashy advertsSome of the Guardian's New Media techies regard the animation plug-in Shockwave Flash as slightly passé. But sellers of net-unfriendly products - chocolate bars, new cars, anything that you wouldn't normally charge to a credit card, or try before buying - have pounced on Flash as an advertising medium. TheVolkswagen New Beetle siteis an outstanding example. The flashing lights game comes highly recommended.Taste tellsCadbury still haven't spotted the latent demand for Salty Chocolate Balls, and their Shockwave sites are less than compelling. But if you overlook theNestlébaby milk powder scandal, is an entertaining place to go: it lists most of the company's foreign brands and links to their sites. How can the Japanese be persuaded to buy KitKats? And why do the French eat Flanby?Bid for the topYahoolaunched a British auction site last week at, to rivaleBay'sUK branch.. Listings are free and there is no commission. In an online auction, the lot goes to the highest email bidder; those looking for obscure pieces of memorabilia, rather than Star Wars merchandise or one of the ubiquitous Beanie Babies, are more likely to find bargains.ET, phone SetiRemember Jodie Foster's mission in Contact? Well, the Seti@home project launched on Monday. Despite its name, the Society for Extraterrestrial Intelligence is a wholly serious endeavour. Cosmologists have been trying to identify alien intelligence (which would take the form of a particular pattern of radio signals) since 1960. By downloading a 250K screen-saver from the site atwww.seti.orgyour 
   computer can use its idle time to process radio data from a telescope in Puerto Rico. "Never before has there been an opportunity for anyone, anywhere in the world to join the scientific search for intelligent beings elsewhere in our universe," 
says one of the project's sponsors.She in spaceFans of female astronauts should look at theWomen in Spacepages  which profile every woman ever involved in a space mission. They're part of the excellent Encyclopaedia Astronautica site.Fear of flyingAirsafehttp://airsafe.comexamines the dangers of being sealed in a metal tube and launched into the atmosphere, and compares the safety records of carriers and models.
Hot (or cold) stuff
For the best weather on the web tryWunderground. To get a map of anywhere in the UK, go toMultimapthen find out how far the journey is atwww.indo.com/distance• Ros Taylor works  in the Guardian's New Media Department
Let's be realistic about US policy, says Cool Look on an internet "chat room" operating out of Beijing. The embassy bombing must have been an accident: how could Washington want to make war on China?The reaction comes in fast from angry readers. "You're so gullible," writes Anti-USA. (Like many Chinese internet users, the writer adopts an English name.) "If you had been reading the news you wouldn't be talking nonsense," says New Person. And from another hostile critic : "Have you got eyes? You must be an imperialist dog."Yet other contributors to Chinese websites over the past week have struck the same thoughtful note as Cool Look. This includes several postings on a bulletin board run by thePeople's Daily- newspaper flagship of the Chinese Communist Party ). The commercial website (www.haodaola.com.cn) Zhaodaola has published comments criticising last week's demonstrations as overly negative and unhelpful to China. One writer questions the value of "marching and cursing". If brave words were enough, he says, "99% of the world's population would be heroes".Others warn that excessive reaction blunts the force of protest and puts China seemingly in the wrong when right is actually on its side.The net debate illustrates a much wider spread of opinion than is reflected on Chinese television and newspapers. The commercial sites appear to have enjoyed considerable freedom: apologies for the attack on the Chinese embassy from Nato and the US were posted several days before they were even alluded to in the mass media. It is not clear how far the moderate voices on the websites reflect similar arguments within the leadership. The absence of pro-democracy messages on the sites indicates that there are limits to official tolerance."It's a very complicated phenomenon," says a Chinese observer speaking for the younger generation. "The bombing has touched a raw nerve: now we are getting everything off our chest."All the contributors are outraged by the Belgrade bombing. Many of the shorter messages consist simply of invective: "Dogs will always eat their own shit," offers one contributor to a debate on the meaning of US foreign policy.But some longer postings thoughtfully explore the limitations of nationalistic outrage. Calls for a boycott of US goods have also been rejected.One essay on the People's Daily's site even suggests a parallel between the student demonstrations last week and those 10 years ago in Tiananmen Square. Both events, it argues, suffered from a lack of realism which in the end was counter-productive.
Zhaodaola and other sites are open to foreign contributors but most postings appear to come from the mainland.
Dolphin dives inAt last week's E3 computer games show in Los Angeles, Howard Lincoln, boss of Nintendo of America, gave some details of Nintendo's next-generation games console, code-named Dolphin, which will be launched by Christmas next year. He said it would be "extremely powerful, but not expensive. We are absolutely confident Dolphin will graphically exceed anything from Sony and PlayStation 2". 
Dolphins will be made by Matsushita, which will provide the built-in DVD drives, and powered by a modified 400MHz 0.18 micron IBM PowerPC chip. Sony and Toshiba will use similar chips in the PlayStation 2 but, said Howard, "Toshiba has never mass produced a chip with 0.18 micron technology. IBM is already doing it". Another version of the console will be sold under the Panasonic brand name as a DVD video and CD player with Internet connectivity. However, the deal was not good news for Mips, the former subsidiary of Silicon Graphics Inc (SGI), which designed the processor used in both the Sony PlayStation and the Nintendo 64. Mips currently gets 75% of its income from Nintendo licence payments.Civilised meetingCivilization III doesn't exist yet - Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri is a sequel and Activision's Civilization: Call To Power is different - but it could become a reality. Hasbro Interactive has engineered the "reunion of the official Civilization dream team": Sid Meier, Brian Reynolds and others who left Microprose to found Firaxis will work with Tony Parks and the programmers who stayed with the company, which Hasbro bought last year. But you don't need to start saving up yet. Asked when the game might appear, Meier said: "We will do it as quickly as possible." Which means at least two years.Golden oldiesHasbro, the toy company that owns Monopoly, has recently enjoyed commercial success with updated versions of two antique arcade games, Pong and Frogger. Now it is planning to exhume and restore numerous titles from the 80s, including Q*Bert and Tetris, and a string of Atari classics such as Asteroids, Centipede, Missile Command and Tempest. It may prove hard to "modernise" titles where the gameplay can be summed up as "shoot anything descending from the top of the screen"  but the over-40s who presumably buy these things to relive their youth don't really have time to play them anyway.Ocarina's bright noteZelda 64: Ocarina of Time (Nintendo) scooped up six awards and was voted Game of the Year at the Academy of Interactive Arts and Sciences' second annual awards ceremony held in Los Angeles during last week's E3 exhibition. Valve's Half-Life took the Computer Game of the Year Award. Other winners included Banjo-Kazooie (Nintendo/Rare), 
 A Bug's Life (Disney Interactive/Traveller's Tale), Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri 
(Electronic Arts/Firaxis), and Starsiege Tribes (Sierra Online/Dynamix). The full results should eventually be available on AIAS's website at www.interactive.org/iaa/
$12m ride
Donkey Kong 64, developed in the UK by Rare, will be Nintendo's next blockbuster. The $12m US launch on November 22 will be the biggest in the industry's history. Perfect Dark, Rare's follow-up to GoldenEye 007, is expected around the same time. This game's tough new female character, Joanna Dark, is already being seen as a rival to Tomb Raider's Lara Croft.Swapping gamesMicrosoft has signed a cross-licensing deal with Japanese giant Konami that will allow it to convert Konami games like Metal Gear Solid and Silent Hill for the PC while Konami converts Microsoft games for games consoles. Microsoft games currently in development include Age of Empires: The Age of Kings, Flight Simulator 2000, Flight Simulator 2000 Professional Edition, Asheron's Call, and Pandora's Box. Silent Hill (PlayStation), the even more atmospheric follow-up to Metal Gear Solid, has already been released in Japan and is expected to reach the UK this summer. See www.silenthill.comOff licencesActivision is writing a PlayStation game around a Marvel Comics character, Spiderman. Two French companies are also working with cartoon heroes: UbiSoft is developing a series of console games featuring Disney's Donald Duck, while Infogrames is working on Bugs Bunny: Lost in Time.
Back on tour
Gran Turismo, one of the best games available for the Sony PlayStation, is re-released tomorrow on the budget Platinum label (£19.99) after selling more than six million copies at full price. Yes, it's a bargain. However, it will also help train more drivers for the enhanced Gran Turismo 2 - more cars, better graphics - which is due in the autumn.
By 2005, if Hitachi Europe and a team at Cambridge University have anything to do with it, the hard drive will be on the way out. Memory will be stored on a new kind of chip. One will be enough to cope with the download - in a few seconds - of  both the sights and sounds of a full length movie. It could be the dawn, they  say, of a new era of nomadic computing. It could be 
the road to terabytes for everybody.The step forward is the announcement, this week, of a Hitachi chip trademarked PLEDM, which stands for Phase-state Low Electron(hole)-number Drive Memory. It comes with a new transistor (trademarked PLEDTR) stacked on to the gate of a conventional transistor, an integration claimed as a world first. It means a new piece of computing hardware with an area that of a single transistor but a read/write time of 10 billionths of a second. It traffics in thousands of electrons, rather than millions. The payoff is a large signal even in low-voltage operation, so there is a saving in power. This means smaller batteries, which will lead to lighter, more compact hardware.The design, its begetters claim, sidesteps the problems of existing memory.D-Ram is high speed, but when you switch the power off you lose the lot. Flash is non-volatile - the memory survives the off-switch - but is a lot slower.The plan is to modify the barrier structure in the electron channel of the new device and hand the world a fragment of silicon that is prodigiously fast in handling memory, prodigiously vast in storing it and, like a diamond, is forever.It is another step on the way to the single-electron computer. Dr Hiroshi Mizuta of the Hitachi Cambridge Laboratory says the scaling down in current has huge pay-offs. "There are two points. There is merit in having a smaller number of electrons. But it is important that memory works and that operation 
is guaranteed by using a smaller number of electrons."It may be some years before a new generation of mobile phones, personal stereos and notebook computer s are equipped with the new semiconductors. But they'll be more compact, and with more firepower. "This device is aimed at mobility," says Haroon Ahmed, professor of electronics at the Cavendish Laboratory, "at what some people are calling the nomadic existence: where you go around doing your job wherever find yourself, like at an airport, waiting for your plane."
Web warsE-commerce may take over the world - but who is going to make money? A fierce price war has broken out between Amazon.com and its rival, Barnesandnoble.com both of whom have announced discounts of 50% on web book sales. This a salutary reminder that the internet isn't a licence to make money except - in the short term - for  shareholders. If a cut-price war can break out in books why  can't it happen in other sectors as competition hots up? Amazon is diversifying into auctions and  areas like on-line grocery sales where similar cut-throat competition could spring up.One (small) rival auction site has already abolished commission charges. All of this is good news for consumers. But it doesn't justify the hugely inflated prices that internet companies still command on the stock markets. But Sony, the Japanese  electronics group and manufacturer of the PlayStation, believes that its shares are undervalued because it is rated as an electronics company rather than a fashionable "content provider". Sony's $38bn capitalisation on the stock markets is less than its sales of $56bn while Amazon.com's worth on the market is many times its modest sales last year of $610 million on which it made a loss of $31m.Own goalAbbey National has scored an own-goal by charging customers £5 to pay utility bills at its branches - and given a big lift to web-based protest movements. Irate customers have set up their own site to let off steam. This is a curious use of the web - to back old fashioned methods of payment rather than electronic ones - but it shows that the net community is able to back the millions of customers that aren't on line.Net sexOne in four UK homes now has a personal computer and 22% of UK adults over 15 are connected to the internet according to the latest Mori poll commissioned by Intel. Mori also polled users in Sweden  where some 67% of the respondents were worried about fraud compared with only 39% in the UK. Curiously, 41% of Swedes thought that there was too much sex on the net compared with only 26% of Brits. Could this help to explain why approaching twice as many Swedes  are worried they might become addicted to the web?
Soon a cash machine will look you right in the eye before it decides if you can have your money. The system works by photographing your eye and converting the patterns on the iris - the coloured area around the pupil - into a sort of bar code that's as unique to each individual as a set of fingerprints. Other machines may recognise your face, your voice, your signature, your smell, or the shape of your hand. All these are part of a rapidly-emerging market for computerised "biometrics": the identification of individuals by something that is physical, unforgeable and unforgettable.Earlier this month, Bank United installed America's first Iris Recognition Automated Teller Machines, made by Diebold, in Kroger supermarkets in Houston, Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas. In the world's first public trial, the Nationwide installed ATMs made by NCR using the same iris recognition technology from US supplier, Sensar Inc. The same system is now being tried by Spain's largest bank, Argentaria, Italy's Banco Ambrosiano Veneto, Norway's Den Norske and Turkey's Akbank. Fingerprint verification has been used in cash machines in South Africa since 1997, while in Spain, the social services department is paying benefits using Identicator Technology's finger-imaging system with smartcards and 650 ATMs.And biometrics are not just being used for financial transactions. Hand scanners like the ID-3D Handkey from Recognition Systems Inc have been installed to control access to thousands of places including the Olympic Village in Atlanta in 1996, the Colombian legislature, and a Los Angeles sperm bank. Since 1993, they have been used in some US airports as part of the Inspass (Immigration and Naturalisation Service Passenger Accelerated Service System) project, which enables participants to clear US immigration in about 20 seconds. And a biometric system based on "two-finger geometry" is, appropriately enough, being used to control access to the executive suite at Barclaycard's offices in Northampton.Voice recognition systems are being used for applications such as telephone banking, where the pioneers include America's Chase Manhattan Bank. Dynamic signature verification - where a touch-sensitive pad is used to capture the speed and style of a signature, not just its appearance - has been tried in the UK for people claiming employment benefits in Liverpool and Tyneside, and in the canteen in Pentonville prison. Face recognition systems have been used to identify troublemakers in the crowd at Watford FC, and to secure the Pentagon's computer network. In the UK, Mastiff Electronic Systems has reportedly been working on a smell-based system called Scentinel.Of course, there's nothing new about biometrics: what's new is the use of computer technology to produce cheap systems. Matching fingerprints used to be an arduous task for experts. By 1968, a Wall Street investment bank, Shearson Hamill, was using a $20,000 automated system to control access to the vault holding  its stock certificates. Now finger-scanning systems from firms like Compaq (which uses Identicator Technology's system) and Siemens (FingerTIP, due in September) can be built into computer keyboards or laptop computers or attached to any PC for less than £100. Similar fingerprint systems will soon be built into mobile phones and, eventually, cars. This month, Connecticut-based Oxford Micro Devices announced that it had built one into the handle of a gun, preventing unauthorised users firing it.PC users can buy Visionics' FaceIt face recognition program for Microsoft Windows, which allows only people it knows to use the computer. If anyone else sits at your desk while you're out, FaceIt will keep a snapshot of them on the PC's hard drive, adding surveillance to security. Miros's TrueFace and Identification Technologies International's One-on-One are among the rival systems.There are also several security systems based on voice recognition, including Keyware Technologies' VoiceGuardian, Veritel's Voicecrypt, and Nuance Communications' Verifier.There's now a huge amount of activity, as the tumbling cost of computer processing power has started to make biometric systems both practical and affordable. But are they really necessary?There are three levels of security based on what someone carries, what he or she knows, and what he or she is. The last of these is biometrics. At the moment, the banking industry typically relies on the first two forms of authentication: a cheque card (what someone carries) and a four-digit PIN or personal identification number (what some- one knows). They'd like to replace the PIN or password with a biometric measurement.Jeff Dunn, a biometrics expert at America's National Security Agency, says: "Tokens - such as smartcards, magnetic stripe cards, physical keys and so forth - can be lost, stolen, duplicated or left at home. Passwords can be forgotten, shared or observed. Only biometric authentication bases an identification on an intrinsic part of a human being."But bringing biometrics into widespread use will still take time. John Doig, NCR's product manager for ATM security, says systems will be adopted only if  they're accepted by the public: "The key purchasing criterion for the banks is that the person in the street has to be willing to use the technology."So far the Nationwide's results have been surprisingly positive. According to an independent survey of the Nationwide trial by the Pegram Walters Group, 91% of customers preferred iris recognition to the use of a PIN or signature.One advantage, according to Doig, is that "the other &#91;systems&#93; all rely on the user doing something, and doing something properly. We should soon be able to capture the customer's iris without the need for any co-operation, and that's much better. But we need to continue to reduce its cost and reduce its obtrusiveness to make it a real winner". NCR expects the next generation of Sensar equipment will be smaller, and will do this.Another advantage of Iris patterns is that - unlike voices, hands and faces - they do not change over time. Unlike fingers, irises are not susceptible to dirt and damage that can affect the scan, and unlike DNA tests - which cannot distinguish between identical twins - they do seem to be unique.Of course, no authentication system is perfect, and the banking industry is concerned about the "high false reject rates" of some biometric systems, according to Richard Tyson-Davies of Apacs, the Association of Payment and Clearing Services.Errors in biometrics lead to an FAR (false acceptance rate) and an FRR (false reject rate): in other words, some people are accepted when they shouldn't be, while others are rejected when they shouldn't be. "What the industry can't tolerate," says Tyson-Davies, "is a genuine customer with a valid card being turned away. A false accept rate is less important, and if the occasional criminal gets away with something, well, they do that now anyway."They don't get away with much. Melanie Hubbard, also at Apacs, says that total losses to fraud involving cards were only £135m last year, and only £9.7m was lost to fraud at ATMs. A biometric system could reduce that, but it would have to offer better than 99.9% accuracy. Since there were 1.85bn ATM withdrawals last year,  one false rejection per thousand transactions would result in 1.85m false rejections.Also, there isn't much appeal to having a biometric system if it only works with a handful of cash machines, and users still have to remember a PIN for the others. Since there are more than 25,000 ATMs and 112 million bank cards in the UK, the change-over would take some time.Another problem with biometrics is that more than a hundred companies have developed systems, and few are compatible with one another. Several organisations are tackling this problem, and the BioAPI Consortium (www.bioapi.org) and the Human Authentication Application Programming Interface (HA-API) Working Group are jointly agreeing standard interfaces for applications programs. Many programs are already compatible with Gina, the Graphical Identification and Authentication code in Microsoft's Windows NT operating system.But the social implications more be more troublesome than the technical ones. Some observers think a biometric identifier, such as a finger- or iris-scan, provides the equivalent of a national identity card and it's one you have no choice about carrying.The good part is that a biometric identifier can stop people from making multiple applications for social security payments ("double dipping"), or punching time-clocks or taking driving tests for friends. It can also prevent "identity theft", where fraudsters apply for credit cards or benefits or buy goods using other people's names. The bad part is that government departments and commercial organisations could collect and match data gathered for different purposes, or even use biometrics to track people's movements. Reliable face recognition systems and the widespread use of CCTV cameras would provide a good basis for a police state.In response to such fears, suppliers have formed the International Biometric Industry Associationwww.ibia.organd in March, the IBIA announced a set of privacy principles. Richard Norton, the group's executive director, said: "These represent a clear stance by the industry that safeguards are essential as our technologies enter the mainstream. The principles are based on international agreements on data protection, and are constructed to address privacy concerns not only in the US but worldwide."However, others claim that biometrics are our only hope for security and therefore for privacy. With "one-to-one matching systems", the biometric data is not stored by governments or banks on central databases but by individual users on chip-based smartcards. Authentication then comes from the ATM or other machine comparing the user's finger- or iris scan with the one stored on the user's smartcard. If users can buy their own smartcards on the open market, they can use different biometrics - or just different fingers - on different cards, and to some extent protect their own privacy.
Despite the recent media frenzy and public concern, it is likely that food supplies in the future will hinge on the widespread application of plant genetic engineering.Plants produce the food we eat, the wood we build with and the fuel we burn. They are the source of millions of tons of organic chemicals and polymers every year. They also synthesise around 100,000 natural chemicals, many with uses as yet undreamed of, and all from sunlight, the carbon dioxide we breathe out, water and a few minerals.But tomorrow's crops will do more than just feed the world. Already a quarter of the top 20 drugs are genetically engineered proteins made in yeast and bacteria and soon, by genetic engineering, many of these pharmaceutical proteins may be made in plants.The need for easily distributed and administered vaccines has been put into sharp relief by the tragic worldwide increase in refugees. And  every year in developing countries more than 5m children under the age of five die from diarrhoeal diseases which in part could be prevented by vaccination.Plants have been a source of medicinal products since the beginning of civilisation, and many of today's medicines were originally identified in, and derived from, plants. Now, with genetic engineering, the humble potato - which was the start of the recent scare on GM food - could provide a safe, cheap edible plant vaccines.Conventional vaccines are produced from the serum of infected human carriers, animal cell cultures or by microbial fermentation and are injected, with the exception of a typhoid and polio vaccine which is administered orally.Vaccine antigens are specific proteins derived from the surface of a disease-causing organism but are incapable of causing the disease themselves. When introduced into humans and animals, they stimulate an immune response and the production of antibodies which combat the disease.Scientists in the USA have shown that modifying a potato with a gene coding for a vaccine antigen can produce edible plant vaccines against the enterotoxigenic E.coli which causes diarrhoea. Preliminary trials are being carried out on humans.Edible plant vaccines would have significant advantages, particularly for the developing world. They are cheaper to produce in large quantities, require no refrigeration, are easy to transport and would certainly be more acceptable to children.Edible plant vaccines also avoid the risk of contamination by toxins and infectious agents. Nor do they require sterile needles and syringes. In comparison to parenteral immunisation, oral vaccination takeup is more effective as it is less stressful and more acceptable.Another disease for which an edible plant vaccine is being developed is hepatitis B. This virus has infected more than third of the world's population, with about 350 million of those infected remaining as chronic carriers who continue to spread the illness. About 25% of carriers will develop chronic liver diseases such as cirrhosis and liver cancer and every year one to two million die as a result.Hepatitis B vaccine is currently made from yeast cells using recombinant DNA technology, or it is purified from the serum of infected human carriers. Mass prophylactic immunisation programmes have already been set up in many countries. But for cost and other reasons these programmes have not been introduced into the developing world.Charles Arntzen and colleagues at Cornell in New York State have shown that oral administration of a hepatitis B edible plant vaccine can generate an immune response in mice. And, at a recent conference, Hilary Koprowski of Thomas Jefferson University in Philadelphia reported a small clinical study in which people who had been fed transgenic lettuce containing a hepatitis B surface antigen developed an immune response to the ingested protein. Phase one clinical trials of hepatitis B booster vaccine produced in plants are planned for this year.Tests on animals have already shown that edible plant vaccines against cholera and Norwalk virus give an immune response and it is only a matter of time before human trials of edible plant vaccines against a range of infectious diseases begin.This research is in its infancy and much remains to be done. But plant genetic engineering may not only help feed the world; it could have the potential to combat many of its ills.• Christopher Leaver is the Sibthorpian Professor of Plant Science at Oxford
Right within our everyday world, there is another world where things are so small that we will never be able to see them, a world where sizes are measured in billionths of metres or nanometres: the nanoworld. In each cell of your body the machinery that keeps you alive consists of nanometre scale systems. Technology cannot match the subtle performance of these systems in the smallest space, but attempts at constructing machinery on this scale have grown into a new research discipline, known as nanotechnology. Some people predict that nanotechnology is going to turn our world upside down.The nanoworld has been the "neglected dimension". We know more about the world which can be seen, and about the even smaller world of atoms, small molecules, and the subatomic particles, than about the world which keeps our cells going. This implies that the gap can be narrowed from two sides: either by making visible micromachines smaller and smaller, until they reach nanoscale (the top-down approach). Or by exploiting what we know about atoms and small molecules and making them into something bigger (the bottom-up approach).The top-down approach to nanotechnology essentially consists in making the things that already exist on the micrometer scale even smaller by a factor of one thousand or so. This line of development has been followed with some success both in microelectronics and in microelectromechanical systems such as the small accelerometers now used in airbags.But its limitations are already becoming obvious. Although chips boasting transistors of only 100 to 200 nanometres in width can be made in principle, mass production of such chips can become extremely difficult. The conventional method of photolithography, which involves projecting the pattern of a larger mask onto the semiconductor surface using focused light, hits its limits in this area.Visible light with its wavelength range from 400 nanometres upwards can no longer be used, and UV light is more difficult to use. X-rays are being discussed as an alternative, but they cannot be focused as easily as visible or UV light. If and when these production problems are overcome, conventional microchips can be further miniaturised down to a threshold of approximately 30 nanometres. Beyond this threshold, the electronics could become error-prone. However, a chip built with 30 nanometres resolution would be small enough to fit into nanorobots the size of blood cells, so it would be suitable for fulfilling at least a few of the predictions people have made about the potential of nanotechnology.There is another approach, from the bottom up. Nanotechnology is often identified with the idea of handling individual atoms, of building nanoscale systems from scratch, atom by atom. If this is to result in anything useful, millions of atoms will have to be positioned using other systems, so-called assemblers, to automate this daunting task. Critics of the concept have argued that the natural tendency towards a more disordered state (higher entropy) would make this very difficult. Assemblers can't just crawl around the nanoworld ordering atoms in the way we want them to, without creating some disorder in exchange.What does work, however, and has been working nicely for billions of years, all over the globe, and in countless copies and variations, is the nanotechnology of the living cell. Now the cell never bothers about putting atoms into place. It uses a clever trick which I call the modular design principle. It makes a small set of small molecules, which are like Lego bricks in that you can easily put them together to build something larger, which is called a macromolecule (eg DNA, proteins). Instead of the knobs on the Lego bricks, the cell uses weak interactions, which are much more flexible than chemical bonds and can be made and broken more easily.The modular design principle can go one step further. Even macromolecules can be building blocks to make bigger machinery. This step often happens "by itself" because the macromolecules have exactly the right shape and binding preferences to build higher structures by a process called self-assembly. The protein factory of the cell for instance, can self-assemble almost magically from a mix of more than 50 different molecular units.Attempts to make artificial nanoscale systems by modular design are still in their early stages. Just being able to design a molecular system that will self-assemble is still a major success, and practical applications are still a long way off. At the Scripps Research Institute in California, Reza Ghadiri's group is designing and making peptides which can self-assemble to the most amazing structures, or even self-replicate. At Strasbourg, Nobel laureate Jean-Marie Lehn uses organic chemistry to build cleverly designed molecular jigsaws. Fraser Stoddart's group at Birmingham has built a molecular train set complete with start and stop signals. Nadrian Seeman at New York builds geometric structures and porous networks from DNA. And the group of Fritz Vogtle at the University of Bonn has got the longest experience in letting macromolecules grow into tree-like shapes, the so-called dendrimers.All these examples combine an aspect of playful exploration with the promise that artificial nanoscale structures may serve for complex functions, a potential which we have not even started to exploit, but which may well be the foundation of a nanotechnology revolution. The construction principles from studying the structural biology of the cell will be the most important input into nanotechnology, definitely more important than positioning atoms. Miniaturisation may still be helpful in providing small scale environmentsThe development of new "laboratory on a chip" methods are pointing in this direction. If these micro-laboratories, possibly in combination with microfabricated sensors, will eventually lead to pocket-sized instruments for DNA sequencing or analysis of trace elements, this could certainly revolutionise certain areas of medical practice and environmental protection. And perhaps this trend would also include the synthesis of dangerous chemicals which would be less threatening on many small chips than in one big reactor, and could be produced in a de-centralised fashion exactly where they are going to be required. It may not be quite nano, but it could be very micro.What are we to make of the predicted nanotechnology revolution? I think the brave new world of infinite wealth is still a dream. But even if the nanotechnological revolution does not materialise quite so soon in everyday life, and if a few more generations will have to work in traditional factories rather than delegating their work to nanorobots: it would be helpful if we could develop molecular motors as efficient as our muscles, data storage devices as compact 
as DNA, and a method for 
the reduction of molecular nitrogen at atmospheric pressure and room temperature. Nature has taught us that these can be achieved.• Michael Gross is  a David Phillips research fellow at the Oxford Centre for Molecular Sciences, working in the field of protein folding. This article is loosely based on a chapter of his book Travels to the Nanoworld: Miniature Machinery in Nature and Technology, Plenum, New York and London.
Los Angeles is a game of SimCity played by a maniac. Its smoggy gigantism made an appropriate location for this year's Electronic Entertainment Expo, E3, the world's largest videogames trade fair.Last week's show was a curious mixture of triumphalism and defensiveness. On the one hand, the industry is ridiculously successful. Video games were worth $6.7bn  in America alone last year, and the world's largest games publisher, Electronic Arts, recently announced yearly grosses of over $1bn.In the UK, Eidos was recently dubbed the world's fastest growing company by revenue growth. Its  share price still  jumped 47p after the E3 announcement of David Bowie and Reeves Gabrels' involvement in Omikron, a game for which they have composed  "romantic songs", and in which Bowie appears as a character.But after the Littleton school massacre, videogame companies are very nervous. They have a reputation of delivering amoral, violent self-gratification to disturbed kids. With Doom scapegoated by moral-majority types, the US government is considering laws to control content.Several developers were at pains to point out that their games weren't just "mindless violence". Yeah, it might look like a cool first-person shooter based on the Unreal engine, but listen, man, your actions have consequences. Shoot that guy and you can't finish the game.In what was clearly a political decision, Sega was showing the Dreamcast version of House of the Dead 2, a zombie-killing game in which the player shoots at the screen with a lightgun - but the lightguns were missing, and the game had to be played with regular controllers.The most sophisticated example of the new videogame morality appeared in Infogrames' Outcast, an epic adventure running in a beautifully organic-looking voxel engine. The player must be careful not to frighten or insult people who might help in his quest.Other PC games of note included Eidos's impressive Deus Ex, a highly involved counter-terrorist RPG-cum-first- person stealth-'em-up (videogame taxonomy is comically fluid), the space epic Homeworld, and Quake 3, which looked superior on the G3 Macs in Apple's design-heavy oasis of calm.One of the few "wow" moments was yet another Eidos game, Commandos 2. But Eidos had certain show-goers breathless in a rather cheaper way with its cheesy PVC-clad-women-on-a-motorbike stand, and from the new model hired as the human face of Lara.The Dreamcast console is gearing up for its Western launch this autumn, and its fate is still in the balance. Where's the killer software? Soul Calibur's gorgeous better-than-arcade graphics and animation wowed visitors, and people seem to dig the frame-rate-challenged Sega Rally 2 and the fast-but-shallow Sonic Adventure.Sega definitely boasted the show's oddest game, the gloriously eccentric Seaman: The Forbidden Pet. Your screen becomes a virtual aquarium; swimming around it is a fish with a man's head. Talk to it through a microphone that plugs into the controller, and it answers back, grumpily. It's uncompromisingly, joyously Japanese.But the Dreamcast's great hope, the naturalistic role-playing game/adventure Shenmue, still wasn't showing much gameplay, apart from a new demo section which was simply an old man's head, talking, that could be rotated and zoomed in on by the player. This is obviously a sly reaction to the very similar demo for PlayStation 2's Emotion Engine.As for the all-conquering Sony, the five-year-old PlayStation (doubtless soon to be rechristened PlayStation Classic) is still hosting popular games, albeit mostly sequels. Sure, you could play Gran Turismo on PlayStation 2 here, but more people were interested in playing Gran Turismo 2 on PlayStation 1. (It's, er, Gran Turismo again, with more cars and tracks. Fine by us.)Resident Evil 3 was just as hideously boring as the first two games. WipEout 3 was  WipEout 2097, but with a split-screen two-player option, iffily implemented analogue control, and more shades of brown.Final Fantasy VIII was stunning, while barking space shoot-'em-up Omega Boost fizzed along nicely, Quake 2 somehow got crammed into the PlayStation's two megs of memory, and Codemasters had the lovely-looking Prince Naseem Boxing. The animations have been checked out by the Naz himself.Sony's impressive lead games betrayed the behemoth's one underlying insecurity: Sony really wants a Nintendo game on its console. Hence very pretty, colourful 3-D platformers such as Ape Escape and Spyro 2, and the hilarious Crash Team Racing, a blatant steal of Super Mario Kart starring  Crash Bandicoot characters.Lest anyone think it was a two-horse race between Sega and Sony, Nintendo jumped in on the first day of the show and formally announced its own next-generation console, codenamed Dolphin. IBM will supply a custom PowerPC chip, the Gekko, as the central processor. Matsushita will do the DVD drive. Californian 
3-D gurus Art-X have designed the graphics chip.But the lovable, defeated old Nintendo 64 was casually hosting the best console games of the show, with a triumphant trivium by British company Rare, widely acknowledged as, at the very least, the best developers in the Western hemisphere.Rare's Donkey Kong 64 
(a 3-D platformer with tons of subgames) and Jet Force Gemini (a 3-D third-person sci-fi shooting role-playing game) were highly attractive, but over-shadowed by the first playable version of Perfect Dark. This is Rare's follow-up to GoldenEye, 
and thanks to an inspired bit of peripheral vision, it's  compatible with the Game Boy Camera: players' 
faces can be digitised and mapped on to their in-game characters.Knee-jerk moralism is all very well, but this breath-
takingly fine game of stylish ultraviolence was the star of E3. Perhaps it helps to deflect the political heat when the protagonist is no meat-headed, SWAT guy, but gloved beauty Joanna Dark. Very cunning, Nintendo. After all, who's going to argue with another videogame paragon of female "empowerment"?
When the bottom fell out of the antiques market, Brian Ward Smith turned his energies to his passion for restoring violins. "Americans had always been 70% of my business, but they just stopped coming. They got cold feet over Kosovo and the market went completely dead."But there isn't much of a market for violins where he lives in the high unemployment area of Devon between Homerton and Cullompton. So when Brian read about the internet auction site, ebay.com, in The Guardian he decided to try his luck. Barely two months later he has already sold nine old violins, mainly to US clients.While we were talking, he took me on a conducted tour of the eBay site where his latest offering - a Vuillaume violin - was in day four of a seven-day auction. People from all over the world were putting in their bids. He was clearly surprised that the latest bid was $760, a rise of several hundred dollars since he had last looked in the morning.It was already at more than double the price he could have got selling it locally - if indeed he had been able to. (It eventually went for $1,025.) I asked why any sane person from the other end of the earth would buy a violin when it could have hidden cracks.The secret, he said, was to invest in a good digital camera, and he pointed me to a number of very high resolution photos he had put on his eBay site, which showed the violin from all angles. He pointed out that eBay also gives feedback ratings based on the opinions of previous customers. All of his so far have been positive, thus building up confidence among bidders.EBay charges a listing fee of $2 and commission ranging from 5% for the first $25 falling to 1.25% after $1,000.Brian is also building up his own web site to expand his new virtual business atwww.westcountryviolins.com
The emergency services could be at risk from the millennium bug, according to a report published yesterday which claims to have uncovered 'a depressing picture'.The report by the independent watchdog Taskforce 2000 names eight police forces and fire brigades which have failed to prepare for computer crisis. It says that some forces and fire brigades have 'little chance of rectifying problems'.The bug could have an acute effect on emergency radios, closed circuit televisions, crowd and traffic control systems and information databases and the report says 'something radical needs to be done now'.The forces named as a 'cause of great concern' are the Metropolitan, Avon and Somerset, Devon and Cornwall, Cheshire, Hampshire and Warwickshire. The national criminal intelligence service and Sussex police are considered to be at serious risk.The six forces claimed that they had done a great deal of work since completing a questionnaire for the taskforce at the turn of the year. A spokesman for the association of chief police officers said Taskforce 2000's report was six months out of date.'The situation has moved on considerably, and at the next national infrastructure forum meeting we are hopeful that all forces will have achieved a satisfactory state of readiness,' he said.A spokeswoman for Cheshire said that the force was 'not just surprised' by the report. 'They didn't come and check their data with us and to suggest that it's the latest information is misleading,' she said.A spokesman for Avon and Somerset said that the force was now confident that all high priority systems such as radios and command and controls systems were now compliant.The report, written by Ian Hugo, found that only 13 forces had conducted any sort of audit programme and none actually used an independent auditor. 'But the key question is how one of our key emergency services was allowed to get into this situation in the first place,' he said.The watchdog, set up to minimise the impact of the millennium problem, also found serious shortcomings with the computer programmes at the ministry of defence, the inland revenue, the highways agency, the foreign and Commonwealth office and the Northern Ireland office.The report, the Public Sector and the Year 2000 Problem ... Crisis or Calm?, says that many local authorities were well behind the stated benchmarks and a number had 'done virtually nothing'. There had been too much secrecy in the name of 'commercial sensitivity' which inhibited naming and shaming which would allow the public to put pressure on their local authorities. 'This opportunity seems to be being lost in a general knee-jerk reaction towards official secrecy,' says the report.The report was also critical of the national infrastructure forum, the cross-industry body set up by government organisation Action 2000 to monitor the progress of the public sector. They had adopted a 'traffic light' standard of classifying organisations as 'red', 'amber' or 'blue', depending on how prepared they were for the millennium.Robin Guenier, executive director of Taskforce 2000, said this system was responsible for a 'smokescreen'.'For central government we have this reliable, readily available data. For the wider public sector, we are asked to rely on general assurances, and vague and dubious indications of status like the traffic light system,' he said. 'We do not have any more than a superficial view of the fire services, and there is almost no data available for the NHS. The data from local authorities is woefully inadequate.'However, a spokeswoman for Action 2000 denied that its 'traffic light' system was vague saying that it was a 'government decision' not to publish raw data alongside the traffic light gradings. 'We are pushing for organisations that aren't ready to be named and shamed at the next national infrastructure forum meeting,' she said.
What are you driving?A yellow and black London taxi, one of the very first coloured ones made. It's the fourth model I've had. It's very well-known in my constituency and is probably the most visible sign of my being there. I didn't have one for a while and I got complaints.What prompted you to get taxi?Just before I was first elected, a friend was doing some taxi repairs. He told me how great it was for carrying people, how cheap to run, easy to park. I bought it for £500.On the road, do people presume you'll have the same charm behind the wheel as a cabbie?You do get away with a bit more nudging here and there.Do you wind down the partition and say things like, 'You'll never guess who I had in here last week - that Paddy Ashdown'?I do get other cab drivers pulling up and asking who I've had in. I once had Eric Heffer. A cabbie asked who he was and I said, 'The chairman of the Labour Party.' He replied, 'Well, you can keep him locked up in there.'If Lib Dems drive taxis, what would the Tories drive?Mondeos and Sierras are supposed to be the cars of Middle England. I'm not sure whether that applies to New Labour or the Tories now. They'd probably opt for something built in Dagenham or Longbridge.And Labour? A Vauxhall Nova with all the trimmings?Probably. They're still coy about saying foreign cars are the best.Do you enjoy driving?It's a means of getting around. As a politician you have to move around... and do a lot of driving, ha ha. I drive as quickly as the limit allows, particularly since I was caught going faster.You mean you were speeding?Yes.Ever experience road rage?I've probably used the 'London driving technique' a few times.That means 'malice'?I'm a slightly less patient driver than I should be, but you have to be conscious of your position and try to avoid confrontation. When people spot who I am, things do get worse.Have you ever had sex in a taxi?No. It's actually very uncomfortable. I slept alone in it once and it was a contortionist's hell. When I was a lad at school in Wales, there were a few 'experimental events' in a car.&amp;#149 Simon Hughes is MP (Lib Dem) for North Southwark and Bermondsey
Sex on wheelsThe Toyota Prius has been voted the 'Best Car In The World To Have Sex In' by Penthouse Japan magazine, which is strange. What we want to know is how do you lure someone into a Toyota Prius in the first place...Howzat!There's been a lot of publicity recently about the cars footballers drive - the Manchester United car park is so stuffed full of Ferraris, Porsches and Mercs it looks like a Saudi prince's garage. But with interest in the cricket World Cup currently nearing fever pitch - not! - Autoparts decided to investigate the England team's wheels. So Alec Stewart has a top of the range Bimer (with a telly in it), but that's about as exciting as it gets. Graeme Hick has a Saab 95 estate, Nicks Knight and Fairbrother have Peugeot 406s, Adam Hollioake takes the train... in fact let's drop this right now, there's nothing in it.Quote of the Week'So Saab has chosen to name its new super-fast 93 the Viggen, after one of Sweden's jet fighters. I just hope the Americans don't follow suit or we'll end up with the Chrysler F16, a car that will bounce off the Chinese embassy, demolish a Kosovan village then crash into a mountain.' - Jeremy Clarkson, The Sun
Simon Roberts, a physicist living in south London, battled for four years to buy an electric car. Would Peugeot sell one to a private individual? Not readily. Would London Electricity install a charging point outside his house? Mmm, well. Would Lambeth Council allow a slim five-feet box to grace its pavement? Not if it meant pedestrians might trip over the protruding cable.This March, he finally took delivery of an electric Peugeot 106 and his MP unveiled the country's first kerbside power point and designated electric vehicle (EV) parking bay outside his home.Funnily enough, had Mr Roberts been around 100 years ago, he might have found the task easier. Then, EVs outnumbered noisy, dirty internal combustion engines and Belgian engineer Camille Jenatzy sped through the 60mph barrier in his evocatively named EV, the 'Jamais Contente'.After the first world war, had the money invested in the petrol engine been showered instead on battery development, we might all be using electric cars today. As it is, there are just over 100 private owners in the UK.Who actually makes electric cars?The Peugeot 106 and Citroen Saxo are the most touted in Europe, with General Motors EV1 ahead in the US. Honda has just announced it is stopping US production of its EV due to insufficient demand. On the racier side, a prototype electric Lotus Elise was shown in 1997.Where can I buy one?In terms of top brands, the best bets are France, Switzerland, Italy and California. In the UK, rickshaws are easier to come by. Having gone to the trouble of developing EVs, manufacturers now seem reluctant to sell them beyond the goods van market. The 106 is the sole biggie on sale but only to fleets (the Scottish Office and several London councils use them); the company cites cost and lack of consumer understanding as reasons. 'They want to back every horse and to appear to have a green image,' says Ian Gordon of the Battery Vehicle Society. As an alternative, the Lynch Motor Company sells converted Ford Fiestas and Robin Reliants, and Alternative Vehicles Technology produces its own AVT-100E, described as 'like a Metro-sized Espace.' Ford says that it will bring the Norwegian two-seater 'Think' city car to Britain now that it has bought the makers, Pivco. Oh, and there are five Toyota electric RAV4s for hire on Jersey.How much do EVs cost?Considerably more than petrol cars. Peugeot charges around £13,500 for its electric 106, which is £6,000 more than the standard version. Battery rental costs another £80 a month, though that includes maintenance. The Lynch Fiesta conversions cost just under £10,000, and the AVT-100E starts at £17,000, both including batteries.Just how green are electric cars?The car itself is pollution-free, including noise, though widespread use would see a rise in sulphur dioxide emissions from power stations. Although nickel cadmium (ni-cad) batteries are toxic nasties, they can be recycled.And the other advantages?'It's less stressful to drive,' says Simon Roberts of his 106. 'It's quieter, there's less vibration and slowing down is a smoother motion.' Most battery-powered cars operate like automatics, so there is no aggro from clutch or gears.How does performance compare with an ordinary motor?If you really insist on being first away at the lights, you can be - you can get high torque immediately. But a 106 would soon be overtaken on the open road as 56mph is its top speed. Battery cars can be nippy, though: GM's sporty looking EV1 reaches 80mph and does a nine second 0-60, while the AVT-100E manages 100mph.Will it do long journeys or is it just a city car?It's definitely a city car. The range of the 106, Saxo, Clio et al is 50 miles, so forget London to Plymouth in a hurry. The RAV4 boasts 135 miles, but that's under nice Japanese test conditions. The weight and cost of batteries limits journey range. Nickel cadmium batteries are more powerful but more expensive than lead acids. Nickel metal hydride batteries have even more power but cost anything upwards of £15,000 per car. The more batteries you stuff in, the higher the range, but obviously there are weight limitations.How long do the batteries take to recharge?In most cases, about seven hours; three for the EV1. Just plug a lead into a 13-amp mains socket overnight and a full charge costs 1p a mile. However, a special 'quick charge' feature can zap you 12 miles' worth in ten minutes (the French provide terminals for doing this in service stations, but the UK has no such infrastructure available).Any other serious drawbacks?That depends on your priorities. EVs often use as many as 25 batteries and they can take up storage space in the boot. The 106, for instance, has no spare wheel, just an inflation cannister. It also needs a separate petrol fuelled heater. Battery oomph degrades in cold weather. And, while garage owners can hook up an extension lead to their mains socket, anyone who frequently has to park in the next street will be stumped.What maintenance do they need?'There are very few auxiliary parts to go wrong,' according to Richard Fletcher of Lynch Motors. There is no fan belt, no alternator and you'll never have oil leaks. Batteries need replacing every three to five years but the motors themselves could last 25 years with just the odd overhaul. Ni-cad batteries require a top up of the electrolyte at an annual service.Are there any government incentives to ownership?There's cheaper road tax at £40 a year, and the Government-backed Energy Savings Trust's Powershift scheme funds half the difference between the cost of an electric car and its petrol/diesel equivalent.Are there other alternatives to the internal combustion engine on the market?Several. Hybrid electric vehicles (HEVs) are the next big thing. These combine battery power with a liquid fuel engine and have no range limitations. Some alternate between the two power systems depending on driving conditions. The Toyota Prius and Honda VV hybrids, due here next year, promise significant reductions in emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2), nitrogen oxide and carbon monoxide by increasing engine efficiency.Cars using liquefied petroleum gas, a mixture of propane and butane which contains no sulphur or lead, are also available from Vauxhall and Ford. Output of CO2 is lower but Vauxhall does not consider it a long-term resource. And we mustn't forget solar power. But that's not much of a goer in the UK. Plus, the cars resemble flat fish on wheels and are a bugger to park.Will we all be driving EVs in ten years' time?Not without a Government conversion to ecological fanaticism, though EVs will probably continue to form part of some traffic management schemes. 'My guess,' says Roger Higman, senior transport campaigner at Friends of the Earth, 'is that people will think battery-power is not going anywhere. There will still be some hybrids around but the front runner for new cars looks like the fuel cell.' Most EV watchers agree. Ford, Toyota, Mercedes and others are well into development of this potentially zero-emission option, where electricity is produced from a reaction between hydrogen and oxygen. They're competing to have a model on the road by 2004. Both car dealers and buyers are in for a complicated, if healthier, future.Simon Roberts' website is at:website.lineone.net/simon.h.robertsElectric Vehicle Association: 01273 304064 AVT / Electric Car Association: 01823 480196 Lynch Motor Company: 0171 607 8141 Battery Vehicle Society: 01633 421190
Hurrah! The longest comeback story in car history is over. Well, just about. Behold, the new Beetle, a car that spawned widespread adulation (not to mention 107,000 sales) in the US last year. Built in Mexico, right-hand drive supplies for the UK were originally promised for last autumn, but will arrive, having stretched anticipation until it is floppy, this Christmas.Espying the possibility of comparisons with a well-stuffed turkey (or that wicked millennium bug), VW has now decided to divert a batch of 900 left-hand drive models for an early-season sale. The idea is simple: appease those at the head of the waiting list by inviting them to try the new car and buy now, if waiting for Christmas and a properly-set steering wheel is just too much.VW says that of all its invitees to the private sale, 700 have, so far, said yes. This counters an assertion from Auto Express, which suggested that VW had found few takers because resale values of the left-hook Beetle will plummet as soon as the 'proper' car arrives, and Glass's Guide's Specialist Car editor, Rupert Pontin, says that the right-hand cars will trigger a loss of value to the rather painful tune of £2-3,000 when they arrive. My own query, incidentally, with local VW garage Northfield in Cirencester, was met with an immediate offer of a car, list or no list. Whatever the truth, the alleged 700 who have thrown their residual reckoners aside have done the right thing.On country roads, the bug's leftism is a touch awkward, feeling prone to hedge clipping; in the street, it takes your parking skills back to the days and level of Reginald Molehusband. But nothing, repeat nothing generates more smiles per gallon than the reborn bug; people come out of their houses, mothers wave toddlers in the air and passing planes waggle their wings. You'd think the war had ended. So for the shameless narcissist, the bug is perfect. But for those who prefer to ponder the niceties of design in privacy, it is equally apt. Wherever you stand, everything about the new VW is, perhaps remarkably, perfect.At a glance, it is the same car as the one parked down the street on bricks the same running boards, the same clownish wheel arches, egg-head roofline and toy-town headlamps. Look again though, and it couldn't be more modern: spacious enough for four, excellent visibility, stacks of airbags, ultra-cool indigo-backlit instruments and even a button marked ESP, which I never dared press for fear of summoning a dead hippy. Perhaps as a sweetener, the early UK Beetles are fairly sorted for kit. This includes an option for a six-pack CD player stashed in the back (where, in the old days, the engine used to be), standard air conditioning (where there was once, er, not even a heater), standard ABS (where we used to rely on blind faith) and, for all living hippies, a nice flower vase, for fresh daisies (not standard, bring your own).Once you're accustomed to the side-saddle feel of steering from the left, the 2.0-litre car is almost disappointingly together. It rides smoothly, it is ridiculously quiet on the motorway and it takes corners like any decent hatchback. Turbodiesel and 2.3-litre petrol options will follow, but the 2.0-litre car is a hard act to follow. It costs £15,755, by the way, and should average 32-33mpg.I once bought a convertible Beetle for the very good reason of impressing my girlfriend. When I got to her house and blew the horn, an electric shock shot up my arm and made me feel sick. Whenever it drizzled, gallons of water would slosh around my feet. I vowed to become a car journalist and never drive an old car again. But the bug is in the blood. All they have to do now is bring back Dr Who and life will be complete.
The disgruntled former agent Richard Tomlinson has thrown MI6 into turmoil. His publication of agents' names on the Internet is a reminder that management failure has been at the heart of MI6's problems in recent years.The setback can be contained. But it is unnerving for the chief, Richard Dearlove, and his close advisers, that Tomlinson has more ammunition in his locker.He knows the identities of the agents - the source of information on whom the Services relies - including one or two whose prominence will ensure major headlines if he reveals their names.Equally they will be concerned that Tomlinson might reveal the identities of the 'illegals'. Increasingly, MI6 officers are sent abroad and employed during the day in conventional jobs such as journalism or accountancy.There are also 'support agents' who supply the service with facilities such as safe houses and bank accounts.The latest crisis follows a series of official and internal reports, consistently damning, which have regularly been followed by assurances of reforms. So far, little appears to have changed.Tomlinson has described a regime of petty corruption, excessive waste and lax financial control which rivals that of the 'rotten boroughs'.The Oxbridge elite which still dominates the higher reaches of MI6 may make good intelligence officers, but they have made a hash of management.  Adept at working the corridors of Whitehall, directors of public affairs, such as John Gerson, and his assistant, Iain Mathewson, have devoted considerable time and resources to nurturing the carefully cultivated air of mystique that surrounds MI6.Attempts to bring in outsiders with fresh ideas and proven management skills have always been stymied by Whitehall, or dismissed by internal reports (the authors being too close to the regime to recommend root-and-branch reforms).  Cabinet Ministers - more often Labour than Tory  - tend to be seduced by the aura of secrecy and privileged access to special sources in the CX reports delivered to them daily in yellow boxes. Unlike their Conservative counterparts, few Labour politicians have had any hands-on experience of the secret world or have relatives who have served in MI6.Robin Cook is the classic example of the Opposition spokesman who calls for reform but who, on gaining office, suddenly discovers the 'Friends' across the river are indispensable.Whitehall has systematically misled Ministers, while intelligence chiefs raise the smokescreen of 'operational security' to deny a fully detailed audit of expenditure. MI6's budget is bigger than the official figure of pounds 150 million - a great deal of expenditure is hidden in other government departments.Most politicians would be hard pressed to tell the difference between an agent and an officer, MI5 and MI6, or provide a description of what GCHQ actually does.Yet a conservative estimate suggests that these agencies swallow pounds 1 billion of public funds. Are they cost-effective? Do they produce anything which a good A-Z cannot? What, exactly, is a spy in the age of the Internet and the information explosion? In some senses spying is what it has always been, and stealing information remains part of it. In the Dreyfus affair, the French secret service depended on a cleaner who emptied the wastepaper basket in the German Embassy.China has modernised its missile force with secrets purloined by its spy in Los Alamos.Yet the gung-ho world of James Bond, if it ever existed, is receding. The modern spy is a glorified archivist who must depend on his ability to make sense of a blizzard of information in the public domain and whose triumphs will be analytical rather than amatory.Most officers at the Vauxhall Bridge headquarters in London - dubbed 'Ceausescu Towers' by its occupants - will beaver away at computer screens, transferring information, creating intelligence files, building up profiles of key individuals and writing endless reports.The main problem is increasingly one of overload. There has been an unfortunate tendency for secret agencies to react against the flow of open information by making a virtue of secret, covert intelligence. This is despite numerous complaints from Ministers about the poor quality of reports they receive - 'cornflakes in the wind' was former Foreign Secretary Geoffrey Howe's memorable description. There is little point in spending money on gathering intelligence when the same information can be found in a newspaper.Would not the large sums spent on the intelligence services be used more productively in creating an open-source intelligence service? This would employ academics, journalists and even former intelligence officers to exploit today's explosion of information.  It is true that the combating of criminal gangs, drug traffickers and terrorist groups will continue to require some covert element. With the ending of the Cold War, MI6 was perhaps slower off the mark than the Security Services (MI5) in resetting its agenda.The new agenda includes counter-narcotics, the surveillance of international gangs and money-laundering - including the use of hacking teams to break into the computers of financial institutions and companies. Such tasks certainly provide the service with plenty of work and has curtailed any large staff cuts. It has been, however, an ad hoc exercise lacking in coherence.MI6 officers are not suited, or trained, for criminal work and problems have already arisen over the questioning of MI6 officers in court.Despite the PR exercises selling the change of direction, there is too much overlap between different agencies, with reports of infighting and turf disputes still a feature. Communication between the agencies remains poor. Largely criminal matters are best dealt with by specialised police units, fully accountable to the law and Parliament.The use of satellites and the availability of photographs over the counter are another indication that the traditional way of viewing intelligence-gathering is no longer applicable. It is unfortunate that Tony Blair's enthusiasm for Europe does not extend to the intelligence field, where we have missed an opportunity to join  France and Germany in their satellite project.The naming of MI6 officers on the Internet also illustrates that traditional notions of official secrecy have little validity. We have almost reached the point where there are no secrets any more, only delayed disclosures.The real problem for any intelligence service in the future is being swamped by 'noise'.  Ninety-nine per cent of the information may be rubbish, but somewhere in among it all are real gems. It is analysis which will be the key to the future success of MI6, however it is organised.• Stephen Dorril's 'MI6: Fifty Years of Special Operations' is to be published by Fourth Estate in September.
Renegade former MI6 agent Richard Tomlinson broke cover from his hideout in northern France last night to say he feared for his life after being blamed by the Government for publishing on the Internet the names of more than 100 spies.Speaking to The Observer, he denied he was responsible and insisted the disclosure of his alleged role in the scandal was an attempt by MI6 to discredit him.Tomlinson, who was sacked in 1995,  said his solicitor was due to apply for legal aid on Friday to begin two claims of compensation against the Goverment. 'Now I have been discredited and branded a traitor I have got no hope of getting legal aid,' he said.'I would be happy to fly to London tomorrow and be prosecuted if I could get bail. I don't want to spend 11 months on remand in Belmarsh before the trial.'Tomlinson has said he would be happy to hand over his computer and files to investigators so they could check for evidence.His denials will be dismissed by many in intelligence circles who say he has long threatened to publish such a list, and the details that appeared on the Californian website have Tomlinson's fingerprints all over them.But the former agent said: 'MI6 have gained everything and I have lost everything. I know my denial sounds a bit thin because I have threatened to do this before. But all those things were just pissing around. I clearly wanted to worry them but my clear objective was to get them to talk to me so I could get my freedom of travel back.'Tomlinson has been living in exile in Geneva since last April. He claims he has seen only a handful of 117 names on the list and all have 'been blown' anyway. 'It mystifies me why M16 gave the list credibility. If they were really worried about the safety of their agents they could have denied it.'Tomlinson was sacked by MI6 for being 'unsuitable'. He unsuccessfully tried to take MI6 to an industrial tribunal to get redress, claiming he had been unfairly treated. In 1997 he was jailed for breaking the Offical Secrets Act after threatening to publish a book.He has implicated MI6 in the death of Princess Diana and has talked of a plot to assassinate President Slobodan Milosevic.The former MI6 agent was involved with a secret plot to sell chemical weapons to Iran during the early 1990s, which Tomlinson alleges was sanctioned by a senior Tory Minister.
MI6 last night was making plans to withdraw officers from foreign assignments as a list of more than 100 names identified as British secret intelligence agents spread through the internet as a result of what is believed to be an act of vengeance by a former employee, Richard Tomlinson.As Mr Tomlinson went on the media offensive after seeking advice from the publicist Max Clifford, MI6 was contacting its officers named a desperate damage-limitation exercise designed in the first place to protect their safety.Though some of those named are of retired and others are career foreign office diplomats not connected with MI6, there are enough individuals listed to cause serious disruption to the agency's operations.In a BBC radio interview from Switzerland, Mr Tomlinson last night denied he was responsible for placing the names on the internet.'A denial might sound a bit thin because I did indeed threaten to put names of the internet but I didn't actually do this.'He offered MI6 an examination of his computer and internet service provider records. Mr Clifford last night issued a statement from his new client in which Mr Tomlinson said: 'It is not impossible that M16 may have engineered this to discredit me.' MI6 might have been angered because he gave evidence to the judge examining the death of Princess Diana in Paris.He told the BBC that he had received death threats by email for allegedly publishing the names of MI6 agents on a US-based website.The foreign office said last night that despite the denial, their position was that 'the balance of probabilities' pointed to Mr Tomlinson being responsible. 'There is no one else in the frame. Even if he did not physically put the names on the internet, there's no real difference if he provided the names for someone else to do it...'To an extent, the cat is out of the bag.'Scotland Yard said a police investigation was under way 'in connection with possible breaches of the official secrets act.'By last night the list of MI6 officers which includes the name of a son of a former Tory cabinet minister and a Cambridge don alleged to be a recruiter for MI6 had spread through the internet like a virus with dozens of people joining in chat groups to discuss the publication.One site was charging for access to see it but it was still freely available on two New York sites, including one of the most popular on the web. This then linked to a site in Denmark where it was also displayed.The anonymous author of the email said: 'This attached list identifies the unprincipled and unscrupulous individuals involved with MI6 worldwide. The list was produced by an honest man who has since left MI6 because he felt that the behaviour of that organisation was unacceptable in a civilised society.'They are accountable to nobody for their law breaking activities. They are subordinated to the elite people of this country, for example the royal household and the establishment.'This introduction clearly points to Tomlinson with his allegations that MI6 were somehow responsible for the death of Princess Diana - a thesis eagerly seized on by the many conspiracy theorists who frequent the web.
There is no defence in ethics for what Richard Tomlinson has done. He was completely wrong to publish lists of serving MI6 intelligence officers on the world wide web or anywhere else. In a number of high profile cases in the past, there was a clear public interest defence. That is not the case here.Every country, whether we like it or not, has intelligence officers. They must be accountable, but of their nature they must remain secret, not least because otherwise lives might be at risk. If their names are to be revealed it should only happen when that course is strongly in the public interest. If everyone joining the secret service had a right to publish as they pleased and to reveal the names of agents around the world, then the whole basis of intelligence gathering would be undermined.In this context, Rear Admiral Pulvertafft, head of Whitehall's D-notice committee, was justified in appealing to UK editors not to publish the web addresses where the names were posted. Mr Tomlinson took an oath of secrecy when he entered the secret service. He feels he has been shabbily treated. But to try to take revenge on his former employers by acting like this is sheer vindictiveness.But of course, a D-notice - a little used device these days - doesn't have the same effect in a globalised information economy as it used to have. Pretty soon, as Lord Donaldson remarked, information leaked around the world becomes a melting ice cube which can't be put back. For some, the real culprit is not Mr Tomlinson but the internet itself without which, it is claimed, none of this would have happened.The internet has hugely expanded freedom of expression - and long may it do so. But this doesn't mean the web community doesn't have responsibilities. Rear Admiral Pulvertafft observed that the internet was 'unpredictable and uncontrollable' and said there was little he could do to prevent the circulation of names outside the UK. But to blame the internet is simply to fall into a late 20th-century version of shooting the messenger. A dissident wanting to get names into the public domain could just as easily have chosen to send a brown paper envelope to a newspaper, or informed a rival embassy, or faxed the information to various parts of the world or set up a free-phone telephone line. The internet differs from more traditional forms of transmission only in the size and complexity of its network and that fact that millions of people can access a single site almost instantaneously.The internet isn't quite the anarchic beast it is made out to be. These are early days - the world wide web is barely five years old as a popular phenomenon - yet the authorities are beginning to play catch-up. It is now dawning on people that emails, far from being consigned to instant oblivion, stay around for a long while even after they have been erased from a computer's hard disk. Net surfers also leave electronic finger prints along the route - which regulatory bodies are exploiting to track down criminals (as the originator of the Melissa virus recently found out to his cost). The web has its own self-policing culture which should be encouraged.That none of this was enough to stop over a hundred alleged MI6 names from circulating on the web this week doesn't mean that the web can't be policed. Being found out is a positive deterrent to crime and there is much the web can do to improve its standards of detection. But where people don't care whether they are found out or not, neither the web nor any other outlet can furnish much of a defence. When things go wrong, don't seek to blame the technology: it is neutral.
Frantic attempts by the government to close down internet sites identifying scores of MI6 officers appeared to be doomed last night as Britain's secret intelligence service faced the prospect of hugely damaging disruption to its worldwide operations.The names of 117 individuals - including several wrongly identified as MI6 officers - appeared yesterday on at least one US-based web site specifically set up for those interested in the activities of security and intelligence agencies.A second site, more widely available, identifies nine MI6 officers named in an affidavit signed by Richard Tomlinson, the renegade former MI6 employee who suggested that the agency was responsible for the death of Princess Diana.Though he admits he placed this on the internet, he denies responsibility for the longer list.However, Robin Cook, the foreign secretary, made it clear yesterday that he had no doubts. He said Mr Tomlinson, who lives in Switzerland, nursed a 'deep-seated and irrational grievance' against his former employers.Mr Cook said 'not all the names' on the list were connected with MI6. 'Nevertheless the release of any such list, however inaccurate it may be, is a deeply irresponsible and dangerous act.'While Whitehall was playing down speculation that the government might seek Mr Tomlinson's extradition partly because there is no proof of his direct involvement in publishing the list its lawyers were chasing the offending site on the worldwide web.Whitehall sources yesterday said the question of stopping information on the internet was 'a grey area of the law'. They claimed that information appearing briefly on internet sites did not mean it was in the 'public domain', and therefore the courts could stop the media from publishing.The list of 117 names appeared on a website related to the Executive Intelligence Review, a subscription-only publication which revels in conspiracy theories. It threatens to include the names in its latest issue due out today.The site belongs to the extreme rightwing maverick Lyndon LaRouche, who believes that the Queen runs an international drugs cartel and that the British establishment is involved in a conspiracy to rule the world. The list there disappeared almost as soon as it was posted.A spokesman refused to comment on whether he or the review were responsible for placing the list on another site later. By last night, this too appeared to have been blocked.On the LaRouche site it is claimed that the 'unsolicited' list came from a former MI6 officer who left in protest against the agency's activities.The list includes Richard Dearlove, the present head of MI6, Sir David Spedding, his predecessor, and Geoffrey Tantum, a former MI6 controller for the Middle East who gave evidence on behalf of Jonathan Aitken in his libel case against the Guardian.It names MI6 officers stationed in sensitive areas, including the Balkans where Mr Tomlinson was once posted.MI6 is particularly concerned about the personal safety of its officers in unstable areas where their protection cannot be guaranteed. Sources yesterday said only that 'precautions' were being taken to protect those named.The second list of nine former and serving MI6 officers appears at the head of an affidavit written by Mr Tomlinson for the French inquiry into Princess Diana's death.He has said he believes that MI6 holds documents containing 'important new evidence' about the crash in which she and Dodi Al Fayed were killed.
By late last night, it was clear the British government had got itself into another war with a clever adversary who wasn't going to give up without a fight. Richard Tomlinson, the ex MI6 man who has now revealed the names of top intelligence officers to Internet sites all over the world, had already been locked in battle with Whitehall for five years, threatening to use his personal computer and the Internet to create another Spycatcher battle that would be over before the Cabinet Secretary could even blink, let alone dissemble.Now, it has happened. Many MI6 staff holding key and dangerous posts in the Balkans are on the list of 115 names I found on the Internet yesterday morning, together with a shorter list of nine MI6 names which I had seen before. Both lists had been already distributed automatically to hundreds of thousands of computer 'news servers' around the world. The long list was also sent to everyone who had subscribed to a particular channel on Usenet, which is the Internet's discussion area. There are more than 20,000 such groups, catering for every subject under the sun. Once a message is sent to Usenet, it automatically copies itself around the planet.D-Notice secretary Admiral Pulvertaft's warning to the British media about the existence of a single web site was out of date before it was written. As the row blew up, Richard Tomlinson told me in an e-mail that 'People are jumping to the wrong conclusion. My web-site does not contain any names, other than a few that are already in the public domain.' All of this is true, but may not be to the point.Only the short list went on to his web site. The long list was launched in a different way and took a different route round the world. Tomlinson's principal grievance is that he was peremptorily sacked and then denied the right to compensation at an industrial tribunal. In a series of e-mails to me over the last few months, and on his now departed web site, he described how his life since being a secret agent has been a saga of arrest, jail, and expulsion from a series of countries.The secret battle of computers between Mr Tomlinson and MI6 went red hot late last month. In an e-mail from Switzerland three weeks ago, he told me of his mounting anger that what he saw as harassment continued unabated. On 19 April, he wrote 'I just threatened the bastards to publish my database of MI6 officers on the Internet if they didn't stop harassing me (illegally getting foreign intelligence services to ban me from their countries - eg France, Australia, USA, Canada, even though there is no warrant out for my arrest).'A week later, he wrote to say that his computer files had been wiped. He believed that that this had been caused by a hidden computer virus put there months before, when his computer was held by the French secret service. He wrote 'I can only return fire using the same tactics. I am currently therefore about to publish my database of MI6 officers, which I know will upset them. I suspect that this threat was the cause of my computer crash - a last ditch but futile attempt to destroy this database.'Four days later, he revealed the shorter list of names.Tomlinson's now peripatetic MI6 website started up in Switzerland subsequently, but was closed by British legal action within hours. It then launched, and re-launched in the US. That site, called Geocities 'Paris Jardin 8767' contained the shorter list and by the time it had been closed down last night, a well-known and highly regarded US site specialising in intelligence, calledwww.jya.com, contained replicas of all Tomlinson's 'Paris Jardin' files. It is now ubiquitous.Other re-publishers used the Usenet system to replicate the MI6 short list on a number of widely read channels. The distribution has now gone so far that the position is irrecoverable so as the government is concerned. In this short file alone, Tomlinson names the Head of Balkan Intelligence, previously well-known to journalists in Brussels; his deputy and head of planning, (who he says developed a plan to assassinate Serbian leader Slobodan Milosevic), and the controller of Eastern European activity. Also named on the Internet is SIS chief Sir Colin McColl's personal assistant.Those officers have had six months warning of what might be coming, since Tomlinson first included their names in statements he then made about MI6's alleged involvement in the death of the Princess of Wales. Others including a senior official in a sensitive position in the Balkans, might also have expected to be on the list because they were well known to Tomlinson. On Tuesday night, he and a hundred others were not disappointed. That is the damage that SIS now has to cope with . In the first bloodless war of the information age, Britain has lost to a deadly first strike.
There was a time when the British government and its intelligence agencies could more or less control the publication of what they considered damaging information. Faced with a polite murmur from the rear admiral who runs the defence, press and broadcasting advisory committee, a deferential media would normally desist.Each editor had - and still has - a copy of the dozen or so D notices which suggest that they do not publish the names of spies or where Britain made its atomic bombs.But Spycatcher changed all that. Published first by Viking in the US, and smuggled into Britain from airport shops by the suitcase load, Peter Wright's revelations about M15 burgling and bugging its way around London were soon the talk of the town.Attempts by Britain to ban it in Australia, where Wright lived, failed. The floodgates were already open.The internet has turned those floodgates into a tidal wave. Anyone with a computer anywhere in the world can set up their own website and be up and running for free within an hour.Richard Tomlinson's site, first in Switzerland and then in California, was short-lived when the web watchers at M16 tracked him down. But in the guerrilla warfare of the world wide web, he can easily switch to another site.Rear Admiral David Pulvertaft, secretary of the D notice committee, told newspapers yesterday not to interpret information on the net as being 'widely disclosed'. Cyberspace surfers will find that notion risible.Once news of a controversial site gets out, it can become congested with hits. When the Starr report was put up there were fears that the entire system would crash. It just coped.
The former MI6 agent Richard Tomlinson's decision to expose dozens of his erstwhile colleagues did not come out of the blue.From exile in a private hotel in Switzerland he has become progressively furious at his treatment by the British state, which sacked him from the security services, denied him an industrial tribunal, jailed him for proposing to write a book on MI5, and - he claims - has continued to hound him.Tomlinson, once described as a real-life James Bond, has been shaken and stirred by what he regards as intimidation by his former employers. They in turn have become ever more exasperated with a man they like to portray as an eccentric maverick.Although he has dual British and New Zealand nationality, Tomlinson has been refused a visa to New Zealand after heavy diplomatic pressure. A return to Britain would lead to instant arrest on fresh charges of breaking the official secrets act.He has been arrested in New Zealand, the United States and, last year, at gunpoint in Paris, at the request of a British government anxious about his association with the MI5 whistleblower David Shayler. In February, on his way to a skiing holiday with his parents, he was arrested at the French border.Tomlinson was a superbright recruit to MI6 off the back of a spell in the City, weekends training with a territorial division of the SAS, and a Cambridge first in aeronautical engineering. He roamed widely, in Bosnia, Moscow and the Middle East, under the codename T. But in 1995, at the end of his three- year training period, he was given the push by superiors who regarded him as a loose cannon.He had put noses out of joint for raising concerns about Serbian donations to the Conservative party. A dramatic infiltration of a Middle East chemical weapons procurement network had gone wrong for reasons unclear.He had fallen into depression, partly caused by the death from cancer of his girlfriend. He told MI6 that he had become suicidally depressed. His dismissal was disgraceful, he said.Tomlinson was denied an industrial tribunal by the then foreign secretary, Malcolm Rifkind, on the grounds of 'national security'. He talked to newspapers and very soon threatened to expose MI6 in detail on the internet. When he was offered MI5 money he abandoned his claim for unfair dismissal and agreed to hand over material, including discs and a Psion organiser.But when, in 1997, he sent his Australian publisher the seven-page synopsis of a book, he was arrested. It was the first time since the case of George Blake in 1961 that an ex-MI6 officer had been charged with breaking the official secrets act.In prison, as he later wrote, Tomlinson sank into long periods of depression, locked up 'with some of Britain's most dangerous criminals' 21 hours a day. 'Always the deep anger would well up in me - fuelled by resentment at the circumstances that led to my imprisonment.'How could MI6 refuse to allow me to take it to an industrial tribunal on the grounds that a court hearing would prejudice national security, when it subsequently had no qualms about taking me to court when the boot was on the other foot? What sheer hypocrisy.'Out of jail but unrepentant, he began to make more claims about MI6 activities, first from New Zealand and then from Switzerland. (He has a reasonably relaxed relationship with the Swiss, who have told him he can stay providing he keeps out of trouble.)Tomlinson named Andrew Mitchell as Britain's spy in the Bundesbank; detailed plans to assassinate Slobodan Milosevic, the Yugoslavian president; and told the magistrate investigating the death in Paris of Diana, Princess of Wales, that the chauffeur who died with her, Henri Paul, was an MI6 agent. He also urged wholesale reform of the security services, including close monitoring by the parliamentary security and intelligence committee.'There is a deep-rooted belief within the services that, should a policy decision or operation go wrong, nobody will be held ultimately responsible,' he said. It was a 'fertile breeding ground for corruption', an organisation that had some 'catastrophic operational disasters'.He continued to deny that he was motivated by pique. 'My dismissal is a long time in the past. It was over. I mean, I still don't know why I was dismissed. I've been trying to find out for a long time, but it has nothing to do with that,' he said in a radio interview.Acquaintances, however, say that Tomlinson has become ever more prone to self-obsession.'With injunctions hanging over me seemingly wherever I go, my future looks uncertain,' he wrote in the Guardian last year.'I hope that the British government would have learned from the bad publicity caused by its extraordinary blunders and heavy-handed actions against me, but judging from past behaviour I fear this story is far from over.'
It has been done before but never on such a scale. The naming of their secret agents is what intelligence services fear most.There was no attempt yesterday at MI6's exotic headquarters at Vauxhall Cross overlooking the Thames in central London to disguise the damage done by the identification on the internet of more than 100 intelligence officers.As MI6 lawyers were fighting desperately to take the offending site off the world wide web, senior officers were engaged in a frantic damage limitation exercise.Their first move was to put it about that the list was a mixture of fact and fantasy, saying that some names were correct, and others wrong. But their first real priority will be to safeguard the personal safety of the identified officers.Richard Tomlinson knew the names of MI6 agents who operated in some of the world's most sensitive spots - Moscow, the Balkans and the Middle East. Some of those named were said to be still operating abroad; others are back in Britain.Contrary to general assumption, MI6 agents use their real names. They use aliases only for contacts with foreign sources and informants they recruit. They are listed as diplomats, both in the foreign office's annual diplomatic service list and as officially accredited envoys, which belies their undercover role when they are attached to British missions overseas.During the cold war each side had a good idea of who the genuine diplomats were and who were the spooks. Now, in most important capitals, and not just those of traditional allies, the local MI6 station chief is formally, though privately, acknowledged to the host government.The naming of an individual MI6 agent abroad does not provoke the panic the media always like to present. In 1996, the Russian press identified an MI6 officer in Moscow as Norman MacSween, officially a counsellor at the British embassy. He was alleged to have been a contact of Platon Obukhov, a Russian diplomat arrested for spying. Mr MacSween is still listed by the foreign office as a counsellor in the Moscow embassy.Earlier this year, the Czech press named Christopher Hurran as the MI6 station head in Prague.Both cases were embarrasing. But the MacSween case was dismissed by MI6 and the Russians as part of the 'great game'. The Hurran case was more politically damaging, not because of allegations that he was gay but because he was involved in a dispute between the Czech government and its security service.The naming in 1996 of Rosemary Sharpe in the German press was embarrassing mainly because one of her contacts in German intelligence was accused of corruption. The German government was quick to insist that she did no wrong and acted in good faith.What was worrying MI6 yesterday about the list of names identified by Tomlinson was the sheer quantity. MI6 has about 2,000 staff. Many of those are secretaries, technicians and administrative support staff. Those named on the US website are likely to include a high proportion of 'fast stream' operational officers, of whom there are only about 350.MI6 now faces the huge and urgent task of deciding how to protect those who have been correctly identified and those wrongly named as MI6 agents but who may be conventional diplomats or officials.With terrorism and organised crime now among MI6's top priorities, its agents are more vulnerable than in the days of the cold war and more stable government-to-government relationships, intelligence sources said yesterday.The operational careers in the field of some of the agents identified on the website are likely to be at an end, depending on risk assessments now being made.Even if relatively few people see the site before it is closed down - assuming that MI6 lawyers succeed, something they concede is more difficult in the US than in Europe - there is little to stop Tomlinson publishing the names again.The naming of the agents is the realisation of MI6's worst fears after he fled to Paris last year after his release from prison in Britain, where he had been convicted under the official secrets act. Hindsight may say MI6 should have treated him less dismissively before he was sacked. MI6 says it did all it could, including offering him money in return for keeping his mouth shut.He did not honour the agreements. But he gave them enough warnings about what he would do from the relatively safe haven of Switzerland. In the end, alone and running out of money, he wrought what revenge he could - using the new weapon of the internet - after what he claims was the last straw, namely MI6 getting the New Zealand government to stop him receiving a visa.
Britain's secret intelligence service, MI6, was thrown into unprecedented disarray last night when a renegade former officer published the names of over 100 agents - some said to be false - on the internet.The names on the website were provided by Richard Tomlinson, the former MI6 officer now living in Switzerland. Government lawyers were last night frantically trying to close down the site as senior MI6 officers were mounting a desperate damage-limitation exercise.Though Mr Tomlinson had recently warned MI6 he would publish the names of his former colleagues on the internet, the first confirmation that he had carried out the threat came in a message to British editors from Rear Admiral David Pulvertaft, secretary of the Defence, Press and Broadcasting Advisory Committee, which advises the media on issues of national security.In a message to the Press Association news agency, whose service is used by all national and provincial newspapers, he said: 'I understand that a US-based website has today published on the internet a list which identifies a large number of SIS (MI6) officers.'Publishing such details could put lives at risk, he said, adding that Whitehall was examining how 'the damage of this disclosure can be minimised.'A foreign office spokesman said it would be 'inappropriate' to comment further since there were 'obvious legal implications.' Though Whitehall did not name Mr Tomlinson as the source, they made clear that in their view he was the culprit.John Wadham, director of the human rights organisation Liberty and Mr Tomlinson's solicitor, said in a statement last night: 'I do not know whether Richard Tomlinson has carried out his threat to release the names of MI6 officers on the internet. He was sacked by MI6, he thinks unfairly, and was banned from going to the industrial tribunal.'Mr Wadham added: 'Since then, he feels he has been harassed by the authorities. He has had injunctions against him in every country he has visited, been ejected from Australia, the US and France, and has not been able to obtain a visa to settle anywhere to build a new life.'He said Mr Tomlinson had tried to get MI6 to meet him and negotiate but it refused. 'I hope this case leads to improvements in the accountability of the secret services and better rights for their employees,' said Mr Wadham. 'We need to ensure that such sad circumstances do not occur ever again in the future.'One hundred and fifteen individuals are named on the website. Though Whitehall sources described the list as 'a mixture of fact and fantasy,' there is little doubt that it includes a high proportion of MI6 agents who have been engaged in extremely sensitive work. Some may find their careers in the secret services are now untenable.Mr Tomlinson was involved in operations in Moscow and the Balkans, and infiltrated a procurement agency of a middle eastern country suspected of attempting to buy equipment for chemical warfare.Some of the agents named are overseas, while others are based at MI6's headquarters at Vauxhall Cross on the south bank of the Thames, sources told the Guardian last night.Though individual MI6 agents have been named in the past, this is the first time whole swaths have been named in a medium which is out of control of government lawyers.Treasury solicitor Anthony Hammond, acting on behalf of the attorney general, obtained an injunction in Geneva on April 30 preventing Mr Tomlinson from disclosing information on an internet site there.Subsequently, owners of a French website agreed to withdraw the MI6 names voluntarily. Mr Tomlinson recently contacted the Guardian giving a Californian internet address, but MI6 moved quickly to get it shut down. Mr Tomlinson is then understood to have placed the material on another US site.Last night, a spokesman confirmed that the treasury solicitor had written to the site provider drawing its attention to the Swiss injunction and saying Mr Tomlinson would be in breach of his obligations to the Crown if he went ahead with publication of this material.Renegade former MI5 agent David Shayler told Channel 4 News: 'I think the government's running a great deal of risk because they have in some ways persecuted Richard Tomlinson.'Mr Tomlinson threatened to post a map of all MI6 offices worldwide on the Californian-based site, Geocities. Ed Pierce, Geocities' vice-president for legal affairs, said last week : 'We had a notification from the &#91;British government&#93; attorney that we had a website that appeared to violate our content guidelines.'The company concluded that Mr Tomlinson violated its user agreement on no pornography, no 'hate speech' and no illegal activities.The new site was being shrouded in secrecy last night, and MI6 was well aware that even if it succeeds in getting it withdrawn, Mr Tomlinson could publish the information elsewhere.Mr Tomlinson, 35, fled to Paris last year after serving a six-month jail sentence for breaching the official secrets act.After flying to New Zealand, he went to Geneva where he claimed to be continually harassed by MI6, most recently by preventing him from leaving Switzerland. He was recently stopped at the French border while planning to join his parents for a holiday.
Sir Clive Sinclair is thinking of re-entering the computer market with a low cost machine based on GNU/Linux, the operating system offered free on the internet and modified voluntarily by users.This news won't shake Microsoft whose operating systems reside in 95% of the world's personal computers but it's a good idea. Commercial interest in exploiting web-friendly Linux is growing. Sinclair reckons that with a combination of Linux and cheap (perhaps non-Intel) chips he could undercut rivals. Whether Sir Clive can make a comeback is debatable. But no one should write him off. Even if his credibility is at a low ebb, his long term influence on Britain's IT industry is enormous. A generation of games programmers cut their teeth on the Sinclair Spectrum. If he doesn't go for Linux, others will. Indeed, why doesn't the internet community devise its own specifications for such a computer just as it has for Linux?The internet is the world's biggest mutual society: it's in the process of being privatised, but the mutual element is still strong. The concept of a computer devised and improved by its users isn't as daft as it sounds. The web has made amazing things possible. Perhaps it is time for it to prove its entrepreneurial credentials. Is there anyone out there with any ideas?The battle for the information highway is in its endgame. The world's communication giants have decided that cable is the best delivery system for the internet to the home. In the US, AT&amp;T (which earlier was forced to shed its local telephony by trust busters) last week bought MediaOne for £35.4bn bringing its total local access to 60% of US homes.By buying a $5bn stake in AT&amp;T, Microsoft will be better able to sell its software for high speed web access to AT&amp;T customers. In associated developments in the UK, Microsoft is buying 30% of Telewest, which could lead to a merger between Telewest and Cable &amp; Wireless Communications to create the UK's largest cable operator in which - surprise, surprise - Microsoft will be in pole position to sell its products.There are clearly regulatory problems involved in last week's events if only because competition is diminished. But the speed of movement in the telecoms market has long since left the regulators gasping for breath even in the US. No wonder BSkyB was last week forced to start giving away set-top decoder boxes for its satellite version of digital television. This time Mr Murdoch faces competition from (technologically superior) broadband TV and internet services.Cable is interactive whereas BSkyB has to use telephone lines for two-way communication. Mr Murdoch is good at exploiting second best technology and cut-price marketing. But in taking on Microsoft and the cable industry he may be overstretching himself. If prices keep falling that will be fine. It is only when one company grabs a dominant market share in broadband delivery that the real problems will start. And they will, they will.
A few students in the cyberculture class I teach at New York University just conducted an interesting survey. They interviewed more than 125 children in elementary school about computers - what they are, how much they like them, whether they own them and, most importantly, where and how they use them.As expected, wealthy children - those in an expensive private school - knew the most about computers. Every student had his or her own laptop (a school requirement) on which to do homework.Poorer children who used computers mostly in their after school programs, had a bit less knowledge of how the machines worked. And only about half had access to a computer at home. But these kids liked computers a whole lot better than their wealthy, cyberliterate counterparts.Only 52% of the private school students said they like to use computers, compared with 100% of the public school children. While only 60% of private school students believe it is necessary to learn how to use a computer at all, close to 90% of public school children see computer literacy as a necessary life skill.Why should this be?  Because the wealthy young laptop owners already experience their computers as encumbrances, while those who use them after school still see computers as the portals to more fun and better lives.Consider the responses to the simple question of whether they enjoy computers, and why. The public (state) school children liked computers because they are "smart", "fun to use", "they can help you get a job", "it takes my mind off things".The wealthy young laptop owners hated computers because "they don't work", "I have to lug it to school every day", "it's slow and weighs a lot", "they break easily", "you are constantly losing work from them" and "they generate 300% more work".They sound a lot like most adults I know who have had to use computers for their jobs. Once the machines are mandatory, they're a lot less fun. Rather than holding the promise of a new improved life, computers simply expose their users to more risks.The laptop-toting children were charged with maintaining their machines the way we used to have to take care of animals back when I was in school. But the machines don't reciprocate for this care with love or even cuteness. They are simply the source of more responsibility and more work. The kids were all afraid of losing their data, and nearly everyone recounted an awful personal experience of a crash in which a paper or test was lost. When the machines functioned properly, they simply allowed teachers to assign more homework.It's hard to say who is getting the better computer education. By being burdened with their own computers and made to do their schoolwork through a keyboard, the wealthiest of American students see the machines as the extension of slave-driving teachers, the source of anxiety, and a maintenance chore. Those who only use the machines more occasionally and absolutely voluntarily, on the other hand, still feel that computers are a way to have fun, get ahead, and increase one's chances of competing in the future.My students who conducted this survey concluded that computers are being over-taught in the private school. If these children weren't given their own computers, the machines might still have held their great allure. By turning these wonderful technologies into the source of labour and responsibility, educators risk killing the joy of computing for the children they hope to enrich.True enough. Keeping computers separate from the drudgery of regular schoolwork for a few years might be a good idea. If children can be shown that the computer is a machine with nearly infinite possibilities rather than a homework device, they'll almost certainly become better and more open-minded programmers as adults.Still, I can't help thinking that the sad, computer-hating children of the private school have a more accurate sense of the way computers have affected our lives so far. For the first year or so, each of us is thrilled by the computer's bells and whistles. But once our employment becomes dependent on these machines - and once we lose an important document to the ether before a big meeting, our perspective abruptly changes.
