It was reckless of me to hand over the wheel of the immaculate Lister Storm to my eight-year-old son. But it was late, I'd had too much wine and I wasn't sure I could keep the V12 supercar on the road much longer. He gladly took the wheel, jammed his foot hard on the throttle, and before long we were hurtling through the 150mph barrier, sliding through a chicane and plunging down a forest track. And then the inevitable - a sharp right, too hard on the brakes and, wham, a steel barrier sent us spiralling into the air... 'Oooops,' he muttered.We're testing the dangerously addictive Gran Turismo 4 computer programme - the fourth generation of the legendary racing game which has so far sold almost 40m copies around the world. It's the brain-child of Japanese designer and car fanatic Kazunori Yamauchif, who's been fine-tuning it since 1993.If, like me, your last experience of a 'driving simulator' was a blurry 50p slot machine in a depressing coastal arcade, surrounded by spotty teenagers wearing combat jackets, you'll be gobsmacked at what the PlayStation game offers.From the moment it starts, you sense you're in a different realm. A pin-sharp Ford GT40 turns slowly in front of a shifting backdrop of canyons and cityscapes. Shadows play on its gleaming paintwork, leaves blow about the wheels. The soundtrack is high opera. It feels like a sequence from a Bertolucci film, not some gamers geekfest.As the driver, the list of possibilities now facing you is endless. There are 700 cars to choose from, all exact replicas of real vehicles. You can go by manufacturer or era. Plump for a Plymouth Cuda 1971, or maybe the new Aston? How about Audi's 'Le Mans' R8? Or a 1915 Ford Model T? Or just a plain old Peugeot 206. Having selected your wheels, you then choose a paint job. Would you prefer an automatic? Soft top? What sort of treads do you fancy?Then do your worst on 50 different tracks, from world-famous circuits, including the Laguna Seca and its famous corkscrew and the awesome 13-mile N&uuml;rburgring Nordschleife, to hammering through downtown Hong Kong and Tokyo. There's an off-road section, and dirt and snow rally courses, too. The only detail that would make driving more realistic would be a sprinkling of speed cameras. The next generation of the game could feature traffic jams, too. Your kids could be sick in the back, and your partner could argue about directions... But then, you could just go for a real drive.At times GT4 does head for the further shores of nerd-dom. You can endlessly fine-tune the cars, be a team manager and work your way up through various racing leagues, winning credits to improve your performance. You can attend driving school. You can watch replays of your greatest races, and even email photos of your cars to your friends.Is there a downside? Just one... I haven't been to bed before 2am for more than a week.&#183;GT4 costs &pound;39.99 (www.granturismoworld.com); Logitech's Driving Pro Force Feedback wheel for the PlayStation 2 is &pound;99.99 (www.logitech.com)Braking newsNext time your car fills with the odour of eggs, don't blame last night's curry. The culprit is your air con. Having lain idle for months, its warm, wet tubes have become a fungal playground. Clear it out with a good blastmartin.love@observer.co.uk
"SALT LAKE CITY -- A British team trying to set a speed record for an electric car gave up because the mustard-yellow, torpedo-shaped vehicle wouldn't start for a third morning in a row. They plan to return next year for another try at topping 300 mph (480 kph)," reportsAP."The current record for an electric car is 245 mph (395 kph), set by an American team in 1999 using a similarly streamlined car powered by thousands of AA batteries. That record, sanctioned by the Federation Internationale de L'Automobile, was set on Utah's nearby Bonneville Salt Flats, which are too wet at this time of year for speed trials."
"NASHVILLE, Tenn. -- Bloggers -- those Internet-based writers without rules -- are fighting back against criticism that their work is unreliable, libelous or just poorly done. More than 300 bloggers came to town Friday for a two-day conference that was heavy on teaching techniques used by journalists in what bloggers term "the mainstream media." One class taught students how to access and analyze government statistics," reportsAP.
Resident Evil 4: Chainsaw ControllerGamecubeA unique controller from NubyTech which, if you'll excuse the pun, has caused quite a buzz. Each "accurately modelled" mini-chainsaw features individually splattered blood (OK, red paint), so no two are the same. It's been designed to complement Capcom's Resident Evil 4, but will work with any other GameCube title. However, like many other novelty controllers, it doesn't make games any easier - or, indeed, any more fun. A display stand is supplied, so it could make an interesting talking point at dinner parties. In reality, though, it's likely to end up in the attic with your bazooka light-gun and virtual fishing rod.&#183;Nubytech, &#163;40Cold FearPC, PS2, XboxSurvival horror fans without the GameCube required to play the genre-leading Resident Evil 4 might be tempted by Cold Fear, but it's a pretty weak alternative. You take the role of a US coastguard sent to investigate a mysterious russian whaler, drifting in a heavy storm. It proves to be a unique and testing opening, as the ship rocks violently from side to side, forcing you to dodge waves when crossing exposed decks. But in most other respects, we're on familiar ground here - aside from unwelcoming Russians, the main adversaries include zombie-like creatures and exocels, and the plot (fleshed out in the form of written notes, rather than cut-scenes) leads down a well-trodden path.&#183;Ubisoft, &#163;20-&#163;40Jade EmpireXboxBioWare follow Star Wars: Knights Of The Old Republic, many gamers' pick of 2003, with another stunning role-playing game on Xbox. Set a long time ago, in a mystical land in the far east, Jade Empire sees you play the star student at the Two Rivers martial arts school. You don't initially know why, but you're the chosen one, clearly destined for great things. It's up to you whether you choose to follow the path of the Open Palm or the Closed Fist - kind or aggressive, in simple terms. Either way, in time-honoured kung-fu tradition, you'll often find yourself heavily outnumbered by human opponents, and facing giant supernatural foes. Luckily, the real-time combat system - with 25 fighting styles to master - is an absolute joy. A kick-ass game in every respect.&#183;Microsoft, &#163;40
A City professional was jailed for two and a half years yesterday for his role in a global gang of internet pirates behind the UK's biggest software theft.The Old Bailey heard that Alex Bell, 29, a Morgan Stanley IT worker, belonged to an international underground hackers' organisation - DrinkorDie - which prided itself on cracking even the most complex security codes and putting illegally copied software, games, music and videos on the web before their official release.The group, 70 members of which have been arrested worldwide, was not driven by financial gain, but by the technological thrill and a dislike of corporate giants such as Microsoft. But its actions cost the computer industry millions of pounds.Bell, of Chafford Hundreds, Essex, and co-defendant Steven Dowd, 39, from   Merseyside, both denied conspiracy to defraud, but were convicted by the jury. Two other men, 31-year-old Mark Vent, from Grays, Essex, and Andrew Eardley, 35, of Deal, Kent, admitted the charge. Dowd was jailed for two years, Vent for 18 months, and Eardley got an 18-month suspended sentence.Bell was a "staff member" of DrinkorDie, with some kudos in the hierarchy, and fraudulently used other people's credit cards to buy software for the group to crack. Dowd was also a member and police found a "treasure trove" of pirated software in his home.Judge Paul Focke said that while the defendants were not the ringleaders of DrinkorDie, all four were involved in activities which "struck at the very heart of software trading"."The cost to software owners through piracy is staggering," he added. "Not only does it have an effect on them but it also has an effect on related businesses and the lives of   their employees can be rendered catastrophic."Bruce Houlder, prosecuting, described the gang as computer obsessives who lived in a virtual world where they were internet heroes."Computers are their universe. They seem to live and breathe the world of computers. They see themselves as stars and come out at night. They are the night-time tappers of keyboards whose lives are bound by random access memory. Their lives revolve around cyberspace."Often they don't do what they do for money but for a kind of street cred among their fellow internet devotees. But they see themselves as internet heroes."They may think of themselves as latter-day Robin Hoods, stealing from the rich   and giving to the poor ... but this Robin Hood mentality is just something that serves their purpose. In reality it is a cover for fraud."Judge Focke commended three police officers from the National Hi-Tech Crime Squad for their "outstanding efforts" in bringing the prosecution. British cyber-detectives worked with the FBI on a five-year investigation.Detective Superintendent Mick Deats, National Hi-Tech Crime Squad deputy head, said that DrinkorDie was one of the most sophisticated groups making up the "Warez Community" - a network of gangs which started in the 1990s, "ripping" software by removing protective copyright and then posting it on the internet for illegal downloading.He added: "Internet piracy is a growing problem, with organised crime moving into this space and defrauding the individual, business and governments of millions of pounds."
"Web Accelerator, which is available at no charge, runs alongside a browser and directs all searches and page requests through Google's servers. The software supports Microsoft Corp.'s Internet Explorer and the Mozilla Foundation's Firefox browsers," reportsInternet Week."The desktop cache is for web pages that are pre-loaded based on a person's web activity. The software uses mathematical formulas to try to determine what web content the person is most likely to seek, based on prior behavior. The cache on Google's server is populated with popular web content based on the activity of Web Accelerator users as a whole."Feeding web pages either from a desktop cache or a Google server is normally faster than getting the content from the public Internet. In addition, Google compresses the data for faster movement to the browser."Comment:Sounds a lot likeOnSpeed, with similar privacy issues. Oh, and AOL'sTopSpeed.
Want to let your MP know why you voted the way you did? MySociety has come up with a new method of letting parliamentarians hear what their constituents think:I Voted For You Because.com.Example entries:"I voted for you because..."Unlike the rest of the people living in Oxford East I don't hate freedom and I don't want the terrorists to win!!My local Labour MP has a seemingly unassailable seat, and as I would like to see a more open approach to governance in the town I voted to reduce that comfort zone.There's not much point voting for anyone else where I live and I didn't want the Tories back in.I voted Green because Climate Change is the most important issue for us to deal with and soon.They'll even email your answer to your MP if you want.Me? I've just added mine.
Put today's lack of posts (a) to staying up half the night to watchthe electionand (b) to the fact that I've been out much of the day at the Old Bailey, where four of theDrinkOrDie pirates were today convicted:Alex Bell, 29, and three others ran the UK end of DrinkorDie - an international code-cracking group - and thought of themselves as modern-day Robin Hoods, the Old Bailey was told.The court heard they were not in it for the money but the thrill of being able to crack security codes and release free software on to the internet.I hadn't followed the case extremely closely, but it was important and interesting: the quartet were all found guilty (two entered guilty pleas, two were tried) in what was in essence a precedent-making trial.Alex Bell, mentioned above, received the longest sentence: two-and-a-half years. The other got between 18 months and two years. One had his sentence suspended.Judge Paul Focke, presiding, told the defendants that their activities "struck at the very heart of software trading. The loss of software to owners through piracy is staggering... The only way of dealing with you is the imposition of a perison sentence: other people must be deterred."The judge dismissed claims of entrapment by some of the defendants, and said that although they did not sell the cracked software for profit, they may have acted illegally in order "to enhance your personal reputations, or for the thrill". Their sentences were exacerbated by the distribution of illegally-obtained credit card numbers that the gang used to buy original copies of the software.It all marks a part conclusion of "Operation Blossom", a five-year international investigation led by the FBI in the United States and involving Britain's cybercrime task force, the National High-Tech Crime Unit.The NHTCU released a public statement saying that "internet piracy is a growing problem, with organised crime now moving into this space and defrauding the individual, business and governments of millions of pounds."Privately, investigators expressed mixed feelings about the length of sentences, although they all said the results marked a strong marker for future prosecution of software pirates.There were clearly some strong feelings about the sentences from the friends and family gathered in the court today, and some will feel that the judge should have been more lenient.But this sets the standard for future sentences for this kind of crime: did they get it right?
The skepticism surrounding the Sony proprietary Universal Media Disk (UMD) technology for their PlayStation Portable (PSP) appears to be dissipating, as major movie studios clamber to sign up big-name releases for the format. Fox, Universal and Paramount have all expressed interest, according togamesindustry.biz, potentially releasing classics likeNapoleon DynamiteandI, Robotto the PSP'd-up masses. This could be the boost that the format needs; with the big names condoning the new storage-and-deliver discs, others may follow. If it does succeed, it would be nice if the handheld movie revolution goes beyond Hollywood blockbusters and includes a library of alternative and art-house flicks. Perhaps even some home-grown offerings? There are already a few on offer, from media company Atom Films.In other PSP media news, US network ABC recently announced (here) that they're going to start providing downloadable programme content for the handheld. Entertainment is expected to feature highly, but news is the expected killer app. (viaBrad)Before Sony jumps for joy, however, there is a real hurdle to contend with: consumer demand. Who really wants to watch a cinematic experience or the latest coverage of Iraq on something that fits in your palm?Is the future of gaming handheld? Nintendo and Sony would have us believe so. Gizmondo too. I have my doubts.Although tremendous numbers of Europeans have forked out for the Nintendo DS, I have yet to see anyone – male, female, young or old – using it in transit anywhere in the UK. Furthermore, even through the PSP has reportedly been a big seller in North America, I've seen neither hide nor hair whilst on the subways or over-grounds of NYC. Sony's move into multimedia entertainment is obviously an attempt to attract the suited masses, but frankly the image of a handheld game player is still under the age of 14, and it will take more than downloadable news content for anyone else to take notice.Games that work best for the handheld machines are those which either feature high-octane, discrete episodes of action (from Galaxian to Wario DS to The Sims) or offer some kind of connectivity unique to their capabilities (Pocket Kingdom to Pokemon). Grown ups will use them while bored on the train or between meetings (when their bosses aren't looking). They don't want detailed epics or feature-length films. Snippets: that's how it is in the real world. Why should they buy the DS, the PSP or the Gizmondo? They can get their news coverage and other bite-sized info from their 3G phones or pocket PCs. Bet they aren't playing hi-falutin' games on them either.Story byAleks, posted by Keef while she's living it up in 'da states'.
A City banker who pirated internet software was jailed for two and a half years today as a judge warned that the cost of piracy to the software industry was "staggering".Alex Bell, 29, and three others ran the UK end of DrinkorDie - an international code-cracking group - and thought of themselves as modern-day Robin Hoods, the Old Bailey was told.The court heard they were not in it for the money but the thrill of being able to crack security codes and release free software on to the internet.The case brings to an end Britain's biggest investigation into computer piracy, which costs UK businesses £1bn a year."The activities of all four of you struck at the heart of the software trade," Judge Paul Focke told the defendants. "The loss of software to owners through piracy is staggering. Also, the effect on related businesses and the lives of employees can be rendered catastrophic."He said it had been estimated that one third of software being used in Britain was pirated and resulted in a loss of revenue."In your cases, it is impossible to quantify the losses as a result of your activities," he told the defendants.Bell, of Chafford Hundred, Essex, and Steven Dowd, 39, of Newton-le-Willows, Merseyside, were found guilty of conspiracy to defraud following a five-month trial earlier this year. Dowd was jailed for two years today.Andrew Eardley, 35, now of Deal, Kent, and IT manager Mark Vent, 31, of Grays, Essex, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to defraud last year. Vent was jailed for 18 months and Eardley, a former Staffordshire school IT worker, for 18 months, suspended for two years.Bruce Houlder QC, prosecuting, said: "This is a ground-breaking prosecution. It is the first prosecution for software piracy on this scale conducted in this country."The piracy involved "cracking" the protection on software programmes, utilities and games to enable them to be copied and downloaded.It was aimed at defrauding the legitimate copyright owners, who had spent millions of pounds developing the products.International companies such as Microsoft, as well as small companies, fell victim to the scam.  Some programmes had been stolen using insider help, before they were available commercially, he said.Mr Houlder said: "They may see themselves as latter-day Robin Hoods, stealing from the rich to give to the poor, but in reality it is a cover for fraud."The National Hi-Tech Crime Unit said DrinkorDie had been closed down as a result of the police raids in the US, Australia, Britain and other countries.Detective Superintendent Mick Deats said: "This was a complex investigation which involved working with colleagues across the globe."Internet piracy is a growing problem, with organised crime now moving into this space and defrauding the individual, business and governments of millions of pounds."
The credit-checking division of retail group GUS, owner of Argos and Homebase, has entered a &#163;200m deal to buy a privately owned online service that helps consumers find cheap phone services and loans.Experian, the US offshoot of GUS, is paying $330m (&#163;173m) forwww.LowerMyBills.com, with an extra sum - of up to $50m - payable over the next two years, depending on performance.The California-based website is Experian's fourth internet-based acquisition and its biggest deal for seven years. LowerMyBills.com, founded in 1999 by its chief executive, Matt Coffin, uses information entered by consumers to match them with the best financial deals in sectors ranging from internet access to debt consolidation loans and health insurance. LowerMyBills is then paid for every lead passed on to each lender.The market for these services now stands at about $1bn a year and is growing at 30% a year. Experian estimates that the percentage of mortgages originating online will treble between 2003 and 2008.In the year to March, LowerMyBills generated pro-forma sales of $120m and an operating profit of $26m.The company has offices in Santa Monica and 176 employees. It claims to have helped 500,000 consumers save more than &#163;172m on their monthly bills.Don Robert, who took over as chief executive of Experian last month, said: "We will now assist consumers in making the most cost-effective financial services decisions, while also providing our lender clients with high-quality leads for new borrowers. The strategic fit could not be better."The Experian business is growing fast. It recently reported its third successive year of double-digit growth. The company, which originally specialised in credit-checking services for mortgage lenders, is moving into direct-to-consumer businesses. It said the LowerMyBills deal would enhance earnings in the first year.GUS is considering a spin-off of the unit, which holds credit information on more than 200 million people, as part of a strategic review of the firm.Analysts said the deal made a demerger more likely. The shares climbed 13.5p to 860p.
He might be a new Pope but there is no doubting his second-hand value. Last night a VW Golf that used to belong to Benedict XVI was sold for almost &euro;189,000 - about &#163;128,000.The auction of the Pope's old car finished with a bid from a US buyer from Austin, Texas, of more than 13 times what student Benjamin Halbe, 21, paid for it earlier this year."The winning bidder is someone who has often purchased unusual items in the past," said eBay spokeswoman Daphne Rauch.Mr Halbe, from Olpe, in west Germany, put the vehicle on eBay a week ago. He bought it in January from his local VW dealer, only discovering the identity of its previous owner when the registration papers arrived. Since the sale his life has been transformed, with more than 6.5 million people logging on to his eBay advert.Potential customers from across the world, meanwhile, have bombarded Mr Halbe with more than 1,000 emails. In a weary note posted next to photos of the vehicle - a grey Golf with 70,000km (43,500 miles) on the clock - the student pleaded: "I have already received more emails than I can answer."The Pope bought the Golf six years ago when he was merely a German cardinal, Joseph Ratzinger. His private secretary, Dr Josef Clemens, who imported the vehicle from Germany to Rome in 1999, drove it back to his home town of Siegen and sold it. The VW dealer who sold it to Mr Halbe said nothing about its former owner, telling the Guardian last week: "We didn't let on about the vehicle's history because selling cars is all about trust."In his advert, Mr Halbe writes: "Unbelievable! This is not an ordinary car. Your driving will always be save &#91;sic&#93; and blessed in it. You won't believe it, but the former car-holder was our new Pope, Benedict XVI." He adds, apparently without irony: "The car looks as if it was new due to the care it god &#91;sic&#93;."
For more than two and a half years IBM has been extolling the virtues of "on demand" business to corporate clients, using technology to enable businesses to react quickly to changes, whether good or bad. Yesterday IBM took a dose of its own medicine. The aftertaste, especially in Europe, looks set to be dire.Having unveiled a poor set of first-quarter results last month - showing a 5% drop in sales in France, Germany, Italy and Japan, which account for a quarter of its business - IBM is axing 13,000 jobs. The axe will fall hard in western Europe where corporate spending on IT has been sluggish.This restructuring, which will cost up to $1.7bn (&#163;890m), marks the latest step in a march that started in the dotcom boom when IBM began to move away from its hardware business into IT services. That process reached its zenith with the $3.5bn acquisition of PriceWaterhouseCoopers consulting in 2002.IBM's services business generates about half of the company's near-$100bn annual revenues. But while IBM has increasingly told clients to get lean and mean, its own business, especially in Europe, has become more bureaucratic and centralised.The company is planning a two-pronged attack on Europe. It is devolving the power that resided in its old EMEA - Europe, Middle East and Africa - headquarters to   a more local level while moving its customer support functions into core sites.Roger Fulton, vice president of research at Gartner and a veteran IBM watcher, believes IBM "is applying some of the on demand strategy to its own operations" creating "a more agile and more customer responsive business that can deliver more standardised solutions   from a lower cost base". This change is necessary because corporate spending on IT is in the doldrums, especially in Europe."We are now in the fourth year of a tough economic period with more or less zero growth for IT spending globally," Mr Fulton said. "That has put tremendous competitive pressure on everybody, especially pricing pressure."IBM's senior vice-president and chief financial officer, Mark Loughridge, yesterday said: "It is no secret there has been an extended period of soft economic conditions in many European countries."Details of where the 13,000 jobs will go to deal with this softness have yet to be thrashed out but he went on to say France, Germany, Italy and the UK are likely to be   hardest hit. Job cuts in France may centre on the company's EMEA headquarters in Paris because there is no longer a need for a pan-European management layer.Ian Wesley, IBM research director at industry experts Ovum, believes the company needs to abandon this outdated model, asking: "In what sense is lumping together Europe, Middle East   and Africa relevant in the modern world?"Restructuring is needed in Germany and Italy because of IBM's poor performance in both countries. But the rationale for taking the axe to UK workers seems less clearcut. After all, the UK economy has outperformed those economies within the eurozone every year since 1992.Mr Loughridge suggested   the reason for this was "some work should be done close to the client, but other work can be done from any location".Amicus national officer Peter Skyte said: "We fear the worst, given that it is quicker, cheaper and easier to get rid of workers in the UK than in Europe. IBM is behaving like the worst 19th century farmer - hiring for the harvest and firing at the end of the season."
"Driven by its success in the enterprise, Blackberry maker Research In Motion Ltd toppled PalmOne Inc from the No 1 slot in the first quarter in the handheld computer market, a position the latter company has held for a half dozen years," reportsTechWeb News."The change was not unexpected, given PalmOne's decision to focus on the nascent smart-phone market with its Treo device, Todd Kort, analyst for Gartner Inc said."In brief, PalmOne's Q1 shipments fell by 26.3% from 834,591 to 614,750 units while RIM's jumped 75.6% from 405,000 to 711,000 units."In PDA operating systems, Redmond, Wash.-based, Microsoft Corp. led the market with Windows CE, which increased its market share to 46% from 40.2%, Gartner said. Shipments increased 43% in the first quarter to 1.6 million from 1.1 million a year ago," says Gartner."Symbian had a 9.9% market share, while Linux managed 0.8%."Linux saw a 21.6% drop in shipments, which led to a half-point drop in market share."
It is easy to sneer at the Nokia 7710. After all, this stylus-based smartphone has been a year in the making, and is big, bulky and rather tricky to operate. It does not even have a direct keypad for dialling numbers - you have to use the stylus to tap the screen. Yet the 7710 has hidden depths. For when you realise the next version of this handset is likely to feature a digital TV tuner, the large widescreen begins to make sense. We got a glimpse of the future by running both The Shawshank Redemption MMC card from Rok and the onboard video software. The images were eminently stable and surprisingly watchable, even though the screen is not quite as colour-rich as some rivals. The phone boasts a superb web browser, and features a reasonable 1.3 megapixel camera, Bluetooth, an FM radio tuner, a voice recorder and a generous amount of storage. The 7710 will not appeal to corporate buyers, and even gadget-lovers might find it too bulky and fiddly, but its widescreen is here to stay.www.nokia.co.uk&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number.
Pump up your website or blog with a few add-ons that will help you get under its bonnet, add functionality or just provide a bit of fun. You won't need a degree in HTML coding to install any of these little helpers: cutting and pasting is as technical as it gets.StatisticsStatistics counters not only track the number of site hits, unique visitors and returnees your site receives, but they tell you whether your readers are from Leytonstone or Lima, how long they browse your site, what browser and operating system they use, and whether they take one lump or two.StatCounter (www.statcounter.com) Sitemeter (www.sitemeter.com) and eXTReMe Tracker (http://extremetracking.com) are three options. All offer basic free versions as well as paid-for upgrades. StatCounter has the most configurable counter icon and can be made invisible to readers of your site. eXTReMe Tracker and Sitemeter offer real-time reporting and no traffic limitations, handy if your site suddenly becomes very popular. If you get 9,000 page loads per day with Statcounter, you will be asked to remove the counter or upgrade to the paid version. All provide emailed reports.More interactionA tagboard is a message box that sits one side of your blog. Readers leave notes, which encourage conversation. They differ from a comments box as they are not post specific. Tagboards run throughout your whole blog. Tag-Board (www.tag-board.com) and Chatterbox (http://chatter.flooble.com) are popular and free. Add a poll and ask readers to vote on issues of the day or issues with your blog. Go towww.freepolls.comorwww.pollhost.comfor the free tools you need.Skype meIf you use Skype (www.skype.com), the free internet telephony software, add a Skype Me button. Readers, friends and colleagues can call you straight from your site to tell you what a great post you just made, so long as they also have Skype installed. Seewww.skype.com/community/skypemebuttons.html.Live Message Alerts!Let your readers know in real time when you update your blog. Live Message Alerts!(www.messagecast.net) is free. Add the icon to your site and readers can opt to receive alerts by email, desktop alert, mobile phone, or PDA. Readers receive a headline and can   click through to read your new post.License your workAdding a Creative Commons licence (http://creativecommons.org) lets everybody know what they can and cannot beg, borrow or steal from your blog. You choose whether your words, images, sounds and videos are available for commercial purposes.RSS feedsA blog isn't a blog without an RSS feed. Adding a Bloglines (www. bloglines.com) or a Newsgator (www.newsgator.com) feed to your site allows readers to sign up quickly by hitting the icon you install and adding your feed to their RSS reader or online Bloglines account. FeedBurner (www.feedburner.com) is another option that offers easy set up.GimmicksThe Truth Laid Bear Ecosytem (www.truthlaidbear.com/ecosystem.php) will let you know where you stand, crawl or sliver in Blogdom. Let the narcissist in you take over and add the "Who links to me" code (http://wholinkstome.com) and it tells you what it says it'll tell you. Technorati (www.technorati.com) offers a similar, more sophisticated service. Add a clock withwww.clocklink.com. Do you use the Flickr (www.flickr.com) photo-sharing service? Add their zeitgeist -www.flickr.com/fun/zeitgeist. It displays an attractive patchwork of pictures recently uploaded to Flickr, all in your sidebar.Stop SpamFoil the spam robots crawling your blog for email addresses with SpamPoison:www.spampoison.com.One blog's never enoughWith Sideblog (http://sideblog.com) you can add a small separate blog to the side of your main blog. Useful for keeping link lists or guest bloggers apart from your main blog.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number.
Hammered by Apple in the personal audio market, losing ground to Samsung in large flat screen TVs and struggling to persuade consumers to invest in its new digital recorders, Sony did something at a press conference in Bordeaux, France two weeks ago, that would have been considered inconceivable a few years back. It admitted it had lost its way.A penitent European president, Chris Deering, acknowledged there had been mistakes in the past but argued that Sony's range for this year was its best ever.And while consumers probably won't be too enamoured by the company's cheesy new tag line - like.no.other - they are likely to be impressed by a line-up of products that includes the PSP handheld games console, the NW-HD5 hard disk Walkman and the DSC-T7 ultra thin digital camera, all of which are superbly designed.Yet what is most striking about the new Sony is that it seems to have ceded the bottom end of the market to its Chinese and Taiwanese rivals and is instead focusing on premium products.In Bordeaux, Sony confirmed that Qualia, its high-end range, would be coming to the UK. To herald its arrival, Sony gave journalists a demonstration of the 004 high definition home cinema projector that debuts next month. Its performance is astonishing, with incredibly life-like colour rendition and amazing levels of image resolution.With one eye on Sky's HDTV launch next year, the company paraded its Blu-ray next generation optical storage system, which uses 25GB disks that can archive two hours of HDTV or 13 hours of standard television.And Sony isn't about to let Microsoft get its own way in the AV-based media centre PC market. It debuted the V3 series, which pairs high-end PC specifications with entertainment features such as a TV tuner and digital video recording. It also unveiled the RDR-HX1010, a video system that couples a DVD recorder with a huge 400GB hard disk.The strategy is one that has worked well for Sony in the past: make your high-profile gadgets hip with younger consumers and then hope they will turn to the premium AV products as they grow older. Yet while the opposition used to be just fellow Japanese brands such as JVC and Sharp, Sony now faces innovative Koreans (Samsung and LG), ambitious Taiwanese (BenQ) and a host of companies looking to migrate from the PC market to mainstream consumer electronics.The hero products will probably reposition Sony in the minds of consumers as an innovator. Yet whether those consumers pass up on buying the cheaper TVs, video recorders and hi-fi systems in favour of Sony's premium devices remains to be seen.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number.
Since releasing the first version of the Macintosh's 10th-generation operating system, OS X, in 2001, Apple has been working around the clock on improvements. With Microsoft's next-generation operating system, code-named Longhorn, not expected until the second half of 2006 at the earliest, Apple has continued releasing major upgrades to Mac OS X at the rate of almost one per year. And, last Friday, it delivered the fourth such upgrade, Mac OS X 10.4 Tiger, or just Tiger for short.Two new technologies have come to symbolise Tiger: Spotlight, a new system-wide search technology, and Dashboard, a feature that puts dozens of convenient utilities one keystroke away.Think of Spotlight as Google on steroids for your Mac. Type "skydive" as the search term in the Spotlight menu, accessible from every application in the top right of the screen, and Spotlight almost instantaneously finds and categorises every file on your computer that has that term. The functionality extends far deeper than mere file names. Thanks to a rapid and robust indexing feature, Spotlight can find all your emails in Apple's Mail program that have the word "skydive" in them, for example. Remember that list of life goals you unhelpfully saved as "Untitled.doc"? Spotlight found it with your "skydive" search.This represents one of the more convenient and powerful applications of Spotlight, but is also telling of its fundamental convenience to you, the user. While search is the current buzzword in operating system circles, its value often depends on how organised (or disorganised) your digital life is.Dashboard's benefit is more widespread, but its underlying capabilities are more evolutionary than revolutionary. With a single keystroke, Dashboard "widgets" take over your screen, offering quick access to such information as flight information, Yellow Pages, weather and dictionary. Like all aspects of Mac OS X, widgets are marvellously elegant and attractive, and Apple has made it possible for third-party developers to create their own.Across the board, every application   and utility included with OS X has been updated to some degree with Tiger. Version 2.0 of Apple's Safari web browser includes built-in support for RSS website syndication feeds, an easy way to check when sites have been updated. RSS readers are not new, but Apple's approach to integrating the capability into a browser is one of the first. Safari's handling of feeds is relatively basic compared to some third-party RSS readers, but it is well integrated.Tiger also delivers a greatly   improved version of Apple's Mail software, but the application remains largely targeted for personal use. A lack of Microsoft Outlook integration, for example, means that many Mac users in corporate environments will still want to turn to Microsoft's Entourage X, sold separately and available as part of Microsoft Office 2004 for Mac.Apple's iChat instant messaging software, which ties into the AOL Instant Messenger network, now supports four-way video conferenc ing, so you can see and converse with your grandmother in Glasgow and your brother in Brighton at the same time; provided, of course, they have the necessary hardware and are running Tiger themselves.Arguably the biggest improvements Apple has made to Mac OS X with Tiger are tucked under the hood. Every upgrade that has been released to date has improved overall performance across virtually all supported systems. If your current Mac runs Mac OS X, the chances are it will run even better with Tiger. If you have a newer Mac - a Power Mac G5 or iMac G5, or a relatively powerful video card with 64MB of video Ram - new technologies in Tiger deliver even more impressive performance gains.Smoothing the rough edges of previous operating system releases may seem secondary to packing compelling new features, but Apple's polishing efforts with Tiger do a fantastic job of pulling every aspect of Mac OS X together. Seasoned users will enjoy the improved responsiveness of working with very large numbers of files, for example, while novices will appreciate the more clever integration of helpful information and assistants.Tiger is a worthy upgrade that most Mac users will feel justifies its &#163;90 price tag, provided that expectations are kept in line with what Apple has detailed (seewww.apple.com/macosx/). On its own, Tiger is unlikely to provoke any mass exodus of Windows users to the Mac, but it will serve as a reminder of Apple's dedication to delivering powerful solutions that its customers enjoy using on a consistent basis.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number.
On a bright summer's day, the last thing most people want is to be stuck indoors watching TV. Well, this summer, 500 specially chosen Oxfordshire residents will be given the ability to view their favourite shows on their mobile phones as O2, in conjunction with cable company NTL, runs a trial of television over mobile devices.Using technology that essentially mimics traditional broadcast TV, O2 will turn mobile phones into minitelevisions. Consumers on the trial will be able to view all the channels a couch potato would expect to receive the comfort of their sitting room - including some satellite stations.The O2 trial, likely to start in early July, follows tests of similar technology in Germany by T-Mobile and Vodafone, and there are plans for further projects by Sonera in Finland, KPN in Holland and Telstra in Australia. Initial indications from the Berlin trial suggest the technology works. But there are still some major hurdles to be overcome before a full commercial service can be launched.As with so many technical projects the mobile phone world, there is argument over what technological standard to use, and in Europe it remains to be seen whether the radio spectrum needed for broadcast mobile TV will actually be made available by the regulators.But some of the mobile phone operators cannot wait until all the pieces are in place and, as a consequence, consumers can expect to hear a lot more about TV over mobile phones in the coming months.Instead of using new spectrum such as the O2 trial, some of the operators are planning to "broadcast" TV over 3G. Late last year, Orange launched a service in France, and there is speculation of an imminent UK launch, while Vodafone is rumoured to be planning a 3G TV service in the autumn.The attraction for the operators is obvious. Having spent billions five years ago buying up the airwaves needed for 3G, they are desperate to get customers using it. But all users seem to want to do with 3G is make cheap phone calls and send text messages. TV, on the other hand, is something everyone understands, so moving it on to a mobile device is an easy sell.Orange's 3G customers in France can watch more than 20 live TV channels, including Fashion TV, France 2, M6 Music and 24 hour news from LCI. They can also watch a selection of live football and rugby games.Orange reckons that four fifths of its French 3G customers watch live TV over their phones. But without a real understanding of Orange's customer numbers, it is hard to calculate whether these people are merely early-adopters or part of a trend that shows mobile TV may actually work.Rob Bamforth, principal analyst at industry experts Quocirca, believes that mobile TV is most likely to provide a way for mobile phone users to relieve the tedium of situations such as waiting for a bus or train.For its existing 3G service, for instance, Vodafone has created what it calls mobisodes, minute-long drama episodes based on the successful 24 Fox TV series in the US."The concept of mobisodes is not bad because it is highly focused on something that can be delivered in a very short time," he says. "It's a boredom buster."But the provision of mobisodes does not rely on having continuous broadcast TV available. In fact, they are much better suited to the traditional streaming or download model of mobile phone content.Similarly, recent research by Impaq Group, a Zurich-based IT consultancy, suggests that mobile phone users are more likely to dip in and out of mobile phone content when they have some spare time, rather than switch on at particular times to see particular TV programmes.Impaq's UK managing director, Matt Studholme, calls this "snacking". Mobile phone users switch on when they are bored, "particularly on commuter journeys, where people try and avoid eye contact".Intriguingly, Impaq's research shows that less than 2% of mobile phone users have used the video capabilities of their phones. But when asked if they had confidence that video and other new services would work, if they tried them, 75% said they did.What is holding back usage, according to some in the mobile phone industry, is that most consumers have no real experience of "on-demand" media content. Television, on the other hand, is something people can relate to, and they do flick through the channels when bored.The concern about using the 3G spectrum for this service, however, is that the operators will clutter up their airways with broadcast TV, using capacity that could be generating revenues for them through music or games downloading. Which is why, in the long term, major telecoms companies such as Nokia believe that mobile TV will use a completely different technology that can use cheaper parts of the radio spectrum.But there are in fact four competing technological platforms for "real" mobile TV. The first, known as DVB-H, is based on a pared-down version of the broadcast system used for TV. It operates at about half the frame refresh rate of video.The second technology is DMB, or digital multimedia broadcasting, a variant of the technology used for digital radio. Earlier this year, the South Korean government issued six licences for mobile TV using DMB, and services are expected to launch next month. The licences were issued to the country's three main television stations and three satellite broadcasters rather than mobile phone companies. The participants must share their broadcast networks with companies looking to provide mobile TV.Japan, meanwhile, uses yet another standard, called ISDB-Tm, which can send MPeg-4 compressed video to mobile phones, while in the US, Qualcomm has decided to go it alone.The American wireless technology group has set up a separate business, MediaFlow USA, to deploy and operate what it calls a nationwide mediacast network using spectrum that Qualcomm owns and proprietary technology.Nokia's Richard Sharp, who heads the Finnish company's rich media business, is sanguine about the proliferation of global technologies. "It would appear there certainly will be globally different standards. But we see DVB-H as having the most potential with regard to take-up".In fact, Nokia is heavily involved with Europe's trials of mobile TV, almost all of which are using DVB-H, and its 7710 phone - with the addition of a special receiver on the back is one of the most used handsets. The exception among the operators is Mobile, which has experimented with DMB in its trial in Germany.Sharp said the initial results from trials in Berlin of DVB-H have been positive. "From a trial perspective, the handsets and the servers which deliver the content are working," he said. "The technology is good."Now, it is down to the operators and media companies to create the business plans and services that will make use of the technology. He says reaction from the media industry has been positive: "Every time I meet people from the media industry I hear new ideas and proposals."He expects mobile TV to be a combination of simulcast - where viewers can essentially watch what is on TV - and content made specifically for mobile phones, such as short news programmes similar to those seen by passengers on the Heathrow Express rail service from Paddington.Nokia is talking to operators and media companies in 20 countries. This year is mostly for consumer trials. Next year is when commercial services targeted at the mass market will start," he reckons.But SonyEricsson's Peter Marsden, managing director UK and Ireland, believes that yet again the industry is running before it can walk. "If I am going to watch an entire TV programme I want to watch it on a widescreen TV," Marsden says. "Mobile TV is nice for trials and it looks good on an exhibition stand but the reality is still some way away."He believes that the mobile phone industry has enough on its hands dealing with existing technology without demanding that operators spend more on new equipment. "At the moment, there are so many other things we need to get right."There is also a big stumbling block to the widespread adoption of mobile TV on networks other than 3G: the radio spectrum needed may not be made available for some considerable time - or, in fact, at all.This side of the channel, there are potentially three bits of spectrum that can be used for mobile TV. The first, called band III, is part of the existing radio spectrum, and its future is part of an ongoing review by regulator Ofcom.Mobile TV could also be broadcast over the UHF and VHF frequencies that will be freed up by the switch-off of the analogue TV signal. But this will not happen across the UK until 2012, so this an unlikely solution.Third, there is what is called the L-Band, but that has already been allocated for digital radio. In fact, a decision on which of the two most likely bits of radio spectrum, band III and the L-Band, is unlikely until after next spring's regional radio conference, a gathering of regulators from 120 countries.Despite the fact that the technology seems to work, the picture for real broadcast mobile TV remains fuzzy.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number.
Students who write online journals or weblogs often do so as a way to keep in touch with family and friends from pre-university life. They generally find their own way to it, but some universities are starting to encourage students to keep weblogs. The hope is that the benefits noted by some academics - testing ideas, keeping track of research, sharing work with peers and developing a writing style - could work for students as well.Warwick University is playing a pioneering role with its Warwick Blogs project, which is available to all students, teachers and staff. The idea behind it, says John Dale, head of IT services at Warwick, was "self-publishing for all". Students were allowed to create homepages on the university's network, he says, but few bothered because it was too difficult. In contrast, setting up a Warwick Blog is easy. The hope is that once students start blogging, says Dale, it could build a community, foster collaboration and perhaps help with the personal development planning that students and tutors have to work on.Warwick Blogs went live in October. Dale and his team created their own software, mainly because they didn't see an adequate commercial package. "We needed a system that would allow us to host thousands of blogs and manage them easily, and we wanted to be able to add new functions as needs emerged."There has been praise for the service and for the marketing created by Hannah Jamieson - a mix of clever slogans ("do it. think it. blog it!") spread   throughout the campus on posters, beer mats and fridge magnets.Warwick Blogs now hosts more than 3,000 weblogs - but with 15,000 students at the university, at least 12,000 therefore remain unconvinced. "We don't know in detail why they don't blog," says Dale. "And we don't plan to try and 'convert' them. That sounds a bit scary." Dale says he has been most surprised by the way people write "emotionally charged, highly personal entries ... about intimate aspects of their lives, knowing they are publishing to an audience of 20,000 or more, and getting something very positive out of doing so".Less surprising, perhaps, has been the attempts to push boundaries - by using inappropriate and offensive language, copyrighted material or by "gaming" the system. For example, students have faked comments to certain posts so they are identified as hot topics and highlighted on the main Warwick Blogs page."There's a kind of a self-correcting element to the system," says Dale. "If someone says something inappropriate or offensive, there are often comments and debate appended to the original post which serve to change its effect from something unhelpful. The collective intelligence and insight of the community is impressive."So what do students make of Warwick Blogs? Helen Ryan, a second-year physics student, began blogging in October and is one of the more active users. "When I started I was simply using it to vent about things in my personal life." Support came from other bloggers and Ryan became "part of a community, which I never expected".Philosophy student Dan Lawrence and active Warwick blogger, says "it has been a social revolution". He has also used it "to try to transform dry lecture notes into something entertaining for a wider audience, thereby helping myself learn along the way".Others are less positive. Max Hammond, a chemistry PhD student, says that blogs are a useful social tool, but that the service's acceptable usage policy is draconian. "The blogs admin appears to suspend student blogs on some very shaky reasons."Dale points out that Warwick Blogs gives a lot of control to students who can, for example, block tutors from reading posts, and adds that the university management has been very tolerant of critical posts. Lawrence denies that freedom of speech is an issue. "Many controversial posts have been allowed to stand. The ones that have been censored have almost all involved abusive comments."When it comes to supporting academic and personal development, as with the social side of university, blogs may work for some students and not for others. And if they do help, it may be in an informal way that is hard to map in official surveys. Dale says it is still too early to come to any conclusions, in part because people are still discovering how to use the service."There are a few cases where tutors are using blogs to track what their students are doing, but that is a really new idea, and I expect it will take years before we know whether this is a valuable way of supporting learning." The university is planning to do research on the service.In the meantime, Dale argues that it is sensible to keep an open mind about blogs. "There are lots of other ways of supporting reflection and personal development, or community and collaboration. We did speculate about whether it would be cheaper and quicker to give every student an A5 diary."LinksWarwick Blogshttp://blogs.warwick.ac.ukJohn Dalehttp://blogs.warwick.ac.uk/johndaleDan Lawrencehttp://blogs.warwick.ac.uk/dglawrenceHelen Ryanhttp://blogs.warwick.ac.uk/hnryanMax Hammondhttp://blogs.warwick.ac.uk/maxhammond&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number.
Mark Milner  IBM, the world's largest computer  company, yesterday said  it is planning to shed up to  13,000 jobs to increase efficiency  and its performance in  slow growing markets, particularly  in Europe.The group said it could not  be specific about which countries  would suffer job losses but  acknowledged its European  workforce would bear the  brunt of the cuts. Worldwide  IBM employs about 320,000 of  which some 100,000 are employed  in its division covering  Europe, Africa and the Middle  East.It has sites around Britain including  one in Greenock, Scotland,  providing customer support  and administration,  which employs 3,000 people.It said the programme would  mean a pre-tax charge of between  £1.3bn and £1.7bn.In its announcement last  night IBM said it planned "to  realign its operations and  organisational structure in Europe  to improve the speed of  execution and better meet the  needs of its clients."The success of this strategy  will depend on reducing  bureaucracy and infrastructure  in lower-growth countries  and creating teams that can  work across country borders,  shifting more employees into  direct client roles that support  the company's plans to deliver  higher-value services and  products."That would mean cutting  management in Europe where  revenues on a constant currency  basis have been hard hit."Revenues from a number of  European countries have been  somewhat soft. In Germany  they have been down 8%, in  Italy 7% and in France 3%,"  said a spokesman."The critical point for us here  is that in Europe we just did  not have enough people in direct  client-facing roles. We had  too many layers of bureaucracy  and infrastructure. We see a  much greater opportunity to  consolidate back office administration  and support activity  for our European sales and service  teams."There have been suggestions  that the UK could suffer heavily  in the European jobs cull.  Last night the spokesman said  the losses had not been broken  down on a country-by-country  basis but said IBM hoped to  achieve many of the cutbacks  voluntarily. In New York last  night IBM shares rose 69 cents  to $77.77 after the news."I'm pleased they have made  those moves - it's not the same  as revenue growth, but it's a  close second," said Barry Randall,  manager at First American  Technology Fund, which owns  IBM stock. "It's the kind of  tough decision you want to see  management make."IBM has already begun cutting  jobs in Europe. In March,  the company laid off 500  Swedish workers, 9% of its  workforce in the country.Last month the company  surprised investors when it  missed first-quarter earnings  estimates by 5 cents a share. At  the time chief financial officer  Mark Loughridge said the  company was planning a "sizable  restructuring"."European sales seemed particularly  disrupted as rumours  flared in the final weeks of the  quarter," Goldman Sachs  analyst Laura Conigliaro wrote  in a report last month.IBM said it will run fewer  services offices worldwide and  it will reduce European managers.  "As a result, IBM will create  a number of smaller, more  flexible local operating units in  Europe to increase direct client  contact," the company said.
Use and abuseThe blogosphere is claiming another coup this week, following the publication of a Pentagon report into the accidental killing of an Italian agent in Iraq. Nicola Calipari was shot by US soldiers in March after helping an Italian hostage to safety, causing a controversy between Washington and the Italian government. The official report into the incident was released on the web last week, with the names of the soldiers involved removed to protect their anonymity. But officials made a mistake with encryption and Gianluca Neri, a blogger from Milan, found the unaltered text with the soldiers' names by doing a simple cut-and-paste from the Pentagon PDF. It's a sad story, but says a lot about the inability to use technology of even the most security-aware institutions.http://tinyurl.com/7a67zPress restrictionsMore bad news when Dharmeratnam Sivaram, a Sri Lankan journalist, was kidnapped and killed last week. Sivaram was a leading light of the TamilNet website, a pro-rebel publication. Regardless of his political leanings, campaigners for press freedom have called for action. Reporters Sans Frontieres has lobbied in the past over restrictions placed on bloggers like Jeff Ooi, and the Committee to Protect Bloggers (CPB) is documenting events around the world.www.tamilnet.comwww.jeffooi.comhttp://tinyurl.com/3mwgqCover Mac basesThe CPB is supported by online rights campaigners the Electronic Frontier Foundation, which has also had recent run-ins with Apple Computer. Steve Jobs' company might not have the best relationship with bloggers, but that doesn't stop them writing about the firm - particularly the trials and tribulations with Tiger (see review, page 21). My installation, for example, seemed to wreak havoc on my home Wi-Fi connection. Thank goodness, then, for the likes of The Unofficial Apple Weblog and Daring Fireball, which not only document the changes but also point out handy tips. For more complex hacks, Mac OS X Hints covers most of the bases.http://apple.weblogsinc.comhttp://daringfireball.netwww.macosxhints.comLots of huff'n'puffThere are, supposedly, just a few days to go until the launch of the Huffington Post, the new "uber weblog" being set up by American socialite Arianna Huffington. Huff, modest enough to name the endeavour after herself, promises to deliver top celebrity bloggers such as Norman Mailer and Gwyneth Paltrow, but opinion is divided on whether it will be worth the wait. It is unlikely to prove as amusing as last week's G2 spoof by Tim Dowling, which was a hit on the web and drew fun responses from readers ("The Guardian is usually reactionary, leftist tripe, but the lampoon of Huffington was a delight," wrote one).www.huffingtonpost.comhttp://tinyurl.com/7cxdghttp://tinyurl.com/83krmMelanie's musingsCelebrity weblogs are nothing new. Moby, the anodyne musician, has been publishing his thoughts on the web for nearly five years. Recently, he seems to be concentrating on his love of the Ren &amp; Stimpy cartoon and the problems with America's quest for more oil (though he doesn't seem too concerned about the profits from licensing his music for car advertising). Nothing beats the florid fantasy world of former Hollywood A-lister Melanie Griffith, however. Her weblog isn't updated often, but when it does it proves one thing: some people never give up on teenage diaries. In between musings on life and love, Melanie's "first peek" gives us heartfelt updates on her children, husband and home life and all within a bizarre magical garden-style design.www.moby.com/journalhttp://tinyurl.com/7zdy9Poster powerIf you want something movie-related but "Antonio finished Zorro in December" isn't your thing, then you might want to look at PosterWire. It's a weblog dedicated to the fine art of the movie poster, discussing and dissecting everything from the imagery and history to the subliminal messages contained in some posters. Recent discussion has looked at new examples such as the widespread campaign for Batman Begins, as well as golden oldies such as Jaws and The Silence of the Lambs.www.posterwire.com&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number.
Almost five percent of emails being sent at the moment carry the latest version of the high-profile Sober worm, antivirus firmSophoshas said. The Sober-N worm - which often arrives in an email offeringfree tickets to next year's football World Cup- has been spotted in over 40 different countries:Since the worm first emerged on Monday it has dominated the chart of most commonly encountered viruses. At the time of writing it is accounting for 79.29% of all viruses seen by Sophos's monitoring stations around the world. Sophos experts calculate that the worm is now accounting for an astonishing 4.5% of all email (legitimate or otherwise) sent across the internet."1 in every 22 emails sent across the internet is currently infected by the Sober-N worm - making this one of the biggest virus outbreaks of the year," said Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant for Sophos. "All internet users must secure their systems with up-to-date anti-virus software and ensure that they never open unsolicited email attachments. No-one should be fooled into thinking that email viruses are a thing of the past."Of course, the fact that it is one in every 22 emails doesn't mean that one in every 22 machines is infected: but there's clearly a huge problem with this, and other, worms.
Microsoft isn't ready to talk about the way Longhorn, the next version of Windows, will look, the exact features, the name, the price, or a launch date more specific than "in time for Christmas 2006". But at last week's WinHEC, the annual Windows Hardware Engineering Conference in Seattle, it unveiled some Longhorn technologies to get hardware manufacturers ready in time. There is even a Longhorn Ready logo you will see on PCs later this year.Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates also showed off new designs for Tablet PCs, and introduced the idea of the Ultra Mobile 2007, an ultra-lightweight computer with no hard drive, so the battery lasts all day.In addition, we finally got 64-bit x 86-compatible versions of Windows XP Professional and Windows Server 2003, and an update on what is coming in Windows Server 2003 Release 2. The public beta of R2 will be out in a few weeks, with the release software due by the end of the year.What wasn't on show was Longhorn's final appearance. The new Aero interface isn't finished, and Microsoft's vice-president, Jim Allchin, hinted that Microsoft might not be too keen to show that while there is time for Apple to get a good look at it. The graphics features on view were less about style and more about ease of use.WinFS, the database search and storage system for items in My Documents, also went missing. Longhorn focuses on the idea of using metadata, keywords and virtual folders to index and organise files.Instead, Microsoft concentrated on the less glamorous underpinnings such as security, power management, driver quality and error reporting. Gates referred to the new error-reporting tool as a "black box" that will save more details about errors and crashes. Changing the way developers write drivers, especially for graphics drivers, should make Longhorn more stable, and make it look good.Microsoft also put a name to Longhorn's new printing system: Metro. Metro is based on XML and on Longhorn's Avalon graphics system. It is designed to print transparency and other Avalon effects that not all printers can manage. To get the most from it, you will need a printer with Metro built in - or with Metro in the graphics driver.Metro also provides a way of saving print preview files that you can copy to another PC or pass on to others without worrying they will change anything. That is similar to Adobe's PDF portable document format, but without the security, form filling or workflow of Adobe's Acrobat software. Allchin says Metro isn't meant to compete with PDF: it is meant to replace the aging printer spool format in Windows. And since it is royalty-free, Adobe could incorporate Metro technology in Acrobat.Another patented Microsoft technology being shared with partners is the "direct hinge" on the prototype Tablet PC Bill Gates showed during his WinHEC keynote speech. This   lets the screen fold away or slide upright more easily than the swivelling hinge on most convertibles, so it is faster to switch between using the keyboard and using the pen. Acer will be the first manufacturer to use the hinge, and this is just one of 21 features that make the prototype, codenamed Kinesis, "the ideal highly mobile PC", according to Bert Keely, Microsoft's architect for Mobile PCs and Tablets.But should you even have to open your portable PC to find information? Longhorn supports an auxiliary display on the lid. This can show appointments or emails even when the   PC is switched off. You can use the auxiliary display to navigate through Windows Media Player and wake up your PC to start playing music. You could even run a software version on a smart phone and use it to control PowerPoint slides and read notes.The mock-up Ultra Mobile 2007 was designed to fire the imagination of PC manufacturers, as is the Next-Gen PC design competition announced at the show. The Ultra Mobile is based on predictions of what will be possible in two or three years' time: a one-pound PC with a camera, touch screen, 3G phone and all day battery for less than &#163;600 ($1,000). Replacing the hard drive with non-volatile memory chips does wonders for battery life, but needs a 64-bit operating system to handle that much memory.Windows Server 2003 R2 and Longhorn will come in 32-bit and 64-bit versions, but executives said that by the time Longhorn comes along, 64-bit PCs will be mainstream. For now, buyers have to weigh the performance benefits against the fact you need 64-bit drivers for everything, and Microsoft used the show to encourage developers to write them. Only three quarters of the drivers that come with Windows XP are in the 64-bit version. The 64-bit Windows also comes with a 32-bit version of Internet Explorer, because there aren't 64-bit versions of many plug-ins.However, as 64-bit processors become common and PCs ship with more memory, Allchin predicted we would see the advantages in everyday computing, not just the enterprise databases and scientific applications that benefit now."Your data - your spreadsheets, your Word documents, all your email - they don't occupy very much memory. When you think you can access Ram a thousand times faster than you can access the disk, just imagine if it was all in primary memory," said Allchin. "It is very reasonable to think out a few years of having, say, 5GB, 10GB, 20GB of primary memory. You keep all your documents there and search directly in memory."&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number.
Phillip Shortman had all the trappings of the playboy lifestyle. When the whim took him, the designer-clad teenager would hire a limousine or jet off to New York with friends, where they stayed in five-star hotels and took helicopter rides over Manhattan.What he didn't have, though, was a salary to match.The unemployed 18-year-old from south Wales paid for his lavish existence by conning more than 100 users of the internet auction site eBay out of &#163;45,000. He also liked to taunt his victims, telling one: "This is my business - I make people fools."By the time police caught up with him, all he had left after his spending spree was a little over &#163;600.Yesterday a judge at Cardiff crown court sentenced him to 12 months' detention and training, saying: "The public are entitled to protection from someone such as yourself."Roderick Denyer QC also lifted an order banning the identification of Shortman, who was 16 when he committed the crimes, but who turned 18 earlier this week.Shortman, of New Inn, Pontypool, had earlier admitted 21 counts of obtaining property by deception. The court heard how, for just over a year, Shortman used eBay to advertise electrical goods that did not exist.When the online auction closed, he would contact his victims to let them know they had won.After they got in touch with him, usually by phone or email, he would ask them to put the money they had bid into a bank account.But the goods they thought they had bought never materialised. "The victims would never see the cash again," said Stuart McLeese, prosecuting."Calls would be ignored or the defendant would make excuses as to why the goods had not been delivered."But other victims were not so lucky. Shortman threatened to kill one of his victims and told another: "Ha! ha! You've been done!"By September 2003 the police had received 21 complaints about him. When they searched his bedroom a month later, they found designer clothes, hi-tech computer equipment and expensive gadgets.Despite being arrested and put on police bail, Shortman carried on targeting eBay users because he had become "addicted" to his scam, the court heard. He was eventually given bail only on condition that he did not use the internet.As well as admitting the 21 charges, Shortman asked for 63 similar offences to be taken into consideration. The total amount of money he admitted obtaining was &#163;45,875. The judge ordered the forfeiture of &#163;615, the only cash Shortman had left, as well as other items he had bought with the conned cash.Shortman's barrister, Lawrence Jones, said his client had few friends and had used the money to buy friendship.Shortman, who was excluded from school when he was 15, had been unable to hold down a job and had "turned to legitimate trading on the internet which then became very illegitimate and criminal".But Mr Jones said there had been a "sea change" in Shortman's attitude since he had married and become a father.Sentencing Shortman, Judge Denyer said the accused had carried out a "persistent course of criminal conduct" for which an adult could receive a three-year sentence.He added: "The public are entitled to protection from someone such as yourself."Yesterday afternoon the police officer in charge of the case welcomed the sentence."This young man has caused a great deal of hardship and distress to a large number of victims and he has shown no remorse towards them," said Detective Superintendent Ieuan Watkins of Gwent police.eBay issued a statement yesterday afternoon, apologising to those who had been defrauded by Shortman.It added: "Online fraud is unfortunately an industry-wide issue but this case demonstrates how the transparency of eBay enables us to collaborate with the police to identify fraudulent activity and ultimately crack down on internet crime."
Links  Format warsDigital Negative formatwww.adobe.com/products/dng/main.htmlAdobe's recent purchase of its main rival, Macromedia, will change the landscape for graphics applications. It is not yet clear which Adobe and former Macromedia products will survive, but the merger should reduce the number of file formats needed in graphics applications.Proprietary file formats are a problem. Applications need libraries of conversion tools to handle different files, and there is no way of knowing how accurate the conversion will be. Even if a software company publishes its file formats, there is no way of knowing if the description is accurate, or that an implementation won't be invalidated by future releases. There is a solution: open file formats, maintained by third parties. However, it is not accepted by many software companies, for obvious reasons.Macromedia's Flash is a likely survivor of any consolidation, but a question mark hangs over Flash's proprietary file formats. Adobe is a major player in the standards bodies that are defining SVG, the Scalable Vector Graphics XML language. The open SVG specification shares many of the features of Flash, and is competing on mobile devices.With Adobe focused on SVG development in its new CS2 suite of graphics tools, Adobe staff at Code Camp, Orange's recent developer conference, spoke about moving the mobile version of Flash to the mobile-friendly version of SVG, called SVG-t. With SVG-t support in many new phones, Flash developers could carry on using their familiar development tools for a new generation of mobile internet applications, without making phone manufacturers install costly proprietary players.The web has also been buzzing for the past few weeks over another Adobe format. In this case, the issue is undocumented features in digital image formats. Digital cameras often offer access to the raw data from the CCD display, which gives photo processing programs access to as much image information as possible. Nikon's RAW format for its digital SLRs loosely encrypts the white-balance information, which locks users into Nikon's Capture software. A posting on a web forum by one of the authors of Photoshop revealed that Adobe had worked out how to decrypt the information, but felt that copyright law made it impossible for them to include the function in its software.In the resulting storm, digital photographers debated the rights and the wrongs. File formats are emotive things, as the files contain their creators' intellectual property. While it is clear the picture is the property of the photographer, and they should be able to do everything they want with it, there is a question over the camera settings. Is their choice a creative one, or is it just purely a function of the hardware?Adobe's involvement in the controversy is contentious. While Photoshop is an influential photo editing tool that has become the verb for digital image editing, Adobe is working to standardise its file format for RAW data, in the shape of its Digital Negative (or DNG) format. DNG is intended to be the digital equivalent of a negative. Several camera manufacturers have announced support for DNG, including Leica and Hasselblad.File formats have also become an important issue for e-government projects. E-government is about information, and automating information lifecycles is an important part of any project. Binary file formats are hard to process automatically, and need specialised readers to use them in applications. Text-based formats are a lot easier to work with. There is also the problem of different file versions - a file created by version 4 of an application might not be compatible with version 3 or with 5.Many governments are starting to define the file formats that work with their e-government systems. One requirement is for "open" formats: ones that aren't controlled by one company, and are less likely to change overnight. XML is a key technology, and both Microsoft and the Open Office group are working to ensure their XML file formats are acceptable to governments around the world.The difference in approach between Microsoft and Open Office is more philosophical than practical. Open Office is working with the XML standards body Oasis to create open formats for most common document types. Microsoft has taken a different approach. While it has released schema for XML versions of its Office file formats, these are intended to store basic text and formatting information rather than document meaning. If you want to add deeper meaning to Office XML documents, you have to use your own schema. The resulting document can be rendered in Microsoft Office, and the payload can be processed by applications.XML is a partial solution to the proprietary file format problem; metadata is another. The latest Tiger release of Apple's Mac OS X includes Spotlight, Apple's desktop search system. While it can search through the contents of some documents, others are catalogued using the file's metadata. It is much easier to use information stored with the image rather than generating fresh information.Image formats have extensible metadata built into the file headers, with EXIF probably the best known example. This metadata can be used by image editing software and digital cameras to show details of the image source - and if the image has been edited. Spotlight will catalogue EXIF metadata, so users can, for example, search for images taken on a specific date. As EXIF evolves, it is easy to imagine that a camera with GPS could add location information to a picture as it is taken.However, tools such as Spotlight rely on metadata being openly accessible, and if more companies take the same route as Nikon, the desktop search market will fall apart.Microsoft's Longhorn file management tools also use XML in the file system to allow users to add their own metadata without changing the contents of a file. While this approach can bypass the problem of encrypted metadata and obfuscated files, it also means users may have to duplicate the work already done by their hardware and software.The future of computing should be based on open standards and open interfaces. In the past, closed, proprietary file formats have caused more problems than they have solved, often making it difficult to work with archived information. Regulatory compliance means files will need to be kept for longer than ever - at least seven years. In an age when most files will outlive the applications that created them, open file formats will become even more important.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number.
Industry magazine Develop has compiled a list of the 100 most profitable videogame development studios, based on the revenue they generated at UK retail last year. The full results are being released tomorrow, but for now, the press release hints at a decent 2004 for British studios, and makes some surprising discoveries about who isreallypulling down the big bucks. Here's the best snippet:Whilst US Developers pulled around £350million through UK tills, native developers managed a hugely creditable £250million, demolishing totals from Asian teams (£100million) and embarrassing our continental cousins (£30million).EA's Canada studio (FIFA Soccer, Need For Speed Underground 2, Total Club Manager 2005) topped the chart by some margin, pulling in £93.5million during 12 months and beating its nearest rival Rockstar North (GTA: San Andreas, GTA Vice City, Manhunt) by over £22million.Further down the chart, things get really interesting. Who would have thought Reflections (Driv3r) would have beaten Pandemic (Full Spectrum Warrior, Star Wars: Battlefront) by six clear places? Or that Eurocom (Sphinx and The Cursed Mummy, Athens 2004) would sit two places above Nintendo (Metroid Prime 2: Echoes, The Legend of Zelda: Four Swords and Pokemon Colosseum)?
Digital camerasUp closeRicoh is upping the ante in the compact digital camera market with an eight megapixel model that will retail for less than &#163;300. The Caplio GX8, the successor to Ricoh's Caplio GX, goes on sale later this month and boasts a 28mm wide angle zoom lens with 3x optical and 4x digital zooms, a 1.8cm LCD monitor and 320 x 240 resolution movie capture. It also features a 1cm macro option, which works with a flash that Ricoh claims can operate as close as 15cm from the subject without bleaching the image. Shots and video are stored on a Secure Digital (SD) card.www.ricoh.co.ukMobile phonesTake thatSamsung has unveiled its take on the MP3-playing mobile. The E720 clamshell style handset, which is available now, features play back of MP3 and AAC+ files, as used by networks for direct to phone download. It can also play AAC files, although it is not compatible with copy-protected tracks downloaded from Apple's iTunes Music Store. The E720 boasts a pair of stereo speakers and sports controls for the music player on the front of the phone. It features 88.5MB of storage (enough for around 20 songs) although this cannot be upgraded. Also on board is a 1.1 megapixel camera with a flash and a zoom, and Bluetooth.www.samsung.co.ukMobile moviesRok has become the first company to release a full-length movie that can be played on mobile phones: an MMC card featuring the film The Shawshank Redemption is on sale now for &#163;16.99. The card is compatible with many Nokia, Motorola and Samsung handsets. The company claims the film is easy to watch, with the Rok player software automatically loading on to the phone after the card has been inserted. The software ensures the footage fills the screen, and enables the viewer to pause or rewind the film by using the player's DVD-style controls. Rok is hoping to release 100 cards, which include music, sports and TV titles.www.rokplayer.comHardwareStreaming servicePhilips has finally delivered its 23iF9946 23in LCD TV with audio and video streaming facilities to the UK market. The set uses the 802.11g wireless link (or an Ethernet cable) to connect to a PC. It can then access MP3, MPeg1, MPeg2, MPeg4, DivX and JPeg files on the computer's hard disk. Via its integrated web browser, the 23iF9946 can   also tune into internet radio stations and web-based video services such as iFilm. The set has a picture resolution of 1280 x 768 pixels, sports Dolby's Virtual Surround Sound system and features integrated analogue TV and FM tuners. It retails for around &#163;1,400.www.philips.co.ukTeam playerMPIO has unveiled a Flash memory-based audio/video playerthat can also be linked to a dedicated hard disk. The MPIO One, which goes on sale at the end of the month, can function as a MP3/WMA audio player and as a photo/image viewer through its 65k colour OLED (organic-light emitting diode) screen. However, it can also team up via USB with its own 20GB hard disk, giving the user additional storage on the go as well as quick and easy transfer of tracks to the Flash memory. The player also features an FM radio and voice-recording facilities and is available in 256MB, 512MB and 1GB versions. There is no word yet on price.www.mp3-plus.netInternetVirtually the bestThe winners of the ninth annual Webby awards, the Oscars of the internet industry, were announced this week in New York amid great fanfare. Big winners included Craigslist founder Craig Newmark, Flickr creators Stewart Butterfield and Caterina Fake, and VoIP service Skype. The votes were cast by members of the International Academy of Digital Arts &amp; Sciences, including David Bowie and Richard Branson, who sifted through more than 4,000 entries in more than 60 categories. British victories includedRathergood.com, Jamie Oliver, the BBC and Virgin Radio. And a special mention should go to Guardian Unlimited, which beat the New York Times and the Washington Post to scoop the prize for top newspaper on the web.www.webbyawards.comStat of the week - Browser warsWeb browser Firefox is becoming more popular, but not necessarily at the expense of Microsoft's Internet Explorer. Research shows Firefox has jumped 6% in three months, but IE has only fallen by 2% - so the squeeze is being felt by browsers such as AOL and Netscape.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number.
You recently appeared in a Wired discussion on digital culture with Lawrence Lessig. How did it go?It went well - I was happily surprised that I could hold my own with a Stanford law professor. It seems I have become the "go to" guy on the topic of music downloads, something I feel passionately about. I don't think the debate is reality-based. I've been educated by doing these interviews with Lessig and reading his books - he has the legal background to make it clearer what the music industry is doing. He may be a little out of touch with how art is created _ I think he tends to generalise with the idea that there's nobody under 30 making music that doesn't have some stolen content or isn't exclusively in the digital realm.Has embracing the download culture caused you hassles with record labels?No, although I'm sure the more my name gets attached to this issue it'll happen. Our label, Nonesuch (www.nonesuch.com) has no resistance to the download culture. It understands that Wilco has benefited from having a connection to the fans through the net. Too few bands are exploring what it means to be able to connect to their audience this way. Ironically, we'd never had a royalty cheque from a label until we started being heavily downloaded.How would a Creative Commons type licence go down with the music industry?I don't think the industry will be happy unless someone makes it like it was 15 years ago. Creative Commons (http://creativecommons.org) is a great idea and I'm sure it could work on some level in music. My thoughts are more centred around the idea that this is where the world is and it can't be changed. Creating an adversarial relationship with the listener is a mistake. The industry is hiding behind a smokescreen of artists' rights - it is terrified of people being able to listen to music and deciding whether they like it before the industry can tell them what to like.Has the iPod changed the way we treat music?Definitely. Another unspoken fear of the record industry is that it will have to go back to "singles" and will no longer be able to sell 15 songs that suck so somebody can get one track they want on an album. I use sites such as Apple's iTunes Music Store (www.apple.com/itunes/) as I generally don't download lots of music. Shutting down peer-to-peer sites is evil and undemocratic.Has the recording industry shot itself in the foot by prosecuting file sharers?It's a waste of money and I'm astonished that a "voice" of the music industry would go about destroying the goodwill between artist and listener, and foster a culture of criminalising people who only want to listen to music. Its job should be to create an environment where people can't get enough of it.So we'll never find any digital rights management in a Wilco CD?Not through our doing ... though that may be a battle we have to face. Nonesuch is very sympathetic to what we believe in but is owned by a major label.&bull; Wilco's Grammy-winning album A Ghost Is Born is out on Nonesuch RecordsLinkswww.wilcoworld.netwww.forcedexposure.com- new releases and a downloadable cataloguewww.buzzflash.com- news and commentary for politically savvy peoplehttp://dannymiller.typepad.com- "I don't blog myself as I can only write in short lines - I like boiling things down to the essence of a song ... I don't need to extrapolate!"www.musictoyz.com- the latest equipment plus music business newswww.ubu.com- "An amazing site full of avant-garde art, MP3s of poetry and PDFs of experimental literature"&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number.
I received a new 020 London number recently. Very retro, you may think, getting a landline in the age of 3G wireless and ever-falling mobile costs. And you'd nearly be right. Landlines appear to be on the way out. The reasons are clear: they have inconvenient handsets, lack mobility and normally don't have the most basic features, such as phonebooks and caller ID.I had retired my landline in 1999. To be strictly accurate, I had unplugged the phone. I still needed the higher frequencies on the line for my DSL modem and broadband internet access - but I didn't use the 020 number that came with it. So why the change of heart?My new London number is a number in name only. There is no new piece of copper running into my home, no new BT connection demanding a monthly rental. It is   just a virtual number that connects to my Skype internet telephony account. Dial my SkypeIn number, as it is known, and an alert will flash on my laptop - your call has been instantly routed over the internet.Skype has revived the staid and increasingly antiquated geographic phone number. Far from being stuck to a dumb handset wired into a wall, my new number goes with me wherever I have internet access, including abroad. It also has great features such as voicemail and caller ID thrown in free. And it is pulled together by three delicious pieces of design: the Skype application; a Logitech headset that also pipes my music; and a beautiful Apple laptop.That SkypeIn should be so attractive shows that there is life in the public numbering system yet. For about &#163;20 a year, a SkypeIn number connects me to the largest network in the world: the public-switched telephony network. (Before the launch of SkypeIn, Skype users could only receive calls from people who also used Skype.)SkypeIn also takes advantage of a geeky part of telecoms: regulation. Fixed line numbers are very cheap to call in the UK (and in many countries) because of the efforts of regulators in keeping costs down. So calling my SkypeIn number always costs the same as dialling London, regardless of where I am.But it also opens a peculiar door. In a world of mobility, what is the purpose of geographical phone numbers? A London number could ring a phone in Hong Kong; and a French one could ring a phone in Melbourne.Of course, phone numbers still carry a certain cachet, a Manhattan 212 number trumps a 646, just as a Harley Street address implies a certain medical expertise and expense. How much longer will that be the case? A generation has grown up with mobile phones, text messaging and the ubiquity of 07 numbers. Will any but the most numerologically inclined care about the number they are dialling? And as applications such as Skype migrate on to next-generation 3G devices, will we make calls using friendlier monikers, such as email addresses?Let's not get ahead of ourselves. There is too much invested in the public phone network for a change overnight. In the meantime, having a fixed phone number on your computer is a bonus. It is definitely time to get retro.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number.
The brochures that fall out of magazines rarely attract my attention, but 1&amp;1 managed it when I opened the latest PC Pro. The eye-catching number was &#163;1.99, which is both its monthly charge for an "instant website", and the annual cost of either a .co.uk or .me.uk domain name.I was also impressed by the fact that 1&amp;1 had managed to create a 20-page colour brochure to advertise its services. This tempts you to upgrade to a more expensive home package (from &#163;4.99) or business package (from &#163;14.99), or to get your own server for &#163;49-&#163;129 a month - in all cases, plus VAT.But I shouldn't have been surprised. The falling cost of PCs, hard drives and internet band width keeps feeding through into hosting prices, along with the benefits of free web hosting software (Linux and Apache) and economies of scale.I still can't see much appeal to home users. The golden age of homesteading on sites such as GeoCities and Tripod is but a fading memory, and most people don't even use free web space that came bundled with their internet account. Today's home users are more likely to start a blog, because it is simpler and probably more suitable for their needs. And most blog sites are free.But there are still lots of potential customers for web space. Examples include fan clubs and other groups of hobbyists, churches, schools, and all types of small businesses. Even a one-man band can probably afford a website if it is roughly the price of a pizza.When choosing a web host, one potential catch is the cost of bandwidth: extra charges usually kick in above certain limits. However, today's cheap packages seem to include 10-20GB, and even 1&amp;1's &#163;1.99 site includes 3GB a month. This isn't much use for hosting MP3 files or video clips, but it should be enough for most users, who only need text and small illustrations.Another potential hazard is the cost of creating a site, but this shouldn't be much of a problem if the design is kept as simple as possible. Simple designs usually work better than fussy ones and can stay fresh for years: look at Google or Guardian Unlimited.Many hosts, such as 1&amp;1 and NetBenefit, offer online design tools: Web Styler in both cases. The obvious alternative is to use a template to create all the pages, and there are thousands of free ones available on the web. Most templates are for popular but pricey packages such as DreamWeaver and Front Page, but Nvu, the open source Mozilla web page creator, includes a few.If you can't find exactly what you want, you can always change an existing template, or pay a professional designer - or an impecunious design student - to do it for you.Clearly, this is not the ultimate approach to getting on the web. However, a simple site can provide potential customers with useful information and thus deliver benefits. And with the web well into its second decade, it's now the minimum people expect.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number.
If you are launching a new brand of baked beans, it makes sense to target your advertising at people who like baked beans. But what if the product is a new brand of government? The question is exercising a number of bright minds as public bodies ponder how to promote online services.Promotion is sorely needed. Councils and Whitehall departments have spent billions on making government services available via the web or other electronic channels. But hopes of getting a return on that investment are doomed unless large numbers of people go online to government. At the moment, e-government is a minority sport, mainly because few people know that it is there.The obvious solution is to advertise. Some councils are tentatively beginning to do this. A conference organised last week by e-Citizen, a Whitehall-funded programme to promote the take-up of local e-government, heard evidence that advertising can work. In one authority, the number of online payments made each rose tenfold after a four-week promotional campaign.However, picking which audience to target is not straightforward.According to market research, 46% of the population are ready to use e-channels. People most likely to be up for it are affluent male "e-amenable progressives". Those least likely to try e-government are the elderly, the poor, or people who dislike or are suspicious of their council.In the commercial world, the next step would be obvious. Target your advertising at ABC1 males, with ironic ads featuring half-naked women and nudge-nudge slogans.However, ABC1 males are the segment least likely to use public services. An affluent young man's regular dealings with his council are likely to consist of paying parking tickets by credit card over the phone and council tax by standing order. From the council's point of view, there is little point in switching these transactions to the web.On the other hand, promoting e-services to the less digitally aware could be a long slog. There will be much sniping if take-up is slow, and the momentum could easily be lost.Another complication is that councils must be aware of the consequences of making access to services easier. For example, allowing residents to report abandoned cars by text message is a brilliant idea. Residents like the anonymity of the medium, and are more likely to get the details right if they are on the spot. Gravesham borough council in Kent found that the number of reports soared when it publicised its text service. Any council doing this had better be ready to deal with the demand.Finally, any council spending money on promotional campaigns must be ready to deal with flak from residents who would prefer lower council taxes or more public lavatories (or both). The obvious answer to promoting e-services is a nationally funded campaign, but the timing and targeting are bound to upset someone.These are not easy decisions. If we want people to use e-government, we are going to have to sell it. But public services are not baked beans.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number.
Dealing with truckloads of information is never an easy job, but when that information has to be tightly monitored over a network of outlets across the country, it can seem an almost Herculean task. And it becomes even harder when you are dealing with the labyrinthine world of politics.This is the job facing the Government News Network, the regional arm of Whitehall's communication services. Each week it deals with a cornucopia of regional media - more than 60 local TV news programmes, 200 local radio stations, 120 daily local newspapers and at least 1,200 local weeklies - informing them about thousands of events and news items around the country through its national network of nearly 150 dedicated press and publicity officers."We are the interface between government and media," says Hugh Brown, the head of GNN's News Distribution Service. His organisation is at the frontline of delivering government news to ordinary voters. "We distribute the news and target it to those who want to see it. Essentially it is regional PR for the government."Brown recognises that technology can help keep a monumental task under some kind of control. He works with a number of providers and news organisations to help manage the immense flow of data. "We run an email service and a website, as well as using fax and hard-copy distribution," he says. "And we work closely with people like the Press Association. We always look to work with any organisation that will help us disseminate government news in a useful way."The latest company to link up with GNN is a start-up called Information360, which was recently chosen to be the "news provider of choice" for Brown and his colleagues. The Wembley-based technology firm claims it can revolutionise the public relations industry - the core of GNN's briefing for various government departments - by intelligently bridging the gap between what researchers are looking for and what they are given.In many respects, Information360 looks like many other professional search tools: it is a downloadable desktop toolbar that hooks up to an archive of press releases and internet-based information. But the technology behind the facade is Autonomy, an intelligent search software used by a large number of corporate organisa tions. Autonomy - which is based in Cambridge - has been quietly turning into one of Britain's most successful software firms, with a client list including General Electric, HSBC, Boeing and Shell. The firm reported a profit of over &#163;2.3m in the last quarter alone.Autonomy search engine is built to understand what it calls "unstructured information", the unfinished, messy data that people inevitably create - and its acolytes believe it is the future model for search technology."It's way ahead of anyone else on the market," says Craig Maitland, the founder of Information360. "Autonomy can match concepts instead of simple keywords. The software takes into account the context in which terms appear, eliminating many false hits while catching specific documents that may not contain the term but do include the concept."With Autonomy there is no need for the keyword searches that have become standard practice on engines such as Google and Yahoo. Instead, the system watches what you are typing as you are typing it - and determines what information you are looking for by examining the context of the words on the page.Maitland explains how this helps split different concepts that use similar words. "For example, the word 'penguin', when surrounded by words such as 'South Pole', 'zoo' or 'nesting' is more likely to be a black- and-white bird than a book publisher or Batman villain."With Information360, the Autonomy process is applied to the user's document (for instance, an unfinished article sitting on a journalist's desktop) and then brings search results back from a number of databases - such as GNN's. It works out whether you are writing about a local government initiative and then provides the relevant information.This might be different to the Google paradigm, but it has a lot in common with the search engine Blinkx. The co-founder of Blinkx, Suranga Chandratillake, is a former chief technical officer of Autonomy, and the system promises similar changes - automatic and implicit searches.Information360, though, says it wants to change the relationship between professional information providers and professional information seekers. In the case of the News Distribution Service, it is about providing government news to journalists, but those sources can change from one operation to another. Each source becomes a plug-in, and the system is flexible enough to examine a variety of data: internal company documents, press releases, archives, email, websites - even video. And, crucially, it can feed back to the information providers."Strategically, that made it much better for us - after all, how do you know your story is being read?" says Brown. The combination of government and technology has not always been a successful one, but high hopes are pinned on this development. "This is the future: it is a smart way of putting relevant information in front of people without them having to look for it."&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number.
Om Malikpoints out that Tapwave are going to pull the plug on their Zodiac PDA/gaming handheld. We wondered about the Zodiac's pedigree back inNovember. And so does Om:I am not sure why anyone would want to do that? The PDA market and the handheld game device market is a brutal market place, where only the likes of Sony survive. Nokia's NGage has taken a long time to get some traction. The consumer electronics market place is not as easy as many in SV believe.The Zodiac didn't get bad reviews when it hit the market, but in a space where big players like Sony and Nintendo are powerful and popular, it's always going to be hard for new faces to break through.I wonder what this bodes forGizmondo, another attempt to join the fray that looksultimately doomed.
Disgraceful tacticsIn respect of the article on tactical voting (Mouse tactics, April 28), it is a disgrace and I am proud that the Conservatives have "no party line on the development of such tactics".Everyone is entitled to their opinion, but in this case, my opinion may be stifled by tactical voting of others, who effectively get two votes for my one. If anything, this has made me more determined to support the Conservatives in every way I can to make up for the shortfall of votes due to this immoral practice. No wonder young people are losing faith in democracy, and failing to turn out to vote.Matt BaxterBrightonRights and wrongsSome fellow readers (Feedback, passim) seem to have missed the point that copyright infringement is in no way the same thing as theft. The most important point is that copyright is not a right at all but a privilege granted by the state to promote the public good by encouraging the production of creative works so the public domain is richer in the long run. The state is under no obligation to grant these monopolies.The copyright bargain was originally a very good deal for the public: writers got a 14- or 28-year monopoly, which restricted publishers but did not in practice reduce the public's rights - since printing books required specialist skills and equipment. Now, however, publishers have corrupted legislators to arbitrarily extend copyright durations, restrict the behaviour of the public and inflict criminal penalties on an area of law that should be strictly civil.Adam FunkSheffieldOutlandish claimYou write that the Nokia N91 with its 4GB hard disk is "enough to store 3,000 tunes" according to its manufacturer (What's new, April 28). This is the same capacity disk as found in, say, the iPod mini, which holds only 1,000 songs according to Apple.As far as I am aware, Nokia's gigabytes aren't three times the size of Apple's, so either their songs are shorter or they are stored at a lower bit-rate, ie lower quality. Why do you not point out the flaw in Nokia's outlandish claims?It is also not clear whether such DRM-protected music can be played on other devices, or backed up (and played) on a PC. This is potentially a major drawback with a device - the mobile phone - that is often upgraded on an annual basis. Admittedly, buyers may want to keep an N91 for longer than 12 months, but even so, it ought to make consumers wary.Chris LeutyManchesterBattling the TigerTiger will no doubt prompt another round of Apple versus Microsoft correspondence in Feedback, most of it never rising above the "four legs good, two legs bad" level of debate. Before anyone else gets there, may I say that my copy of the open source operating system Fedora cost nothing: bundled free with Chris Negus' readable Red Hat Fedora Linux 3 Bible (which I borrowed from my local library). What's more, kernel and application upgrades are automatic, simple, and again free.Martin BaileyDream OfficeI had been using Microsoft Office 97 for some years and could not afford Microsoft's upgrade prices. I have now downloaded Open Office version 1.1.4 via broadband to my Windows 98 desktop, copied it to CD for my Windows XP laptop, and installed Open Office on both. It works like a dream. I look forward to version 2.Mike HunterEdinburghDigital tipsI read with interest your thoughts on passwords (Ask Jack,  passim ). I use the finger positions of a four-digit number I can easily remember - my bank Pin, for example. Then, whenever I need a password, I pick a starting letter that allows me to mimic those keystrokes. When that password expires, just change your home keys.David Paul MorganCardiff
Another Thursday morning, another edition of the Guardian's technology supplementOnline.This week we take a look at the future oftelevision for mobile phones- it's something the networks would dearly love to sell us, but will it be worth it?ElsewhereAzeem Azhartells us why he loves Skype, we take a look atWarwick University's blogging project, and talk to copyfighter and musicianJeff Tweedy.We also give Apple OSXTigera spin and wonder whether Sony's strategy ofgoing for the high groundwill work for them.In our Inside IT section, Jack wonders about the costs ofsetting up your own websiteand we examine Microsoft'sMetro format- a possible attempt to challenge Adobe's PDF.As usual there's much more -click herefor a complete listing of this week's contents.
The new papyrus?Continuing the theme of back-ups, what if you have important work, such as a book, you want archived permanently? I would like some efforts to be stored, and readable, for a few years at least - unlike the Laserdisc-based Doomsday Project! What would you recommend?Dr Mark PatersonUniversity of West of EnglandJack Schofield replies:History shows that carving things in stone works pretty well, but is impractical for long texts. A book is still the format most likely to survive in readable form, especially if you can distribute lots of copies on high-quality paper. (With global warming, waterproof slip-cases might also be a good idea.) I can't see any removable storage format lasting, and computerising things involves the commitment to keep moving data to a new medium every 10-20 years, if not sooner. Google's book archive and the Internet Archive (www.archive.org) may last longer, so get your book on to those if possible. However, all forms of computer-based storage depend on fantastically complicated chip technologies and a continuous supply of electricity, neither of which seems a particularly safe bet if you want something to last hundreds of years.Back-up discsLast week, you indicated that CD-Rs (rather than CD-RWs) should be used for back-ups. Is this simply because CD-RWs could be accidentally overwritten or is there another reason?Dennis Zimmer, Tony Thompson et alJS:I can't find a "smoking gun" in this case, but CD manufacturers generally quote a CD-RW longevity figure about half that for CD-R, and they cost more, so I can't see a good argument for using them. Also, historically, CD-RW discs have not been compatible with as many drives. Finally, Andy McFadden's normally reliable CD-R FAQ says: "CD-RWs are expected to last about 25 years under ideal conditions (ie you write it once and then leave it alone). Repeated rewrites will accelerate this. In general, CD-RW media isn't recommended for long-term back-ups or archives of valuable data" (seewww.cdrfaq.org/faq07.html#S7-5). Against that, it's clear the manufacturing quality of optical discs, including CD-RWs and DVDs, is often more important than the technology used, so I'd expect a good CD-RW to outlive a bad CD-R.CD crackedTravelling light in Morocco, my daughter downloaded her camera's XD memory cards to CD in a shop. On her return, she discovered she was unable to read it. On close examination, the CD has a crack running out from the centre hole.William DavidsonJS:Sorry , but as Acronis says: "A cracked or broken CD is pretty much hopeless and you can damage your drive by trying to play one" (http://tinyurl.com/beh7v). A specialist data recovery company might get something from the CD, but it would probably be cheaper to revisit Morocco. Moral: you can't assume data exists unless you have at least two copies.Dell pricesI was interested in your column (April 14), but I find the Dell website less than clear. Why does a Dimension 8400 package cost &#163;421 on the headline page and then change to &#163;610 when you click on Customise and Buy?Brian CameronJS:Dell upgrades the specification to include its recommended three-year support package. You can select "Year European Collect and Return Service" and subtract &#163;188. This is explained in red type, but is easily missed.Out of luckIs it possible to run two separate broadband accounts on the same line?Peter SmeeJS:No.Network dimensionI want to use Dell Dimension PCs on a network, but a Dell salesperson has informed me that Dimensions are "not supported or certified" for use on networks, so I should choose from the OptiPlex and Precision ranges. Clear enough - except that Dell's marketing brochures to small/medium businesses are plastered with Dimension ads and claims the Dimension is the best of the three for office productivity!Peter DawsonJS:Many companies have home and business ranges, aimed at individuals and IT departments respectively. In general, the home machines will change quite quickly to offer the latest attractive technologies, particularly for sound and graphics. The business machines will change slowly, because IT departments buying hundreds of PCs prefer consistency and stability. Business PCs will also be tested for network compatibility with Cisco, 3Com and similar equipment, but probably won't have high-end sound and graphics. Small/medium business users can go either way. If you are buying something for yourself, you might want the latest and greatest "home PC". If you are buying PCs for 10 or more members of staff, you might choose "business PCs" to avoid problems and perhaps to get better support.
The final battleStar Wars Episode III: Revenge of the SithXbox, PlayStation 2, &#163;39.99The Collective/LucasArts,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Episode III: Revenge of the Sith takes an arcade-style, populist third-person action-adventure approach, but backs that up with superb graphics and plenty of cute touches. You begin by alternating between Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker, taking on the evil hordes with your light-sabre and The Force, in a series of missions based on film sequences.All the moves from the film are possible - you can use the force to repel enemies or perform enormous jumps, open doors by inserting your light-sabre and jiggling it from side to side until they shatter, use it to bat laser-blasts back at baddies and solve puzzles by chucking your light-sabre at, for instance, generators that power force-fields.Close combat is excellent: there is an element of button-bashing, but you must learn to chain moves together (timing is important) when facing more imposing enemies. Then there are the boss battles, the first of which sets the tone: a full-on, multi-stage light-sabre duel with Count Dooku, which demands impeccable judgment.According to how stylishly you dispatch enemies, you earn points at the end of each mission that can be used for character development. A Versus mode also lets you challenge mates to duels.The game could be longer, and the absence of a cooperative play mode is mystifying. But this well-executed effort will delight Star Wars fans.Steve BoxerBack in the cockpitStar Fox: AssaultGameCube, &#163;39.99Namco/Nintendo&#42;&#42;&#42;The latest Star Fox game sees you taking off into space again, although this isn't the masterpiece fans may have hoped for. The main problem is the ground-based levels. Here, the action descends into even more simplistic blasting, as you guide Fox around bland arena environments. It can get exciting, especially when you have to blast off to protect your wingmen, but running around on terra firma quickly becomes tiresome.The airborne action, however, is good fun. Your aim is to blast anything that moves, with plenty of targets. The combat quickly gets frenetic, but the controls allow you to swiftly manoeuvre out of danger. Although it can get frustrating at times, especially later in the game, the compressed action never outstays its welcome. Multiplayer adds to the longevity and fans of the series will be keen to re-enter the cockpit. But flawed ground-based sections mean that Star Fox: Assault is only a partial return to form.Greg HowsonFrom attic to screenCossacks II: Napoleonic WarsPC, &#163;34.99CDV/GSC Game World&#42;&#42;&#42;Like the original, Napoleonic Wars feels as if the developer, GSC Game World, has waved a magic wand and brought a model war-gamer's attic to life (albeit a virtual one). It is surprising that the era of the short, megalomaniac leader hasn't really been given the gaming recognition it deserves.A fair few of the features from the original game have been carried over. You still get to control large numbers of troops at once, although this time you can only really control them as formation blocks rather than individual soldiers. However, the economic side of the game has been refined somewhat, which won't please those who like their micro-management. Rather than using peasants to facilitate every area of your economy, the game introduces the idea of conquering nearby villages to bring in supplies to your army. This adds a new layer to the gameplay, and these villages become important strategic areas to control.The graphics are pretty and detailed, especially the buildings, if rather dated in places. Battles often become a mishmash of colours and tiny body parts, meaning that it is not always visually obvious how well a fight is going. The developers have assigned morale bars to each troop formation, but you end up watching these intently, rather than the actual action.The video-clips of Napoleonic re-enactors engaged in realistic warfare is a nice touch, although why the developers decided to use stilted, unemotional American voice-acting for a predominantly European conflict is a mystery. Cossacks II seems to have been created with fans of the original firmly in mind. Consequently, the complexities and steep learning curve of the original are still in place, which doesn't make it very accessible for newcomers to the series.Rhianna PratchettKeep up with the latest from the gaming world with our Gamesblog atblogs.guardian.co.uk/games
Mytob topsMytob.c, a network worm that targets Microsoft Windows, has come top of Kaspersky Labs' Virus Top 20 for April, although it only appeared on March 4. Five other versions of Mytob have also made the list, rivalling the NetSky virus, which still takes up eight places. Mytob is based on the MyDoom worm with added "bot" capabilities, and Kaspersky says the authors are producing new versions every two days in an attempt to beat virus scanners. Mytob can also exploit the LSASS vulnerability, for which Microsoft issued a patch on April 13, 2004 (MS04-011). However, Sophos Labs, has just reported an outbreak of the Sober-N mass-mailing worm, which, starting on Monday afternoon, accounted for 62% of all viruses it monitored around the world. The worm claims to offer free tickets for the 2006 World Cup in Germany. Users have to infect their PCs with Sober-N by opening the attached file.www.viruslist.comhttp://tinyurl.com/dy5feCalling paysThink UK says it has signed a deal with Espotting to offer its Pay Per Call online advertising service in the UK. Today, most web advertising is based on a Pay Per Click system, where companies are charged for the number of users who click through to visit their site. Pay Per Call charges are based on the number who click through to the site then dial a phone number to contact the advertiser. This undermines the idea of web-based sales, but could be appropriate where people arebuying more expensive items such as cameras or computers, or need to discuss a more complex business deal. Companies that depend on Pay Per Click advertising, such as Google, are no doubt watching Pay Per Call closely and considering similar systems.www.think.uk.comCard sharpsSheffield city council's e-government and ICT units will lead the government's European Centre of Excellence for SmartCards and SmartMedia, which is due to be launched this month. Sheffield has been chosen because of its expertise in smartcard technology. The announcement will be made on the second day of Connecting with Europe, a smartcard interoperability conference in Cutlers' Hall, Sheffield, May 18-19. The centre will provide a resource hub for e-Government research, project management, consultancy, training and accreditation. There will also be an update on the European Union's eEpoch Project, which aims to guarantee the interoperability of smart cards used across Europe as citizens' identification cards.www.eepoch.netSpam for JesusReligious fervour seems to be sweeping the spamming organisations, with 10% of unsolicited emails having religious content. Apart from pro-Christian tracts, spam has been boosted by the death of Pope John Paul II. This has spurred new scams for building cathedrals in his honour, as well as offers of commemorative biographies and audio books. Email Systems analyses spam as part of its message management business, and the company claims that unwanted messages now account for 92% of email traffic. Email viruses have been flowing steadily, but only account for 0.42% of the total load.http://tinyurl.com/9957zEasier routeAt the Networld+Interop conference in Las Vegas this week, Cisco Systems announced 11 routers for secure branch office applications. The models expand Cisco's range of integrated services routers, which combine internet telephony and video with data transfer and intrusion detection. The converged routers are aimed at small- to medium-sized firms that want to take advantage of Voice over Internet Protocol but find the prospect daunting. Cisco says it has concentrated on making the potentially complex job of configuring the routers much easier. All routers have built-in virtual private network (VPN) hardware encryption and acceleration, a VPN firewall, and intrusion-prevention features.http://tinyurl.com/dc3z2Filter boxClearswift is entering the security appliance market with MIMEsweeper SMTP (Simple Mail Transport Protocol). The company launched its inbound and outbound email protection system at Infosecurity Europe last week. The box is based on a security-hardened version of Linux and covers three mailbox capacities: under 500, 500 to 1,000 and over 1,000. The software is MIMEsweeper for SMTP 5.0, which filters out spam; a third party anti-virus product can be added. The mail flow is governed by Clearswift's email security policy. The company has yet to price the product, but aims to have systems available this summer.www.clearswift.com
Since it was launched in 1995, eBay has attracted a wide and varied clientele. Cherie Blair is famously fond of its bargains, Nasa has trawled its auctions for obsolete computer hardware and people have even used it to offload unwanted wedding invitations.But, as the Shortman case shows, not all of its 135 million users are honest, and a Which? report last November warned users of the risk of online fraud.The company says just 0.01% of transactions end in confirmed cases of fraud and most of them are down to "a lack of awareness or understanding on how to behave"."When you are not on the internet you intuitively behave in a safe way," said Garreth Griffith, eBay's head of trust and safety. "You lock your house and car and hold on tight to your wallet. It is natural, you don't think about it."I believe the internet is not at that point yet, so a number of people are not intuitively doing the equivalent."Mr Griffith advises visitors to read the tips in the site's safety centre, and to feel free to question the vendor by email.He said those who lost their money often did so because they had not used a secure payment method such as PayPal, which allows users to send or receive money online."Imagine you are not on the internet but are in a pub and some guy says to you, 'I've got a laptop around the corner, give me &#163;1,500 in cash and I promise I'll go and get it and bring it back.' You're not going to believe it for a second. That is exactly the equivalent on the internet."Would-be buyers should study a seller's feedback, check their "member since" date and contact other users who have dealt with the vendor. The auction site also recommends an examination of the payment, shipping and return/refund policies.If you are suspicious of a vendor, use credit cards with agreements that protect you against fraudulent transactions, or - eBay suggests - PayPal.The company also warns people to be wary of vendors who become evasive when questioned or suggest selling their item outside eBay's scrutiny.
Today's FT IT review carried a comment piece by the doyen of Silicon Valley tech journalists,Dan Gillmor, which - despite the clunky headline"Microsoft, Apple resume games of tag and leapfrog"- made some useful points.The FT version is subscription-only, but Dan's made the piece available onhis site.He talks a little about the face slapping between Mac OS and Windows, and their continual arms race - referring to how different, and how similar, things were a decade ago. He also laments IBM's failure with OS/2 and says that competition between operating systems is good for the consumer.And then he looks at some other options:Linux? It's coming along at a surprisingly fast pace. The open source software community has ardently improved the free operating systems to the point that it's acceptable on the desktop for at least some uses. It's not yet up to the proprietary competition for use by average folks, especially home users who want to do anything beyond basic computing applications.Another shift may be more important: the move to the web. To the extent that the web is a computing platform in its own right, the system running the individual service loses importance. We are a considerable distance from total independence of this kind, but the trend is real."I think we could be a little closer than Dan reckons, especially if the big web operators like Google put their weight behind more web-based applications, and Flickr helps open more people's eyes about what you can do via browsers.It's a little like what may be happening in the mobile sector (as I wrote acouple of weeks agoin a rather turgid piece (sorry!))... the operating system and the mechanisms around it become less important and the content and web-based applications start to take over.At least that would stop everyone moaning interminably about how they hate Windows/OS X.
Here'sa very technical feature from Nikkei Electronics Online concerning Sony's introduction of its Cell technology at the 2005 International Solid-State Circuits Conference. Can't believe I missed that one. Cell is, of course, the central component of PlayStation 3 as well as other forthcoming consumer electronics products.I'm just reading through the feature for the fourth time. Perhaps next time I'll have a comment to make...
A teenager who defrauded eBay customers of more than £45,000 was today sentenced to 12 months detention and training.Phillip Shortman, 18, of Pontypool, South Wales, admitted 21 counts of obtaining property by deception on a previous occasion.Shortman advertised non-existent goods for sale on the online auction site eBay and banked his victims' money, sometimes taunting those who chased up their orders.At Cardiff crown court today, Judge Roderick Denyer QC lifted an order banning the identification of Shortman, who was 18 earlier this week and is married with one child.Sentencing Shortman today, Mr Denyer said some victims had lost significant sums of money. He added that there had been a "persistent course of criminal conduct" for which an adult could receive a sentence of three years imprisonment. "The public are entitled to protection from someone such as yourself," he added.Shortman spent his victims' money on a lavish lifestyle, hiring limousines, going on holidays and buying designer clothes, the court was told.Lawrence Jones, mitigating, said Shortman had few friends at school, and had used the money to buy friendship. He had been shunned by his local community since his arrest, Mr Jones told the court.Prosecutor Stuart McLeese described how the offences took place over a period lasting just over a year.He said Shortman would advertise goods for sale on the internet auction site and, once the auction had closed, victims would be contacted and told they had won. Customers would contact Shortman over the internet or by telephone, and he would usually ask for cash to be placed into a bank account."The victims would never see the cash again," said Mr McLeese. "Victims would contact the defendant to inquire why they had not received the goods. Calls would be ignored or the defendant would make excuses as to why the goods had not been delivered."The prosecutor said that, on other occasions customers would be "taunted", with Shortman threatening to kill one customer. On another occasion he told his victim: "Ha, ha - you've been done". Another customer was told: "This is my business; I make people fools." By September last year, police had received 21 complaints.Shortman's home was searched and receipts, bank account evidence and computer equipment seized, and he was arrested and interviewed.He made an estimated £50,000 to £70,000 from the fraud, the court heard. Shortman said it had become addictive, and admitted occasionally becoming aggressive towards people.In addition to admitting the 21 charges, he also asked for 63 similar offences to be taken into consideration. The total amount of money he admitted obtaining was £45,875.The judge ordered the forfeiture of £615 - the only cash Shortman has left after his spending spree - as well as other items belonging to him under the Proceeds of Crime Act.Mr Jones said Shortman had gravitated towards the scam after leaving school. "Not being able to hold down a job, he turned to legitimate trading on the internet, which then became very illegitimate and criminal," he said."It is clear that he knew his ongoing activities would be traced back to him. Bank accounts were in his name, and he traded in his own name at times. He cannot give an explanation - he became addicted to it."Mr Jones said there had been a "sea change" in Shortman's attitude over recent months since his marriage, and that he had a "relish for fatherhood".
"Sirius Satellite Radio Inc. is launching a podcasting show on May 13, hosted by smooth-talking ex-MTV VJAdam Curry," reportsSilicon Valley Watcher""The four-hour weekday show will feature a selection of amateur podcasts handpicked by Curry. Sirius subscribers, who pay $12.95 a month for the service, can listen to the show on channel 148, "Talk Central"."Is this the start of a crucial crossover moment forpodcasting? Or is it more about a traditional broadcaster getting his elbow back in the game?It's not apparent whether there is payment for the podcasters who get chosen by Curry (which could kick up a stink, since the Sirius channel carries advertising) but it's another move forward for a legion of amateur DJs out there.
Sony Online Entertainment is launching a competition to discover a real-life version of Antonia Bayle, the buxom heroinne from forthcoming MMORPG sequel EverQuest II. Starting on May 17, women who feel they look like the archetypal fantasy realm fox (you know the sort of thing, long dark hair, full lips, heaving bosom, jewel-encrusted bikini...) must send their photo to thespecial siteso that slavering hordes of lascivious fanboys can vote on their favourite Bayle-alikes. The five finalists will then be flown to Las Vegas to complete in a glitzy beauty pageant.(slight pause while nausea passes)Obviously combatting the stereotypes of online RPG gamers as lonely men fixated on impossibly idealised female characters isn't a key priority here. Neither is finding an interesting and innovative method of connecting with the sizeable minority of female MMORPG fans.While I'm on this subject, it has been confirmed today that Baywatch star Angelica Bridges will be present at E3 to stand around looking awkward near Singles 2: Triple Trouble. Just the latest vague celebrity endorsement to liven up an event that would otherwise be forced to rely on the merits of the games themselves. Shudder the thought.Hooray for the videogame industry! It rocks!ViaCNET
A piece in today's Wall Street Journal (Europe) by the publisher of Forbes magazine, Rich Karlgaard, makes an interesting case study of St Eve of Jobs, the Apple man who I can't seem to stop writing about at the moment (this is the last one, I promise).I think the article's subscription only (here is a link to WSJ.com) so I'm going to crib it and distill it down to the most important bits.It begins with a rather strong opening gambit: "The greatness of American democratic capitalism can be summed up in two words: Steve Jobs".But there is, always has been, a dark side to his genius. Once again we see it. Angered out of scale by anunauthorized biography, Jobs went nuclear last week. He banished iCon from Apple stores. You might say, fine, that is his prerogative. But is it wise? Apple's shareholders, not its CEO, own the stores. The dummy here is Mr Jobs.The genius, idealism, charisma, salesmanship, obsession, paranoia and cruelty that come together in Steve Jobs and other great American icons such as Henry Ford and Howard Hughes also combine in history's worst tyrants. The cult of personality built around Lenin and Mao is not unlike the cult Macolytes have built around Mr Jobs.But, says Karlgaard, the beauty of America is that "it takes would-be Lenins, redemms them in the crucible of capitalism, and turns out Steve Jobs".PS:Please forgive the rather dodgy Photoshoppery, but it was too good to miss.
The Thames Valley is seeing a surge in technology companies that will help it ensure its position as Britain's Silicon Valley, according to today'sTimes:According to Cushman &amp; Wakefield Healey &amp; Baker (CWHB), the commercial property consultants, 410,000 sq ft was leased in the wider Thames Valley area, stretching from West London to Basingstoke, during the first quarter of 2005 ï¿‘ 13 per cent higher than in the fourth quarter of 2004. The figures were boosted by a 112,500 sq ft letting to Motorola at Chineham Park in Basingstoke.The M4 and M3 corridors became Britain's answer to Silicon Valley in the boom years, when large American technology giants opened European headquarters along the motorways. The biggest letting was to Cisco Systems, which signed up for over 600,000 sq ft at Green Park in Reading. Today the company still occupies less than a third of the space it leased and has been trying to rent out more than 200,000 sq ft of the surplus for about two years.Cisco also signed up for new offices at Stockley Park, the UK's first US-style business park, where it is trying to sub-let about 160,000 sq ft of surplus space.I'm not sure those two things add up to the same answer, but then again I'm not an estate agent. Thank goodness for that.
The video games veteran who helped launch the bloodthirsty Mortal Kombat series will today be confirmed as chief executive of Codemasters, the business behind Colin McRae Rally and Brian Lara Cricket.Rod Cousens, dubbed a godfather of the industry by his peers, has promised to make the Leamington Spa-based company a worldwide player.Earlier this year, the technology investment firm Benchmark Capital bought 40% of Codemasters in a deal valuing the company at about &#163;75m.Benchmark has big ambitions for the previously family-controlled business and has handed Mr Cousens the mandate of creating a "global force" in a competitive sector. The games industry generated global sales of nearly $20bn (&#163;10.5bn) last year, according to Screen Digest estimates."With some financial assistance from Benchmark, Codemasters is positioning itself for the next generation of gaming systems and to exploit &#91;games&#93; franchises on a global basis," said Mr Cousens.The new head of Code- masters was previously chief executive of Acclaim Entertainment, publisher of Mortal Kombat, which surprised the industry last year by succumbing to bankruptcy when a key creditor withdrew its backing. Mr Cousens was one of the first executives to recognise the potential of gaming, founding his first games publishing outfit in 1981.Codemasters will seriously consider a flotation to fund the acquisition of rivals, although an initial public offering (IPO) is not imminent, the new chief executive added."We can only do so much organically," he said. "Part of the strategy will have to involve mergers and acquisitions. If the performance is there, an IPO would give us the vehicle to do that."Codemasters reported a pre-tax profit of &#163;13.5m last year, on turnover of &#163;75m.Ynon Kreiz, a Benchmark partner and former chief executive of the Fox Kids Europe channel, said the investment firm expected Codemasters to move into new markets, take advantage of technologies such as 3G phones and build a bigger library of titles."The industry is perceived in some people's minds as an offshoot of the media business but it's right in the mainstream," he said. "We are looking to build a global force. It's a UK company but the whole market is the world."Mr Kreiz, who joined Benchmark this year, said the rising use of free games on mobile phones and on internet service providers such as Yahoo! and MSN underlined the potential of the gaming industry to push new technologies.Although the term "technological convergence" became a a notorious catch-all in the dotcom boom, hardware such as the Sony PlayStation provided genuine results by playing CDs and DVDs as well as computer games, Mr Kreiz said. "It will drive mobile &#91;and&#93; broadband penetration," he added.
It's not that often you hear the White House talking technology, unless its to warn ofcyberterroristsor let you know what George Bush has beenlistening to on his iPod. Anyway, the administration has made moves to let China know that they're not too happy with rife software piracy. Here'sCNet news:While elevating China to "priority watch list" is largely symbolic, it does indicate the Bush administration's willingness to pressure the Communist government to crack down on rampant piracy. Among the administration's requests: criminal prosecutions, new laws, and adoption of the type of "anti-circumvention" laws found in the 1998 Digital Millennium Copyright Act.But - and this is possibly one of the key questions of digital technology - what's the way to deal with piracy?
The new Audi A6 Avant doesn't feel like an estate car when you drive it. With the automatic gearbox in the "sport" setting, and the 3.0-litre engine bounding with Germanic ease through the gears, you can easily forget where you are - which is to say, inside an expensive tin for a family and its shopping. Certainly, it's a frequent surprise to look in the rear-view mirror and see so much car between you and the back window.But then this Audi is on a mission to be "the sportiest business estate in its class". There are such contradictory aspirations contained in that statement - like wanting to be a church organist and an electric guitarist at the same time - that no car could ultimately blend them. But what the heck: it might be fun trying, and the A6 is going to give it a shot.It has the tall, heavy doors of the high-end saloon and a rear passenger section that is broad and deep - plus that big lump of boot. If you were a company executive who continued to work weekends as a painter and decorator, the Avant would amply meet your every need.All estates are big, but the A6 Avant is bigger. It's longer and wider than the BMW 5-Series Touring. It's also longer and wider than the Mercedes Benz E-Class estate, which one had assumed was as large as an estate car could get before it had to be registered, for tax and insurance purposes, as a missile silo. The A6's boot space (565 litres of it) is, accordingly, voluminous by estate car standards. Actually, it's voluminous by Parcel Force delivery van standards. Indeed, I've brewed tea in smaller beach huts.But, of course, a giant boot brings its own disadvantages and practical perils. A single shopping bag and/or your dog, if not wedged tight with other items, will spend even the simplest journey sliding around like Jayne Torvill.Ahead of the game in this respect, as in so many others, Audi has come up with some unique movable dividers, mounted on rails, by which the boot's acres of floor can be divided into handier portions. Thus, by careful squeezing, it's possible to drive the Avant almost unloaded without once hearing the gentle thud of pooch on side-window - a major step forward for the estate car experience.The boot, which now opens automatically with a click on the keyfob, greedily swallowed a weekend's worth of luggage for a family of five, leaving acceptable, if possibly not RSPCA-approved, breathing space for a medium-sized dog. The A6   Avant then made light of combined weight of these objects, to the point where you began to wonder whether you'd somehow left everything on the pavement.By rights, a crammed estate should handle about as well as a tree trunk on a white-water river; it should develop a nice momentum, but then rapidly become subject to forces well beyond the control of anyone sitting astride it. In an   additional complication, one is fretfully aware that, in accordance with the simple laws of physics, the rear end of a loaded estate is likely to become unhealthily obsessed with the idea of overtaking the front end.In particular, one is aware of this when momentum carries one - as momentum inevitably will, in the end - into a bend at speed. At such times, the notion that you, your family and your dog could come out of a corner in the same order in which you went into it seems mathematically remote, at best.The A6 Avant, however, acts like a balm on the hassled driver's traumatised nerve ends. It holds a regal and stately line without sweat-soaked wheel-wrangling and sweeps through corners like a film star sweeps through a hotel lobby. It's tempting to credit your own driving for these stupendous, passenger-friendly acts of road-holding, but deep down, you know that the car is carefully nannying you with its electronic stability   programmes and correctional software, including the sublimely named "trailer oscillation logic". If the back end so much as thinks of developing a life of its own, the system applies a gentle, correctional squeeze on the brakes to put the idea right out of its dizzy little head.The adaptive air suspension has a civilising hand in things, too. This is the means by which the car approximates as closely as possible to the legendary Arabian sensation of being gently wafted through the world on a velvet cushion. In automatic mode,   at speeds in excess of 75mph, the suspension lowers the car by 15mm, dropping its shoulder into the wind, as it were, to bring down the centre of gravity and whoop up the aerodynamics.I wouldn't know, of course, being (like all journalists granted a week's lease on a test model) a strict adherent to the 70mph limit. But as a means of getting points put on your licence, even while carrying a set of ladders and 14 tins of paint, I would hazard that there can be few smoother items than an A6 Avant.
