Journey is a phenomenal game. This mystical adventure, developed by Santa Monica-based studio thatgamecompany, represents one of those rare moments that make us question everything about the medium. I want to try and look at it from both a top-down and bottom-up design perspective.I'm a design director at Codemasters and I talk to the game designers here about these different approaches quite a bit. In simple terms, bottom-up game design is concerned with the fine mechanics of the experience, where the function is king and the form follows later.At Codemasters this is of great importance due to the need to make the car handling experience perfect for the user. A bottom-up game designer thinks in abstract terms: they don't care that an angry bird is trying to smash down a bad piggy – it's just box A versus box B accompanied by a clarity of level design to teach the player where to aim.If we look atJourney, what are the bottom-up design elements that exist in the game? The core mechanic is the fluidity of movement of the main character. In Mario games it's easy to imagine Mario as a ball, the way his abstract form – the collision sphere if you like – "rolls" and arcs within the environment. Nintendo's animators then do an amazing job of fitting an appropriate form to that function.Originally Mario's form, like many characters from the 8-bit era, was designed to fit within a 32-pixel bounding area, leading to a short fat guy with barely distinguishable arms and legs. In effect, this form evolved to work within the rolling ball function while staying true to the original character design – a bottom-up approach. Journey has a similar feeling, to me. To give the player an incredibly natural, accessible motion, the artists have not bound themselves by a typical human form, which would demand certain behaviours. The gliding and floating mechanics work because the cloaked figure, with legs that end in single points, is as fluid as the movement itself.Another key element of design is the use of signs and feedback to help the player understand the game systems. The clearest evidence of signs within Journey are landmarks and collectibles. The latter speak for themselves: they're white, they glow, they are placed against contrasting backgrounds for player clarity.The landmarks are more interesting. I think one undervalued aspect of Journey is the brilliance in the simplicity of the level design. The very first scene presents the player with a barren landscape. The player has to rotate the camera in order to see something, thus teaching you a basic input through a natural process. The only point of interest is a hill, on top of which two flags capture our attention. Let's go there, then.It sounds ridiculous, but how many games have started with a beautiful, complex world where you sit there and wonder "erm, where am I supposed to go?" You are then promptly guided by a HUD element, or a big arrow pointing you in the right direction. Where Journey gets this so right is through the architecture of the environment. Theworldtells you where to go. Even if the player fails to comprehend it, the game directs you through the use of wind walls which blow you back. As a design there is a clear intent – you've reached the end of the map, but for a mainstream player the form of this feedback is subtle and believable – there are no invisible barriers but a gentle sandstorm that builds to prevent progression.So you head toward the flags. On arrival, the camera rises to reveal the mountain. No need for an objective update, or a character telling me what to do next – the messaging and motivation is implicit in the level design architecture: I need to go to that mountain. The game is populated with these landmarks, and it's testament to the team's bravery that they stripped everything back to keep the player informed without compromising with non-relevant eye candy.The easiest feedback to think about is the character's energy scarf. When developing games, designers often think about game loops – cycles that involve setting a player objective, providing a challenge to overcome in order to achieve that objective, and rewarding the player for their triumph. A good game loop reward enables the player to overcome more difficult challenges (hence the loop is complete).Atomically, Journey has a simple micro loop: find item (objective), collect item (challenge), increase ability (reward). Importantly, the reward is directly connected with the challenge, albeit loosely as the design requires achievable goals; but a longer jump/float ability enables the player to more easily reach the items to collect. And of course, this growing ability is connected to the core mechanic (movement) since a player with a longer scarf is more manoeuvrable in the game world.This scarf, like the wind walls that prevent players from travelling in the wrong direction, is an elegant implementation of a simple feedback. The scarf could have simply been a HUD element – a bar that grows and then drains on use, to be replenished on landing. I imagine this is how the team tested the mechanic, but the creative direction, the top-down approach, demanded something much more elegant.So, the fluidity of the character is wonderful, the game has strong signs and feedback, motivation is implicit in the game world. These are all excellent characteristics of a great game, things players take for granted and things designers struggle constantly to implement in order to guide. In my opinion, however, it is how these bottom-up elements are fused with Journey's top-down design that elevates the game.Top-down design involves creating a game that has a message, a meaning to communicate to the player. I don't mean things like "kill the demon lord" or "rescue the princess" but instead something that makes us question an aspect of our life, or society, or the status quo. Games such as Ico, Shadow of the Colossus, and the recent re-boot of Prince of Persia deal with issues surrounding love and sacrifice, but through gameplay rather than cut-scenes.[Prince of Persia spoiler alert!]The ending of PoP deliberately forces the player to carry the body of Elika down an immense corridor, thus powerless to perform his acrobatics (since he's carrying her). This gives the player time to reflect on the situation: they have spent the last several hours leaping hand-in-hand with this girl, often to be saved by her after making an error – without her they could not have finished the game. Yet here she now is, dead, in the arms of the Prince, as the player walks down this corridor with the credits rolling.Throughout the game, the resurrection altar has been referenced, and it soon dawns on the player the choice they will have to make: will I resurrect her and suffer the consequences of also resurrecting the evil spirit Aruhman, or will I ... well, switch off the console? Here is where I believe the game succeeds – it makes me question my relationship with a virtual character: did I want to save her or switch off? I wasn't concerned about that buffoon the Prince, but more my connection.[Prince of Persia spoiler ends]What is the meaning behind Journey? Well the team at thatgamecompany and academics cleverer than me can probably tell you precisely, but for me the message is this: "Only by understanding our past mistakes can we prepare for the future." We travel through a once powerful culture, now decimated by greed and arrogance. It's a sombre world at first, punctuated with symbolic gravestones in a desert of ruins, representing some catastrophic event from the past. The game system of the growing scarf, while a beautiful touch in relation to signs and feedbacks, also connects the player with preparing for the future – you feel comfortable with a longer scarf, and as such when you replay the game seek out scarf pieces that in the past you may have ignored.In the game, players learn from other, more experienced players through the innovate anonymous co-op mechanic, which pairs up participants randomly so that they can explore together. I remember the first time I met a "white" player. Immediately I was inspired and fascinated – how did they become white? What have they achieved? And most importantly, what can I learn from them? The purity of the white character, matching the colours of the spirit Gods you meet along the way, provides a status for players to aspire to, but also inspiration for less experienced participants – they are a guide, an expert, a helper. They have been through the experience and have learned from past mistakes, just as the game asks you to do the same.This meaning connects the top-down and bottom-up approach to the game. The game needs to present a world where a catastrophic event has occurred, but at the same time needs to present the player with clear landmarks to aid navigation. The function and form are integrated through the meaning of the game – the barren world shows the mistakes of the past, the clear landmarks prepare us for the future.We see a world built on a mystical power, harnessed by the visual feedback of the scarf, but then we see that power abused to create machines of destruction and the ultimate annihilation of society at their hands. The player then has to face these machines through gameplay, supported by secondary means such as intimidating art direction, ominous audio, and limited movement in level design.The final thing I want to talk about is Journey's emotional curve, the peaks and troughs used to control the player's emotions, similarly to a movie. The classic Hollywood emotional curve looks something like this, with the low point coming at the end of Act 2:How many times have I sat through a romcom with my wife, waiting for this low point ... Oh no, the charming-yet-foolish self-deprecating hero has decided the beautiful-girl-next-door is too good for him, and so has embarked upon a self-destructive path only to be discovered mid-idiocy by that very same beautiful-girl-next-door. What a dilemma! What will he do? He then realises she is the love of his life and so must act with passion and vigour to stop her taking the plane to Paris to reunite with her handsome ex-lover. Quick, to the airport, you fool, before it's too late.I believe Journey has managed to adapt this traditional scriptwriting approach to interactivity incredibly well. Time-lining the game against the markers on the graph, I would say the turning point is the player racing across the bridge, followed by a trough in the industrialised city. The peak of the development curve sees the player race down the sand and through the sun-soaked archways. The low point leads with the player racing against the machine to reach the prayer step, in the murky depths of the pit, ending with the struggle up the mountain to the inevitable, as indicated by the reveal of the final mural. Followed by the climactic flight to the summit.Interestingly, the topology of the environment generally follows this emotional curve (with the exception of the summit), as does the colouration of the art direction (bright, vivid colours while sand surfing; dark, macabre colours when in the underground temple). Here's my visual interpretation of all that:Note how the sun sets as the player surfs along the sand, indicating the end of something.Whether my placement of the locations on the curve are accurate, I think it's okay to make the assumption that the team were trying to punctuate the game with these highs and lows, and as such, the experience for the player is far more rewarding and uplifting at the end. For the player, this follows what I've started to call the Andy Murray effect.As a Brit and a lapsed tennis player, I am a huge supporter of Andy Murray. Like many, I desperately wanted him to win Wimbledon. Of course, that wasn't to be. Fortunately, a month later Andy had his revenge by winning Olympic gold. Yet strangely that experience felt somewhat flat to me as a viewer. The following month, Andy won the US Open in an incredibly exciting and thrilling match against Novak Djokovic. If we look at the high-level arc of those three matches, we see an interesting pattern develop:In the Wimbledon final, Murray gets the first set but then loses the next three. The emotional curve for the Murray fan is one of initial elation followed by subsequent defeat – depressing viewing, albeit tense:In the Olympics, Murray wins in straight sets. Because there are no real troughs to the experience, the audience comes away feeling a bit flat, despite the victory:However, with the US Open final, Murray wins the first two sets, loses the following two and then fights back for victory:The fluctuation between the highs and lows provides a far more thrilling experience for the viewer and thus the match is more highly regarded. Of course, in all three matches both rivals were trying their best to win, but for the viewer the experience is most thrilling when the match contains twists and turns.By keeping the game experience limited to around a couple of hours, in my opinion thatgamecompany has managed to map the experience well to the classic emotional curve, choreographing want they want the player to feel both through gameplay and secondary means (topology, lighting, etc). The end sequence, from where the player starts to progress up the mountain, follows closely documented patterns on the change curve – the process people go through when dealing with change.At first there is immobilisation. The team uses the scarf mechanic to manipulate the player's emotions, first freezing it and then shrinking it as the player struggles up the mountain. This removal of abilities is a design strategy to make the player feel less empowered, to raise their anxiety. In Journey it works brilliantly – the first time I struggled up the mountain I stopped and questioned whether I should continue, as I watched my scarf slowly float away in the breeze. For a moment I was immobile.[Journey ending spoilers ahead!]In the change curve cycle, next comes doubt and depression, reflected in Journey through the grey colour palette, the wind, the loss of scarf. Afterwards is acceptance – it becomes clear there's nowhere else to go but up this mountain so, while difficult, you struggle onward, accepting the inevitable as each footstep becomes more laboured.The next stage is the letting go. I believe this is the moment the player "dies". We say goodbye to the old. The design requires significance in this moment and so the team have taken great care to really draw out the final steps and then the collapse – as a result the player is waiting for this inevitability, this acceptance, but forcing themselves through it.After letting go we start to act in new ways, testing out new behaviour. I believe here is where the game gives the player freedom to fly, without the loss of scarf. It is a new mechanic and one that is fulfilling and invigorating.The next step in the change curve proposes a search for meaning. I believe the walk into the light reflects this – by designing this process to be slow and lengthy, the team pushes similar emotions to when the Prince carried Elika along the corridor – a moment to reflect. Finally there is internalisation, where the player walks into the light and the game ends. All these elements are designed in the game to give the player a sense of meaning and reflection.[Journey ending spoilers end]Of course this only works if the player experiences the entirety, and perhaps this is the key revolution in Journey's design: it's impossible to "lose". There is no restart required, no failure state. Even with a shorter scarf it is still possible to complete the game, as long as the player has patience. And the next time they play, learning from their past mistakes, they will have a more fluid experience and see more content of the world, understand more of the game universe. By removing a failure state, the team almost guarantee all players will reach the finale, and thus will experience the entire emotional journey as intended.So, those are some brief thoughts on Journey. While they are my own, and could be miles from the true creative process used to deliver the game, hopefully they provide some seeds for discussion on the techniques employed in this adventure to ensure it affects so many of us. I see a fantastic blend of top-down and bottom-up game design techniques coupled with a strong dedication to an emotional curve, driven by a desire to never compromise in reaching that goal. The naive romantic in me would like to think Journey will encourage creators and Publishers to think more deeply about what their games want to say to the audience. Hopefully that will be the case as our industry continually evolves and matures.Nick would like to thank some of the designers at Codemasters who helped with this article: Sofie Graham, Brett Collins and Nick Rathbone.
Plans to introduce a string of new web domains – including .islam and .movie – have been hit by a further setback after a panel of governments raised more than 250 objections.Alist of contentious domain names posted onlineby the Governmental Advisory Committee (GAC) reveals underlying tensions over the use of potentially sensitive new internet addresses.The governments of India and United Arab Emirates (UAE) have separately raised serious concerns about commercial ownership of the domain .islam.Inits filing, the Indian government warned that private control of .islam had a "very high potential to stoke tensions and negatively affect the wellbeing of millions of Mulims and non-Muslims in India".The UAE expressed its own concerns over the ownership of .islam by a company called Asia Green IT System Bilgisayar, whose bid itclaimed had received backing from Iran.The objections were submitted by the GAC on behalf of governments across the world. The warning list comes ahead of the planned introduction of the domains early next year. The new addresses, which will rival the traditional .co.uk and .com, will radically change how people use the web.India raised the most sensitive objections to the planned rollout, issuing warnings about the use of .islam, .bible, .army and .airforce, among others. Officials in Mumbai said that private ownership of domains associated with the armed forces could "cause irreparable harm to the security and stability of the nation". Several military-linked addresses, including .airforce and .navy, are being applied for bya subsidiary of US firm Demand Media, called United TLD.The GAC's warning list also exposed concerns about broad sectors including .casino, .charity and .search.Online retail giant Amazon is applying for several wide-ranging domains, such as .news, .shop, .song and .video. Many of these applications have been opposed on competition grounds by Australia, which warned that Amazon could block out rivals if it is granted exclusive access to a series of broad internet addresses.The international agency behind the planned rollout, Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann), has indicated that the first new top-level domains will be in use by May 2013. However, industry experts have said that is now likely to delayed.Kelly Salter, a domain product specialist atweb hosting firm Names.co.uk, said the increasing opposition could derail the plans until 2014.She added: "The fact that 270 objections have come from the Governmental Advisory Committee highlights the concerns surrounding the new generic top level domains from Icann."Even as a UK registrar of domain names we feel the expensive application process has been mismanaged with major brands trying to own generic domains like .beauty that could exclude real competition – especially smaller businesses desperate to succeed in difficult times."Icann describes the early warning list as a way for governments and a domain application to raise issues or questions about the ownership of addresses.
It was at 12pm on Friday that the last British-made typewriter was packed into its box at the Brother factory in Wrexham. Its maker, Edward Bryan, 40, has worked in the factory since 1989. When he started, around 30 people were on the typewriter line. By the end there was just him – the team leader – and another worker. The last CM-1000, an electronic typewriter that retails for around £400, was presented to Rachel Boon, a curator of technologies and engineering at theScience Museum, which will keep the machine. Colleagues gathered around, and the MD of Brother Industries, Craig McCubbin, reminisced about how he had started out on the production line in his school holidays."I was a bit sad," says Bryan, who has been building typewriters for Brother for 23 years. "You could have ownership of the machine. From taking a little screw at the start, you end up with a typewriter in a box." He can build one with his eyes closed – he tried it once. "It took about 40 minutes," he says with a laugh. (Usually, it would take him just 18.)The decision was taken six months ago to stop production, says Phil Jones, Brother's UK head. "Clearly, typewriters have been undergoing a decline in many years. There's always a point where it's not economically viable any more, and we always knew that time was coming."The factory had been making 300-500 machines a month, accounting for just 0.25% of the company's turnover. "When a category is such a small percentage, it really isn't worth doing analytics on it," says Jones when I ask who was still buying typewriters, but he says he thinks many of their customers were older people who don't feel comfortable using a computer. "And they're popular in prisons – it seems they're still one of the approved technological products that prisoners can use in some prisons." He also thinks there may be secret government bunkers, where highly classified missives are written on typewriters, "but that's just speculation". The international company will still produce typewriters in its Malaysia factory, primarily for the US market and developing countries, "but it is the end as far as UK manufacturing is concerned".As typewriters go, it would be difficult to feel too romantic about the CM-1000 – the large greige machine hardly conjures up the same image as Hemingway hammering away at his trusty black Royal, the clatter of the typing pool or William Boot packing his portable typewriter for assignment in Ishmaelia – but it still feels like a heavy-hearted full stop.
Wednesday, day three, here we go...
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamUS kids continue to look forward to "iHoliday" &gt;&gt; Nielsen WireApproximately half the children surveyed expressed interest in the full-sized iPad (up from 44% last year), and 36% in the new iPad Mini. The iPod Touch and iPhone are also coveted devices among these young consumers (36% and 33%, respectively). Kids are also likely to ask for dedicated gaming hardware this holiday, with 39 percent excited to own Nintendo's just-released console offering, Wii U, and 29% indicating they want a device from that company's portable DS family. Microsoft's Xbox 360 and Sony's PlayStation 3 also proved appealing, with approximately one-quarter of kids 6-12 saying they want these high definition consoles.Adds up to more than 100%, of course. Would be good to know what the things where their interest overlaps are.China's mobile subscribers up 1% in October at 1.09 bln &gt;&gt; ReutersChina, the world's largest mobile phone market by subscribers, posted a 1.04% monthly increase in the number of mobile subscribers to 1.09 billion in October, data from the country's three telecommunications operators showed.Incredible; the China smartphone business is now bigger than that in Europe. (Not more valuable, but bigger.)Windows 8 'slow going,' but 2013 should be better, top retailer says &gt;&gt; ReadWriteA senior executive at popular retailer NewEgg described the Windows 8 launch so far as not the "explosion" that the company originally planned for, but as slow and steadily improving.From a software perspective, however, Windows 8 will probably not take off until about the second quarter of 2013, said Merle McIntosh, the senior vice president of product management of Newegg North America, in an interview.September 2011: "Another whopper" from Autonomy CEO Mike Lynch &gt;&gt; OracleLarry Ellison claimed that Lynch had tried to sell Autonomy to Oracle. Lynch denied it. Then the story changed slightly. Ellison put the boot in:Ably assisting Mike Lynch's attempt to sell Autonomy to Oracle was Silicon Valley's most famous shopper/seller of companies, the legendary investment banker Frank Quattrone.  After the sales pitch was over, Oracle refused to make an offer because Autonomy's current market value of $6 billion was way too high.As ever with legally sensitive points, note that HP has not named anyone in its allegations, and that they remain allegations; no criminal or civil charges have been laid at the time of linking.HP issues statement regarding Autonomy impairment charge &gt;&gt; HP Investor SiteHP launched its internal investigation into these issues after a senior member of Autonomy's leadership team came forward, following the departure of Autonomy founder Mike Lynch, alleging that there had been a series of questionable accounting and business practices at Autonomy prior to the acquisition by HP. This individual provided numerous details about which HP previously had no knowledge or visibility.HP initiated an intense internal investigation, including a forensic review by PricewaterhouseCoopers of Autonomy's historical financial results, under the oversight of John Schultz, executive vice president and general counsel, HP.As a result of that investigation, HP now believes that Autonomy was substantially overvalued at the time of its acquisition due to the misstatement of Autonomy's financial performance, including its revenue, core growth rate and gross margins, and the misrepresentation of its business mix.Very serious stuff. Note that nothing is proven here, only alleged.Two trustbusters who could decide Google's future &gt;&gt; CNET NewsThey contrast sharply. [The EC's Joaquin] Almunia has been highly critical of Google and how it's done business since becoming dominant in search. [FTC incoming commissioner Joshua] Wright, though, not only advocates minimal regulation of fast-moving high-tech companies, he's also written papers that explicitly defend Google's position.This Trend Is Very Worrisome For Henry Blodget's Apple Prediction &gt;&gt; Business InsiderJay Yarow follows up on the previously-linked:My boss Henry Blodget saysApple should be worried about the fact that Android is racking up market share gains.How worried should Apple really be about this market share dilemma? Probably not as worried as Blodget thinks.Mum, Dad, stop fighting!Apple and Twitter &gt;&gt; Patrick GibsonGoogle, specifically Android, has been steadily improving its entire platform. To me, it still doesn't have the same quality of polish and feel that Apple software does. However, it's getting harder to argue that point, especially since their web services all tend to Just Work. Features like Google Now and near-instant voice commands are starting to give Android a serious leg up on iOS. Design is coming along as well. Android is still ugly, but it's much less ugly than it was a few years ago. Google seems to be actively addressing this, and if Apple isn't worried, they should be. Tom is the first friend I've had who has switched from iOS to Android, and he is unlikely to be the last.Google Poetics &gt;&gt; TumblrBeauty in the culmination of the intents.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
The New York Times faced a predictable social media backlash on Tuesday after objecting to a Twitter account that parodies the news organization's occasionally stumbling attempts to document the latest cultural trends in its home city.Commentators rushed to condemn the Times when Twitter suspended TheTimes Is On Itaccount on Monday night, acting on a complaint that the parody account had violated its trademark. After an outcry from Twitter users, the account was restored on Tuesday morning.The Times objected to the parody account's use of its distinctive "T" logo. The man behind the parody, Benjamin Kabak, said Times lawyers had not contacted him directly but had complained to Twitter instead."If the New York Times was looking for a way to be petty and damage its own brand, it found one,"posted the media critic Dan Gillmor, who writes a regular online column on the US media for the Guardian.The parody account,@NYTOnit, pokes gentle fun at the Times' frequent forays into New York style trends. Its tweets take the same format, starting with "GUYS," followed by a few words summarising the offending article's statement of the (usually) obvious, and ending with "...and The Times is ON IT."A recent NYT article examining the battles between parents and their offspring over the state of their rooms, wasthus parodied: "GUYS, teenagers have messy bedrooms, and The Times is ON IT."GUYS, teenagers have messy bedrooms, and The Times is ON IT.nyti.ms/X62BZs&mdash; The Times Is On It (@NYTOnIt)November 2, 2012Another recent tweet declared: "GUYS, Blackberries aren't particularly cool anymore, and The Times is ON IT."GUYS, Blackberries aren't particularly cool anymore, and The Times is ON IT.nytimes.com/2012/10/16/tec…&mdash; The Times Is On It (@NYTOnIt)October 16, 2012Kabak told the Guardian that he would have been happy to resolve the issue if the Times had contacted him directly: "There's a quieter way to handle this and there's a way it doesn't need to become a huge story."I also don't feel that I'm legally in the wrong but I don't really care to fight that. I'd rather just solve this quickly and peacefully."Kabak said a number of Times staff follow his personal Twitter account –@bkabak– and are aware of his identity. The Times's public editor, Margaret Sullivan, had indicated her approval of the account only on Monday..@jakemhs@nytonitWhat do you mean?? Isn't everyone a fan?#openpublic&mdash; Margaret Sullivan (@Sulliview)November 19, 2012Kabak, a 29-year-old lawyer who lives in Brooklyn, said he was happy to change the avatar. "The whole point of the account, which is sort of making fun of trend stories that Times carries doesn't rely on the intellectual property that they claim I'm violating."The New York Times confirmed to the Guardian that it had made the complaint, saying it needed to protect its trademark."We did file a complaint with Twitter and it is our understanding that they have suspended this account for a violation of Twitter's terms of service," said Times spokeswoman Eileen Murphy."We're not seeking to disable the account, however, it is important to The Times that our trademark is protected and that it is clear to all users of Twitter that parody accounts or other unofficial Times accounts are not affiliated nor endorsed by The Times."Kabak's account had 20,600 followers when it was suspended. He said he set up the account in July 2011 after discussing the idea with friends. "I guess there's a tiny element of media criticism involved in it, because you're saying why is the Times covering this story that is totally obvious or it only applies to a few people," he said."I realise they have to fill a paper and that different sections serve different roles, but it's actually to make people laugh. It's to look at these at these articles and be like: 'Hey I'm not the only person who feels that this is a silly article.'"A spokesman for Twitter said the company did not comment on individual accounts for "privacy and security reasons".Returning to Twitter after the suspension was lifted, @NYTOnIt's first tweet was to launch an avatar contest.GUYS, I think it's time for an avatar contest. Anyone want to be ON IT?facebook.com/nytonit/posts/…&mdash; The Times Is On It (@NYTOnIt)November 20, 2012
Here is the second and final part of our jaunt through the year's (possibly) overlooked gems. We've taken in indie experiments as well as major sports titles and robot battle sims, all of them deserving of your attention, but maybe not as 'vocal' about it as the likes of Dishonored and Xcom.So yes, come this way if you're looking for a few extra Christmas treats that probably won't break the bank in these trying times.Asura's Wrath(PS3, Xbox 360)Okay, so it's essentially a series of quick-time events sellotaped together and stuck haphazardly onto a needlessly complicated story about a vengeful demigod, but Capcom's anime brawler is also an idiosyncratic masterpiece. Developed by CyberConnect2, the team behind the .hack RPGs, it is kind of a third-person beat-'em-up, with a rage meter that just grows and grows until the titular hero is able to punch an entire planet. Not so much a game as an interactive lesson in adolescent hyperbole. You may not like it, but you will only stop saying 'I can't believe they did that', after the end credits roll.Joe Danger 2: The Movie(PC, PS3, Xbox 360)The motorbike stunt game that isn't Trials returned this year with a beautiful, joyous and feature-packed sequel. This time, players have to negotiate a series of devious and testing circuits designed to resemble Hollywood movie sets as our hero gets to grips with his new role as a stuntman. Part driving sim, part platformer, Joe Danger 2 is a big primary-coloured fun bomb, with wonderful controls, loads of ideas and a difficulty curve that builds toward a ramp of considerable challenge. Just clamber aboard your unicycle and sway this way.Okami HD(PS3)Didn't play Okami on its original PlayStation 2 release? Later failed to play it again when the Wii version arrived two years later? Okay, I'm going to try not to judge you, but it will be really difficult… (Pause, deep breath)… Okami is a mature, expressive and visually arresting adventure written by Capcom's doomed Clover Studio, the creators of Viewtiful Joe. This PS3 update brings added depth and texture to the lush watercolour visuals, and gently tweaks the smooth gameplay with its seamless transitions between combat, exploration and puzzling. Just… just play it.Unfinished Swan(PS3)This year, thatgamecompany's wonderful Journey wasn't the only avant garde experience seeking to challenge a player's perception of virtual environments. Giant Sparrow, another set of USC graduates based in Santa Monica produced the equally sublime, obtuse but rewarding Unfinished Swan, a game about expiring the unknown – mostly by conjuring it into existence through paint splats and puzzle mechanics. Like Journey, too, it is a short experience, two or three hours long, following an odd character on a mysterious quest of discovery - this time the prize is a swan that has escaped from an unfinished painting. But what you discover about game design is much more telling and valuable.Darksiders II(PC, PS3, Wii U, Xbox 360)First of all, this game puts you into the role of Death. DEATH! The hardest of the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse. That should be enough. But it is also a thrilling and well-constructed action RPG that borrows hefty chunks of Zelda and Diablo, but manages to craft its own experience amid the familiar weapons upgrades, treasure maps and dungeon romps. Overlooked by many amid this year's avalanche of fantasy-themed titles, this hack-n-slasher should be sought out by all underworld death merchants.Chivalry: Medievel Warfare(PC)Developed by the fledgling Torn Banner studios, this first-person multiplayer medieval combat game was seemingly written for anyone who's ever watched John Boorman's Excalibur (a bit early historically, but never mind), and wanted a piece of that sword-clanging, limb slicing action. Players can take part as one of four classes then upgrade their weapons for more battlefield bludgeoning power. It's bloody, but also tactical and it makes a change from earnest modern military shooters.Rayman Jungle Run(iOS)Ubisoft hasn't scrimped on Rayman titles recently, so you may well have missed this superlative touchscreen interpretation of the characters's standard 2D platforming recipe. Re-thought as an endless runner and utilising a  brilliant one-touch control mechanic, the game packs in all the features we expect from a Rayman title including wall jumps, obstacles and hovering sequences, all within densely realised jungle environments.Bad Hotel(iOS)The winner in the Best Game category at this year's Scottish Baftas, Bad Hotel is a joyous combination of procedural music toy and tower defence battler. Your role as a budding hotel proprietor is to build the most desirable stopover possible, while fending off the animal attackers sent by a local rival. Adding new rooms modifies the soundtrack so you're constructing new tunes as well as business. Hectic and bewildering at times, it's a truly eccentric treat.Transformers: Fall of Cybertron(PC, PS3, Xbox 360)Should grown men and women really play a Transformers game? Yes, if it's Fall of Cybertron, sequel to the fan favourite, War for Cybertron. Set amid the decaying urban detritus of their wrecked robot planet, the game has the autobots and decepticons indulging in their final home fixture before jetting off across the galaxy. Chunky third-person shooting action and some steel-plated campaign missions make this a solid outing, offering much more than – ugh – an interactive Michael Bay movie.NBA 2K13(PC, PS3, Wii, Wii U, Xbox 360)While EA has continually dropped the (basket)ball with its attempts to revive NBA Live, 2K Games has just been quietly getting on with publishing the thrillingly authentic NBA 2K series. 2K13 boosts the realism with refreshed animations and a deep new control scheme as well as classy commentary, cool signature moves and a large roster that takes in some of the sport's historic greats. Oh and there's lots of Jay Z (he is executive producer on the title) if you like that sort of thing.
This week in Tech Weekly with Aleks Krotoski we look at the perfect storm of litigation on the horizon for Google, why the BlackBerry might be saved by a boom for the handsets in Africa, will the next director general of the BBC be a digital supremo and rumours of a Steve Jobs biopic by Aaron Sorkin.Aleks is joined in the studio by the Guardian's technology editor Charles Arthur and digital media correspondent Jemima Kiss.Charles also meets the VP of Nook the e-reader device which services the Barnes &amp; Nobel book retailer.  Charles discusses the technical specification of the soon to be released devices and if they can prosper against such giants such as Amazon's Kindle and Apple's iPad.
PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Call Of Duty: Black Ops Ii(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (38)12 (1)Halo 4(16+)Xbox 360 (100)23 (3)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (47)PS3 (36)VITA (7)Wii (4)84 (2)Assassin's Creed Iii(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (45)35 (6)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (43)Xbox 360 (23)PS3 (13)56 (4)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)PS3 (46)Xbox 360 (41)VITA (13)PC (1)37 (9)Just Dance 4(3+)Wii (93)Xbox 360 (6)PS3 (1)78 (8)Borderlands 2(18+)Xbox 360 (65)PS3 (30)PC (6)99 (–)The Sims 3: Seasons (12+)PC (100)110 (5)Football Manager 2013(3+)PC (100)311 (7)Wwe '13(16+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (41)312 (15)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (87)PS3 (8)PC (4)4913 (12)Moshi Monsters: Moshlings Theme Park(3+)DS (70)3DS (29)414 (14)Dishonored(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (36)PC (10)615 (19)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)2316 (–)Call Of Duty: Black Ops Declassified(18+)VITA (100)117 (–)Kinect Disneyland Adventures (7+)Xbox 360 (100)118 (18)New Super Mario Bros. 2(3+)3DS (100)1319 (10)Medal Of Honor: Warfighter(16+)PS3 (50)Xbox 360 (45)420 (13)Resident Evil 6(18+)PS3 (52)Xbox 360 (48)7UKIE Games Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
I recently had lunch with as staunch an advocate for open access as you'll ever meet (I won't name him, because it would be rude to attribute casual remarks to him without permission). We were talking about plans to mandate free and open publication of publicly funded scientific research. In the USA, there's the Federal Public Research Act, and in the UK, there's the coalition government's announcement that publicly funded research should be made available at no cost, under a Creative Commons licence that permits unlimited copying.We'd been talking about Ben Goldacre's excellent new book,Bad Pharma, in which Goldacre documents the problem of "missing data" in pharmaceutical research (he says about half of the clinical trials undertaken by the pharmaceutical industry are never published). The unpublished trials are, of course, the trials that show the pharma companies' new products in unflattering lights – trials that suggest that their drugs don't work very well, or don't work at all, or are actively harmful.The decades-old industry practice of suppressing scientific evidence (and some independent researchers doing the same) leads Goldacre to declare that nothing we know about modern medicine should be assumed to be correct, and he makes the urgent case for forcing the release of all that pharma dark matter so scientists can re-run the numbers and work out what actually does work.I mentioned this to my lunchmate, finishing with: "And that's why all pharma research must be open access.""Allpublicly fundedpharma research," he said, as though correcting a mistake in elementary arithmetic. "If the public pays for it, they should see it, but if pharmaceutical companies want to pay for their own research, well …"I knew where he was coming from. One of the strongest arguments for public access in scholarly and scientific publication is the "public debt" argument: if the public pays you to do research, the research should belong to the public. That's a good argument, but it's not the whole story. For one thing, it's vulnerable to the "public-private partnership" counterargument, which goes, "Ah, yes, but why not ensure that the public gets a maximum dividend on its spending by charging lots of money for access to publicly funded research and returning the profit to the research sector?" I think this argument is rubbish, as do most economists who have studied the question.The public good of freely accessible, unencumbered research generates more economic value for the public than the quick-hit sugar-rush you get from charging the public on the way in and again on the way out. This has held true in many sectors, though the canonical example is the massive public return from the US Geological Survey's freely usable maps, which have generated a fortune that makes the ransoms collected by the Ordinance Survey on its maps of the UK look like a pittance.That's why Goldacre's work is important to this discussion. The reason pharma companies should be required to publish their results isn't that they've received a public subsidy for the research. Rather, it is because they are asking for a governmental certification saying that their products are fit for consumption, and they are asking for regulatory space to allow doctors to write prescriptions for those products. We need them to disclose their research – even if doing so undermines their profits – because without that research, we can't know if their products are fit for use.This is similar to the argument for using free/open source software in industrial and health applications, such as theOpenEyessystem developed by Moorfields eye hospital and other institutions around the world, following the collapse of the NHS's electronic health record project. They didn't plump for an open system instead of a proprietary one for ideological reasons, but rather for eminently practical ones. No hospital trust would ever allow a firm of engineers to build a new wing for a hospital using secret proprietary means to calculate their load-stresses. They wouldn't accept a new wing where the as-built drawings were a secret, where the location of the ducts and trunks was known only to the contractor. It's certainly true that engineering firms and architects could make more if their methods were proprietary, but we demand openness because we need to be able to maintain hospitals regardless of the fortunes of any engineering firm, and because we need the reassurance you get from being able to double-check the load calculations on your own. The IT systems used to manage the patients in the hospital are every bit as vital as the location of the ethernet wires in the walls, and so Moorfields expects them to be as open as the architectural plans for their buildings.And that's why big pharma needs to show its work: because regardless of their bottom line, their products mustn't be allowed into the market without such a showing. It's important to get publicly funded work into the public's hands, but that's where the open access story starts, not where it ends.
That's the first bit of the working week over, now it's time for mission two!
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy Opera thrives in Europe's last dictatorship &gt;&gt; QuartzSimple, really:all the Norwegian company behind Opera can offer is the best feature set it can craft and the fastest browser it can make. But that turned out to be the best strategy in Belarus, which remains a largely socialist state with the infrastructure to match, including a state-run communications monopoly, Beltelcom. "One of the main reasons why Opera has a large market share in Belarus is because of the Internet infrastructure in the country; it was pretty bad a few years ago," Espen André Øverdahl, one of Opera's community managers wrote in an email, pointing to features that allow users to strip out images and other bandwidth-gobbling web extras.Prime minister's special envoy 'disappointed' with open data use &gt;&gt; ComputerworldUK.comAcross UK government more than 9,000 datasets have been made available via data.gov.uk and the Cabinet Office plans to launch a £10 million Open Data Institute, headed up by inventor of the internet Tim Berners-Lee, to help businesses maximise the commercial value of open data.[Michael] Anderson [PM Cameron's special envoy on the UN's post-2015 development goals] said: "I'm sure that a big part of [how much it is being used] is the kind of way that we are delivering the data. I recognise that we need to get better data out in a usable form."We still publish things in PDF files, which is awful. But we are going to improve, and we all have to move on this together."Can't expect much use if you publish data in PDF files.Wall Street kept winning on mortgages upending homeowners &gt;&gt; BloombergMeanwhile, outside the filter bubble:Rebecca Black abandoned her dream house on Hazelwood Road in Memphis, Tennessee, in 2010, a year after the recession ended.As the US economy grew, Black's world shrank. Today she rents an apartment about the size of her old living room and works for the same $12 an hour she's earned for years.If Thomas F. Marano takes a late lunch, he makes more money in a single morning than Black does all year. Marano once led the team at Bear Stearns Cos. that bought Black's mortgage in 2005 and thousands of other subprime loans to sell to investors.During the 2000s housing boom, they both won -- Black got a home and Marano made millions.In the aftermath of the longest economic downturn since the Great Depression, only one of them kept winning. The biggest lenders are doing better than ever while those with the least, many of them black borrowers, are struggling the most.Samsung bets on flexible displays &gt;&gt; WSJ.comAs the battle for dominance in the smartphone and tablet-computer market intensifies, South Korean conglomerate Samsung is pushing ahead with plans to start mass production of displays using plastic rather than glass, a move that will make mobile devices unbreakable, lighter and bendable.Samsung expects to make flexible displays like these it exhibited last year. Samsung's display unit, Samsung Display Co., is in the last phase of development of so-called flexible displays for mobile devices, which are expected to be released in the first half of next year, a person familiar with the situation said.Sounds fun. (Subscription required.)Google redefines disruption: the "less than free" business model &gt; Above The CrowdBill Gurley, a venture capitalist, explaining in October 2009 how the addition of turn-by-turn to Android OS - and Google's willingness to give ad revenue splits with carriers - would seriously disrupt all sorts of rivals. A very good primer on why and how disruption progresses.Regulators take a look at patent firms' impact &gt;&gt; WSJ.comThe patent-holding companies, which amass portfolios of patents not to build new gadgets but to pursue licensing fees from those who do, are expected to be on the defensive."There has been a great deal of controversy and disagreement about whether they stifle innovation and whether they are an anticompetitive problem," said FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz. "What we want to do is understand the industry better."(Subscription required.)Apple, Google grab profits in "disruptive mobility", says Barclays; beware "capital strike" &gt;&gt; Barrons.comA new generation of consumers and IT workers are figuring out how to compute differently than PC users of the 90s - relying more on mobile devices and the cloud - as PCs and other devices are seeing significant task infringement. As a result, we argue that the PC replacement cycle is being elongated by another 1-2 years, resulting in the loss of 50-100m units in annualized demand by PCs is not the only subsector impacted in tech as printing is also caught in the wake of mobility.50m PCs is a more than 12% of annual PC sales; 100m, more than a quarter. (The "capital strike" is companies waiting to buy new IT equipment because of fears about the US's "fiscal cliff" and related events.)Google rivals ask FTC to monitor search code &gt;&gt; Politico"Google's own products should be subject to the same algorithm as other products," said Tom Barnett, counsel for FairSearch member Expedia, who formerly headed the Justice Department's Antitrust Division. "Given Google's past conduct, Google should not be able to hard-code Google Finance, Google Shopping, Google Travel and its other products as top search results."Fairsearch is funded by Microsoft and Nokia, among others. That doesn't mean their argument is necessarily wrong, though. Note how the noise about this is getting louder on both sides of the Atlantic.Windows 8 -- disappointing usability for both novice &amp; power users &gt;&gt; Jakob Nielsen's AlertboxJakob Nielsen:One of the most promising design ideas in Windows 8 is the enhanced use of generic commands in the form of the so-called "charms." The charms are a panel of icons that slide in from the screen's right side after a flicking gesture from its right edge (on a tablet) or after pointing the mouse to the screen's upper-right corner (on a computer).The charms panel includes features like Search, Share (including email), and Settings that apply to whatever content the user is currently viewing. In principle, it's great to have these commands universally available in a single, uniform design that's always accessed the same way.In practice, the charms work poorly -- at least for new users. The old saying, out of sight, out of mind, turned out to be accurate. Because the charms are hidden, our users often forgot to summon them, even when they needed them. In applications such as Epicurious, which included a visible reminder of the search feature, users turned to search much more frequently.Hiding commands and other GUI chrome makes sense on small mobile phones. It makes less sense on bigger tablet screens. And it makes no sense at all on huge PC screens.This Trend Is Very Worrisome For Apple &gt;&gt; Business InsiderHenry Blodget:Importantly, the reason market share is important in a platform market has nothing to do with "current profit share." When confronted with Apple's declining market share, Apple fans often snort that Apple doesn't care about market share--it cares about profit share--and obviously Apple is cleaning up on that score. What this conclusion misses is that, in a platform market, having dominant market share is critical to maintaining long-term profit share.Right now, the smartphone and tablet markets are growing so quickly that relative market share isn't an issue. But at least in some regions,the market is maturing more rapidly than most people realize. And as Apple's market share shrinks, its power and value as a development platform also diminishes, at least relative to that of the market leader.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
A panel of publishers from various media and entertainment sectors at today's Guardian Mobile Business Summit chewed on issues including apps versus mobile websites, freemium business models and the desire for more transparency from Apple and Google.The panel comprised John Barnes, managing director, digital &amp; technology at Incisive Media; Geoff Inns, managing director at CBS Interactive UK; Alessandro Rizzoli, founder and chief executive at Mopapp, and Peter Parmenter, head of new platforms, Electronic Arts, and was moderated by Tim Green from Mobile Money Revolution.Barnes talked about Incisive Media's experience bringing its mainly-B2B magazines to mobile, and trying to replicate the experience for subscribers across multiple screens."Apps generally are a lot easier to sell, particularly publication apps, because they mimic print and the advertisers get them," he said. "The difficulty really is on the mobile web. What we're finding there is that the ad networks are too strong, the CPMs are too low, and the data isn't freely available on the volume of users, so it's a hard thing to sell, and a hard thing to buy."Geoff Inns noted that CBS Interactive was one of the first British publishers to launch a site with responsive design, which has helped push mobile to 30-35% of its overall visitors. He wasn't as positive on apps in the long term, though."They are a transition revenue model at best," he said, predicting that HTML5 and faster and more reliable mobile broadband networks will fuel the alternatives to native apps."As publishers we thrive on the data that our audiences give us, and using a closed system you have so much less access to valuable audience data. So we are very much on the side of the open mobile web. And we feel as many publishers do that there is a lot to do to raise revenues from that quarter."Inns suggested that the key is for publishers to provide their advertising clients with "unassailable, repeated" research on how well mobile ads can work, and thus persuade them to part with more of their budgets."Free always wins. Open always wins," he said. "That's where we need to collectively direct our energies."EA's Parmenter talked about the disruption being wrought by apps on the games industry, which he said the publisher is "massively embracing... If you look at the simple statistics in our world, we think there are around 200m consoles worldwide split between the big three, and depending who you believe there are five or 5.5bn mobile devices out there."He said that the fundamental challenge for EA is to get as many people playing games. "We move to a model where historically you've paid first then you play later, but we come to this concept where you play first and pay later."Hence the buzz around freemium games on smartphones and tablets, where publishers run these games as services, rather than simply releasing them and letting them sink or swim on their launch features.Rizzoli, of mobile analytics company Mopapp, suggested that while subscriptions offer a stable revenue stream on mobile for B2B publishers, those focused on consumers need to find other ways to make money, which is why the drive towards freemium has so much momentum right now.The panel were asked about how they decide which devices and platforms to develop for."We develop for the big ones, basically. It's very very easy to answer!" said Inns. "There's also a bit of a gut feeling... All the obvious ones. We don't have a BlackBerry app interestingly, we've never had a demand for that other than one or two of our enterprise IT brands."But he reiterated that CBS' focus is more on responsive design, working by screen-size rather than platform."The question we're looking at now is the rise of the seven-inch screen. What do we have to do now to go back to those websites and build a seven-inch version," he added. The problem being that existing responsive websites look okay in landscape mode on a seven-inch tablet, but not so good in portrait mode.How about HTML5 for gaming? Parmenter said he'd been asked this question at conferences for the last two years "which kind of answers the question".He said it's fantastic for delivery of content across a web environment, and while very complex graphically-rich games may not be suitable for HTML5, other kinds of games like Angry Birds and Where's My Water may be very good.Parmenter said discovery is one concern – how people find games – but he said he was excited about Mozilla's plans to take its Firefox OS to developing markets in affordable smartphones."As soon as we get some of the standards issues worked out... I think it's going to be very interesting to see what comes out of that," he said. "And the Mozilla audience is a voracious gaming audience, so we expect some exciting innovations to come out of that camp."What could the likes of Apple and Google do in the next year to improve in the way they retail these companies' content, whether it's news apps or games? "Share more data," said Barnes, and Inns nodded his agreement. Rizzoli said there's a real hunger among publishers and developers for this."All the app stores are holding back a lot of information that would be really beneficial for developers and publishers, and at the same time making the industry more transparent," he said."The other thing I'd desperately like Apple do is to be a bit more descriptive when an app fails about why it's failed," said Barnes. "We are supposed to be partners after all."What's stopping the platform owners sharing more information with publishers? "Size, power, greed," said Barnes."Data is so important now," agreed Inns. "The [ad] buying community is very much in the mindset of data data data, so it's quite difficult to work in an environment where you simply don't have that visibility."Meanwhile, Parmenter said that rather than data, "anything that can reduce our time to market when a new device or set of devices launches would be welcome" from the platform owners.
Intel's chief executive has announced he will retire in May after nearly 40 years with the chipmaker, marking the third reshuffle in less than a month at a technology giant.Paul Otellini had been head of Intel for eight years, and seen it consolidate its grip on the PC microprocessor market – though it is increasingly under threat from chips in smartphones using the ARM architecture pioneered by a British company.The Intel board said it will begin searching for a replacement internally and externally, a process it says could take up to six months. The stock dipped briefly before being halted. Since 2008, Intel's stock has dropped 20%, though it is still the fourth-largest listed technology company, worth about $100bn, behind Apple, Microsoft and Google.Otellini, 62, joined the company in 1974 – the same year it released the 8088 chip, on which the original IBM PC was based. That architecture went on to become the basis of Intel's riches – the company is now the world's largest and richest maker of microprocessors, particularly the CPUs (central processing units) that power PCs. In 2002, he was named president and chief operating officer, and became chief executive three years later.His departure marks the third upheaval in as many weeks among three of the oldest companies in the business. On 29 October Apple pushed out two of its top executives, iPhone software chief Scott Forstall and retail head John Browett. Then last week, Microsoft said goodbye to Steve Sinofsky, who had led the Windows team to the launch of its new Windows 8 operating system just a week earlier.Otellini, who oversaw Intel's shift into wireless – first through the introduction of Wi-Fi into its Centrino processors in 2003, before taking over as chief executive, and more recently in the focus on trying to compete with ARM chips in smartphones and tablets.His departure comes as Intel is trying to find the best way to compete as the PC market slows down and spending shifts to smartphones and tablets. Even Microsoft, which was once its staunchest ally in driving spending on Intel CPUs for new PCs, has loosened its ties by introducing a new version of Windows, called WinRT, that runs on ARM-architecture chips, and showing off its capabilities in its own Surface RT tablet with attachable keyboard.Intel has promoted three executives to executive vice president: Renee James, head of its software business; Brian Krzanich, chief operating officer and head of worldwide manufacturing; and Stacy Smith, chief financial officer and director of corporate strategy.More details soon ...
iOS and Android have the smartphone market locked up, but they are ripe for disruption by Firefox OS, with its focus on open web standards and HTML5 web-apps says Andreas Gal, director of research at Mozilla."I think HTML5 and the Firefox OS will succeed, because if you look at the two existing systems, there is really no reason for a third proprietary system," he says. "The reason why all these others are dying is it's very hard to build an ecosystem."Gal was speaking at the Guardian Mobile Business Summit 2012 conference in London, during a session outlining what Mozilla is up to with its Firefox OS, and HTML5 development more generally.Gal said that to understand what's happening with the mobile web now, it's important to think back 10 years ago, to a time when "the web sucked" – which he put down to a lack of innovation from Microsoft in its dominant Internet Explorer browser.Now, with at least five major browsers, there is more choice, noted Gal. Their makers are innovating, but they also follow common web standards. "Mozilla pretty much created this environment here by pushing new technologies and standards," he said.Gal also said that one of the reasons behind the rapid development of web browsers is that everyone is working to the same standards, meaning browser makers have to compete over the quality of their implementation: better user experience, faster speeds and so on."Mobile is an entirely different environment," said Gal, pointing to the market "silos" – Android, iOS and Windows Phone 7. Each have their own store, advertising networks, development platforms and services."Android is often called open source, but it's not really open in the terms that Mozilla talks about open," said Gal. "Like iOS you have basically a silo. It's controlled by Google."Gal didn't talk about some of the differences between these platforms though: for example the fact that Google does allow other browsers onto its platform and store (including Firefox), whereas Apple only allows browsers that use its own engine."We think we can change this.. by doing the same thing we did on the desktop," said Gal, on the silos theme. "This is not centred on Mozilla. The idea is that you take the web and web technology in HTML5 and make it the central piece... The goal is not to lock people into our services, but to create a level playing field."Gal talked about how Firefox OS, which will provide smartphone and tablet makers with an alternative to Android and Windows Phone, removes the native API layer and focuses on web-based content and APIs.He admitted that the reason Apple and Google have succeeded with iOS and Android is the wide range of content available – apps. Which is why Mozilla will be making lots of noise about web-apps, which take the browser and move it into an HTML5 runtime environment.So, Mozilla is making its own web-apps store, but expects there to be many others made by partners – mobile operators and device makers, for example.Firefox OS is counting on the billions of existing web pages and web-apps, and millions of web developers, to be its ecosystem from launch. The first Firefox OS devices will go on sale in 2013, with Alcatel and ZTE the first manufacturers on board."Initially we are focused very much on entry-level smartphones, because we think there is a big market there," said Gal. "Over time we would like to compete with iPhones and Android handsets, but we just don't think the initial opportunity makes sense."Firefox OS doesn't look a million miles away from iOS and Android in its design, so is there a risk that Apple or Google will come after Mozilla waving their patents, wondered session moderator Tim Green."Let's just say, suing us probably doesn't make a lot of sense!" said Gal. "We are a not-for-profit foundation for the public benefit..." The implication being that the lack of money available to pay damages, as well as the negative PR effects of picking on Mozilla, will protect the foundation from such action.
The next generation of games console technology has arrived.Nintendo launched its new Wii U consolein the US on Sunday, promising to usher in a new era of digital living room entertainment.The Nintendo Wii U features a touchscreen tablet-like controller, HD graphics and a wealth of social and on-demand video services. The basic packages comes with an 8GB hard drive, while a Deluxe or Premium package comes with 32GB and a free copy of launch title, Nintendo Land."Wii U is an 'everyday' connected device – offering a combination of games, entertainment, online connectivity and social activity that will make people want to interact with it daily," said Nintendo of America president and COO, Reggie Fils-Aime.However, stock shortages may well frustrate fans looking to pick the machine up before Christmas – and this is just one of a number of problems the manufacture is facing this morning.Earlier this year, Nintendo president Satoru Iwatawarnedthat stocks would be low this year, because production of the console didn't start until the summer. Last week, US news sitesreportedthat major retailers such as BestBuy, Walmart and Gamestop were selling out of pre-order hardware.On Monday, industry news source MCVhas writtenthat Wii U prices are soaring on eBay: the Deluxe edition console retails at $380 (£239), but unties are selling for around $480 on the online auction site. Asearch for Wii U on the US Amazon siteshows machines being offered at over $500. It's likely UK gamers will face similar problems when the console launches here on 30 November.While stock shortages are a positive problem for console manufacturers to face in the early months, it seems consumer grievances do not end there. Reports are coming in that the machine requires a sizeable firmware update when it's first switched on, taking over an hour to download from the internet. GamesIndustry.bizis reportingthat the download is as large as 5GB and that owners who switch off their machines before the process is complete risk 'bricking' the console.The news story is a response to atweet from LA Time reporter Ben Fritzwho wrote: "Warning: don't unplug your Wii U during the two-hour plus software update or the console stops working". Later reports have indicated that the firmware update is closer to 1-2GB in size, but for those purchasing the Basic 8GB machine, that still represents a fair chunk of the available space. We have contacted Nintendo for comment.There have been other reported concerns including Wi-Fi configuration issues, HDMI output failures, and in one instance, a userclaimsto have gained access to an admin debug menu while attempting to configure the console's Miiverse social networking service. Other sites havepicked up onthe fact that the TVii video-on-demand channel will not actually be available until December, although it seems the Netflix app is functioning from launch.Some significant teething problems then, but console launches are rarely smooth affairs; the European roll-out of Sony's PS3 was delayed for months due to problems with the Blu-ray manufacture process, while the Microsoft Xbox 360 was plagued by the infamous Red Ring of Death hardware fault.And on the plus side, Nintendo has managed to deliver a reasonably strong line-up of launch titles. 29 games are available on launch day in the US including new versions of hits Assassin's Creed III, Fifa 13 and Batman Arkham City, as well as Wii U exclusives like ZombiU, Nintendo Land and new Super Mario Bros U.Nintendo is hoping to shift 5.5m Wii U consoles before April 2013 – indeed, investors are no doubt pinning their hopes on it. In April, the companyannouncedlosses of $530m for fiscal 2011, thanks in part, to initially disappointing sales of the 3DS handheld console.The original Wii was a spectacular success for the video game veteran, shifting almost 100m units since its launch in 2006. Since then, however, the hardware giant has seen its business eroded by rivals in the family-friendly and casual gaming spaces, such as smartphones and tablets, while Sony and Microsoft have sought to eat into its living room dominance with their own motion controllers, the PlayStation Move and Microsoft Kinect.With the UK and Japanese Wii U launches yet to come, Nintendo will be looking to iron out its firmware issues so that it can ensure a good start to 2013 – a year in which both Sony and Microsoft are expected to announce their own next-gen offerings.
Although many of ustryto play every decent video game launched during the year, few achieve it. Inconveniences like jobs and loved ones (I'm joking), combined with the sheer wealth of new releases splurged across multiple platforms on an almost daily basis, ensure we can only ever skim the surface of what's available. Offbeat gems and modern cult classics are likely to be missed in the process.So as we draw closer to the end of 2012, Simon Parkin and I have selected 20 titles you may have missed, but which you should definitely seek out. They range from eccentric Japanese brawlers to modest indie releases, and they're all interesting and surprising in some way. And fortunately for you, many will now be available very cheaply: just right if money is getting tight as we approach the festive season (or if you're looking for affordable treats to bulk out that Christmas list).Anyway, here are Simon's 10 suggestions, mine will follow tomorrow. Enjoy!LittleBigPlanet Vita(PS Vita)Dismissed by some as a stripped down cover version of the PS3 originals, LittleBigPlanet Vita is in many ways the most delightful entry in the series. A conglomerate of new developers patch fresh, brazen ideas onto Media Molecule's original template, building worlds around the Vita's eccentricities, dizzying the mind with their creativity and inventiveness. A labyrinthine editor allows wunderkind designers to showboat their skills while everybody else can enjoy the downloaded fruits of these prodigies' labours once the main 'boxed' levels have been exhausted.Papo &amp; Yo(PSN/ PS3)A mournful, affecting game that matches its roughness of execution with a roughness of theme – that of a young boy's struggle to live with and understand his father's substance addiction. Papo &amp; Yo juxtaposes the warm surroundings of a high-contrast, sunbaked Brazilian favela with a relentless melancholy, expertly conjuring the sense of confusion and loss experienced by any child living with an abusive parent. It strays far from gaming's usual go-to subject matter and, by illuminating a truly dark side of humanity – rather than the comic book approximation it usually invokes – it quietly broadens the medium's boundaries of conversation.Dyad(PSN/ PS3)Barrel down Dyad's endless, esoteric tunnels and you'll catch glimpses of gaming's greats in its smeary, streaking colours. Tempest, WipeOut, Rez, Frequency all leave their mark on Shawn McGrath's stylish, cryptic indie racer, but Dyad stands alone thanks to its abstention from guns. Rather, your task is to haul yourself forward by tugging on light points, rotating the tunnel itself to line up anchors and zip forward as you attempt to race up the leaderboards. An unforgiving game but one that has the capacity to engender the flow state like few others released in 2012.GunLord(Neo-Geo/ Dreamcast)An anachronism built upon an anachronism, GunLord is a 2D side-scrolling shooting game in the style of early 1990s classic Turrican released by an independent German developer for Sega's long defunct Dreamcast console and SNK's even longer-defunct Neo-Geo. Eschewing the indie trend of subverting 2D games of our youth, GunLord's straight-faced design and unironic proto-aesthetic is anything but amateurish, instead appearing as a forgotten classic, one whose success is far from dependent on nostalgia alone.Beat the Beat: Rhythm Paradise(Nintendo Wii)Not the weary Nintendo Wii swansong you might be expecting this close to its followup's launch, Rhythm Paradise is instead an exuberant musical microgame collection from the architect of the WarioWare genre, Yoshio Sakamoto. Its parade of diverse musical stages have a wild-eyed sort of flippancy: thwacking a shuttlecock between biplane-flying dogs, screwing the heads on love bots in a rhythmical factory, jumping over the swinging arm of a metronome. Beneath the whimsy, however, exists a game of exacting tempo. The eccentric ideas delight, but it's the taut rhythm game foundation that challenges and beguiles as you seek to master this subversive yet revitalising take on a genre now fallen from fashion.Final Fantasy: Theatryhthm(Nintendo 3DS)Winner of the award for the year's most awkward naming contraction, Final Fantasy: Theatrythm (that's theatre and rhythm mixing together. Sort of like oil and water) is a warm celebration of the music made popular by Square-Enix's long-running fantasy series. Taps of the stylus direct the microchip orchestra, as your party of four warriors (assembled from the series' best-known characters) do battle with monsters on screen, their victories or defeats driven by your rhythmic ability. A staggering number of musical pieces are included on the cartridge, celebrating the outstanding work of long-standing composer Nobuo Uematsu.Dragon's Dogma(PS3/ Xbox 360)It's been a bountiful 18 months for European fantasy in culture, from the sharp popularity of HBO's Game of Thrones series and the forthcoming Hobbit movie to the more game-specific success of Skyrim and Dark Souls. As such, Dragon's Dogma with its hills, castles, lore and tics of terminology drawn from a range of contemporary Western fantasy had the appearance of a me-too development, hitching its rickety wagon to ye olde trend. But in play, Capcom's curio effortlessly establishes its own identity, with a slew of fascinating multiplayer ideas and a single-player quest that heaves and rolls with as much drama as its rugged landscape.Tokyo Jungle(PSN)Video games are often accused of a disproportionate focus on base themes – the guns, the power fantasies, the relentless quest for domination - but Tokyo Jungle's focus on primal, animal fighting and sex turns this sticking point into a selling point. In this post-apocalyptic world, humankind has been wiped out and animals of all stripes are left to roam Japan's capital, establishing a new order in the quest for survival. You assume the role of one such creature, anything from a Pomeranian to a deer, scavenging for ability-enhancing clothes, preying upon the weak and securing your lineage by attracting a mate. The purity of focus is nothing short of refreshing.Gasketball(iOS)Mikengreg's follow-up to Solipskier, one of the strongest games for Apple's platform, takes the knockabout excitement of backyard basketball and combines it with robots and puzzles. It's all about scoring hoops, naturally enough, but your route to dunk is hampered by a 2D gauntlet of flippers, switches, lasers, saw-blades and portals. The inviting, sugary art style makes the sting of failure somehow more palatable, while a slew of multiplayer modes offer genuine long-term competition.Tiny and Big: Grandpa's Leftovers(PC)Few game designers, having fastidiously arranged their game's levels and puzzles, go on to press the power to pull it all down into the player's hands. In allowing you to slice the tops off mountains with a laser, to pull rocks apart with a grappling hook and to fire props off into space with a rocket, Tiny and Big is a game of unusual freedom. It plays it so loose and easy with tools, in fact, that it's entirely possible to snooker yourself by destroying the set, forcing a shame-faced (yet irreverently proud) restart. It's a short game that burns brightly, infusing its key verbs of push, pull and slice with cause/effect meaning as you play as Tiny, a bookish scientist in search of his inheritance – a pair of soiled underpants.
If you've got Android 4.2 on your device - whether phone or tablet - congratulations: you've got the most modern version of Google's mobile operating system.However, you might discover a problem if you're trying to add peoples' birthdays to your contacts, and they happen to be born in December. Reason: Android 4.2 doesn't include December as a month for peoples' birthdays.That means that anyone who has 4.2 will have to wait for 4.2.1 to roll out if this is important. At the moment, it's not clear when that might be. Though Google is apparently aware of the problem, it will need to make the update, package it and get it distributed via carriers and thus to the majority of Android devices running 4.2, or directly to owners of Nexus devices.The problem wasfirst spotted by Android Police, which wrote:File this one under How did Google not have a test for this? Got a birthday or anniversary in December? Sorry - Android 4.2 doesn't know what December is. Well, rather the People/Contacts app that comes stock and is part of the Android Open Source Project (AOSP) doesn't. Wait... what?We couldn't believe it either, but it's true. Google forgot to include December. As in, there are 11 months in a year. January after November. Christmas is ruined. Santa is dead. At least we'll save money on buying presents, right?Here's thediscussion on the Android code site, where it was first raised on 14 November by a user who complained "Today I was inserting birthday of a friend in my contact list so that I can sync the birthdays in my calendar. I noticed that the December month is missing. When I pressed new event the calendar came but it was not having the option for the month December."The cause turns out to be a subtle but common one in the world of programming: an off-by-one mistake, where the array that's used for the month references is zero-indexed, so it goes {0,1,2,3… 11}. But the month numbers go {1,2,3….12}. If you shift the index by 1, but forget to allow the highest value of the array to be 12 rather than 11, you'll kill December.As one of the commenters on the Google thread explains, havingtracked down the offending tweak(itself fixing a crashing bug): "It checks "maxValue" and resets it to ".length - 1" it's too high. But DatePicker.java (line 140) sets maxValue to 12 and the string array "months" is only 12 entries long so maxValue gets truncated to 11 by the new check in this commit which in the end will skip "December" as it is the 12th and last month.The name of the Google staffer who made the change on Friday September 28 is clearly shown in the commit file (it was before lunch, too, so can't blame that).This ought not to affect existing contacts with December birthdays, because this is a flaw in the input method, not the data store.Another staffer at Google hasspotted the error, and it's now a filed bug (and the programmer who caused it is cc'd in).So another subtle coding error victim - to add to theZune leap-year bugand (as far as we know, though it's never been acknowledged)Apple's daylight savings time alarm bug.Now the only question is how long it will take for this to roll out.
"Mobile first is not necessarily about trying to do something first on the mobile and then on the desktop. It's a way of life," says Joff Redfern, head of mobile products at business social network LinkedIn.Redfern was speaking at the Guardian Mobile Business Summit 2012 conference in London, where he outlined LinkedIn's evolving design approach to mobile devices, and said that all the company's product teams now share a mantra: "Simplify."A year ago in August 2011, LinkedIn had "a good app, it wasn't a great app... it didn't have a strong point of view," said Redfern. "We decided around that time that we really wanted to re-imagine LinkedIn." Hence a significant revamp of the company's mobile app.Redfern said that historically, LinkedIn has been known as a good place to build your business network and maybe find a new job, but the company wanted to shift it towards giving more "every-day value".That included focusing on the central "business stream" of information from people's contacts, and boiling the site down from more than 2,000 pages on desktop to around 71 on phones – a considerable information architecture challenge.The new app had four key areas: Updates, You, Inbox and Groups &amp; More, although Redfern noted that over time following the relaunch, it was tough not to overload the latter category: first groups, then jobs, then companies."It was so crowded we got it down to four, now we're beginning to see pressure build up as we try to extend the information architecture," he said.Redfern said that this is a new popular pattern in information architecture for mobile social networking apps, showing the Facebook, Path, and Google+ apps following a similar path to LinkedIn.He also pointed out some skeuomorphism at work in the redesigned app: design touches hinting at postal envelopes in the app's inbox, for example.Apple is frequently criticised for this kind of thing, but LinkedIn decided it worked well – albeit after removing a fake coffee stain design element on the grounds that it went "a little too far".LinkedIn measured the performance of the new app carefully to gauge whether it had been a success. The mobile team has three key metrics: growth as a percentage of members coming in on a weekly basis using the mobile app, versus the entire base; everyday usage: average daily active users divided by weekly active users, to figure out how many days per week members are using the app; and how much money the app is making.(He didn't reveal any of these figures, mind.)Redfern also talked about LinkedIn's "simple Litmus test" for whether it's innovating: "Are we being copied? If you're being copied, you're the leader."He cited the pull-to-refresh trick introduced in Twitter app Tweetie around 2010, which has since been widely used by other app developers, including Apple in iOS 6.LinkedIn's equivalent: congratulating its early adopters via email to celebrate its 100 millionth member, with their exact number. Something he said numerous other companies have since copied.And next? Redfern hinted at more mobile-specific features in response to a question about location."As we move forward, having more truly mobile use cases is very important for us," he said. "Previously, it was more important to just have the basic use case of LinkedIn on mobile, which is where most of our efforts have been."
The mobile industry disruption wrought by Apple, Samsung and smartphones more generally in the last five years continues, making it hard to predict how the next five years will shake out, even for those currently-dominant manufacturers, according to Asymco founder Horace Dediu.Dediu was speaking at the Guardian Mobile Business Summit 2012 conference in London, where he gave a keynote speech on the structural and macroeconomic challenges facing the mobile industry, and what it means for businesses."The challenge in the last few years of predicting anything is that things have changed so rapidly," said Dediu, noting that in the first quarter of 2007, Nokia sold 91.1m handsets, rising to 133.5m in the fourth quarter of that year.By early 2012 Samsung had overtaken Nokia, yet when it comes to actual revenues, Apple had already overtaken the company towards the end of 2011 – and it was already the most profitable mobile handset maker in late 2009."All of this is because of smartphones," said Dediu. "There's only one theory we know of in business that explains this phenomenon: it's called disruption theory.. It means small beats large. It means David beats Goliath."Dediu pointed out that all this has happened in the mobile industry over the course of five years – two handset upgrades for many people – with Nokia clearly not predicting Apple's rise, but also Apple possibly not predicting Samsung's more recent rise too."The struggle here isn't to say will smartphones win? That's obvious. The question is will smartphones capture profits as they have until now? Will they reward those who make them?" said Dediu."Google makes less money from mobility than Samsung does. Samsung, as a primary beneficiary of Android is making more profitability from Android than all of Google."Dediu also noted that 510m mobile phones have been sold in 2012, versus 367.8m PCs and 88m tablets, leading him to suggest that "PC/post-PC parity has been reached", with mobile phones now accounting for 53% of the computing market and tablets 9%.He finished by wondering what the saturation point will be for smartphones, at a time when 80% of the handset models are being sold are smartphones, but around 50% of usage is on smartphones."Will networks be good enough?" he wondered, pointing to questions about whether mobile networks will be good enough for sustaining the current level of smartphone usage."We think of these as computers, but they need to connect and act as computers on the network, and we all know the difficulty of doing that even in developed markets," he said.The crucial question? "What are these things going to be used for?" asked Dediu, referring to the fact that we're still in the relatively early stages of understanding how people use their smartphones and tablets, particularly when they own several."It isn't just going to be 4bn people. We shouldn't think of it that way. We should think of it as 4bn connections, as the operators do, but we should also think of it as 4bn devices that are going to be used by a population as big as maybe 3bn people in the next five years."
For an entertainment medium that is effectively dominated by space heroes, military macho men and stocky plumbers with terrible Italian accents, the video game industry can be awfully serious sometimes. News sites speculate endlessly – and with sombre gravity – over the latest jingoistic military shooters, while video reports usually consists of re-packaged game trailers and flattering developer interviews. Believe me, once you've seen one clip of a dead-eyed executive producer intoning "we're not talking about multiplayer right now" until the cameraman passes out, you've seen them all.ButOXM Breakdownis different.This irregular series of videos, created by the Official Xbox Magazine (full disclosure: I occasionally freelance for OXM's publisher, Future), provide bizarre, ribald and hilarious commentary on games and game players. Thelatest episode, released last week, tackles the perennial subject of women in games, but instead of an earnest debate on the endlessly regurgitated issues, it has writer Jon Blyth donning a dress and savagely parodying all the horrendous sexist nonsense that games put us through. It ends with him shouting '"Oh, will you shut up and let me save you, woman!" at a bewildered female colleague. It is the funniest and smartest thing I have seen on YouTube since, well, since the last OXM Breakdown. "There's lots of serious gameplay analysis out there," says the magazine's editor Jon Hicks. "But we thought there was room for a bit of comedy".And Blyth has form. A couple of years ago he was making brilliant satirical videos for IGN under the title The Blyth Report, but the series was canned and he joined the staff at OXM. Hicks decided to kick off a series of videos in the same vein and the first episode, a scathing analysis of THQ's ridiculously macho UFC Personal Trainer appeared last September.This is not the sort of content you expect from an official game magazine; they tend to be perfectly approachable and well-produced, but usually shy away from video content that involves staff members, say, critiquing Skyrim while standing behind the counter in a porn shop. And yet that's exactly the sort of thing that happens in OXM Breakdown."The concept behind the show evolved quite organically," says Hicks. "We've done episodes based on single games that we thought were interesting and that we had something to say about, and it's moved on from there into covering issues that are being talked about in the industry. With the 'Women' episode, I was apprehensive about publishing it at first, but it's good to approach such a serious topic in a way that's not tremendously self-righteous or po-faced, which is how this argument tends to pan out".Laying into everything from Bioshock Infinite (an intelligent game with gratuitous cleavage) to Asura's Wrath (a dumb game that gives the player Achievement Points for staring at some breasts), sexism in games is something Blyth has wanted to tackle for a while. Several months ago, game sites got caught up in a series of controversies about scantily clad models at trade shows as well as a trailer for the game Hitman which inexplicably featured sexy nuns. "I didn't write it while everyone else was kicking off about booth babes," he says. "I just thought it would be another voice thrown into the big shouty pot. So I thought I'd wait until it all died down so I could stir the pot again".Blyth tends to write each episode over a period of weeks, usually away from his day job on OXM. The scripts then get passed to cameraman and editor Gav Murphy. "It's good to have someone you trust who can tell you that you're not funny without you wanting to punch them," says Blyth.From here, everyone on the magazine's editorial team tends to get roped into the filming. "The time it takes to make each episode varies a great deal," says Hicks. "The most time-consuming element of the whole process is finding archive footage to illustrate the jokes; Gav has to spend hours trawling through royalty-free archives finding something relevant, and then treating it so it works with the HD footage that we shoot".And the most challenging aspect of the process so far? "Trying to find a sex shop owner who'd let us film in their store was a particular challenge," says Hicks. "As was training Jon to be capable of doing hand movements while walking around on camera, which turns out to be more of a skill than we'd give people credit for".Thankfully, there is an increasing range of more knowing and humorous gamer videos out there. The veteran perhaps is US seriesHey, Ash, Watcha Playinga series of surreal skits and sketches created by Borderlands 2 writer Anthony Burch and his sister Ashly, lampooning game culture and their own family in equal, intertwining measure. Meanwhile, acerbic  games journalist Jim Sterling has managed to successful convert his confrontational style of games criticism to video with his weekly video soapbox,The Jimquisition. Back in the UK, the presenters of the sadly canned Inside Xbox show have split off into two new ventures: Dan Maher has formedExplosive Alan Productions, which does shows like Homework and Equaliser, while his old co-host Andy Farrant is one third ofOutside Xbox, which manages to do the usual 'here are all the new games and some interviews' schtick with charm and likeability. (Update:it's also been pointed out to me that I should mention the charming YouTube showUnder the Blanket, in which presenters Sean and Pete discuss current video games while in bed, under a blanket that doubles as a display for demo footage. I'm glad people have pointed this out as its lovably chaotic, but strangely watchable.)The big question of course is what does Microsoft make of Breakdown? This is, after all, the official magazine and the official video of XBox gaming in the UK. "They're a great partner, they're extremely hands off, they kind of trust us to get on with it," says Hicks. "The discussions we've had with the company about Breakdown have been positive, and they have run some of the episodes on the Xbox dashboard. They've always been supportive even if in some cases they probably wouldn't endorse the things we've said. And Future has really expanded its digital and video output over the years, so we've been able to draw on internal resources to get Breakdown made."It's just been nice to produce something that gets away from the stuffy reputation that official mags tend to have".
Monday rears its ugly head once more. Did you spend the weekend playing Call of Duty?
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIs Microsoft making a dent in public perception? &gt;&gt; Hal's (Im)Perfect VisionHal Berenson:Yesterday I had another experience that made me believe Microsoft is breaking through.My wife and I were having lunch when the teenage waiter came by and (noticing our phones and tablets) said "How cute, she is all Apple and you are all Microsoft".  Now the fact that he even knew what my phone (Nokia Lumia 900) was and, likely having caught a glimpse of the Start screen, knew I had a Windows 8 tablet of some kind, is a huge victory for Microsoft.  And Nokia by the way, since their iconic Lumia look must be sinking in.  Of course it gets better.The next thing out of his mouth was "Is that the new Surface?" followed by "How do you like it?".Nintendo Wii U goes on sale in US with apps, games and no TV &gt;&gt; BloombergNintendo, working to prove it can still succeed by marrying its hardware to exclusive software, began selling the Wii U console amid tight supplies and delays in implementing a new TV-viewing service.The first new video-game console for US homes since [the PlayStation 3 in] 2006, the Wii U initially won't offer the Nintendo TVii service that the Kyoto, Japan-based company has touted as a centerpiece of its capabilities. The feature will be available sometime in December, the company said on 16 November, without being specific.Polling gone wrong: Windows 8 "disinterest" sample heavily skewed &gt;&gt; SlashGearThe key problem being that Avast didn't appear to publish its survey results in a comprehensive form anywhere. (Its respondents also pointed to a Romney win, but that doesn't mean it wasn't representative of Windows PC users.)Yahoo CEO Mayer cuts end-of-year "week of rest" for employees &gt;&gt; AllThingsDKara Swisher:No rest week aside, employees are also about to experience an even bigger change soon, as Yahoo's HR department prepares a new plan to evaluate the efficacy of its staff.Under Mayer's plan, sources said, there will be new measurements of performance instituted, based on a variety of benchmarks and evaluations, in order to better understand who the best employees at Yahoo are.Once that is complete, the company is likely to begin cutbacks on compensation for the bottom 20 percent, including moving them out of Yahoo entirely. The company has suffered many rounds of layoffs over the years, which hurt morale badly due to the often haphazard nature of the cuts.Sounds like stack ranking - the thing that turned Microsoft into a rats' nest of politicking.Twitter is pivoting &gt;&gt; Dalton CaldwellOn the fact that Peter Chernin (ex-MySpace) has joined its board, a fact Chernin celebrated with his first tweet:In this paradigm, Twitter's business model is to help brands "amplify their reach". A brand participating in Twitter can certainly distribute their content for free and get free organic traffic, but if they want to increase their reach, they need to pay.It's no accident that this sounds exactly like the emerging Facebook business model. As discussed in that link, algorithmically filtered primary feeds are vastly easier to advertise against vs unfiltered feeds. The issue for Twitter is that Facebook already has a far larger userbase which is already trained to read an algorithmically filtered feed.Seen through the lens of its 100,000 token limit - and subsequent choking of Tweetro - this makes rather horrible sense.Federal judge slaps Google - watchdogs cry "first blood" &gt;&gt; Search Engine JournalCalifornia-based non-profitConsumer Watchdogtried to block the decision by Judge Illston, suggesting the fine was far too small. The group also contended Google should have admitted wrongdoing in the settlement, which the company did not. Consumer Watchdog, has also petitioned the FTC to sue Google over alleged anti-trust transgressions, suggesting the Internet giant be spun off into smaller entities. In a post on their website the organization condemned the $22.5m fine: "Google should be forced to disgorge its monopolistic gains through the imposition of substantial financial penalties. Your change in policy regarding disgorgement over the summer was a welcome step and we urge you to apply it in this case. The payment would have to be significant enough to impact Google's future behavior."Former Google lawyer to lead Silicon Valley patent office &gt;&gt; GigaomIn what could be a big shake-up for America's much maligned patent system, the United States Patent and Trademark Office has reportedly named lawyer Michelle K. Lee as the first head of its new Silicon Valley patent office.The appointment is significant because Lee used to hold the title "Head of Patents and Patent Strategy" at Google, where she issued a number of blog posts likethis onecalling for reform of the patent system.Could be the start of something big?Windows 8 sales well below projections, plenty of blame to go around &gt;&gt; Paul Thurrott's SuperSite for WindowsSales of Windows 8 PCs are well below Microsoft's internal projections and have been described inside the company as disappointing. But here's the catch: The software giant blames the slow start on lackluster PC maker designs and availability, further justifying its new Surface strategy. But Windows 8's market acceptance can be blamed on many factors.Ifhis contact inside Microsoft is correct... Thurrott gives a smart roundup of the reasons (lousy PC designs, economy, Intel/ARM confusion, etc). One senses frustration on his part that Windows 8, and the Intel/ARM bridge/split, is so hard to describe simply.Samsung goes after HTC deal to undercut Apple: filing &gt;&gt; Yahoo! NewsWhen Apple Inc and HTC last week ended their worldwide legal battles with a 10-year patent licensing agreement, they declined to answer a critical question: whether all of Apple's patents were covered by the deal.It's an enormously important issue for the broader smartphone patent wars. If all the Apple patents are included -including the "user experience" patents that the company has previously insisted it would not license - it could undermine the iPhone makers efforts to permanently ban the sale of products that copy its technology.Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, which could face such a sales ban following a crushing jury verdict against it in August, now plans to ask a U.S. judge to force Apple to turn over a copy of the HTC agreement, according to a court filing on Friday.Thejoint statement from Apple and HTCsaid "The license extends to current and future patents held by both parties." Key missing word: "all".Why Romney was surprised to lose: His campaign had the wrong numbers, bad assumptions, and underestimated Barack Obama's campaign team &gt;&gt; Slate MagazineThe final problem:On Election Day, the whole Romney ground-game flopped apart. ORCA, the much touted- computer system for tracking voters on Election Day, collapsed. It was supposed to be a high-tech approach to poll-watching, a system by which campaign workers would be able to track who voted. Those who had not yet voted could therefore be identified and then have volunteers tasked to finding them and getting them to the polls. ORCA was supposed to streamline the process, but it was never stress-tested. Field operatives never saw a beta version. They asked to see it, but were told it would be ready on Election Day. When they rolled it out Tuesday, it was a mess. People couldn't log on and when they did, the fields that were supposed to be full of data were empty.Lesson in there somewhere.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
The average speed of a mobile phone connection in the UK has risen to 2.6 megabits per second, a Guardian investigation has found, with customers of Three and Vodafone receiving the fastest 3G services.To mark the arrival of fourth generation wireless broadband (4G) last month, we asked readers to put their networks to thetest. Results poured in from Inverness to Plymouth, from the Welsh valleys to Hull and London, and the verdict is that, while coverage remains patchy, speeds have improved since the last major survey two years ago found a national average of 1.5 Mbps.With more than 7,300 separate measurements recorded via the Guardian's mobile phonespeed tester, largely on 3G with a sprinkling from EE's new 4G network, a picture emerged of a mobile internet that for the first time truly qualifies as broadband, and that is at its best faster than Wi-Fi connections at home. (Click here to see the results plotted on an interactive map.)However, too often the service that users pay for is patchy and inconsistent, particularly in rural areas and in cities during rush hour, with one commuter describing their iPhone 5 as "an expensive paper weight" and another saying coverage on motorways in the south-east of England was "unpredictable or useless".Download rates on Three averaged 2.73 Mbps, and Vodafone was in second place at 2.72 Mbps. O2 came in almost bang on average, at 2.64 Mbps. Orange and T-Mobile, which have been merged and now share a network, brought up the rear, reporting a combined average of 2.59 Mbps.We merged the results for Orange, T-Mobile and their parent company Everything Everywhere (EE) because most customers of the first two brands described themselves as EE subscribers in the survey. All masts and radios are now shared, and the name EE appears at the top of phone screens instead of Orange or T-Mobile.The data was gathered during just the first week of EE's 4G service, and the number of tests recorded over what is now the UK's fastest network is estimated at just 30, but their speed averaged an impressive 15 Mbps.With a difference of just 0.14 Mbps between the fastest and slowest 3G brands, the research suggests they are keeping pace with each other. All networks comfortably run at above 2 Mbps, the minimum to watch on-demand TV from sites like the BBC's iPlayer.For the first time, they are fast enough to qualify as true broadband, according to the definition used by the telecoms watchdog Ofcom.In itsprevious studytwo years ago, Ofcom found the national average across all networks was 1.5 Mbps, and web pages took a painful 8.5 seconds to load. In good 3G coverage areas, Ofcom reported an average of 2.1 Mbps, still some way behind the UK-wide score of 2.618 Mbps found in our study."The result is really is quite remarkable, given that it's not that long ago that two megabits was perceived as a pretty acceptable service in your home," said Ben Wood, an analyst at research firm CCS Insight. "It would be a further sign that mobile is becoming a credible alternative to fixed broadband in the home and we are seeing whole groups of people like students who can look at mobile as their primary access to the internet."The improvements have come not just with the arrival of 4G but because networks invest hundreds of millions of pounds each year in extending coverage geographically and in faster versions of 3G.More and more masts can send signals using a technology called dual carrier, which effectively doubles transmission speed on handsets fitted with two antennas, such as the latest Apple and Samsung models.Feedback from early EE customers was largely positive. One user recording 20 Mbps described the service as "incredible" while another reported getting coverage 85% of the time, even though the network is only just beginning its roll out, with 11 cities covered at launch and 16 due by Christmas.Others commented that mobile was now outpacing fixed line connections. A Three customer claimed a mobile speed of 9 Mbps at home, nearly three times the average of their fixed line broadband. "Amazing," said a Vodafone customer who recorded over 5 Mbps. "My mobile broadband is faster than home BT Broadband."However, significant numbers of Orange and T-Mobile customers found service had deteriorated since the merger removed masts where signals were duplicated. "Since my T-Mobile network was replaced by EE network, useably fast internet access on my phone is a thing of the past," said one, reporting a miserable 0.01 Mbps download rate. "Previously had great reception but since the start of the EE network I often have no signal," said another in Houghton-le-Spring near Newcastle. An EE spokesman said: "Our feedback is that joining the two networks has made it better, not worse, for customers, but we are monitoring it on a daily basis to address issues if people are having them."People in Scotland complained of poor service between Glasgow and Edinburgh, one of the UK's major commuter routes. And a Vodafone subscriber who recorded a speed of over 7 Mbps at London Bridge station told us: "This is as good as it gets. The rest of my life my iPhone 5 is an expensive paper weight".In fact, many smartphone owners rely more often on Wi-Fi than on mobile networks to connect to the internet. Numbers released last week by the research firm Nielsen show that on phones using the Android operating system, 78% of data is transferred over a Wi-Fi connection rather than via a mobile network. Most offload to Wi-Fi wherever possible in order to avoid bill shock by busting through their monthly allowance.And for many more 3G coverage simply has not arrived in their area. In Shetland, a user who registered nearly 6 Mbps nonetheless complained: "Vodafone seems to be the only company that provides reasonable but certainly not universal coverage for the Shetland Isles. Basic phone use is acceptable, but mobile internet access is often frustratingly slow and uneven. We live in hope."
SportAlthough cricket lovers have a centuries-old obsession with statistics (seeWisden), the sport that has probably  been most transformed by data is baseball. The patron saint of the field is Bill James, who since 1977 has been collecting and publishing statistics. He coined the term sabermetrics as "the search for objective knowledge about baseball". The first person to use sabermetrics as a decision-making tool seems to have been Paul DePodesta, who worked asBilly Beane's assistant on the Oakland Athletics team. He figured prominently in Michael Lewis's bestselling book,Moneyball, and the character Peter Brand in the film is partly based on him.Finance and bankingThe stock market has always been a numbers game, but over the last few decades the financial services industry has been comprehensively – and pathologically – mathematised. Casino banking became the preserve of quants – mathematics and physics graduates and sundry geeks who dreamed up the incomprehensible derivative products (such as CDOs – collateralised debt obligations) that eventually led to the banking meltdown. In many ways, the most interesting figures to emerge from the catastrophe are people such asGreg Lippmannwho spotted the pattern in the madness and bet against it.Science"In God we trust, all others bring data," reads a plaque in Nasa's Johnson Space Centre. Science is increasingly data-intensive. The data recorded by each of the big experiments at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) at Cern in Geneva is enough to fill around100,000 DVDs every year. Or take theSloan Digital Sky Survey, which is measuring 500 distinct attributes for each of 100m galaxies, 100m stars and 1m quasars. The result: three terabytes of data, where a terabyte is 1,000 gigabytes. Analysing that volume of data is beyond the capacity of humans, so it has to be done by computers. The same goes for genomics, environmental science and other fields.Some researcherssee this as a portent of a radical transformation of scientific research. Whereas once we dreamed up theories and then looked for data to corroborate or refute it, we will increasingly use computer analysis to spot patterns and connections that may have theoretical significance.MarketingThe internet is the greatest generator of data about human behaviour that we've ever had, for the simple reason that 2bn people use it and everything they do on the net is logged and therefore available for analysis. Business advantage – or even survival – can depend on how good an organisation's analytics are. The days when one measured "hits" have long gone. (Hits is short for "how idiots track success'," says analytics evangelistAvinash Kaushik.)No serious company now puts up a website without embedding tools in its code for measuring how visitors use every aspect and feature of the site.JournalismJournalists have always needed to be able to handle data: Florence Nightingale's exposé of the scandalous conditions faced by British soldiers was published in 1858. What's changed, says theGuardian's data editor,Simon Rogers, is that nowadays data is published as spreadsheets and database files, amenable to computerised analysis, rather than in papers. There are lots of important stories buried in thetorrents of datathat governments are obliged to publish, but journalists need the computational tools required to find them.MedicineLast week's news about how Cambridge researchers stopped an MRSA outbreak affecting 12 babies in theRosie Hospitalby rapidly sequencing the genome of the bacteria illustrates how medicine has become a data-intensive field. Even a few years ago, the resources required to achieve this would have involved a roomful of computers and upwards of a week.
One of the less-discussed changes of recent times is the way Twitter has moved centre-stage in the media ecosystem, or at least in the part of it that intersects with politics. This has happened despite the ongoing growth of Facebook, which now has1 billion usersand seems destined to become the biggest virtual "country" in the world.But while Zuckerberg's empire may indeed be having an impact on the politics of Middle Eastern countries, it is Twitter that seems to matter in the Anglo-Saxon world. Witness the role it has played in theNewsnight-McAlpine fiasco. Or the way in which several political leaders first conveyed their reaction to the re-election of Obama in tweets. Or the intriguing (not to say hilarious) way thatRupert Murdoch has engaged with it.So Twitter matters – or at least is perceived to matter, which often amounts to the same thing. Politicians and other public figures are increasingly obsessed with their footprint on the service – the number of "followers" they have. Most of the people who have thebiggest followingsare showbiz celebrities such as Lady Gaga and Justin Bieber. The only politician who makes it into the top 100 (unless you count the Dalai Lama) is Barack Obama, who had 23,363,644 followers the last time I checked.Given the centrality of Twitter, Obama's numbers must have rankled with Mitt Romney (who currently languishes at 1.77 million followers, a number that is decreasing by the day). During the election campaign, however, something really interesting happened. On Friday 20 July, Obama had 18 million followers, compared with Romney's 690,000. But over the next few days @MittRomney mysteriously acquired 100,000 new&nbsp;followers.This immediately attracted the attention of those who track these things. "Is Mitt Romney buying Twitter followers?" askedone prominent observer. Others noted that many of the new "followers" looked dodgy. Five of them shared the same profile photo, for example. Obama supporters gleefully pointed out that buying followers would be absolutely typical of a candidate who was fabulously rich but clueless about cyberspace. Sceptics wondered if the spike was actually orchestrated by Romney's opponents as a way of discrediting him. Was the spike the product of a Twitter "spambot" – a software robot that creates fake accounts? And so on.But this was all conjecture and speculation. Everybody was suspicious but nobody knew anything. Then a couple of students at theOxford Internet Instituteasked themselves a question: what's the probability that Romney's new followers are genuine? Theiraccount of the researchmakes fascinating reading. They started from the empirical observation that fake accounts created by Twitterbots tend to have few or no followers. Then they picked 20 Twitter accounts comparable in size to Obama's and Romney's and examined the statistical properties of the 150,000 newest followers in each. What they were looking for, of course, was the proportion of new followers who had few or zero followers and were therefore likely to be the product of bots. Here's what they found:"26.9% of Romney's 150,000 newest followers had fewer than two followers. For other accounts of similar size, only 9.6% of new followers had fewer than two followers themselves. The median number of followers for Romney's new followers was five, whereas the median for the comparison group was 27. This represents a stark and statistically significant difference. If you are a statistics nerd, like us, you might want to know that the p-value on this was 0.0000. For the rest of the world, this means that there is, essentially, a 0% chance that the underlying characteristics of Romney's followers are actually the same as the comparison users."Of course, the Oxford research doesn't answer the really interesting question: who set up the Twitterbot operation? Was it an inept wheeze dreamed up by Romney's people? Or a malicious prank orchestrated by his opponents to discredit him? It just tells us that it was a robotic operation. But it does usefully highlight the kind of analysis that journalists need to be able to do in a networked media environment. Determining what is real&nbsp;and what is fake is harder in a digital world than it is in meatspace. And it requires mastery of analytical tools as well as possession of the crap-detector that is the time-honoured prerequisite of investigative&nbsp;journalism.
Imagine a game you control with a book. Not a virtual book, but one made of paper and card and binding glue. Welcome, then, toWonderbook, a game that could not offer a more vivid and attractive alternative to the gung-ho chest-beating ofCall of Duty.It works on a simple, if a little unusual, premise. The book's pages are not filled with words, but with symbols incomprehensible to the human eye. These garbled patterns, however, mean a great deal to the optionally bundled PlayStation Eye camera.The device sits atop the TV, filming player and book. Onscreen that scene is recreated, but here the symbols have become animated pages and scenes that spill beyond the paper's edge into the virtual living room on screen, with which the player can interact using Sony's Move controller. The TV is effectively turned into a mirror reflecting an augmented reality.The first release on offer here isBook of Spells, authored by JK Rowling, offering lessons in magic for Harry Potter devotees, who will thrill to the wand-waving interaction it offers, but the physical book is to remain a constant and over time new titles for it will be unveiled, including releases featuring characters from Disney and the BBC'sWalking With Dinosaurs. If this vibrant debut is anything to go by, its future looks positively enchanting.
Undoubtedly destined to be one of the biggest-selling games of 2012,Black Ops IIhas been under the spotlight since the announcement of its release in February. Developer Treyarch has offered up a great soupy mess of a title, a comically gruff and lovable piece of what might be called war porn, mired in series lore and overloaded with gameplay options. The results veer wildly between entertaining and frustrating, but fans of popcorn thrillers will nonetheless enjoy.The single-player campaign tells a surprisingly ambiguous choose-your-own-adventure yarn about recession-hit multitudes falling under the spell of an anarchic techno-terrorist. Action flits between the 1980s and 2025 as two generations of special forces player characters attempt to bring the antihero and his minions to justice.In keeping with series tradition, player agency is kept to a minimum: shoot, move forward, repeat. Simplified vehicle, climbing and parachuting sections make respectful nods towards variation, but all the action is restricted to tight corridors. This allows for stunning scenes of scripted destruction, but leaves a familiar hollow twang as you wait for other characters to open doors for you.It is paired with Strike Force missions, which run concurrently to the central plot and can be accessed between regular missions. These are an odd mix of top-down strategy and first-person shooting. Players command small units towards various time-restrained goals and can jump in to control any asset on the battlefield while doing so. There is a set limit of units that can be expended on each mission and their demise is permanent. On paper, it probably looked like a great deal of fun, but in practice it is unwieldy and exasperating, which is a shame considering its bold addition to the formula.However, after previous drops in quality, multiplayer appears back to its former glory. Loadout option tweaks, excellently designed maps and the rewarding of all good play – instead of just kills – bring a sense of exceptional balance. Along with the redesigned zombie co-op modes of Tranzit and Grief, which take place in a beautiful retro-futuristic wasteland, there is a wealth of quality content available for the socially minded gamer.Silly but substantial and with ideas above its station – many of which are just ridiculous enough to work –Black Opswill doubtless do the sales regardless. But away from the numbers, if you're looking to switch off and have fun, this is a hard show to beat.
Price from £37,589MPG up to 34.4Top speed 164mphKitty is a pretty 13-year-old with a&nbsp;winning smile and long blonde plaits. She also has cerebral palsy and finds it very difficult to speak, but there is no doubting what she's thinking as I floor the accelerator of thePorscheBoxster and send us swooping towards a&nbsp;long left-hander. She lets out a&nbsp;yelp of glee and punches the air with her fists. It's infectious and I let out a&nbsp;huge whoop, too. Yeeeeeeehaaa. I&nbsp;jam the gear stick into third and the car's mighty 2.7-litre flat-6 engine joins the party with a throaty holler.Kitty has form as a&nbsp;thrill seeker. Her brother Kallum told me she'd ideally like to spend every weekend strapped into the front seat of the Nemesis or the Megafobia. Or maybe the Steel Cyclone – a sort of Magimix for your innards. Whatever, there was nothing about my driving that was going to scare her. But I was certainly going to give it a good shot. I stood on the brakes, surged round bends and treated speed bumps like launch pads… Nothing but screeches of joy. I'd told Kitty's mum we'd be out for 20 minutes, but after an hour she still hadn't had enough – and neither had I. Porsche's Boxster is as addictive as motoring gets.The entry-level Boxster is often belittled as the "pauper's Porsche". And at £37,589 it's true it is the cheapest and most basic Porsche you can buy. But it's not some stingey, watered-down Porsche-lite. It's still a front-row seat for one of the most peerless driving experiences you can have. And people have been queuing to get their bums on those seats ever since it was first introduced. The car has always been Porsche's biggest-selling sports car – outstripped only by the Cayenne SUV.The Boxster's name comes from the fact that it has a "boxer" (or horizontally opposed) engine and is a&nbsp;"roadster" (two seats and a soft top). But the name seems to suit it beyond that. It's short, wide and pugnacious. Its wide-tracking front end, scooped flanks and square derriere make it look more like a supercar than some of its siblings. But perhaps the best thing about the Boxster is that it celebrates simplicity. Porsche makes cars of immense capability with extras lists as long as your arm. But with the Boxster everything has been kept as uncomplicated as possible.Blue-sky thinking: the stunning new Boxster – possibly the best roadster ever built. Photograph: ObserverThere are two engines available: a 2.7-litre or a 3.4-litre unit. Buy the smaller one – it's all you need. How often can that be said? The car comes with a six-speed manual gearbox, too, so no fiddly steering-wheel paddle shifters or anaesthetising automatic. It's proper driving with a terrific old-school, short-throw gear stick and square-bottomed steering wheel.Climb in and there is no sense of being short-changed on the interior. There are tightly wrapped leather panels, chrome and rubber touch points and Porsche's immaculate instrumentation. The double-skinned canvas roof flips open in seconds to stow behind you, meaning there is still a surprisingly usable boot to complement the usual Porsche baggage cubby up front.But automotive adrenaline isn't for everyone. After Kitty's dad lifted her from the car – he was very impressed at the support the car's bucket seats had offered her – I asked Caspian, her little brother, if he fancied a spin. "Yes," he said warily. "But only if you shut the roof – and go very slowly!"Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
Although not out until spring 2013, details ofGrand Theft Auto Vare already starting to emerge. Featuring three playable characters and a map that covers more area than Grand Theft Auto 4, GTA: San Andreas and Red Dead Redemption combined, it also promises golf, tennis and apparently yoga for your protagonists' recreation …This week's releases include more kart racing inSonic &amp; All-Stars Racing Transformed(Xbox, PS3, 3DS, Vita), this time with cars that can fly and float; low-budget licensed roller-skate racerMonster High: Skultimate Roller Maze(3DS, Wii); body popperThe Hip Hop Dance Experience(Xbox, Wii); whileMega Airport London Heathrow2013(PC) andCity Bus Simulator Munich(PC) will get you ready for next week'sMega Airport Dusseldorf(PC). Yes, for fans of transport hub simulators, this will be a November to remember.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewWonderbook has patterns on its cardboard pages that PlayStation's camera recognises, creating an augmented reality view on screen that shows a magical animated book with spells and stories spilling from its pages. Your Move controller turns into a chunky wand making you a trainee wizard, learning spells and completing simple tasks. The experience of turning its pages and pointing the wand is compelling, but interactions are simplistic and occasionally frustrating. Its intended seven- to 12-year-old audience may have more patience, but this is an uninspiring start for Wonderbook.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewFeaturing 24 caricatured F1 drivers shooting each other with various shiny weaponised bubbles, F1 Race Stars uses the same physics engine as developer Codemasters' Formula 1 games. That means its go karts handle with a poise and precision absent from LittleBigPlanet Karting and its ilk, giving races a competitive edge where your chances of winning escalate significantly with practice. The upshot is close, hard-fought races on a relatively small roster of long, exquisitely designed tracks and the usual plethora of shortcuts and power-ups. Even its single-player mode is impressive although, as with all kart racers, this is best enjoyed with a group of well-matched frenemies.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewAmerican wrestling inhabits its own parallel universe of aggressive bodybuilder soap opera. WWE games are just as inscrutable to outsiders, involving trundling your stiff-limbed muscle-dummy around the ring and its immediate locale, grappling, pounding and stomping on your opponent's solar plexus until they submit. WWE '13 recreates the "attitude era", which means heels and babyfaces such as The Undertaker, The Rock and Hulk Hogan. If that's an exciting prospect this may well be for you, but this is a game unlikely to win over new fans.
Twitter is being heavily criticised by third-party developers after refusing to giveTweetro, an app specially written for Microsoft's new Windows 8 platform, extra "tokens" that would allow it to grow its user base.The decision means that new Windows 8 users won't be able to get the first Twitter app that uses the "Metro" tiled interface that distinguishes Microsoft's new operating system.Atta Elayvan, founder of the two-person strong Lazyworm Apps, which wrote Tweetro,told New Zealand's Techday this weekthat Windows 8 represented a huge opportunity for developers: "There may never be another opportunity of this magnitude for developers ever again."But on Tweetro, Lazyworm is stalled. Under new rules introduced by Twitter in September, third-party applications that want to access its timeline to provide a native app version of its web client can only have 100,000 "tokens" - in effect, users. Any app that wants to go above that limit has to apply directly to the microblogging company for special dispensation.See previous analysis: whyTwitter's new policies are like a neutron bombTwitter, the company, isincreasingly trying to take control of the delivery of actual tweetsso that it can add adverts and "promoted tweets" into users' timeline.Tweetro hit the 100,000 token limit on 10 November and, being the only app written to run natively in Windows 8, thought that it would get approval for a raised ceiling. It offers experiences that users can't get on a web browser, such as a birds-eye view of the account, just the pictures, a search view, the timeline, and a method to browse links from tweets while remaining in the app. "Is there a better way to manage Twitter overload and what's the best possible method of doing it in a 'Metro-Style' app? This is what we've come up with so far in the 3 months or so we've had to ponder these questions," say the two developers, of Lazyworm Apps, based in New Zealand.But in an email on Friday, Twitter turned it down because, it said,As you know, we discourage developers from building apps that replicate our core user experience (aka "Twitter clients"). We  know that there are developers that want to take their passion for Twitter and its ecosystem to unique underserved situations. As such, we have built some flexibility into our policy with regard to user  tokens – which went into effect September 5th, 2012.""…Unfortunately, It does not appear that your service addresses an area that our current or future products do not already serve. As such, it does not qualify for an exemption."The email,reproduced on Windows Observer, means that Tweetro cannot add any more users.Other apps have taken different routes to deal with the limit: Tweetbot set a $20 price to ration demand, while Twistory, which archived tweets in a calendar, decided to shut.Marco Arment, the iOS developer behind products including the read-later service Instapaper, lambasted Twitter over the Tweetro decision. "Twitter should cut the bullshit and just become write-only via API," hetweeted. "At least it would be honest. But they can't be honest. They're cowards."Ryan Sarver, Twitter's head of platform,respondedto Arment, "we've been very clear in our guidance to third-party clients. you might not agree with the policy, but doesn't make us dishonest."Daniel Jalkut, another third-party developer, suggested to Sarver that Twitter is "lying by omission", adding: "Honest would demand respect, even if it causes short-term outrage."Sarver insisted that Twitter has been telling developers for 18 months that they should not build Twitter clients, and focus instead on other methods of using the huge number of tweets generated each day.But Arment responded: "that's a weak argument. I now have to neuter or remove a major Instapaper feature."
You may only just have worked out how to use your set top box after the digital switchover, but there is bad news for the nation's TV lovers on the horizon – it will soon be time to adjust your television sets again.It took five years of wall-to-wall advertising and engineer visits to complete the digital switchover, which saw flatscreen digital televisions replace bulky cathode ray sets. Now the telecoms watchdog is warning viewers of more disruption.Mobile networks want a larger chunk of airwaves to connect phones to the internet, and television services on Freeview, BT and TalkTalk will have to move over to make room. Set top boxes will need to be retuned, some rooftop aerials will need replacing and filters may need to be fitted to homes near masts to prevent mobile interference.Regulators said they would work to minimise the disruption, but the advent of the smartphone is ramping up the amount of data consumed over the airwaves, and there are fears of a "capacity crunch".With smartphone owners now using the small screen to shop, socialise, email and even watch television, mobile networks are pumping out 20m gigabytes of data a month, the equivalent of 5bn music tracks. The auction of 4G spectrum for superfast mobile internet will not be held until January, but planning is already under way for 5G services to cope with ballooning traffic."Within the coming months we will hold the UK's largest ever auction of mobile spectrum for 4G. However that may not be enough to meet consumers' future data demands, which is why we are already making significant efforts to prepare to go beyond 4G," said the Ofcom chief executive, Ed Richards. "Our plans are designed to avoid a capacity crunch."In the hunt for more spectrum, technicians have set their sights on the airspace occupied by television. The changes are unlikely before 2018, but will represent a third wave of disruption for the country's 20m Freeview homes.First there was digital switchover, when the signals sent from masts to aerials were changed, requiring every home to install a set top box if they had not already bought a new digital television. The process ended in October, but is about to start again. Over the coming months, to make way for 4G services, digital TV is being squeezed out of the airspace it currently occupies. Before that switch even takes place, Ofcom is saying the signal will have to move again in six years' time.Spectrum is divided into bands, and mobile is occupying an increasing number of them. Television sits in the 800 megahertz band, and by the end of next year will have been moved to the 700MHz band.Up to £180m is being set aside from the proceeds of the mobile auction to help 900,000 homes near masts that could be affected. Filters will need to be fitted, in some cases on to rooftop aerials by engineers.In a process which one industry watcher described as "mindboggling", the announcement means the switch will need to be repeated a third time, with television possibly moving into the 600MHz band.The Freeview chair, Charles Constable, said television had become the poor relation to mobile. "Ofcom has yet to make the case to justify today's proposed long-term changes to allocate more future spectrum to mobile use, especially given the disruption they will cause to Freeview viewers."Mobile spectrum auctions raise billions. The 3G sale in 2000 saw operators hand over £22.4bn to the Treasury, and January's 4G sale could bring in up to £4bn.Questions are increasingly being asked about whether television will remain airborne. A House of Lords report has suggested the nation start planning for a day when all channels, including the BBC, are broadcast only via the internet.Ofcom vowed to "seek to ensure the long-term future of digital terrestrial TV", saying it provided low cost, universal access to public service channels.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new iPhone and iPad apps released in the last seven days, from music, board games and jogging aids to dinosaurs, aliens and fairytales.As ever, games aren't included, because they have their own separate weekly post covering all platforms.This week's roundupincluded iOS games like Real Boxing, Skylanders: Lost Islands, Arranger and Candy Crush Saga.What about Android apps? They have their own weekly roundup, and you canfind the latest one here. In the meantime, here's this week's bumper selection of new iOS releases:Songful (£1.99)Songful is the work of website Ultimate Guitar and startup instruMagic, claiming to be the "world's first song-based guitar simulator". That means a database of 200k songs with lyrics and chords, for you to strum the virtual guitar along to at your own pace.iPadOfficial Scrabble Words for iPad (£1.49)You may frown at the idea of a Scrabble player having their iPad to hand during a game: they'll either be cheating by looking up words, or having a surreptitious game of Angry Birds while you deliberate. Actually, this companion app for Scrabble may be a good thing to have to hand: the official word checker to settle arguments, as well as an against-the-clock training mode for solo practice.iPadDan Snow's Battle Castles (£6.99)Historian Dan Snow has already had one App Store hit with Timeline WW2. Now he's back for a crack at a different topic: 500 years of castles and siege warfare – something he's already explored in a TV show and book. Here, there's a comprehensive interactive timeline, more than 100 videos and 500 photos, as well as regulation (for this kind of app) 360-degree spinning castles and weapons.iPadMixta.pe (Free)There have been websites and apps to help people make virtual mixtapes before, but often the music itself has either been unlicensed, or drawn from YouTube (where bad covers and dodgy live recordings nestle alongside the original versions). Mixta.pe is different: it relies on you having a premium account on streaming music services Spotify or Rdio. You can then create and share mixes (non-subscribers can play too, but with 30-second song samples) and generate random music mixes from your Facebook Likes or most listened-to tracks.iPhoneYog (Free)For most running apps, social features merely involve the ability to boast to your Facebook friends about running 10km while they're loafing about on the sofa. Yog goes further: it connects you to other people running around the world, as if you were jogging together – complete with races and audio notifications. A neat idea, although I'm not too sure about calling myself a "yogger" if I use it.iPhoneMen in Black 3: Movie Touch (Free)This is only available in the US for now, but it's an interesting example of how films might be distributed (and enhanced) as apps. Sony Pictures is behind it: a version of Men in Black 3 that adds DVD-style extras like behind-the-scenes video, a timeline and maps, as well as 360-degree spinning props, a search engine for the film, and the ability to clip scenes and share them on Facebook and Twitter.iPadPicaflor (Free)If you've been wanting to do that photo thing where you make everything black and white apart from one object / colour, Picaflor is well worth a look. It uses a neat slider system to drain the colours from your images, with arty effects. Photos are watermarked in this free version, but a £1.49 in-app purchase removes that.iPhonePrimeval: dFX – Dino Movie Maker (Free)More manipulation here, but for video. It sounds silly, yet a bit marvellous if you're a fan of dinosaur-toting TV show Primeval. The app takes videos shot with your iPhone's camera, and inserts CGI dinos from the show: a raptor, beetle, T-Rex, Titanoboa and so on. The results can be shared on Facebook or saved to the device. Some of the monsters are bought via in-app purchase.iPhone#swirl (Free)Will names with hashtags be a bigger thing in 2013? Perhaps. #swirl is one of the App Store examples, and it's just as of-the-moment with what it does: "automatically creates albums from your Instagram &amp; Twitter networks". That means organising pictures by hashtags – #halloween and #birthday are two examples given. Neat enough, but as ever the risk is that this is a feature for those bigger social networks going forward, rather than a standalone app.iPhoneVimily (Free)I've been thinking more lately about the idea of sitting older family members down and grilling them about their lives and families, for family research purposes. Vimily is an app that aims to help that process: using an iPhone to film interviews with family members, including showing individual interview questions as prompts. It can also scan old photos, and uploads everything to accounts on the Vimily website.iPhonevjay for iPhone (£0.69)vjay has been around for a while on iPad as an excellent way to mash together video and music/sounds when DJing. Well, VJing really. Now developer algoriddim has squeezed it down for iPhones. You can mix and scratch videos from iTunes or your own camera roll with music, recording the results to share on Facebook or YouTube, or outputting them to an external display.iPhoneHonk (Free)Described as a "cross-platform super chat app", Honk blends instant messaging, emails, images, "LOLs and memes" to make something colourful and inventive. You add Facebook friends to individual Honk chats and then ping thoughts and pics back and forth. It could sink without trace (as many apps do), but if it catches on, it has the makings of a potential craze.iPhoneGrimm's Snow White (£2.99)This is the latest children's book-app from StoryToys, which made its name (well, previous name – Ideal Binary) making 3D pop-up stories based on famous fairytales. This continues the trend with Snow White and her seven dwarves, with 39 text pages, 11 3D pop-up scenes, and lots of well-crafted interactivity.iPhone / iPadCountry Home Ideas (£2.99)Magazine publisher IPC has launched a new iPad app as a spin-off from Country Homes &amp; Interiors magazine. This promises 150 "style ideas, crafts and recipes" – or to be specific, 80 recipes, 30 country crafts and 40 decorating ideas for very big houses in the country (and quite possibly small-to-medium ones too).iPadEye Paint Animals (£0.69)Another children's app here from developer Curious Hat, which is hoping to get kids out and about in the real world using their (or their parent's) iOS device's camera. The idea: "Paint with the camera, capturing colours, patterns and textures around you". Innovative, but also fun.iPhone / iPadMr Porter the Tux (Free)Men's fashion site Mr Porter has made its way to iPad, with a stylish (well, it would have to be) mixture of information and shopping. There is historical details on tuxedos, party etiquette tips and cocktail recipes, and then features to choose a tux and accessories, then buy them from the site.iPadUsborne Sticker Dolly Princesses (£2.99)Parents with iOS devices really are spoiled for choice this week for new apps. Usborne Publishing's new release is a digital sticker book aimed at any child who loves dolls. Based on an existing book, it involves dressing, dragging and dropping princesses into scenes – and like real-world dolls, quite possibly providing the tools for children to make up their own stories.iPadiDisplay Mini (£0.69)This is an interesting-sounding utility: an app that turns an iPhone or iPod touch into an extra screen for a Mac or PC. In fact, up to 36 iOS devices can be connected to one Mac using the app – not necessarily recommended. It runs using a separate piece of iDisplay Desktop software.iPhoneBeside Myself (£4.99)Back to the world of fiction now, except for adults (although not in a 50 Shades way, just in a "not children" way). Beside Myself is an interactive novel by Jeff Gomez, which stars three heroes called Jeff Gomez, based on different choices made by the original one. The story can be shuffled like a music album, or individual Jeffs can be followed through the narrative one after another. Emails, live web links and multimedia content add to the intrigue.iPadGadget Guide (Free)Fresh out today, this is the work of News Corporation's team behind app-newspaper The Daily, and while it has a US skew, it's available here in the UK too, with most of the products for sale on both sides of the Atlantic. It provides gadgety gift suggestions for Christmas 2012, with products available to buy in-app.iPadSift (Free)This is even more of a US app – not even available in the UK – but it's a good sign of the work being put into online shopping on tablets. It pulls in catalogues from nearly 3,000 stores to create a "personalised shopping guide" (I haven't checked, but this is presumably being called a Flipboard-for-shopping on numerous blogs). The emphasis is on finding discounts and upcoming trends quickly, while also promising to declutter your email inbox of ecommerce marketing.iPadDuolingo (Free)Duolingo has a good reputation for its language-learning courses, and that looks to be translating well into the apps world. This iPhone app is for learning Spanish, French or German, with social features to learn with friends, and the option to test your skills with text from the web, rather than just pre-compiled sentences.iPhoneOne Direction Picture Book (Free)Released by augmented reality startup Zappar, this is a companion app for the box-set version of One Direction's new album Take Me Home. That means fans who've splashed out £40 on the box-set can point their phone's camera at the pages of its picture book to get exclusive videos and photos. For more on this, seethis post from earlier in the week.iPhone / iPadOh, What a Tangle! (£2.99)This looks good fun for children: a story about a little girl called Kiki who gets a knot in her hair, then leaves it until it becomes "something worthy of an incredible story". A story with animation, interactivity and lots of charm.iPhone / iPadLovely – Find Homes and Apartments for Rent (Free)Although available in the UK App Store, the content for this homefinding app is strictly US for now. It's a slick way to search through listings of houses and apartments, with colour-coding to show how long properties have been on the market, and the ability to save data for access through the Lovely website.iPhoneTechCrunch (Free)TechCrunch remains one of the big hitters in the tech blogosphere, and its iPad app has now been elegantly downsized for iPhone. As on the tablet, it pulls down stories and videos from the main website, while also tying into its CrunchBase startups database.iPhoneLondon Travel Guide – Insight Guides (£3.99)This one's for tourists planning to visit London, with a mixture of listings, recommendations, editorial content, photos and offline maps. All presented in a clean interface that's as good for pre-trip browsing as for using while out and about in the capital city.iPhone / iPadBeat Bang (Free)It's been out on Android for a little while, but musical app Beat Bang has now made the leap to iOS. It's a guide to electronic music from 1988 to the present day, cataloguing albums and tracks by BPM, explaining artists, influences and genres along the way.iPhone / iPadTrains – Byron Barton (£0.69)Byron Barton's children's books are instantly recognisable if you've read them, with their bold, colourful illustrations. Trains follows Planes, Trucks and Boats onto the App Store, with voice narration and word highlighting to help early readers get to grips with its text.iPhone / iPadQuik.io HD (Free)Quik.io is one of the apps trying to help people squirt music, videos and photos from device to device within their homes. It works with a PC or Mac app to convert and send media to one or more tablets.iPadThat's our selection this week, but what about you? What iOS apps have you been using and enjoying, or what do you think of the ones above? Make your recommendations in the comments.
Dell is looking like the sick man of the PC business – which itself isn't looked too healthy this year. In its latest quarter from August to October, Dell's revenues slumped by 11% year-on-year to $13.7bn (£8.6bn) and its operating profit by 48% to just $589m, and it warned that the "challenging global macroeconomic environment" will continue in the current quarter, which runs to the end of January.Dell's executives were quick to blame the looming "fiscal cliff" in the US, which they said was holding back spending by big businesses – but that does not explain its falling revenues in almost every other country and sector.The company whose eponymous founder and chief executive, Michael Dell, suggested 15 years ago that the then loss-making Apple should be shut down "and give the money back to the shareholders" has instead seen its rival soar past it to grab colossal revenues from the fast-growing smartphone and tablet businesses. Now, it is struggling to find a foothold in the future."They've been talking about changing the last five years," Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne Agee &amp; Leach, told Bloomberg News. "They're in a very tough position, plain and simple." Wu blamed its problems on "cannibalisation" from smartphones and tablets.Once the top PC maker, Dell has now been supplanted by HP and China's Lenovo in terms of PC shipments. But more concerning, its "Mobility" division – which should be well-positioned to take advantage of the growth in smartphones, tablets and laptops – saw revenues shrink by 26% to $3.5bn.Rather than growing as a proportion of Dell's business, the "mobility" segment shrank, from 31% a year before to 25%, while its desktop PC business grew from 22% to 23% – the exact reverse of the broader picture in the computer market, where smartphones and tablets are the fastest-growing category, and the traditional PC business is dipping in size: though in September 2011 the research group Gartnerforecast 11% growth for 2012, it's now clear after an 8% shrinkage in the third quarter, that the overall PC market will shrink this year by around 3% – despite the launch last month of Microsoft's new Windows 8 software.Dell himself noted that the company was losing its share in the mobility space and "not performing to our expectations", and that the contraction in business from sales and professional segments had hurt sales of desktops and notebooks.Its consumer business fared badly too: revenues shrank 12% to $2.46bn, and it made an operating loss of $65m, as more and more people began using smartphones or tablets from rival companies. Though Dell has dabbled in the Android smartphone and Windows tablet market, its offerings there have made no significant impact, according to market figures from Gartner and another research group, IDC.The corrosion is most visible in its sales of physical hardware, which dropped 14% year on year to $10.7bn, while software and services remained almost static at $3bn.The weakness is reflected in Dell's share price, which isdown 40% since the start of the year. Apple's price has also fallen, by 28% from its September peak – butfor the year overall, it is more than 25% up.The threat to Dell comes not just from other PC vendors and smartphone and tablet makers, such as Samsung and Apple. Even the company that helped it succeed, Microsoft, is now a rival in the hybrid tablet/laptop space with its Surface and Surface Pro machines, launched in October. Steve Ballmer, head of Microsoft, said earlier this week that the company will shift more towards "devices and services" – which leaves Dell, unable to capitalise on enterprises or consumers, hanging."The threat [from the Surface] right now is minimal, but that's only because the unit number is small," Richard Shim, an analyst at market researcher NPD DisplaySearch, told Bloomberg News. "But when you look at the potential for it to disrupt partners, it's pretty big."And Dell is being disrupted. Despite not competing in the "low-value" PC market, Steve Felice, the chief commercial officer, admitted it had missed out through the shift in consumer spending to tablets. But he said he was "encouraged" by initial customer interest in touch-enabled PCs running Windows 8.Though the company forecast a rise of 5% in revenues in this quarter – "generally consistent with what we typically see in terms of a seasonal pickup" – it saw falling revenues even in markets that it had thought of as potential growth areas – including China (down 7%), Brazil (down 13%), Russia (down 8%) and India, where revenues collapsed by 29%. Nor were revenues strong in its traditional markets: revenues for north and south America were down 9% and the Europe/Middle East/Africa segment dropped by 15%.Brian Gladden, the chief financial officer, said the macroeconomic climate "is clearly impacting our results. We don't expect to improve much" in the current quarter.Its struggles come at a time when consumers are one of the few engines of growth in the PC market, which has dipped overall as businesses have held back from upgrading machines ahead of the launch of Windows 8 and concerns in the US about the effect of the looming "fiscal cliff".
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new Android apps released in the last seven days. A busy week too, with apps spanning fairytales, augmented reality, photo editing, music education and sports.As ever, games aren't included in this post, because they have a separate multi-platform roundup. The latestcan be found here, and includes Android games like The Humble Bundle 4, Hunters: Episode One, Ingress and DragonVale.New iOS apps have their own roundup post whichcan be found here. In the meantime, here's this week's Android selection:Grimm's Snow White (£2.99)This is the first Android app from StoryToys, an Irish developer that has specialised in turning the Brothers Grimm's fairytales into "pop-up" storybooks on iOS. Snow White is the focus here, with 39 pages of text, 11 3D pop-up scenes, and lots of interactivity for children to enjoy.One Direction Picture Book (Free)Released by augmented reality startup Zappar, this is a companion app for the box-set version of One Direction's new album Take Me Home. That means fans who've splashed out £40 on the box-set can point their phone's camera at the pages of its picture book to get exclusive videos and photos. For more on this, seethis post from earlier in the week.Pixlr Express (Free)Released by veteran graphics firm Autodesk, this is an accessible photo-editing app for cropping, resizing and tweaking pictures on your device. Autodesk is trumpeting its 600+ effects, overlays and borders, and the app can share pics out to Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and other applications.PicMix (Free)And more photo-editing, in a good week for Android-owning photographers. As with Pixlr Express this is a mixture of basic editing tools to crop and clean up images, as well as more playful effects and borders to make photos worth sharing.Chadwick (Free)This one's likely to find its biggest audience in America, being a way to follow basketball games from the college or NBA leagues through text and score updates. The app also includes social features to post comments to Facebook and Twitter including those scores and game events.The Heineken Cup (Free)The rugby season is well underway in the Northern Hemisphere, and now there's an official app for the Heineken Cup tournament in Europe, as well as its little sister the Amlin Challenge Cup. The app will offer live scores, team lineups and news, fixtures, results, match reports and tables.Look Away Now (£0.99)This may be a novelty, but it made me smile a lot. Look Away Now is the 2012/Android/Twitter version of that famous episode of British sitcom Whatever Happened To The Likely Lads? where the characters tried desperately not to find out the football results before watching evening highlights. This app does that with your Twitter feed, blanking out tweets referring to in-play Premier League matches.Notification Weather (Free)This is the kind of app that Android power-users love: a simple yet effective app that shows the current weather and a four-day forecast in your notification shade on-screen. Perfect for at-a-glance should-I-pack-a-coatage.KlearKeys Transparent Keyboard (£2.49)And another simple utility that may well find a fanbase among Android users looking to fine-tune their devices. It turns the on-screen keyboard transparent so you can see what's below it, while also providing a range of customisation options to get the keyboard looking exactly how you'd like it. Ideal for tablets, although it works on a variety of devices.UNISON app (Free)Public service trade union UNISON has a new Android app that's aiming to help people understand their rights at work, while also providing the latest news on campaigns to support the professions of its members. Oh, and "information and advice on how to fight Austerity", if that's your bag.Shopitize (Free)Shopitize is a brand new service in the UK aimed at supermarket shoppers who want to hunt down more bargains. Open to everyone "for a limited time", it's about scanning receipts from shopping to claim cash back from brands including Kellogg's and United Biscuits. It's the latest spin on mobile coupons.GoPro App (Free)This is big news for anyone who owns a GoPro camera: an official app to control it remotely, including a viewfinder/preview feature to line up shots just so. It works with the company's Wi-Fi-enabled HD Hero models, and also ties into GoPro's Photo of the Day and Video of the Day channels for inspiration.Bairstow Eves (Free)This is a good example of how British businesses are catching on to Android. Estate and lettings agent Bairstow Eves' app is for browsing its available properties, with location, price and bedrooms all used as filters, with maps, images and the ability to call whichever office is handling a particular home.Sandbox Kids Corner (Free)There are a few apps promising to make Android smartphones safe for children to use – Famigo is one popular example. Sandbox Kids Corner is the latest, from Kytephone. It works by creating a homescreen for a child, where the parent sets who they can call, what apps they can use, and how long for. Remote monitoring is included for even more hands-on parents, and it apparently plays nice with tablets like the Nexus 7 too.Best Hand Shadow Arts (Free)Talking of hands-on parenting, or rather hands-in-the-air-making-a-stealthy-fox parenting... Best Hand Shadow Arts is an app to teach you how to make around 70 shadow puppets: eagles, cats, wolves, horses and so on.MinutesPad (£1.25)This is more of a handy work tool: a business app for taking minutes on smartphones or tablets, organising them, and then sending them to colleagues via email. It'll even time the meeting, and turn the minutes into HTML files before they're shared.Journie (Free)This is a personal diary: a way for people to jot down thoughts throughout the day, or full diary entries. It has a clean and cheerful design, makes it easy to export the diaries in different formats, and offers extra features for users who upgrade to a VIP account.GyroSpace 3D (£1)It wouldn't be an Android roundup without a whizzy Live Wallpaper. This one is space-themed, and as the name hints, also makes use of the device's gyroscope.Write Music by Stedman (Free)This is an app for writing music on an Android device, including lyrics, then recording vocals and music to actually create the compositions. I'm not too sure about the "You don't need to pay for other people's music" line in its pitch, but it looks like a potentially useful tool for would-be songwriters.Abertay Uni (Free)And to finish, a look at what one academic institution is doing with apps. This is a course-finder app "with a difference". That difference being the way it asks questions of the student using the app, then suggests courses based on their answers – "delve into the furthest reaches of your brain..."That's our choice, but what have you been using on your Android device? Make your recommendations or give feedback on the picks above by posting a comment.
The annual Call of Duty has become a little like watching the funfair return to town. The same rides, the same shifty-faced men guarding the entrances, with only the peeling paint and deja vu separating one year from the next.Even in their tower of dollars, Activision can sense the ennui, and so developer Treyarch's Black Ops II is also something of a Mission Impossible – aiming to deliver meaningful innovation, to use the marketing line, within the same old structure.They get an A for effort. Black Ops II has a familiar campaign that has nevertheless been jazzed up with the incorporation of (optional) squad-based strategy missions and a plotline that branches according to a few key decisions. Most of the time is still spent shooting foreigners in corridors, but even here, there are changes – COD's most well-known crutch, the endlessly respawning enemies that stop when you cross an invisible line, have been junked entirely.Talking about the narrative in these games always feels a little like a thankless task, and Black Ops II doesn't deviate from that. It makes an early attempt to humanise big baddy Menedez, showing how his sister was disfigured by American bombs, but after this he turns out a standard bloodthirsty maniac. This incident is part of a bizarre and disturbing thread running through Black Ops II's narrative; you see one child being burned and disfigured, then another being psychologically tortured (the main character, in fact). Perhaps this shows a certain desensitisation among the game's audience; or its developers. Probably both.I'm not suggesting such topics shouldn't be here; simply that, in a world without a fixed moral centre, they sit very oddly. Black Ops II moves from torture chambers to wingsuits, via clunking mechs, battle-planes, and nearly every other type of military fantasy going. At one point, I was launching anti-air rockets from the back of a horse.One sequence set in an inexplicably flooded Lahore shows what this method gives Black Ops II. The level is drenched in gorgeous water effects, combined with countless sputtering neon signs and crumbling buildings – a real technical showcase. Then you move through this at swift pace to what can only be described as a club tune, popping enemies left and right and watching the opalescent shimmer of their body armour signal the kill. It is a demented kind of a world, but it works.Then, in the very next section, Black Ops II does a "stealth" section, though really it's more of a game of following the NPC. If Treyarch's Call of Duty campaigns have one singular weakness, it is this willingness to wrest control away from the player for long periods, with sections that ostensibly require your input, but really just ask you to follow the prompts. The cinematic experience, some might say. When used sparingly, it can be a very effective tool. When long stretches of levels are constructed around them, the results are not so good.The new strategy levels combine standard COD action with a top-down view of the battlefield. You have to direct your groupings of soldiers and mechs to protect certain points, and can zoom in to take control of any individual unit at any point. It feels like a slick system, but unfortunately it's betrayed by the doltish AI of your troops – they rarely engage the enemy, and tend to just sit in positions nearby. You usually complete these missions by doing the entire thing in first person, which renders this innovation rather moot.COD's beastly multiplayer has also had a blast of air-freshener, incorporating almost every feature a fan could wish for. The matchmaking now syncs in to a league system, giving a progression arc other to the usual XP treadmill, and there's access to features previously kept distinct like COD TV and community video playlists.Needless to say, the multiplayer is still great. There's a reason that this is the most popular mainstream shooter around, and it's the sheer ease with which you slide back into its quick rhythm of kills and deaths. The amount of feedback loops churning through COD's multiplayer could fill several articles of their own, and they're all working the same old magic.There are idiosyncrasies to the matchmaking, such as an entire playlist dedicated to the Nuketown 2025 map, a remake of an old favourite that also crops up in Zombies. This mode has always been close to Treyarch's heart, and Black Ops II's version is the best yet, not least thanks to the new mechanic of a bus that honks before shuttling your team between the four locations.Black Ops II isn't a lazy annual update – it deserves credit for trying to play around with gaming's most winning formula. Yet this engine is showing its age, creaking at times as the jets fly overhead. Its new strategy levels don't need strategy. And the best parts are tweaked copies of what has been before. In the end, Black Ops II doesn't give us meaningful innovation, and it suggests COD's future success will depend on much more than fiddling around with the past.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Facebook may have won the social networking war, but Myspace is moving to a different battlefield under its new owner Specific Media, whichacquired the sitefrom News Corporation in June 2011.After a period spent rebuilding Myspace from the ground up, the company published ateaser video on Vimeoin September – unveiled via tweet by co-investor Justin Timberlake – showing off a radically different design and an emphasis on music.It looked good. Certainly good enough to stop a lot of the scoffing at the prospect of a Myspace comeback, especially as it was clear that the site wasn't aiming to topple Facebook purely as a social network.This week, Tim and Chris Vanderhook, chief executive and chief operating officer of Myspace respectively, have been talking to journalists about their plans, as they prepare to open the site up to a wider number of beta users next week."The video that you saw represented this is not Myspace 3.0, and it's not another social network that you have to keep up with. It's a totally new experience built from scratch, and focused on a few key elements," says Tim.One of those elements is design: heavy on visuals, light on clutter, and with what looks like an elegant user interface to navigate through the site. Another element, though, is music discovery."The promise of discovery and sharing new, good music was never really fulfilled by other services out there," says Tim. "It's an unfulfilled promise that nobody ever really executed on."Thenew Myspacecontinues to compete with Facebook in some respects: artists create profiles on the site and post updates and content for their fans to watch, listen and share. But actually, its real competition is streaming music services like Spotify and Deezer.It's got a large catalogue of streaming music from Myspace's previous incarnation – 42m tracks from signed and unsigned artists, says Tim – but wraps the artist profiles and social networking features around that, while also providing those artists with analytics on who's listening to and sharing their music.Or to put it another way: Myspace might not be able to be a bigger social network than Facebook, but it has a shot at being better at playing music than Facebook, and better at discovery, artist profiles and social features than Spotify.Success in either or both those aims is far from guaranteed, and Specific Media has to figure out how to turn a profit while paying licence fees for all this streaming music. But it's a genuine opportunity to be grasped.'Artists are really tired of sending their fans over to one platform to listen to music, another to watch a social stream, and others watch videos, buy merchandise or purchase tickets," says Tim. "They really are just looking for a home, and we try to be that for artists."The analytics could also be a trump card, with the new Myspace showing artists who their most engaged and influential fans are, which could lead to "catering to them differently", although details of how aren't yet clear.For now, new Myspace is a website, albeit one with an interface that's clearly designed as much with touchscreen tablets in mind as desktop computers. Chris says that while Myspace is "absolutely focused on mobile and tablets" a bit further down the line, the company isn't divulging its plans just yet.At this stage, there are a lot of unanswered questions about how the new Myspace will work, evolve and make money. Some of those will be answered next week when the beta opens up – people will be able to request an invite and join a virtual queue, or blag one from someone who's already a member.Music industry history is littered with startups and sites that talked up grand plans, then underdelivered.The reason Specific Media's plans for Myspace are being taken seriously is that thus far, the Vanderhooks have overdelivered: that video really did surprise people with the quality of the design, and the focus of the new site's content.It looked credible, but also fun. That, rather than Facebook, seems to be the f-word that's been looming large in the Myspace redesign process."Tim and I have been saying this for a while: the internet is just really boring right now," says Chris."Even just as users ourselves, we really want stuff that's fun. And some of the early feedback we're getting back from people who are on the new Myspace is that yes, discovery is really great, but they're also having a lot of fun using it."
It's starting to get a little crazy now. The longlist for this week's "best games" post included more than 60 titles – and that's after filtering out uninteresting releases to leave just the notable ones. More than 60.It's a sign of the bustling mobile games market, but also slightly unsettling: how many of these games will sink without trace on the app stores, even though they're good?Anyway, making the hard decisions to get that kind of longlist down to 30 is what this weekly post is all about. Here's this week's selection:Real Boxing (£2.99)Already receiving rave reviews from critics, Real Boxing is a beat 'em up starring beefy 3D boxers, gestural punching controls, online multiplayer features and lots of fighter customisation. The spiffing motion capture and deep career mode are worthy of the praise.iPhone / iPadThe Humble Bundle for Android 4No price on this one, because like previous Humble Bundles, you pay what you think the games are worth. This is a compilation of five Android games: Splice, Eufloria, Waking Mars, Crayon Physics Deluxe and a beta version of Superbrothers: Sword &amp; Sworcery EP. Pay more than the average price – $6.38 at the time of writing – and you get more games: Machinarium, Canabalt, Cogs, Swords &amp; Soldiers HD, Zen Bound 2 and Avadon: The Black Fortress. Innovative games, super value.AndroidHunters: Episode One (£2.99)Ported from iOS, this turn-based strategy game puts you in charge of a team of mercenaries in the future, kitting them out and upgrading their skills for a series of missions, with a new one delivered every day. The XCOM series is the most apt comparison, and one that Hunters isn't overshadowed by.AndroidSkylanders Lost Islands (Free)Activision's Skylanders have been a big hit with younger gamers (and have made a big dent in many parents' wallets thanks to their use of toy figures too). Now there's a new Skylanders game for iOS, which involves building your own Skylands islands CityVille-style, completing missions and – if you own the toys – importing those characters into the game.iPhone / iPadArranger (£0.69)Arranger is a quirky, musical mini-game collection that's fizzing with ideas. Sporting pixelly retro graphics, it's part RPG where you're exploring a magical land, and part WarioWare-style surreal mini-games – all with a focus on music. It may be an acquired taste, but fans won't be able to get enough.iPhoneIngress (Free)Here's a curveball: an ambitious location-based game with quests, codes and multiplayer features that gets you capturing real-world territory within the game. The developer? Google. Well, the Niantic Labs division within Google. It's launched in closed beta, but invites can be requestedfrom its official website.AndroidWords With Friends (£2.29)Zynga's popular multiplayer word-puzzler Words With Friends has made its way to Windows Phone, with Scrabble-esque gameplay that sees you making words from tiles. The hook, as on iOS and Android, is that you can be playing several separate games against friends at once, taking turns at your leisure.Windows PhoneDraw Something (£2.29)It's been a good week for Windows Phone when it comes to well-known social games: Zynga has also ported Draw Something to Microsoft's platform. If you missed its initial success earlier in the year, it challenges you to draw pictures to illustrate words, then watch friends try to guess them. And vice versa.Windows PhoneCandy Crush Saga (Free)Talking of popular social games... Candy Crush Saga has been a big hit on Facebook, where it has more than 5m daily active players. It's a sweetie-themed puzzle game by King.com which follows its Bubble Witch Saga onto the App Store: 100 levels, lots of power-ups, and friends' scores to outdo.iPhone / iPadDragonVale (Free)Backflip Studios' DragonVale has been an enormous hit on iOS, but now it's available on Android too. The gameplay is all about breeding and raising dragons, before setting them racing to win prizes. Lots of customisation and social features provide depth to all this virtual pettery.AndroidDream of Pixels (£0.69)"Tetris in reverse" would be the high-concept pitch for this game, where you have to unpack lines of tetromino blocks from the sky rather than just slot them into place on the ground. It's actually one of the most relaxing-to-play mobile games released this year, in a good way.iPhone / iPadCoaster Crazy (Free)Our enduring fascination with theme parks and rollercoasters has made itself known in a variety of games down the years. This new game comes from Frontier Developments, which has form having made RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 for PC back in the day. This new game sees you building rollercoasters in 3D to satisfy customers, while unlocking pieces and cars to fuel bigger and better ones in the future.iPhone / iPadShadowgun: Deadzone (Free)This multiplayer third-person shooter is available for the first time on iOS this week, and emerging from beta on Android. It offers 12-player online deathmatches, a good choice of maps and characters to play, and a hatful of weapons with which to blow the bejaysus out of rivals.Android / iPhone / iPadWaking Mars (£3.15)Tiger Style's wonderful grow 'em up is included in the latest Humble Bundle (see earlier entry), but can also be bought on its own from the Google Play store. It sees you bringing Mars back to life by growing plants and aliens, experimenting with different combinations to create an exotic ecosystem.AndroidGear Jack (£0.69)Here's more space-action, albeit this time not on Mars. You play Jack, a robot who has to save his spaceship from being marooned in a Black Hole by running, jumping and sliding along 30 platform levels. A nice touch is the way you can customise his abilities, better at running, rolling or jumping according to how you like to play.iPhone / iPadSonic CD (£3.99)The release of Windows Phone 8 seems to have kicked off a flurry of game releases, with Sega's remastered Sonic CD game joining Draw Something and Words With Friends on Microsoft's Marketplace. It's a faithful recreation of the classic game, and hardcore fans will love the inclusion of its Japanese soundtrack as an option.Windows PhoneChip Chain (Free)This is also a good week for accessible puzzle games – a genre that tends to do well on mobile phones. In this case, you're trying to match poker chips in quantities of three or more, with combos and lots of power-ups to spice up the gameplay.iPhone / iPadBeat Hazard Ultra (Free)Another example of music being used as a key gameplay element, rather than just background. Beat Hazard Ultra is a frenetic shoot 'em up that constructs its levels from your own music collection, something that's as hypnotic on Android as it was on iOS when the game was released for that.AndroidBastion (£2.99)Well-loved action-RPG Bastion has been iPad-only until now, but it has just been updated to be a Universal app so iPhone gamers can join the fun. It's a lush, engrossing adventure with beautiful scenery and music complementing the challenging gameplay.iPhoneMy Little Pony (Free)Yup. My Little Pony is riding high as a brand for children and adults (including bronies) alike in 2012. I featured the iOS version last week, but the Android edition has since gone live too. It's part FarmVille (well, Ponyville in this case) but with mini-games thrown in starring the My Little Pony characters.AndroidBloons TD 5 (£1.99)The Bloons series of tower-defence games have been very popular on iOS and Android, with iOS first to get the fifth title in the series. It sees you building towers, hiring defenders and seeing off enemies with a variety of weaponry, with more than 250 random missions to work through.iPhoneSky Burger (Free)NimbleBit is best known for its Pocket Frogs, Tiny Tower and Pocket Planes games, but Sky Burger was around before all them on iOS. Now it's got an Android port, as you catch ingredients falling from the sky and build huge, wobbling burger stacks.AndroidGuess! (Free)The flippant way to describe this game from TinyCo would be "Draw Something without the drawing". Which means an asynchronous multiplayer word game where you have to describe a word without using a set of "banned" words, then a friend has to guess it correctly.iPhone / iPadPredators (£1.87)You can't keep a good Predator down (let alone averybad, slavering killbeast Predator). This game brings the infamous movie villain to Android, with you playing as the Predator rather than as the humans trying to kill him. It's a neat twist, with an array of weaponry to help.AndroidRPG End of Aspiration (£3.99)Not a brand new Android app, but available in English for the first time this week. It's the work of Kemco Games, which already has a fine reputation for making the kind of lovingly-crafted Japanese RPGs that make fans of the genre go moist-eyed. Expect lots of battling and a suitably epic storyline.AndroidRuby Blast (£0.69)This is Zynga's latest game: a colourful jewel-puzzler that sees you digging through a site of ancient treasures, collecting power-ups as you go. Social features are, as ever, a big part of the gameplay, as you compare your score to friends.iPhoneAnger of Stick 2 (Free)This is fun from casual games firm Miniclip: an action game starring a stick figure who at various points wields a baseball bat, UZI gun, grenade launcher, flamethrower and sword. Oh, and helicopters and robots are thrown in for good measure as you fight your way through stick-enemies.AndroidFreeSkate Xtreme (£0.69)Aiming for "A Kinect-like experience on iOS devices", this is a skateboarding game that gets you tilting your iPhone to steer, but also moving your head – the game uses the front-facing camera to detect your movements and translate them into controls. It could be a gimmick if the game wasn't fun, but this has plenty of legs.iPhoneQatQi (Free)Just when you think there can't be much more new ground to be broken in the word-games genre, along comes something like QatQi with an inventive take on letter-based puzzling. It's hard to explain in a paragraph, but the game sees you exploring maps by laying tiles, scoring points for the words you make. Social features, daily new levels and characterful music and visuals make it stand out.iPhone / iPadLazy Raiders (£0.69)And finally this week, another brainbending puzzle game, this time with an archeological theme. It sees you hunting down relics and avoiding traps with Doctor Diggabone, as you move the world around him, rather than the actual character. Namco Bandai's 60-maze puzzler looks good fun.iPhone / iPadPhew. That's this week's selection of 30 games, with apologies to some good titles that didn't quite make it in (Pocket Festival, Word Wonders, Animal Academy: Fairy Tails, Icy Tower 2, Scrubs, Max Awesome, Word Bird, Gem Smashers, Total Recoil and others would all have made the list on a normal week).What have you been playing on your smartphone or tablet though? Make your recommendations or give your views on the games above by posting a comment.
Brightcove's chief executive Jeremy Allaire has called for an end to the "religious wars and hype" between competing mobile platforms, claiming hybrid development platforms can exploit this "epic" time for the industry.Allaire, who runs the online video hosting platform, was hitting back atcomments made in September by Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg, who said that Facebook's mobile strategy had relied too much on HTML5 rather than native applications.In response, he puts forward what he says is the answer that cuts through those back-and-forth wars: "hybrid apps" that combine both HTML5 and native app elements.In anopen letter, Allaire dismissed Zuckerberg as "dead wrong", adding: "It was shameful for him to throw HTML5 under the bus because Facebook had an outdated and poorly written hybrid app ... The industry needs better hybrid app platforms, and that's what we're doing."Allaire also said Apple's former chief executive Steve Jobs was "deceptive" in hispublic flogging of Adobe Flash, and that the purpose was to protect Apple's proprietary platform rather than improve the customer experience.He says that the battle between the competing platforms "impacts every company on the planet" and that "as institutions seek to interact with their users and constituents, they must build applications to reach these users."The only key to working out who will win, he says, is what gains favour with two constituents: "consumers/end-users and developers, and in that order."But for those trying to work out which platform to develop for first, Allaire tantalisingly doesn't offer any clues to which - iOS, Android, Facebook, or something else - has the momentum.Brightcove expanded to launch the AppCloud mobile app development tool last year, added a free version, and released a new version with expanded tools.Writing about the launch, Allaire claimed that hybrid apps deliver more consistency for consumers and productivity for developers, tackling both the increasing diversification of operating systems and devices."Just like the religious and political tensions that inform our global body politic, we need ecumenical and bipartisan solutions to our global app development challenges," wrote Allaire.There is little competition in this space beyond the open-source PhoneGap, says Allaire, claiming the tool hasn't been developed since it was acquired by Adobe last October."In a deflated macro-economy that requires increasing productivity from our workforce, increased global competitiveness for talent, software developers and their choices of which platforms and technologies to build on are having a huge impact everywhere in the world."Hybrid apps give you both – user experience and design with web development and access to native devices and native code for what's needed."
Yey, Friday again. Hitman and Wonderbook are both out today - if that doesn't tell us something about the diversity of modern gaming, I don't know what does.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamRIM's chief is confident of BlackBerry 10 success &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comIt was clear from the presentation [in a meeting at the New York Times with reporters] that the [BB10] phone, which will have its debut on 30 Jan, will not introduce any significant hardware innovations. It has the rectangular slab look of smartphones already on the market.The hardware varies in the absence of a home button and the inclusion of a red LED light that flashes when a message comes in. According to earlier announcements by [Thorsten] Heins, RIM is also making a model with a physical keyboard.Steady as she goes. Also: the description of BB10 makes it sound a lot like Windows Phone.iPad mini Display Technology Shoot-Out &gt;&gt; DisplayMateCompared with the Kindle Fire HD and Nexus 7 screens over a huge range of optical tests. Interesting. (Thanks @rubbernuke for the link.)Texas Instruments to cut 1,700 jobs, shift away from phones &gt;&gt; AllThingsDDespite having landed its chips in devices such as the Motorola Droid and Amazon's Kindle Fire tablet, TI has now admitted something of defeat.The company just announced that it will re-focus its OMAP chip business on a wider set of "embedded markets" -- chip industry code for things that aren't personal computers or in this case wireless phones. The move, it says, offers greater business potential over the long term. Design cycles for the smartphone business are pretty harsh and costly -- and incredibly competitive.As part of the move, it says it will cut nearly 1,700 jobs, amounting to about 5% of its work force, which it says will reduce annual costs by $450m by the end of next year.5 big tech issues await Obama in second term &gt;&gt; CNN.comTechnology policy didn't get much airtime in the 2012 presidential election, but the Obama administration will face serious issues over the next four years.Satisficers &gt; Maximizers &gt;&gt; Raging ThunderboltWhy do tech people keep talking about "the best"?These quotes [earlier in the post] all converge on two themes.Best or Bust. If you are not getting the best, then you are getting something untrustworthy, poor, or low-quality.Bestness = Happiness. If you do try to find and get the best, even at the cost of spending a great deal of time and money, you'll be happier in the end.Both are false.An excellent counterpoint to so much of the willy-waving around "speeds and feeds" tech commentary.Tablet computer added to Queen's Royal Collection &gt;&gt; BBC NewsThe Queen will add the first tablet computer to the Royal Collection when she is presented with a "digital time-capsule" later.The touchscreen device will provide access to videos, photographs and text submitted by participants who have recounted memories from the past 60 years of Queen Elizabeth II's reign.150 gigabytes of data was collected.That is more than can be stored on Samsung's Galaxy Note 10.1, so it has been limited to 60 selected entries...The organisation said it had at one point considered using an Apple iPad, but ultimately opted for Samung's tablet after discussing the project with both firms.Couldn't they have put the rest of the content on an SD card? (Thanks @1sthand and others for the link.)iPad mini creates more demand than it cannibalizes &gt;&gt; AllThingsDOf the 1,225 US adults Cowen surveyed, 12% said they planned to purchase an iPad mini in the next 18 months, and of those, 52% said they'd never owned a tablet before. More interesting still, of the survey respondents who said they planned to purchase an iPad mini, just 16.6% said they intended it as a replacement for another device, and of those, 29% said the gadget to be replaced was an iPad (13% said that device to be replaced was a Kindle Fire, and 42% a Windows PC).Not sure if "replace" is the word you'd use for buying an iPad mini v a Windows PC, unless it's actually replace as in "chose not to buy". (Thanks @clarkeviper for the link.)Some thoughts and musings about making things for the web &gt;&gt; The Oatmeal"Inspiration is more like food poisoning. It sprays out uncontrollably when you need it the least."US consumers hesitant to make switch to Windows 8 &gt;&gt; USA TodayA (very large: 130,000 respondents) online survey by Avast shows a lot of reluctance to switch to Windows 8, and that about a third plan to buy an iPad or Apple Mac next rather than a new (Windows) PC.There is a text story, but the video is fascinating - for reporter Byron Acohido's home decor as much as anything. (Thanks @jseths on Twitter for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Three, the mobile phone network owned by Hong Kong conglomerate Hutchison Whampoa, has added 1.04 million customers in the UK in a year.With 300,000 joining in the last quarter, the country's smallest network is now also the fastest growing, with 8.8 million customers.In a trading update, Three said it had added 850,000 contract customers and 192,000 pre-pay customers in the 12 months to 30 September.Rival network EE has recently launched 4G superfast mobile internet  but Three chief executive Dave Dyson said his company was "giving more people in more places" access to "ultrafast" speeds by upgrading its radios to the latest 3G technology.By the end of 2012, new "dual carrier" radios, which communicate with phones that have two antennas in order to double their speed, will cover half of the UK population, and 80% by 2013.
Google is threatened by a "perfect storm" of litigation with the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the European Commission both readying legal action over how it promotes its own services in search results, and the patent-wielding behaviour of its Motorola Mobility Inc (MMI) phone subsidiary.Just as seriously, the EC is considering whether Google's Android mobile operating system needs to be regulated as it becomes increasingly dominant in mobile search and advertising. Rivals allege that the software, which is provided to handset makers for free, constitutes illegal predatory pricing intended to drive rivals out of the market.The FTC's chairman, Jonathan Leibowitz, is widely reported to have given Google a deadline of a few days to sign a consent decree that would cover its future behaviour in the search space, or face a lawsuit similar to that which tied up Microsoft in 1998 and eventually saw it convicted of antitrust offences."To avoid potential ligitation, Google may opt to sign a consent decree," Bradley Shear, a US-based lawyer who specialises in technology, told the Guardian. "If Google refuses to settle and the FTC files a lawsuit, the FTC may also decide to open an investigation into Google's other practices, such as its privacy policy changes from earlier this year."Meanwhile the European Commission's antitrust commissioner Joaquin Almunia could also move against Google within the next few weeks if the negotiations underway since the summer do not reach a satisfactory outcome. Like the FTC, Almunia is concerned that Google favours its own products   – and that this keeps potential European competitors from flourishing because they are consigned to a position a long way down the list of search results while Google's own are prominently displayed on its first results page, which 90% of users never go beyond.Almunia's team has been investigating Google since November 2010 and is understood to be readying a statement of objections to Google's behaviour in presenting search results that include its own products, such as Google Shopping, in preference to rivals'. Sources in Brussels indicated to the Guardian that the statement could be delivered by early December if the negotiations with Google, which have been going on since July, are not resolved soon.Also in Almunia's sights is Google's Android mobile operating system and the position it holds in the smartphone market. In the third quarter of this year, Android devices made up 75% of smartphone shipments – though many of those were to the Chinese market.The concern in Europe is that making Android free to handset makers constitutes a form of predatory pricing, said David Wood, a lawyer at Gibson Dunn who also advises Icomp, a lobbying group funded by Microsoft, which opposes Google's search dominance. "If you never expect to get the money you put into something back, then it's essentially a gift, commercially speaking," Wood said. "But if there's intent to recoup the cost, then behaviour relying on its cost to drive others out could be construed as predatory. It's a well-established form of abusive commercial behaviour." Microsoft charges handset makers for licences to its Windows Phone mobile software.However Almunia's concern about Android is believed to be mainly about its dominance of the fast-growing mobile search advertising and mobile browsing markets.In the US, Barack Obama's defeat of Mitt Romney to become president is understood to have put the FTC action – which follows more than 18 months' investigation – back to the top of the list of potential lawsuits. Had Romney been elected, any FTC action would have been put on indefinite hold but the reinstatement of the Democratic president has put a decision back on the agenda."There is no set time table for when the FTC may act," Shear says. "However, since Leibowitz may leave his position at the end of the year, this may be the unofficial deadline to wrap up the Google antitrust matter."The Guardian understands that the FTC's staff has passed a file recommending action against Google to its five commissioners, who must make a majority decision whether to take legal action against the search giant or seek a consent decree.If the action goes ahead, it would be one of a growing number against Google. The FTC has already acted against it twice, in March 2011binding it to a 20-year oversight of its privacy policiesfor the rollout of its Buzz social network, and inAugust 2012, fining it $22.5mfor intentionally circumventing the cookie protections in Apple's Safari browser.–At the time it was a record fine against a single firm.Separately, the US Department of Justice fined the company $500m in August 2011 for knowingly displaying adverts for illegal Canadian pharmaceutical businesses on its US site between 2003 and 2010, even though it had been warned by the DoJ the ads would probably break the law.Google is extremely concerned at the idea that an outside agency might decide how it should order its search results – so much so that itcommissioned the law professor Eugene Volokh, of the University of California, to argue the case that because the results' order is determined by humans, they count as "free speech".Search engine results, argued Volokh, "are all, at their core, editorial judgments about what users are likely to find interesting and valuable. And all these exercises of editorial judgment are fully protected by the First Amendment." And that, he says, should put them beyond US litigation.More generally, Google has not accepted that it is distorting the search market by pushing its own products over rivals, including Foundem and Ciao, both of which complained to the EC about being pushed down its rankings. The chairman, Eric Schmidt, even insisted to the US Congress in November 2011 that the company"doesn't have separate products and services"such as news, images, video, and local business listings; instead it has one "universal search" product.But Matt McGee of the Search Engine Land site calls thata semantic argumentand says it's untrue – because Google often refers to separate products and services, and sometimes closes them down. "It's disingenuous, at best, for [Schmidt] to claim that YouTube, Google Maps, Google News and other Google products that appear as universal search results aren't actually separate products," McGee commented.Whether through consent decrees and negotiation, or legal force, the FTC and EC are closing in on how Google presents its search results, so that it may at least become clear when Google is pushing its own products. The worst outcome for the search giant would be continued oversight by slow-moving regulatory bodies – anathema to a company that makes hundreds of changes to its search algorithms every year, at an average of more than one a day.But that is only the beginning. Its MMI subsidiary is also under investigation in the US and Europe over its refusal to provide both Apple and Microsoft with licences for "standards-essential" patents used in mobile phones and the Xbox. MMI's aggressive use of those patents goes against the agreement it signed to make them become standard – which was that it would license them to anyone, on "fair, reasonable and non-discriminary" (FRAND) terms. Instead, MMI is accused of unilaterally withdrawing the licence for one patent in 2007 from a Chinese chip maker – because it made chips for Apple's new iPhone, a clear rival to MMI's ambitions in smartphones. Microsoft, meanwhile, faces import threats against the Xbox 360 into the US, apparently because it is trying to get MMI to pay a levy on the non-standard (and so not FRAND-licensed) patents it claims on Android smartphones.MMI's problems with the EC and FTC predate Google's acquisition of the company. But Google, which controls MMI's legal moves, has done nothing to temper the legal aggression, with two lawsuits against Apple having been dismissed in the US and another that opened this week against Microsoft.The prospect of governments on two continents moving against Google's dominance because of concerns that it is wielding its power in the market too much in its own favour would have seemed far-fetcheduntil recently. But in the wake of the criticism from European data protection commissioners – led by the French data protection agency CNIL – and its battles with book publishers who have claimed that it has trampled their copyright in its book scanning project, Google is fighting a number of legal battles that have affected its reputation as a disinterested selector of the best-regarded sites on the web,  indexing the world's information.
I consider myself fairly technology savvy and I'm pondering upgrading to Windows 8 on my Windows 7 laptop, which is less than ayear old. I've typically waited until I'm in need of a new computer before upgrading the operating system. However, the low price of Windows 8 Pro is enticing. I've run theupgrade assistantand I'm happy with the results for my current programs. Given that it is almost inevitable I will eventually be on Windows 8, should I take the leap now? Or continue with my pattern and wait a couple of years until I need a new machine?DaveThere is no need to rush into Windows 8 at the moment but if you fancy it, it is certainly worth a go. You don't lose much – you lose the start menu – and there are compensations.First, you get access to thousands of new tablet-style apps from the Windows Store, many of them free. Second, you get a more efficient version of Windows 7, which starts up quicker, runs faster and provides better battery life. Any PC that runs Windows 7 should run Windows 8 even better. Third, the new user interface guidelines don't just apply to Windows 8 but also to Windows Phone, online applications such as SkyDrive and websites such as MSN.comModern Windows 8 Metro-style interfaces are replacingold fashioned ones, where digital objects look like physical objects. I recommend that you set up a new email address at Outlook.com (the replacement for Hotmail/Live Mail) and use that as your Windows Identity for logging on to Windows 8. Outlook.com also provides access to SkyDrive, the free online Office apps (Word, Excel etc) are nicer than Gmail and the Google equivalents and SkyDrive isn't far off Dropbox. You can drag and drop files into it and SkyDrive apps will automatically synchronise your files across PCs and Macs.The main disadvantage is that the new start screen is designed for "touch first" operation, which you have not got. As it turns out, it is not that hard to use Windows 8 without a touch-sensitive screen but it may take you a few days to get used to it. The mouse still works and you can still find things just by typing a few characters, as in Windows 7. The Windows keyboard shortcuts are also useful.Several companies offer utilities to bypass the start screen and take you straight to the desktop, making Windows 8 work like Windows 7. However, you lose the benefit of the "glanceable" live tiles, which keep updating you with information in a way that dumb 1970s-style icons cannot. (People have tried to do the same sort of thing by replacing icons with widgets but widgets haven't taken off.) You might also lose the benefits of new apps. Windows apps are limited in volume and quality but it's very early days…Upgrading tipsBefore you download Windows 8, check that you have created a Windows 7 installation disc and that you have backed up all your programs and data (which Windows 7 makes easy). Upgrades sometimes go wrong and after trying Windows 8 you may decide you don't like it: it's important to have a backup.The Windows 8 download offers three choices: install now, install by creating media or install later from your desktop. Although it involves more work, consider taking the media option. This gives you a further two options: you can either create a bootable USB Flash drive (it must be blank and 4GB or larger) or download a standard ISO file that you can write to DVD.The easiest way to do this is to download Microsoft'sfree download tool. Full instructions are on the page. If you "create media" then you can download Windows 8 on one PC and install it on a different one, using the unique product key provided with your purchase. This is important for users who have a 32-bit copy of Windows XP (most people) or a 32-bit copy of Windows 7 (a few unfortunates). Obviously, Microsoft will only upgrade a 32-bit system to another 32-bit system. Doing the download on a 64-bit system enables you to replace your 32-bit installation with the 64-bit version.Also, if you have up to five PCs, you can buy up to five copies of Windows 8 and use the same USB stick or DVD to upgrade them all. Of course, each PC will need its own unique product key but you don't need multiple downloads.My answer is based on the fact that you have been using Windows 7 for less than a year and find Windows 8 enticing. Other people have been using Windows 7 for more than three years, really love it and don't find Windows 8 enticing at all. That's OK too. Microsoft hasn't decided when it will stop selling Windows 7 and it will getmainstream support until 12 January 2015. After that, it will get extended (ie paid for) support until 14 January 2020. Many large companies are still upgrading from Windows XP to Windows 7 and they will probably stick with it for five years or more. It's not going away.However, the world is changing to include touch operation, mobility, low-power devices such as tablets and downloading software from app stores. Windows 8 (which includes a version that runs on ARM processors) is designed to support all these trends. Windows 7 isn't.Finally, Microsoft says it is "all in" on Windows 8. It comes with Bing apps, Xbox music and movies, and works well with Skype. It downloads apps from the Windows store and these are "sandboxed" for greater reliability and security. It integrates with SkyDrive, and the free SkyDrive versions of the Microsoft Office apps such as Word and Excel. For business users, it works with Office 365 (which includes Lync and SharePoint) and Microsoft's Azure cloud computing service.In sum, Microsoft is well on the way to delivering an integrated system in which everything just works. This has been a long-term project that surfaced under software architect Ray Ozzie's slogan: "Three screens and a cloud." The three screens are the PC, the mobile phone and the TV (via the Xbox 360). Have a look atXbox SmartGlassto see a bit more of the unfolding vision.Windows 7 is an excellent operating system but Windows 8 is the start of a new ecosystem in which Microsoft combines its software, services and devices so that everything works better together. At least, that's the idea. Windows 8 is a lot more than an operating system upgrade and that's a good reason for giving it a try.
The bloke with the barcode tattoo returns. Agent 47 – last seen six years ago inHitman: Blood Money– has dusted off his old black suit, treated himself to a new red tie and dug out those silver pistols from the bottom of the drawer where he keeps his pants. His goal: to remind us gamers that before a certain band of free-running, century-hopping assassins, there was one undisputed king of the silent kill. A king with a barcode on the back of his bald head. You know, to help him blend in with the crowd.Hitman: Absolution(PC / PS3 / Xbox 360) is a third-person level-based stealth-'em-up, or, depending on your play style, a third-person shooter. It follows genetically engineered super-assassin Agent 47 as he tries to unravel the mystery – and protect the life – of a girl named Victoria. This, naturally, involves a lot of assassination, starting with the offing of his former handler, Diana, after she kidnaps the girl.Killing Diana is the game's first mission, and functions mostly as a tutorial. Sneaking past guards, you learn, is a matter of learning their patrol routes and, if necessary, distracting them. Killing them is even easier, with a garotte around the neck or a single silenced pistolshot, after which it's best to pop the dead man's clothes on as a disguise and stash the body in a bin. So far, so familiar.It's level two when things open up and get interesting. Agent 47's second target, a vicious gangster, awaits him in the central pagoda of a bustling Chinatown courtyard. In fact, it's a courtyard that bustles like nothing I've ever seen before in a game, with a crowd of perhaps 100 civilians, gangsters and police milling about. There's a price paid in size, however. Physically, the level is smaller than those in past Hitman games, and even the largest levels in Absolution are divided into sections.Despite their size, these are true sandbox missions, which you can play in many different ways. That Chinatown gangster alone can die more than a dozen different deaths, including being shoved into a manhole or crushed by a falling crate, poisoned with food or cocaine, garotted in an alley, gunned down in the street or sniped from afar with his own prized rifle. The game has more than 80 possible improvised weapons and more than 50 unique "accident" opportunities.Not that it's all about killing people. In fact, the score system actively encourages players to use as little violence as possible, deducting points for unnecessary deaths. High scores unlock "assassin techniques", making it easier to sneak through the next mission like a true professional, rather than rushing in all guns blazing, unlocking nothing, and having to do the same again. Points are, however, awarded for silent kills and hiding bodies, so players keen to cause a bloodbath can salvage their scores by keeping their massacres quiet.It is, indisputably, an easier Hitman, though the Expert and Purist difficulty settings are closer to the original. On normal difficulty, though, the puzzle-solving element is all but gone. Instinct mode – not unlike Eagle Vision in Assassin's Creed – highlights all nearby interactive objects, and picks out the paths of guards in flaming lines across the floor.Instinct is also a bar that can be depleted to keep a disguise working even under scrutiny, or to pull off fast group kills in the achingly cool "point-shooting" mode, which lets you line up a series of shots before performing them all in quick succession with a single button. Both need to be used sparingly, as even on normal difficulty your Instinct bar does not regenerate.More so than with most games, it's up to you to challenge yourself. It's not about playing through – although the game's 20 chapters should keep you busy – but playing well. The new Contract mode lets you challenge others to play as well as you have, replaying missions but selecting your own targets.At heart, Absolution stays true to the Hitman spirit. In the end, you don't play for the violence, but for the cold satisfaction of a job well done.• Hitman: Absolution is released on 20 November 2012
