“What’s happened to the song list?” Complaints of that sort have been loud and long since Apple updated iTunes in October. The new version is officially iTunes 12 – though there have been so many tenth-, hundredth- and thousandth-decimal releases since it was first officially unveiled in January 2001 that the real revision figure is probably in the hundreds.In fact, iTunes began life asSoundjam MPin 1998, written by a trio of coders. Apple bought it in mid-2000, rejigged its appearance and steamrollered the paid-for MP3 app player market – including one called Audion. (The developers’taleof how Audion missed out on becoming iTunes is a salutary lesson; they missed a meeting with Apple because they expected to be bought by AOL.)Now, iTunes has come a long, long way since itsfirst incarnation, when it basically played songs and did visualisations. As time progressed, it added syncing with iPods, then handling video and TV shows, then syncing with iPhones, then buying from the App Store, then syncing with iPads, until now it is a gigantic front for all sorts of content that struggles to coexist on a single desktop screen. It’s like a grocery store that has become a gigantic shopping mall, but never been able to stop to think about the best design for its current incarnation.Compare that to the iPhone, where iTunes’s functions are split into five apps: Music (on-device music), iTunes Store (to buy music and video), App Store (for mobile apps), Videos (bought) and iBooks (for written content). Each can be updated separately; there’s no grand foofarah, unlike an iTunes desktop update. Splitting iTunes into separate apps is often mooted by pundits, but won’t happen; withmore than 500 million userssimply getting people to remember where to go for content would become a headache. Windows users might hate iTunes (and don’t we know it) but it’s monolithic for a reason.And it’s not that necessary now; since 2011, iCloud has meant you can back up and restore from the cloud, though minimal storage on older iPhones makes iTunes necessary to install big operating system updates. Music is easily transferred in the cloud via iTunes Match or Google Music, or just streamed from Spotify, Deezer and the like.Even so, look at how relentlessly iTunes gets updated, even when there’s no real change: nine updates in 2014. Support for operating systems, sure. Support for new devices, OK. But it often feels as though iTunes gets updated just because it needs to show some sort of forward motion.Something similar has happened with Sonos, whose software for controlling its music players has had a radical remake – darker, blockier – on mobile, but not (yet) on the desktop, though you can foresee the latter app suffering a gravitational attraction towards the more-used app. Why the update? So the desktop app doesn’t look out of date.Look around, and the pattern repeats on so many apps, because updates give the appearance of momentum. Like sharks, they have to move forward or die.But how often to update? This is the problem product managers wrestle with. Leave a product alone for a year, and people – even those who love it – assume it’s been forgotten. Keep updating it every month and people can’t cope with the change. Even companies such as Google and Facebook, which can update their products silently (Google updates its search algorithm more than once a day, on average), are cautious about making obvious changes. They tend to fiddle around the edges, which even then brings moans from people who do notice the differences.This is the real question about software: what’s the perfect interval between updates? What’s the right trigger for a new version? Do you update to incorporate each new social network that springs up? Does the rise of mobile mean that desktop apps should mimic them?There aren’t any obvious answers. But when you’re next cursing a snail-like update progress bar, remember: the idea is to make you think that the product hasn’t been forgotten. Updating is how programs show you they’re still alive – even if their purpose has been superseded.
Nina Tandon is CEO and co-founder of EpiBone, a biotech company set up in 2012 to bio-engineer bone tissue replacements.Why do we need to grow bones?At the moment, the only way to get bone for grafts is to cut it out of a human. If you need a piece of bone for, say, your ankle, they’ll cut it out of your hip. There are several million of these bone-grafting procedures done every year worldwide. The idea is to grow bone from a patient’s own cells so they won’t need that second surgery and so the implanted bone won’t be immunologically rejected.How would you do this?First, we’ll take a CT scan to get the 3D structure of a patient’s bone and use a high-precision machine to carve a decellularised bovine bone into the required shape. Then we’ll take fat tissue from a patient and extract stem cells from it. We combine the stem cells with the piece of carved bone and put it into a bioreactor [a vessel that supports tissue growth outside of the body]. That’s where the magic happens – after three weeks in the bioreactor we have a piece of bone ready for implantation. We’re working in pigs at the moment but will use the same principle for humans.Why pigs? Don’t these things usually start in mice?Pigs are a good fit for the bone we’re working on. We wanted a strong proof of concept so chose the most difficult bone in the head – the temporomandibular joint for the jaw. Pigs are great because they’ve got a very similar sized head to humans and use the bone in a similar way, in a kind of circular chewing motion.And, erm, what does your lab smell like?Ha! No we don’t keep the pigs in the lab. They’re kept in a facility offsite.How soon will the technology be available for humans?The science is getting really close. We’re about to start a second, larger study in pigs and are doing work in preparation for human clinical trials with the FDA [US Food and Drug Administration]. We are also planning small-scale implantations in humans in the next year and a half. So pretty soon hopefully!You and your co-founder Sarindr Bhumiratana both did your PhDs in growing many types of tissue. Why did you choose bone?As a small startup we have to think a little differently from academia. We chose to push forward on an application that was closest to reaching people.You worked as a healthcare business consultant after your PhD and did an MBA during your post-doc. It’s an unconventional route for a laboratory scientist, no?I’ve been walking that line between the intellectual freedom you get in academia and the practical applications that you get in industry. I was really drawn to the wider world that I perceived as affecting my little work in the lab.I highly recommend for any academics to spend time in industry and maybe for some people in the workplace to dip their toes into scholarly work, too. I think both have so much to offer. I’ve had wonderful experiences that have really helped me.Any messages for aspiring science entrepreneurs out there?Google ‘DIY bio’ and your city name: you’ll find community-based laboratories or bio-hacking meet ups. Look at the disruptive effects from garage-start-ups during the technology revolution – HP, Amazon, Google. Biology has the potential to be just as disruptive. Now is the time for the biology revolution so, whether or not you have a science degree, you should get involved!
Symphonic Odysseys: A Tribute to Nobuo Uematsu; £32.99An exclusive release to the Square Enix online store, this two-disc collection offers tracks from Uematsu’s illustrious career performed by the Cologne Rundfunkorchester, conducted by Arnie Roth. It’s an outstanding variety of music, ranging from instrumental to choral, covering games such asFinal Fantasy,Chrono TriggerandBlue Dragon. The orchestral treatment brings Uematsu’s compositions to life.The Sims 4; £7.99It was a flawed game, but the soundtrack – by film composerIlan Eshkeri(Stardust,Kick-Ass) – might be the best thing about it. Eshkeri fills the score with cheery, whimsical pieces, evoking the idyllic lifestyles championed inThe Sims’gameplay with 18 tracks of relaxing and surprisingly uplifting music. A separate album (both released digitally) collecting the game’s vocal tracks also impresses, with 12 tracks presenting genres as diverse as blues, pop, and EDM, yet all performed in the fictional “Simlish” language. Strange but wonderful.Civilisation: Beyond Earth; £7.49For a game with such soaring ambition and scope asBeyond Earth, it’s only fitting that its soundtrack matches. Series veteranGeoff Knorrserves as lead composer – with select tracks by Griffin Cohen, Michael Curran, and Grant Kirkhope – and produces a score full of heroic swells and strange cacophonies reflecting unexplored new worlds, all contrasted with moments of almost fearful sombreness. The 42 tracks give a distinct character and identity to the planets and battles of the game, making this OST a shining example of aural world-building.Video Games Live: Level 3; £7.49TheVideo Games Liveconcerts have become a high point of games music in recent years. And listening to this album, it’s clear why. From straight-up performances such as Skyrim’sDragonborntheme to inspired creations like theTetris Opera, Level 3 delivers a breathtaking selection of pieces from the medium’s finest titles, displaying a peerless level of artistry and musical skill. There’s something magical about hearing thePokémon theme, of all things, played with the sincerity of Bach. A joyous celebration of games as art.Kingdom Hearts 1.5 &amp; 2.5 HD ReMIX OST Set;£59.99, available 15 DecemberAnother limited release exclusive to the Square Enix store, this marvellous seven-disc collection contains the full suite composed byYoko Shimomurafor the crossover RPG series for which she is best known. Shimomura, who lists Beethoven, Chopin and Ravel as influences, is one of the most highly regarded game composers and this is exhibit A as to why. It is a glorious collection of music that crosses numerous genres, with original tracks joined by superb arrangements of beloved Disney songs such as Under the Sea and This is Halloween. The exquisite fold-out packaging in a slipcase box makes this a great piece for collectors, too.
1 The Rapture – BioshockRapture is a beautiful underwater city, all art deco flourishes and bold dreams of utopia. But like many of the real world micro-nations formed to offer alternative models for society or aggrandise those with an abundance of ambition, in the fiction of BioShock the city failed to meet its vision. The result is a place that is haunting to explore, and at its most captivating when at its quietest. Its fictional architect’s libertarian aspiration may have spawned a leaking nightmare on the seabed, but as a backdrop to bad dreams Rapture is one of the most memorable locations of any video game. The entire place oozes a sense of history, and it is soaked in enough detail to make it feel entirely believable.2 Vice City – Grand Theft Auto: Vice CityAs Grand Theft Auto’s infamous city locations have grown in size with most new releases, only the most dedicated players today find themselves familiar with every nook and cranny. But intimacy can be a large part of the pleasure in playing a GTA; knowing just where to disappear through a short cut, or returning to a favoured vantage point in the heat of a battle. As with reality, enjoying a city can come most meaningfully from knowing it like a friend. It was 2002’s Vice City that hit an apex in terms of the scope of its spread. It was big enough to escape in, but not such a sprawl that it too often felt unfamiliar. And its homage to 1986 Miami served as what is perhaps still developer Rockstar’s greatest pastiche of contemporary popular culture yet.3 The City – SimCityThere were city-building games before the 1989 debut of SimCity, and there have been many since. Today the free-to-play model is at the centre of the genre – or at least a large part of it. But in 1989 building a city in SimCity wasn’t about spending real money; it was about making fictional cash, and spreading a concrete rash across vast rural expanses. SimCity asked players to juggle taxes, industry, housing, transport and much else besides, and it made it all remarkably fun. The visual detail of a city in Will Wright’s influential masterpiece might have presented little more that of a representative 2D map, but it was what was behind those blocky graphics that gave heart and soul to the game. Theses cities were the player’s pet, making the appearance of the game’s earthquakes, fires and even monsters utterly crushing.4 San Vanelona – SkateWhen EA studio Black Box built the streets and parks of fictional city San Vanelona, they constructed a place both large and diverse. But the virtual metropolis’s true strength becomes apparent when looking a little closer. For Skate was truly a skateboarder’s skateboarding game, where spending hours seeing what was possible between a single rail and a nearby bench was more beguiling than stunt jumps over entire districts. The game development architects behind San Vanelona – itself a little like Barcelona with a seasoning of American urban style – had clearly put much effort into the minutiae of street furniture and the undulations of the ground, to tremendous benefit to the gameplay.5 Goron City – The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of TimePerhaps a city in name a little more than in size, Ocarina of Time’s subterranean conurbation lacks the skyscraping structures and multiple suburbs of others on this list. But as a charming, distinct fantasy settlement that feels every part the heart of a community, it is possibly the most memorable location in Zelda’s finest instalment. Built from gaping caves and ancient walkways, it is also a place of many secret doorways and entrances that lead to some of the game’s hidden reaches, and so to know every inch of Goron City is to truly know Ocarina of Time. It’s also worth noting that Goron City is a place of wonderful, catchy music, and years after leaving, its melodies can still dance around players’ minds.6 Metro City – Final FightWhen beat ‘em up players weren’t playing Street Fighter, a lot of their visits to the arcade meant a trip to Final Fight’s Metro City. It was effectively but a backdrop to the scrolling brawler, yet its vandalised trains, derelict alleys at the feet of glistening tower blocks and abandoned vehicles presented a dystopian vision that reflected a core trend in Japanese game design of the era. And while players’ concentration on the frame-by-frame action in a foreground melee meant Metro City could have played little more than set dressing, it boasted a wealth of detail in its few screens of material. Across the Final Fight series Metro City played host to minigames, weapon caches and training gyms, but it was the character and artwork that really make it shine.FUTURE TECHThe ET excavationIn 1982 a stretch of Mexican landfill contained deep in its belly one of the great gaming urban legends. The myth went like this: Atari had reason to bury numerous unsold games after the era’s devastating industry crash. Primarily, countless copies of its mediocre E.T. game were rumoured to be contained deep in the soil, and so went on about 20 years of speculation of lost prototypes and concrete-enclosed collectibles.Now the site has been excavated and last month its games started selling on eBay for upwards of $500. But we won’t spoil the details here. That would undermineAtari: Game Over, a newly released documentary that looks at the mythology and the excavation.The film is available to view for free onXbox Live.PIXEL PERFECTWhile the first-person shooter was still finding its feet in the 90s, another down-the-gun-sights gaming form briefly held favour. Wild Guns is one of the prime examples of the gallery shooter. It’s a third-person shooter in two-dimensional form, mixing themes from cowboy frontiers and steampunk about five years before the movieWild Wild Westdid a rather less graceful job. And nowWild Guns(Natsume, £5.49) has been rereleased for the Wii U.Originally an SNES title that took far too long to make it to European shores,Wild Gunsis beautifully crafted in the arcade mould. It demands much from the reactions, and is remarkably tough. While the gallery shooter is a genre that shows its age in the modern era, the gameplay here remains solid and its 16-bit visuals are delightful.
What if hot air could become electricity? That is the goal of clean technology startup company, Alphabet Energy, based in California. It has a new so-called thermoelectric material which it says can turn waste heat – such as that from car exhausts and industry – into usable electric power more cheaply and efficiently than ever before, saving both money and the environment. “It is the first really low-cost efficient thermoelectric material for waste heat recovery,” says CEO and founderMatthew Scullin.The company, which was founded in 2009 and has raised over $30m in investment, released its first product which uses the material last October. The E1 thermoelectric generator, which comes in a shipping container, is designed to help make remote-location mining and oil and gas extraction operations more efficient by capturing waste heat from the exhaust of the small, diesel-fuelled power plants they use. Fuel consumption and greenhouse emissions for a one-megawatt power plant can be cut by up to 2.5% – the equivalent of saving 52,500 litres of fuel a year. There has never been a larger thermoelectric generator, Scullin says, adding it is more than 20 times bigger than existing ones. He won’t disclose sales figures but says it is getting “very good early traction” and he expects to see sales ramp up further in 2015, with improvements continuing to be made to the core technology.The company is prototyping other products, with the possibility that some could be ready to launch in 2015. “The E1 is simply our market entry point,” says Scullin. The company is working on more industrial applications – such as a generator to attach to a factory furnace – and is also working with car manufacturers to harness heat from vehicle exhaust. “From huge mining trucks all the way down to passenger cars we are actively pursuing products,” says Scullin. There are no thermoelectric generators on car exhausts, although a few prototypes have been built and tested in the past, he says.Thermoelectric materials can generate electricity from heat because electrons flow from warmer areas to cooler ones. But only a few known materials have the rare combination of properties that make them effective. They have to be good electrical conductors but also poor thermal conductors so the temperature difference across the material doesn’t disappear too quickly. Commercial manufacture is difficult because the materials can be rare, expensive, toxic or complex to synthesise. Thus far they have only really found niche applications. For example, their reliability – they are solid materials that don’t require maintenance – has led to their use on space probes, where the steady decay of radioactive material warms the thermoelectric material to create electricity.However, Alphabet Energy’s material – based on the mineral tetrahedrite – amply satisfies requirements. First developed by researchers at Michigan State University but exclusively licensed to the company, the raw ore is abundant, environmentally friendly and easy to manufacture into the material on a large scale, says Scullin. It is also more efficient than existing thermoelectric materials.The company puts the cost of tetrahedrite at about $4 per kilo compared to between $24 and $146 for other thermoelectric materials. Scullin says a thermoelectric system in cars today based on it could lead to net fuel and greenhouse emissions savings of up to 5%. That is double the saving other car prototypes have achieved to date, he says.Jeff Snyder, a thermoelectrics expert at the California Institute of Technology, says little information is available publicly about the company’s tetrahedrite technology so it is hard to know if it is onto a breakthrough. But he added it was good to see a product like the E1 thermoelectric generator finally coming to market, though the cheap cost of fuel might make it hard to win traction. “Thermoelectric materials are great in principle,” he says. “The real reason it doesn’t get done is simply economics.”He added that the technology was difficult to apply to car exhausts because the engine temperatures change as we stop and start. Thermoelectric materials work best when the heat is constant. Payback times would also be longer than for a continually operating machine like a power plant because we don’t drive all the time.Eventually Scullin sees applications of Alphabet Energy’s technology to consumer devices. Maybe the dryer could power the alarm clock, he suggests. “The coolest thing about what we are doing is making people recognise that this thing that’s all around them, waste heat, is actually valuable.”
Alcohol and coffee are about to get competition from a set of electrodes you wear on your head. Branded theThync, the calming effect it produces is comparable to how you feel after an alcoholic drink, while the energising effect is similar to a cup of coffee, says Isy Goldwasser, the CEO and co-founder of this Silicon Valley-based startup. The company plans to start selling the device through its website in 2015.Goldwasser envisages people using the Thync “vibes” to help them unwind after a long day at work, or to get a caffeine-free pick-me-up. “We are giving people a way to overcome a basic limitation – that no one is really wired to co-opt energy and calm on demand,” he says.It doesn’t work for everyone though. About a third of people don’t have a strong response. When I try a prototype I feel a tingling where it makes contact with my skin, but no particularly serene feeling, even after a few sessions. The energising vibe also fails to do much for me.Thync’s device uses a variation of what is called transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), in which a constant low current is delivered to the head via electrodes,changing the activity of neurons in a specific area. Research has shown this approach can enhance various cognitive abilities and neuroscientists are busy pursuing applications for medical use. But Thync’s device is the first to be aimed at altering healthy people’s states of mind. It targets specific cranial nerves with unique electric waveforms. A session using the device lasts around 10 minutes and the effects can last for anywhere up to about 45 minutes. The device is operated via a smartphone, which allows the user to control the amount of current and the strength of the effect.Thync has tested its prototype on about 3,000 people to date. The company has also sponsored a 100-person study by City College of New York focused on the calming effect. That showed a significant improvement in mood above and beyond both a placebo device and a similar tDCS device being developed to treat clinical pain and depression, though there was individual variation. “To their credit they have engineered something that, at least in this situation, produced a bigger change,” says Marom Bikson, a professor of biomedical engineering, who led the study.But other experts raise concerns about the safety of such devices, including that placing them in the wrong area could result in harm. “This is the wild west for cognitive enhancing devices,” says Julian Savulescu, an ethicist at Oxford University who co-authored a report in April warning that many of the devices currently sold for enhancement purposes had not been closely regulated.Goldwasser counters that the history of tDCS points to his device being safe. Tests to investigate how Thync’s vibes affect functions such as cognition have found no ill effects and it will also only be available for adults, a precautionary measure because children’s brains are developing, says Goldwasser. More vibes are in development, he says.
Most of the thousand or so operational satellites in orbit are multi-million-dollar machines that provide major industries with scientific research, global positioning or military espionage. Twenty-five-year-old Tom Walkinshaw, however, hopes to prove that satellites are not the preserve of leviathan space agencies, and that, for a comparatively small sum ($20,000), the workaday enthusiast can build and launch a fully functioning satellite of their own. One year old next January, his companyPocketQube Shopprovides the basic materials for doing this, most importantly the PocketQube structure itself - a tiny, 5cm³ casing made from aerospace-grade aluminium – which houses each satellite’s components.“We want to remove as many barriers as we can for people who want to build satellites,” says Walkinshaw, and the PocketQube structure is the key to this endeavour. Invented in America, it is smaller than its predecessor the Cubesat, a 10cm³ design which was formerly the best hope for those seeking a budget satellite. Walkinshaw’s was the first company to recognise the PocketQube’s potential and begin manufacturing it, and it also supplies a number of other components, with a view to becoming a centralised hub catering to all satellite-builders’ needs. “We’re going to produce a PocketQube kit with a structure, radio and on-board computer,” pledges Walkinshaw, “and we just won a £63,000 from Scottish Enterprise to develop a combined powerboard and battery.”Walkinshaw has managed all this from his home town of Glasgow, a surprising focal point for the future of the global space industry, but a town that he claims is becoming a “hotbed of satellite technology”. The firm has already shipped PocketQubes all over the world, and though most of the interest has come from universities, where they are used for student projects, the client base is nonetheless broad: one customer is an after-work club of American satellite engineers; another is a Taiwanese space agency.The capabilities of the smartphone-sized structure are, according to Walkinshaw, “limited only by the imagination” – even in its tiniest form it can house the components that align, propel and power the satellite, and the slightly larger 5x5x10cm version can include additions such as star-tracking technology or cameras. Walkinshaw imagines hundreds of PocketQubes linking together in space and gathering a breadth of real-time data which bulky traditional satellites could never provide. The only real obstacle to this dream is getting them there in the first place.“The launch situation for PocketQubes is probably the worst it will ever be,” he says, explaining that there is only one company worldwide currently allowing Pocketqubes to hitch rides on their rockets.Walkinshaw’s answer to this is, perhaps, predictable. “We’d like to organise our own launches from Scotland,” he says; an ambition that will require requisitioning some serious hardware. “The first PocketQubes were launched from a converted ICBM called the SS Satan. A vehicle for nukes repurposed for education - it’s a nice story!”
“Wine is an all-encompassing thing,” says Charlotte Sager-Wilde. “The more you think about wine, the more you come to know about history, geography, science; even art and design.”Sager-Wilde is a crusader for a more available, more inclusive approach to wine and the two east London wine bars she and her husband opened this year are testament to that pursuit. Sager and Wilde is a cosy, brick-and-timber den serving nothing but fine wine and cheese toasties. Mission, their new venture where we meet for our trial, is in a Transport for London-owned railway arch, with a live palm tree sprouting from the centre of the room.Her success is the reward for a long climb through the wine industry, where she has weathered the sexism and elitism that gives connoisseurs a bad name. By selling even fine vintages by the glass, and limiting the mark-up on each bottle, Sager-Wilde hopes to encourage more ambitious drinking in her customers. How can she afford to be so generous with her margins? “Because I sell tons of wine,” she says.Characteristically for someone adverse to the dusty mystification that still surrounds the wine trade, she is a strong supporter of new technology, especially if it helps make wine more accessible. Having worked in all areas of the industry, from Californian vineyards to a Chilean winery, she has witnessed the importance of innovation. “There are huge advancements in the way wine is made, I don’t see why there shouldn’t be similar advances in the way it’s consumed.”Coravin,coravin.co.uk, £334.80Coravin.Photograph: Richard Saker for the Observer“I used to fear this might put me out of business, because by-the-glass was my USP, and the Coravin allows you to serve any wine by the glass. It’s got a tiny needle which pierces the cork so the wine can dribble out without the bottle being opened. Then it pumps an inert gas into the bottle, which keeps the wine fresh. To buy one for your home you’d have to be really into wine, but it’s an amazing piece of technology. At Mission, we usually have a wine ‘on Coravin tonight’. I love it.”Tempour,winebase.co.uk, £34Tempour.Photograph: Richard Saker/the Observer“This is brilliant. It’s relatively inexpensive and for me it’s very intuitive. You stick it down the middle of the bottle and it will either bring the wine down to room temperature or, if the cylinder’s been in the freezer, it’ll chill it. I like the fact that it starts working immediately. The filter and the aerator are very useful too — it’s an all-in-one solution and it’s cheaper than the sum of its parts.”Air au Vin –drinkstuff.com, £9.99Air au Vin.Photograph: Richard Saker/the Observer“Without manual aeration wine often has to breathe for half an hour or so — I decanted a ’92 vintage the other day and it wasn’t ready even after an hour and a half. This is nice, but it’s a bit fiddly and it isn’t very comfortable to use; my finger keeps getting trapped.“The extending nozzle feels a bit flimsy, but it would be really practical if you were on the road or having a picnic.”Menu Wine Thermometer,johnlewis.co.uk, £21.60Menu Thermometer.Photograph: Richard Saker/the Observer“I think that’s a great little thing. It looks really sexy, like a digital watch, and it’s incredibly easy to use. If you’re keen on wine, and you don’t have a temperature-controlled fridge, you can just whack this around the bottle and keep an eye on it. British people usually drink their white wine freezing cold, but sometimes it’s worth monitoring the temperature and taking it more seriously. It would make a great Christmas gift.”Le Creuset wine pump,johnlewis.com, £8.40Wine pump.Photograph: Richard Saker/the Observer“We use these here. You apply the pump to the rubber cork and it sucks the air out of the bottle to keep it from oxidising: cheap and very effective.“You can use it to keep your fizz fizzy as well, but from a flavour-profile perspective you really shouldn’t let sparkling wine sit for very long anyway.”Bimale bottle opener,madeindesign.co.uk, £35Bimale bottle opener.Photograph: PR“This is vitally important if you have old stock. Old cork starts to crumble, so if you go in with a corkscrew it can split. You slide these tongs down the sides of the cork and then you turn it, rather like opening a bottle of champagne. It’s a skill, you have to learn how to do it properly, but it’s a lovely tool. Still, for everyday wines the best corkscrew in the world is the waiter’s friend. Two or three quid. Amazing.”Bosch IXO Vino electric screwdriver,amazon.co.uk, £31.99Bosch IXO Vino.Photograph: Richard Saker/the Observer“This is the kind of thing that would be really good for people who like electric pepper grinders. It’s really noisy, and I managed to do it wrong on my first two tries, either because I didn’t drill deep enough or because I didn’t pull hard enough. I embrace people not taking wine too seriously, but it’s not my cup of tea.”Enomatic Enoliving,enomatic.co.uk, £1,595Enomatic Enoliving.Photograph: Richard Saker/the Observer“In a bar setting, Enomatics are big, computerised dispensers that allow you to taste lots of different wines – they use them in specialist places like Hedonism and the Sampler. Like the Coravin, it pumps argon into the bottle to displace the air. I think they’re fantastic, but this mini version isn’t temperature-controlled, so I can’t see the point. It’s just a machine that dispenses wine for you and keeps it fresh for 10 days – the price is ridiculous.”Champagne sabre,johnlewis.com, £119Menu sabre.Photograph: Richard Saker/the Observer“Saberingchampagne is a party trick: you run the sabre along the bottle’s seam and it just fires the top off the bottle. It takes a lot of practice but it’s the perfect showoff’s gadget. I’ve seen people sabre champagne with a breadknife, but if you’ve got a hundred quid to throw away, why not?”
Are you a gadget fiend or a technophobe?Somewhere in between. I couldn’t live without my iPad and iPhone and never leave home without them.How has technology changed a TV presenter’s work?Not hugely. I get scripts emailed to me, rather than biked, which saves trees. I hosted an awards ceremony recently and it was the first time that my script was on an iPad. Sports presenters are doing that more, as it enables them to wander around. I don’t do meetings over Skype, I prefer them in person. I like human contact.Are you a phone junkie?I am during working hours but I’m pretty militant at home. During my children’s bathtime, for example, I put my phone out of reach, on silent. Dinner is a no-phone zone too. I was once replying to a text when my five-year-old was in the bath and she said: “Mummy, would you rather be on your phone than listen to me?” It made me realise how distracted we are by technology.Why did you get involved with the kids’ gaming system LeapTV?There’s a five-year age gap between my girls but it’s something they can play together and have a brilliant time. I love that it’s educational, active and safe. It lets them practise spelling and maths, it gets them moving, and you can leave them to have screen time, knowing they’re not going to chance across anything dodgy.Are they big gamers anyway?They’re totally into it. They’re always hijacking my iPad, although they’re not allowed to take it into their bedrooms. They’ve got to keep it in the communal space – that’s one of the rules in our house.About 80% of the apps on my phone and iPad are theirs. My screens are always cracked from drops or covered in sticky fingerprints. I’m always having to delete stuff because they’ve filled up the memory.Were you into gaming as a kid?Only Snakes &amp; Ladders (laughs).Are you an Apple addict?Yep, but my husband [fellow TV presenter Vernon Kay] is a big advocate of Samsung, so we’ve got a lot of that too.What’s your most expensive gadget?A Samsung telly that is all bells and whistles. It’s gigantic. Vernon chose it, naturally. I might have picked a smaller one myself but you know what men are like with their sport. It takes up half the living room. It’s probably large as life – about the size of a football pitch (laughs).Do you have flash kitchen gadgets?I bought a posh coffee machine last month. Have I used it? Have I heck. It’s so much easier to pop the kettle on. And I shudder to think how many juicers I’ve bought and never used.Do you love or loathe social media?It’s ridiculous, I’m about the last person to get involved with Twitter but I finally have. I’ve only sent about 150 tweets – I need to get more active. I’m going to start Instagramming too.Get me! The whole over-sharing notion was a bit hard for me to get my head around but I’m slowly getting with the programme. Better late than never. I don’t want to become too much of a nanna (laughs).Do you use textspeak or emojis?I’m quite fond of the odd smiley face, occasionally a wink, but that’s as far as it goes.What’s your favourite app?I love Flixster. And I’m obsessed with WhatsApp – it’s changed my life. My sister lives in New Zealand, she’s a teacher, and texting all the time was expensive. Now with WhatsApp, I’ll wake up to photos and videos of her and my nephew. We’re in touch daily now, rather than once in a blue moon. We’re also into Video Star. It lets my girls make their own pop videos – choose a track, special effects, backdrops, then mime along and dance. Dead cool. You can edit them so easily, even my five-year-old can do it. I would’ve loved it when I was a kid.Do you ever star in these masterpieces?Occasionally. Reluctantly. Only when they put the iPad in front of my face and say, “Go on, Mum, do something! Dance!”What gadget would you like to see invented?The ultimate massage machine. Massages are a guilty pleasure but never as pleasurable as you hope. So I’d like something that you lie on and it feels like real hands massaging you. Maybe it can make me a cup of tea and rub my feet at the same time – for those occasions when my husband won’t do it for me.Sounds like you need a robot husband.Yes! That’s exactly what I need. (laughs)Where would you go via time travel?The Tudor period. My daughter’s studying Henry VIII at school, so the whole family have got into it. It’s all so barbaric and fascinating.Do you ever Google yourself?Never have, never will. There lies the road to destruction.Do you have any trouble with trolls?Not really. Everyone seems very friendly on Twitter. But you’ve got to let anything like that wash over you, get on with your job and enjoy your life.Quick questions: alarm clock or mobile?Mobile, but I want an alarm clock so I can turn my mobile off at night. Maybe I’ll ask Santa for an old-fashioned alarm clock with bells on.Online banking or in the branch?Neither. On the phone.Kindle or paperback?Paperback. I love to hold a book, gaze at the cover, flick through the pages. It’s relaxing.Self-service supermarket checkouts or manned?Manned. Self-service tills never work and you end up asking for help anyway. Besides, I quite like chatting to people in the supermarket. We talk aboutStrictly. Sad as I am, I genuinely enjoy talking about it at every opportunity.You worked with Bruce Forsyth for a decade . How tech-savvy was he?Surprisingly savvy, actually. I remember him getting his first iPad and he was thrilled with it. Until then, he hadn’t been doing email, he’d been doing fax (laughs).How about your new co-host Claudia Winkleman?Yeah, Claud’s pretty techie. We text each other all the time.Has technology improved your life?Definitely. It allows you to use your time more productively. If I’ve got an hour hanging around on-set, I can answer emails or pay bills. I find it convenient to work on the go and tailor-make my schedule, especially as a mother of young children. When they go to bed is when I do a lot of my work and technology makes all that possible. On the flipside, we’re available at all hours and our time is no longer ours. We get more done but we can’t turn off. But I wouldn’t have it any other way.Would you like to try Google Glass?It doesn’t really appeal to me. Not just aesthetically but it’d feel cumbersome. I’d rather touch than see. But you never know, I might try it and be a convert.What’s the first thing you’d make on a 3D printer?What? Tell me about this, I’ve never even heard of it. [We briefly explain 3D printing] Oh my God, it’s a revelation. I’m going to be a proper nanna if I’m not careful. Wow. Honestly, I’m going to Google it when you’ve gone and have a proper look. This is the future.The Fifth Elementis coming! (Laughs)Tess Daly is an ambassador for LeapTV, the first educational active video gaming system designed for children. Suitable for those aged 3-8.
Yourwebsitedescribes you as racer, an engine builder, a TV presenter ... and a tea junkie. It’s 11.30am on a Friday. How many cups on the day so far?How many have I had? [Thinks] Seven cups of tea. I’ll probably have 20 before the end of the day.Your GP can’t be happy with that.I’ve not had a problem with it. I sleep all right. I can sleep on a bloody washing line if I want to.People know you best in your two outward-facing roles – as bike racer, or as TV presenter. But you spend the vast majority of your time as a mechanic, servicing trucks. Why?It’s a good balancing act. With the trucks, I’m in at 5.30am. A gearbox in bits, the bloke might be coming to pick up his truck that afternoon ... I’ll think, ‘Bloody hell, I just want to go and race my motorbike.’ But then I go racing for a couple of days and I want to go back and fix my trucks. And when I’m sick of both of them ... I might want to go off and do a bit of filming for TV [he recently presented a second series ofSpeedwith Guy Martinfor Channel 4]. Not very often that day happens, that I want to film. But they all complement each other.You don’t like the TV work as much as the other parts of your life?Channel 4 keep coming up with ideas. If I went in to that work full time, they’d have something for me to do every day, filming-wise. But I’d become one of them – not brainless, because some of them are clever – but a TV presenter. Passionate about anything that they’re told to be passionate about. Such a fake industry. And that’s not me. I wouldn’t want to do that as a job.How hi-tech is the day job, working on trucks? Can it be done with a pair of overalls and a set of spanners, or is it more complicated than that?Not really mate! As long as you’ve got your toolbox ... No, you’ve got all sorts of stuff for trucks. Presses. Welders. Windy guns. Jacks of all shapes and sizes. Parts washers. Loads of different types of oil. Computers. It’s not rocket science, my job, but yeah, it’s not quite as easy as having a set of spanners. You need a lot of gear to fix trucks.How do the computers factor?You plug them in and use them to diagnose problems.Plug them in to the truck?On the dash. And then you can talk to all the separate ECUs [engine control units] on the truck. You can’t work without a computer now. Everything’s changing so fast. Updates all the time – our computer is updated four times a year. It isn’t as easy as just probing about with a torch anymore. You can’t shy away from technology, though, because it’s happening. It’s happening. You just have to go with it. Otherwise what are you going to do? End up working on 40-year-old trucks?Your dad repaired trucks when you were growing up. Does it ever feel like cheating to use computers for someone who grew up in a more manual age of vehicle repair?The computers don’t always tell you what the problem is. Sometimes they just point you in the right direction. It’s not cheating! It’s probably harder now than it was back then. Having said that, engines now – bloody hell – they’ll do like a million kilometres before you have to put a spanner on them. Back 15 or 10 years ago, we’d be rebuilding engines all the time, every month.In what other ways has tech changed the truck business?Last December something calledEuro 6came in – new European restrictions about the amount of nitrous oxide in the exhaust that leaves the engine. All trucks since then have had to meet those restrictions on emissions, by using something called SCR, selective catalytic reduction, in combination with EGR, exhaust gas recirculation ... I started in a truck yard when I was 12 years old, working weekends and school holidays. I remember my eyes would be running with the diesel fumes. Now, the gas coming out the exhaust is nearly as clean as what’s going in. They’re bloody clean now. So many electronics on board.Is that where we’re heading: a world of electric HGVs?I can’t see why it’s not happening now. There’s so much energy recovery to be gained from a truck. So much scope for regeneration because of its weight. You’ve got 44 tonnes’ worth of truck going down a hill and you’ve got to reduce that speed, turn that kinetic energy into another form of energy – heat, the only way to get rid of it, using hydraulic retarders on the gearbox which slow you down, and friction brakes on the wheels which slow you down. That’s wasted energy. You’re wasting so much energy to stop a truck when you could turn that energy into electrical energy, store it in batteries, then use it to boost you up a hill.LikeKERSin Formula One.Yeah. I’m sure truck manufacturers are doing something with [that idea], but I’ve seen no sign of it yet. But that’s the way it will go.I expected you, as a self-proclaimed “pistonhead”, to be more sceptical about electric vehicles.You can’t shy away from what’s happening. And it’s happening. But full electric [vehicles]? I’m not all for that, really. Not until nuclear fusion’s sorted [as a common, consumer source of power]. Otherwise, electrical energy, it’s bullshit, really, for all these green freaks, isn’t it? You know, with hybrids, with electric cars, all you’re doing is burning fossil fuels in a power station, sending it down a power line, and putting it into your car. And what we’re doing is burning fossil fuels in an internal combustion engine. It’s the same end result, you’re just burning a fossil fuel in a different place. When nuclear fusion’s sorted – another 50 years I reckon – that’s when we can make electricity more efficient. Until that day? I think it’s a load of shit.Another hypothetical. Electric trucks ... without drivers?Yep. Coming. In 20 years there’ll be driverless trucks. Put all the truck drivers out of work. But all the trucks will still want looking after, so I’ll be all right. I’m sure it will make for safer driving. When I was starting out as an apprentice, that’s when the electric throttle was coming in. And all the old boys were: “Ooooh, bloody hell, how unsafe’s that, if the electrics fail, it’ll be a disaster ...” Well: electric throttles [have proved] far more reliable than a mechanical setup. They’ve never caused any grief. There is no problem. You can’t shy away from change.What about mechanics’ apprentices now. Is it a harder skill to learn, in a tech-dominant age?Kids now are all bloody Facebook. Internet. They should find it easier. There’s more incentive for them to come in to the automotive industry, maybe. But there’s no interest. We’ve had three apprentices [in Martin’s garage] in the last two years. Good lads. Nice lads. Lovely lads. And bloody useless. We’ve sacked them all. Whenever you turned your back they were on their phones. All they wanted to do was get home, get on the internet. No interest. No spark. Me, I’m still passionate about the job. I can’t get in quick enough in the morning.Why keep on the day job at the garage? Why not take your TV earnings and live an easier life?I dunno. I dunno. I dunno. I love it. I always like the dog to wag the tail. All right, you earn decent money on TV. But I earn decent money on me trucks. The day the TV boys get sick of me, and that day will come – course it will, you’re kidding yourself if you think otherwise – what would I do then? If I was a TV presenter, I would have got in to the luxury trap. Earning mega-money. And the next thing you know they’ve sacked you. The money stops. And you’ve got a massive mortgage. And you think: “Shit. Shit.” And you have a massive breakdown. And you have to go to the Priory.I’ve never got above my station. Nice house. Nice shed. I drive a Transit van and a Volvo Estate. I’ve never lived like a rock star. No mansion. No cocaine habit to fuel. And if everything stopped tomorrow I could quite happily live on my truck wage.Are those really the only vehicles you own, a Volvo Estate and a Ford Transit?My Volvo Estate’s nice, it’s real nice, a 1968 [model], a right rare thing. Dear. And I love my Transit van. It’s mega. Auto-dipping headlights on that. I’ve also got a couple of motorbikes. Three motorbikes. A dirt bike; a bike I’ve built to go and do a race in America this year; and then an Italian bike.What’s your insurance premium like? It wouldn’t take much Googling to find out you like going fast.No lies are told. I’m a truck mechanic from Grimsby. What’s the problem? Motorbike racing is just a hobby, like the TV work. It’s not a job. You don’t have to declare that on your insurance, do you? A hobby? Ask me no questions I’ll tell you no lies.Do you belong to a breakdown service?Ford Transits don’t break down, mate. [Laughs] I’ve never been given anything off Ford. I should be paid to be a spokesman for Ford Transit. But it’s true. Transits don’t break down. You don’t need a breakdown service.You’ve been mountain bike racing a lot recently haven’t you?I probably do that more than motorbike racing now.Because it’s safer? You had that horrendous crash on the Isle of Man that was a feature of the documentary,TT, star of 3D: Closer to the Edge.No, no, not at all. That film we did and the TV ... it’s sort of made racing a bit of a pain in the arse now. Go racing and I can’t have five minutes to myself. I’m not an ungrateful person. The support I get is great. But I can’t have five minutes’ peace. A way around that was to go and race a mountain bike. Sometimes I do 24-hour races. I still love motorbike racing – I love it because it can kill you; that’s why I do it. But the mountain bike racing I do for the mental side.How can you love something because it can kill you?Well, everything in the world has been bloody sanitised with health and safety, hasn’t it. There isn’t really anything left in the world where you can go out and actually kill yourself. I like being in control of my own destiny, really. You can go out racing on your bike, make one little mistake, and that’s it: you’re dead. I love all that. Being so near yet so far.
Price £23,320MPG 74Top speed 130mphA nice man from Volvo phoned me up this week and asked if I’d like to go to a film premiere. How glamorous, I thought, my mind a heady whirl of flashbulbs, red carpets and starlets in strapless dresses. Car manufacturers have long used films as a vehicle (sorry) to give their cars some personality. Where would Aston Martin be without Mr Bond? Would Mini be the quirky lovable motor we take it for without the antics of Mr Bean? But who would Volvo be striking up a movie partnership with? Probably some Scandinavian beauty with a lust for adventure set in a frozen landscape.In fact, the film stars a marmalade-munching bear from Darkest Peru –Paddington. Mr Brown, his adoptive father, is a risk assessor and drives a Volvo. Of course he does. To be fair, Paddingtonwascreated by Mr Bond, Michael Bond, and the new movie is brilliantly funny, warm and touching – though purists may raise an eye at scenes of mild flirtation, transvestism and a bout of light swearing.Safe as houses: the luxurious interior of the V40.The film is a perfect family movie, and what car says family more than Volvo? In 1927 the firm’s founders, Assar Gabrielsson and Gustaf Larson, laid out their vision: “Cars are driven by people,” they said, “and so the guiding principle behind everything we make at Volvo is safety.” Now the company’s stated goal is that by 2020 nobody shall ever be seriously injured or killed in a new Volvo.The latest model to join battle to make that ambition a reality is theV40 Cross Country. It is a pumped version of the more metropolitan V40. From the outside this means juicier suspension, higher ground clearance, bash plates under its nose and tail, and skid plates down each side. But don’t let its rugged looks and aggressive detailing fool you. The Cross Country is a total wuss when it comes to confrontation. It’s been fitted with a host of smart gadgets and gizmos, which Volvo calls IntelliSafe, to keep you, your passengers and your car out of harm’s way. These technologies don’t just keep you in one piece after a crash – theyactivelyprevent a collision happening in the first place, despite your best efforts. At Volvo they don’t recognise the word “inevitable”.The road ahead: the V40 takes technology to new levels.City Safety works at up to 31mph and slams on the brakes if the car senses a low-speed smash. Electronic Stability Control applies just the right amount of brake and reduces engine power to stop you skidding if the car senses the road is greasy. Collision Warning with Pedestrian and Cyclist Detection (Dog Detection is in the pipeline) takes avoiding action if the car senses… you get the idea. Hats off to you if you actually manage to crash a Volvo. Paddington has a gift for mayhem – maybe he should be unleashed as a Volvo test driver?So far, so safe. Stepping past Volvo’s death fixation, what about the living? Inside you’ll find a ménage of stitched leather, tactile rubber and polished chrome, all topped off with a panoramic roof and seven modes of ambient “theatrical” lighting. The new Sensus Connected Touch programme turns the 7in display screen into an onboard computer – you can stream Spotify and access it with a voice-controlled function: simply say the name of a song, and within seconds it’s playing. Then there’s the engine: the V40 is blessed with the powerfully efficient new D4. Fast and responsive, it offers 187bhp on tap, a 0-62mph time of 7.7 seconds and just 104g/km CO2. Round bends, the car feels balanced and agile. On straights, it feels eager and poised. In all, it’s everything you’d expect. And it looks great in marmalade orange.Ice driving with BentleyGet a grip: a Bentley dancing on ice.Bentley’s flagship and highly exclusive ice-driving experience,Power on Ice, will have two extra participants in 2015, after Bentley donated two spaces as prizes for the very first time to a new international charity,Care2Save. All proceeds from a public competition will provide funds to improve excellence in hospice and palliative care around the world. The competition will run from 1 December 2014 to 8 January 2015, with entries costing just £1. There is no limit to the number of entries possible and they can be made through the websitewww.care2save.co.uk/bentley/. Bentley is also donating exclusive gifts for those who buy a number of entries in the charity draw, including a tour of Bentley’s factory in Crewe.Set in the icy north of Finland, Power on Ice elevates the concept of ice driving to the extreme, with the most powerful Bentley line-up yet. Throughout the four-day adventure, the winners will push a range of Bentley cars beyond the limitations of every-day driving, starting with the first ever chance to drive the Continental GT3-R on ice. With expert in-car tuition from Bentley’s ice-driving team and four-time World Rally Champion, Juha Kankkunen, piloting the cars on his personally designed tracks, it is just one part of this amazing event. Hosted at the boutique hotel of Chalet Ruka Peak there are also snowmobile rides, ice-karting and night-time Huskey-sled safari adventures to reindeer farms. Each place normally costs €11,340. Spend a pound or two, raise money for a good cause and maybe end up having the ice-driving experience of a lifetime – sounds like a win win situation...Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
Q I’ve bought my 10-year-old an iPad for Christmas. How do it set it up to stop him stumbling on “adult” content and running up massive data or AppStore bills?Nigel, via emailA The iPad is a great device for kids, with great apps and content for both learning and recreation – Apple realises this and offers lots of good ways to protect you and your child.Restrictions on iOS let you control access to Safari, Camera, FaceTime, Siri/Dictation, AirDrop and CarPlay. They also allow you to disable in-app purchases and set maximum age ratings for all types of content. Restrictions are also protected by a separate pass code to the one used to lock the screen.New to iOS 8 is Family Sharing, which allows purchases to be shared. It also allows you to create special child iCloud accounts that, rather than asking the user for their password when making purchases, will instead prompt parents for permission to purchase .For internet filtering you could use a DNS-based solution likeOpenDNSand its parental controls – this would, however, work only when they’re on networks set up to use your OpenDNS – so if you’re out and about, they’ll have unfiltered access.In lots of cases , this can be solved by educating your child and having trust in them to be sensible. It can also help to talk to them about what they browse and do on the device – it could even give you the opportunity to foster further interest in things they find.Q I want to buy my not very technical parents, both in their 70s, a computerfor Christmas. They just need to send email, use the internet, save a few photos. What is the cheapest machine or laptop? Needs to have a keyboard rather than a touchscreen.Helen, via emailA For people who just need a simple computer, the cheapest option is quite possibly a ChromeBook. On sale directly from Google, starting at £199, they have full keyboards, automatically update themselves and start up quickly – they run ChromeOS, which is essentially a bootable version of Google’s Chrome web browser.It is, however, worth noting that the price comes with some caveats; they don’t need to pay Microsoft for licences of Windows, but some also make some big hardware tradeoffs that you might want to look out for (such as bad trackpads or incredibly squishy keyboards).For simple computing needs, it looks like theAcer C720 Chromebookmight be best. At £199, it’s a very low cost laptop. It also seems to offer hardware that attracts good reviews fromPCAdvisor,TechRadarandEngadget– the only major complaints being related to the browser not being quite enough for a lot of people who need native software like Microsoft Office. The Acer C720 also has an advertised eight hours of battery life, so most people will probably need to charge it only every few days removing the frustration of needing to be connected to a socket all of the time.Q I’d like to encourage my 12-year-old to get into computing or even robotics … I’m planning to buy her aRaspberry Pibut what other accessories would you recommend – an Arduino board?Bruce, via emailA Great question. Computing and robotics are both amazing fields of study and work and a source of fun for those that get into them. Lots of young people have been inspired to get into making games, robots and other software by the likes of the Raspberry Pi.When I saw this, I reached out to Twitter to see what friends would recommend and was greeted by lots of people around that age who are happily building things with their Pis, Arduinos and other electronics who recommended various products. My recommendations are based on the suggestions and feedback I received from them, teachers and parents:Raspberry Pi-basedThe RyanTeck Budget Robotics Kitis both fun and educational. With example code to run on the Pi in several programming languages, you can dip your toes in them all to get started with this Pi-powered robot. It also has plenty of room on board to add your own components, so you could maybe add a Pi Camera, and stream it back to your computer?4tronix Pi2Go-LiteThe Pi2Go is another robotics kit for the Pi that includes things like an ultrasound sensor to allow you to “see” the world in front of the car, as well as obstacle sensors, line sensors, an ultrasonic distance sensor, buttons and LEDs that can all be interacted with from your code.Arduino-basedThe MiroBotwas designed to make it easy for children to start learning about technology and programming. It looks pretty easy to assemble, and is fully open source, so if you grow beyond what it can do, you can extend it yourself to do whatever you want. Maybe try adding ultrasonic sensors and letting it drive itself while avoiding obstacles.Arduino Starter KitFor getting a basic introduction to electronics and interacting with sensors to combine code with the real world, the Arduino starter kit offers enough to dip your toe in the water and build lots of interesting learning projects from around the internet. I’d also recommend theProgramming Arduino Getting Started with Sketchesbook with this to get the most out of it(especially for people who do not have any prior programming experience).OtherLego Mindstormsare a great way to get started with robotics, as you have the creative power of Lego combined with a simple programming environment to create a variety of different robots. This kit is the most expensive of the lot, but for children under 10 especially, it may be worth the money.
Were you to measure significance in column inches, the massive cyber-attack on Sony Pictures would appear to be the story of the week.Company executives had to post notices on office entrancestelling staff not to log into the network when they reached their desks. The company’s entire network had to be taken offline as it grappled with a ransom demand that threatened to release confidential documents and not-yet-released films unless money changed hands.The big question was: who was responsible for the attack? Fevered speculation ledsome people to point the finger at North Korea, on the grounds that one of the forthcoming films,The Interview, poked fun at the country’s leader, Kim Jong-un. This seemed implausible to this columnist: North Korea may be distinctly humourless on the subject of its beloved leader, but seeking a ransom would be uncool even for that nauseating regime.In the event, no money seems to have changed hands: some confidential documents, eg spreadsheets givingsalaries of top Sony executives,made their way online and the embargoed movies began to pop up on piracy sites.Exciting stuff, eh? But the really big cyber story of the past two weeks is less glamorous but rather more worrying in the longer term. It concerns Regin, a piece of malware that has only recently come to light, although it’s been around for years. Thesecurity firm Symantec describes itas “a complex piece of malware whose structure displays a degree of technical competence rarely seen. Customisable with an extensive range of capabilities depending on the target, it provides its controllers with a powerful framework for mass surveillance and has been used in spying operations against government organisations, infrastructure operators, businesses, researchers and private individuals.”The company goes on to speculate that developing Regin took “months, if not years” and concludes that “capabilities and the level of resources behind Regin indicate that it is one of the main cyberespionage tools used by a nation state”.Ah, but which nation states? Step forward the UK and the US and their fraternal Sigint agencies GCHQ and NSA. A while back, Edward Snowden revealed that the agencies had mounted hacking attacks on Belgacom, a Belgian phone and internet services provider, and on EU computer systems,but he did not say what kind of softwarewas used in the attacks. Now we know: it was Regin, malware that disguises itself as legitimate Microsoft software and steals data from infected systems, which makes it an invaluable tool for intelligence agencies that wish to penetrate foreigners’ computer networks.Quite right too, you may say. After all, the reason we have GCHQ is to spy on nasty foreigners. The agency was, don’t forget, originally an offshoot of Bletchley Park, whose mission was to spy on the Germans. So perhaps the news that the Belgians, despite the best efforts of Monty Python, are our friends – or that the UK is a member of the EU – had not yet reached Cheltenham?Spying on friends as well as enemies is an ancient principle of statecraft. It used to be done for reasons of “national security”; now it is done for reasons of “cybersecurity” and therein lies a new problem. What is cybersecurity, really? What are GCHQ and the NSA trying to secure? Is it the security of thecyberspace– ie the internet? Or of some part of the network? And if so, which part?Here, some throwaway lines inone of the Snowden documentsbecome particularly interesting. “The facts contained in this program,” they read, “constitute a combination of the greatest number of highly sensitive facts related to NSA/CSS’s overall cryptologic mission. Unauthorised disclosure… will cause exceptionally grave damage to US national security. The loss of this information could critically compromise highly sensitive cryptologic US and foreign relationships, multi-year past and future NSA investments, and the ability to exploit foreign adversary cyberspace while protecting US cyberspace.”Note that last clause. “Cybersecurity” actually means two things: first, national security, and second, that the only corner of cyberspace that we care about is our own. We can exploit every other virtual inch of it for our own (national) purposes. This gives us carte blanche to, for example, undermine everybody’s online security by weakening the encryption used for commercial transactions; purchase“zero-day exploits”from hackers for use against targeted organisations; and spread malware such as Regin anywhere we goddamn please. Welcome to our networked world.
7.23pmGMTSummaryThat’s it from me, Aisha Gani, and this is the end of the event and day 2 of the Logan Symposium.Issues ranged from protecting whistleblowers, methods of investigation, a speech from Daniel Ellsberg the Pentagon papers whistleblower, what we can expect in the future, strategies of the future and a live video appearance from Julian Assange.Follow more coverage from the Guardian tomorrow.Have a good evening!7.19pmGMTAnd that’s it for questions with Julian Assange.7.18pmGMTI asked Julian Assange how the Guardian “trapped” him in the UK.He said he thought he had one newspaper, a decent newspaper in his corner, and thought he would have a significant chance in legal process.Then he attacked the Guardian, alleging:Assange says that the guardian did everything to get him arrested and pushed for his extradition#LoganCIJ14&mdash; Aisha S Gani (@aishagani)December 6, 2014Assange explains@guardiantrapped him in the UK; &quot;I made an institutional mistake.... rather than individuals, I dealt with an institution&quot;&mdash; Peter Jukes (@peterjukes)December 6, 2014I am sure senior Guardian staff who dealt with Assange will have a different version of events.Updatedat 8.50pm GMT6.57pmGMTAssange is asked about the sexual allegations:“I wish people would understand the details, but no-one wants to report the details.”“I have been detained for four years.”“There is a growing realisation of how unfair it is”, he says.“In Sweden they have also come to greater realisation”, that the prosecution was in violation alleges Assange.Assange asks: It’s extremely interesting that the details of the women in the case, they didn’t want to file a complaint, why aren’t those details reported in the UK?6.52pmGMTHere are a round-up of tweets:&quot;The threat of quantum computation is going back in time and decrypting communications you make now&quot; says Julian Assange to#LoganCIJ14&mdash; Peter Jukes (@peterjukes)December 6, 2014Julian Assange: &quot;If Islamic extremists disappeared, then we&#39;re fucked&quot; in reference to the use of surveillance#LoganCIJ14&mdash; Aisha S Gani (@aishagani)December 6, 2014Assange is talking about rapid biometric signature reading + identification at LoganCIJ14 conference&mdash; Jude Fleming (@flemingjude)December 6, 2014Almost no one uses computer communications in a way that is invulnerable to a targeted attack. - Assange#LoganCIJ14&mdash; Naveen Srivatsav (@sumergoconicio)December 6, 20146.42pmGMTJulian Assange says he has an insight of the UK, and makes a dig at The Guardian:Being trapped in the UK by the Guardian newspaper – that’s why I was here”Adding:I had impression of being patted on the head”Updatedat 6.45pm GMT6.38pmGMTOn the court decision announced yesterday, Assange said he had not read it but:It’s no surprise. I despair of the United Kingdom.”He adds:People born in the UK grow up in a very plastic class system, and it’s why oligarchs prefer to set up home in the UK.”6.32pmGMTAssange says when Edward Snowden was given asylum, supporters were secretive, “but it was speed which gave us the edge”.“And I think that is something to be optimistic about,” Assange adds.He says that yes, big organisations such as the NSA have the resources – but the bigger the organsation the more incompoetemt and useless they are.So the ability to carry out an operation “without cocking it up is pretty low”.6.27pmGMTThe Wikileaks founder says:Let us not think that the only way to be effective is to be secretive. Speed and simultaneity are effective tools as well.Here’s a vine of Assange speaking to the audience via video-link:Updatedat 6.27pm GMT6.19pmGMTAssange begins to discuss international relations, and discusses the intervetion in Libya: “Yes part of that was about expansionist pressure to grab Libyan oil.But he asks “what is the purpose of the National Security Agency?” It’s to achieve power, Assange says. And to get these agencies need resources, according to the Wikileaks founder.Assange says power is found in two ways:Agencies tell the establishment, we can protect you.The other way is the appeal to greed.Assange explains that broadly speaking is the business of securitisation and empire.Adding:If we didn’t have a muslim extremist threat, those organisations would not go away. They would simply roll over and find another excuse.6.13pmGMTKeynote by Julian Assange: on fundamental rightsJulian Assange, editor-in-chief of websiteWikiLeaks, speaks to the auditorium via video-link from the Ecuadorian embassy.AssangePhotograph: The GuardianAssangePhotograph: The GuardianHe begins by asking the audience:How many prisoners in the audience?How many Muslim journalists in the audience?Assange then says that:“What is happening to the Muslim population is a travesty to the human population.”5.36pmGMTAppelbaum, 31, tells the audience: “you need to live in a free society”, if you want to use an iPhone. Which, “currently you don’t”. He explains how the UK government has access to Apple data. According to the cyber-security analyst, he says that people who have grown up post 9/11 only know a security state.He adds that 1984 seems quite quaint now: Britain is a surveillance state.Updatedat 6.02pm GMT5.26pmGMTAppelbaum, connected to Wikileaks, takes a dig at the Guardian saying that we take the security of our content management system (CMS) as seriously as we take the protection of our sources seriously.I think the editors would have something to say about that...Updatedat 5.43pm GMT5.23pmGMTHe recommends using a cryptophone rather than a cell-phone. It works over Tor, and uses IP addresses from phone to phone.Updatedat 5.30pm GMT5.17pmGMTWe are joined byJacob Appelbaum, an American independent computer security researcher and hacker. He was employed by the University of Washington, and is a core member of the Tor project, a free software network designed to provide online anonymity.Jacob AppelbaumPhotograph: Aisha Gani for the GuardianHe says:In Pakistan, a cell-phone is a drone magnet.”Or if you’re using someone else’s phone regularly, maybe you can get them killed instead.”He can’t be in London as he has concerns for his safety, so he’s on video-link but not on Skype, which he calls “absolutely f-ing garbage”:@mensohI&#39;m not using Skype. I don&#39;t use Skype.&mdash; Jacob Appelbaum (@ioerror)December 6, 2014Updatedat 5.18pm GMT4.55pmGMTAnnie Machon, former MI5 intelligence officer, says that currently underRIPAthe product of electronic intercept cannot be used against you in the court of law. But a bugged device in your workstation for example, can be used.Machon says that if intelligence security want to follow you, they won’t have a guy in a grubby coat – there will be around 20 guys following you in a very sophisticated way.You have to be paranoid to escape surveillance, according to Machon. She says the most secure way is to write on a piece of paper and pass it under glass, then destroy the evidence.4.44pmGMTStrategies for survivalWe’re on the fourth session of the day and will have talks by:Annie Machon on operational securitySander Venema on security dilemmas in publishing leaksJacob Appelbaum on anonymityand finally David Mirza Ahmad on adversary resistant computing3.43pmGMTThe veteran investigative journalist says that:Electonic eavesdropping is not new.”He explains how in the 1930’s:The Supreme Court of the US was bugged by corporate America”Here’s a round-up of tweets reacting to Bergman’s speech:#LowellBergmanat#LoganCIJ14speaking about &#39;advocacy journalism&#39; with#CharlesLewis.pic.twitter.com/XGEMSzEGzb&mdash; Alice Harrold (@Alice_Harrold)December 6, 2014Lowell Bergman says that investigating private power is more difficult than government agencies &quot;because they can retaliate&quot;#LoganCIJ14&mdash; Peter Jukes (@peterjukes)December 6, 2014Lowell Bergman advices to check again. And warns: docs can lie#LoganCIJ14pic.twitter.com/WeRYyhv9pW&mdash; Edouard Nguyen (@edouardng)December 6, 2014Today’s Justice Dept is the friendliest to corporate America.#LoganCIJ14&mdash; Naveen Srivatsav (@sumergoconicio)December 6, 20143.27pmGMTLowell Bergman, who won the 2004 Pulitzer prize for public service and is the chair of investigative journalism at UC Berkeley, is now speaking.He says:Always report against your story – see it from each side. The reason why a story isn’t picked up is if it hasn’t received sufficient due diligence – and it hasn’t persuaded the sceptics.Make sure you check your documents “documents can lie”Face to face is always bestUpdatedat 3.29pm GMT3.09pmGMTNext up is Dutch photojournalistKadir van Lohuizen.He talks about his international projects - from Greenland to Bangladesh.The auditorium is shown images from the Bangladesh project, a country which faces rising sea-levels, glacial meltwater from the Himalayan mountains to its north, and a wall is being built between Bangladesh and India. Kadir asks where will the people go?He has set up theNooragency to cover stories visually, around the world.2.52pmGMTLewis says, as he outlines in his book 935 Lies, that the “biggest lies in US history that cost the most lives” is actually the tobacco industry.He says presidents, whether it was Jimmy Carter or Barack Obama, have helped facilitate its trade.He adds that president Obama is spinning more than president Bush – there are fewer reporters in the White House now – and this is a worrying trend.2.41pmGMTCharles Lewis makes parallels between the coverage of Vietnam war and Iraq invasion:Journalist failures: 85% of Americans supported full Vietnam war initiated within 6 days of false invasion, Charles Lewis tells#LoganCIJ14&mdash; Peter Jukes (@peterjukes)December 6, 2014&quot;I looked at great moments when journalists got it right — that wd not be Iraq&quot; Chuck Lewis#LoganCIJ14&mdash; CLARE SAMBROOK (@CLARESAMBROOK)December 6, 20142.35pmGMTCharles Lewisis a Washington-based investigative journalist and is the founder of the Center for Public Integrity in the US.Charles Lewis at the Logan Symposium.Photograph: Aisha Gani for the GuardianLewis is speaking about the invasion of Iraq and asks “what if the public don’t actually want to accept the truth?”“As late as 2012 60% of republicans still think WMD were found in Iraq.”He adds that’s when he realised there was a crisis in journalism.2.23pmGMTVision of times to comeThe auditorium is filling up again –Audience at the Logan Symposium.Photograph: Aisha Gani for the GuardianIn this session we’ll hear from:Charles Lewis speaking “On truth”Kadir van Lohuizen on visual investigationsand Lowell Bergman speaking on multinational companies2.05pmGMTAfternoon sessionWelcome back to the liveblog! I’mAisha Gani, reporter on the Guardian’s news desk and I’ve been covering day 2 of the Logan Symposium – a conference on secrecy, surveillance and censorship. You can follow my tweets:@aishagani. The hashtag for the event is#LoganCIJ14.So far, we have covered whistleblowing and methods for investigation. We also had a special speech from Pentagon papers whistleblower Daniel Ellsberg.1.17pmGMTWe’ve finished the morning sessions now, and I’ll be back liveblogging at 14:00.A1.01pmGMTHere are some reactions on twitter to Daniel Ellsberg’s speech:Daniel EllsbergPhotograph: Aisha Gani for the GuardianEllsberg on#Manningreadiness to be jailed/executed: &quot;I felt the same... I&#39;ve been waiting 40 yrs to hear someone say that&quot;#LoganCIJ14&mdash; David Blood (@davidbjourno)December 6, 2014Official secrets game plan: keep it secret long enough that no one cares or can be implicated.#LoganCIJ14&mdash; Naveen Srivatsav (@sumergoconicio)December 6, 2014&quot;Don&#39;t do what I did&quot; says Daniel Ellsberg in closing speech to#LoganCIJ14: &quot;Don&#39;t wait. Do what I wish I&#39;d done in 1965 or 1966&quot;&mdash; Peter Jukes (@peterjukes)December 6, 2014Governments often get their way, says Ellsberg. &quot;Their secrecy system works.&quot; No efficient leaks prior to Iraq war.#LoganCIJ14&mdash; Christoph Scheuerman (@chrischeuermann)December 6, 2014The US in Syria, bombing both sides of a civil war, is as crazy and murderous as a policy could be! - Ellsberg#logancij14&mdash; Alex Pearlman (@lexikon1)December 6, 2014Updatedat 1.08pm GMT12.55pmGMTSpeech by Daniel Ellsberg – the Pentagon papers whistleblowerDaniel Ellsberg, Pentagon papers whistleblower, says:I identified very much with Chelsea Manning”Ellsberg says that three things matter when whistleblowing:It has to be in masshas to have documentstimelyHe says that Britain’sKatharine Gunis the only mass whisteblower who did it very timely, who leaked the tricks used during the UN Iraq war vote.Updatedat 1.03pm GMT12.40pmGMTDutch writerKarin Spainkis speaking about the mayhem and mishap of medical records in the Netherlands.Karin SpainkPhotograph: Aisha Gani for the GuardianSpaink speaks about a case of how a hacker was able to access medical records, and was able to change data. She said some computers were still using Windows ‘97.Some solutions include:Data hygieneMake data protected and encryptedmedtronic pacemakerKarin SpainkPhotograph: Aisha Gani for the Guardian12.26pmGMTHere’s a round-up of tweets on the Nicky Hager talk:Investigative journalism is about focused work, strategizing, and luck... It&#39;s not just waiting for leakers. - Nicky Hager#LoganCIJ14&mdash; Alex Pearlman (@lexikon1)December 6, 2014Hager: thank god for Snowden and Manning, but investigative journalists can&#39;t wait for the next big thing#logancij14pic.twitter.com/ePRiULzQgX&mdash; Aisha S Gani (@aishagani)December 6, 2014Nicky Hager on the &quot;physics of secrets&quot; - when 1 person is told many can follow so he puts a &quot;ring fence&quot; around him and source#LoganCIJ14&mdash; RosieBeaumont-Thomas (@REJBT)December 6, 2014Even in the age of mass surveillance, good sources will come forward - Hager#LoganCIJ14&mdash; Wong Joon Ian (@joonian)December 6, 201412.18pmGMTNicky Hageris an investigative journalist from New Zealand, and is the next speaker.He says that the first thing police always look for in a search is your mobile phone.He suggests that journalists and IT people need to work together more on projects.12.14pmGMTSpeakers Anne Cadwallader and Paul O’Connor speak about the case of Patrick Finucane, who was a practising lawyer who frequently acted for prominent members of the IRA, and was murdered in his home in North Belfast by the loyalist paramilitary group, the Ulster Defence Association (UDA) on the evening of 12 February 1989.Here’s theofficial report of the Patrick Finucane Review.The report concluded that actions by employees of the State actively furthered and facilitated the murder of Patrick, and that in the aftermath there was relentless attempt to prevent justice and holding those responsible to account.The speakers explain how there is much evidence in the National Archives and in security leak sources.Paul O’Connor speaks about investigating the Patrick Finucane case.Photograph: Aisha Gani for the Guardian11.47amGMTMethods for investigationSo here’s the panel for the “methods for investigation” session, with special guestDaniel Ellsberg(centre), who leaked thePentagon Papersto the New York Times strengthening public opposition to the Vietnam War in 1971.Methods for investigation panelPhotograph: Aisha Gani for the GuardianUpdatedat 12.18pm GMT11.34amGMTThe coffee break is over and next up is a session oninvestigation methods.Anne Cadwallader and Paul O’Connor will talk about how “the truth is out there”Nicky Hager will speak about working with whistleblowers.And Karin Spaink is to speak about medical records.11.03amGMT“The best whistleblower is the one you don’t know about”, says Bea Edwards during the Q&amp;A, and she explains that this shows organisations have protected the identity of the individual well.10.45amGMTHere’s a round up of tweets after the international defense of whistleblowers session:Bea Edwards at#LoganCIJ14is talking about whistleblowers. The subjects are not trivial, Massive corporate fraud or crimes against humanity&mdash; Peter Jukes (@peterjukes)December 6, 2014&quot;We need credible ngos to work with the wistleblowers because no individual can go against big corporations and win&quot;#LoganCIJ14&mdash; E. Papavasileiou (@manosrev)December 6, 2014The awful truth about Darfur and the NSA was only revealed by a whistleblower says Bea Edwards#LoganCIJ14- retaliation can be ruinous&mdash; Peter Jukes (@peterjukes)December 6, 2014Bea Edwards: Problem for whistleblowers is that press want proof, but handing over documents can result in criminal charges#LoganCIJ14&mdash; Elaine A (@el_by_)December 6, 201410.42amGMTBea Edwards says that: If we didn’t have whistleblowers in these various organisations we wouldn’t no they were happening.Bea says that whistleblowers face incarceration and there are very few avenues for compensations or protection. She adds that it has been the press who have best protectedEdward Snowden, or people likeBen-Artzi.Bea says we need credible non-governmental organisations working together, the press and the public and to not just address the crimes exposed but to protect the whistleblower – such as theGovernment Accountability Projectin the US.10.33amGMTBea gives the case study ofEric Ben-Artzi, former analyst at Deutsche Bank, who was black-listed for whistleblowing on international financial crimes.The Wall Street whistleblower wanted to know:How does national law enforcement investigate multinational banking fraud?Here are some tweets from the auditorium:There is no legal apparatus for taking on the international crimes of financial institutions that caused the economic collapse#LoganCIJ14&mdash; Alex Pearlman (@lexikon1)December 6, 2014Bea Edwards &quot;The espionage act is a very blunt tool to use against whistleblowers&quot;#LoganCIJ14&mdash; James Cropper (@JamesCropper95)December 6, 2014Learning about real courage: whistleblowers risk everything in the public interest, with little, if any, protection.#LoganCIJ14&mdash; Duncan Mortimer (@DuncanMortimer)December 6, 201410.25amGMTBea Edwards, executive and international director of the USGovernment Accountability Project(GAP), which is the nation’s leading whistleblower protection organisation, now provides the international defense of whistleblowers.Bea is responsible for the organisation’s actions defending whistleblowers through the Congress, the media and the courts.Bea EdwardsPhotograph: Aisha Gani for the Guardian10.16amGMTWhistleblowingWhistleblowerEileen Chubbgives her testimony of what happens after she whistleblowed on the UK healthcare system.Eileen says that:Your work place becomes a nightmare. The fear of tomorrow is there.”“The trust of the employer is bing lost and that is very hard to compensate.Eileen says that if we don’t protect the protectors, nothing will change, and adds that,next time, I wouldn’t dial “P” for police, but I’d dial “P” for Panorama.”You can read more of her storyhere.Eileen Chubb open the Logan Symposium, and speaks about whistleblowing in the health systemPhotograph: Aisha Gani/the guardianUpdatedat 12.19pm GMT9.57amGMTIntroductionGood morning!Aisha Gani here liveblogging day two ofThe Logan Symposium, a gathering in London of journalists, hacktivists, legal and security experts and artists to discuss topics including secrecy, surveillance and censorship.It’s organised by charity the Centre for Investigative Journalism and Goldsmiths, University of London. Over its three days, the event will host speakers including Seymour Hersh, Laura Poitras, John Pilger, Sarah Harrison, Julian Assange, Annie Machon and Jacob Applebaum.The Guardian will be covering each day of the conference, starting with today’s lineup of talks covering journalism; surveillance systems; the Edward Snowden revelations and other leaks; and the past and future of hacking.Expect updates throughout the day of the key points made by speakers, as well as links to any longer reports on the individual sessions.Follow my tweets and vines at@aishaganiUpdatedat 8.53pm GMT
One of this year’s hottest Christmas presents is no longer available in the shops. Two months after Appleannounced the demise of its iPod Classic MP3 player, the model is selling secondhand for up to four times its original price as aficionados clamour to get their hands on one.With a storage capacity double the size of any current iPods still being made, versions of the 160GB Classic – which can hold around 40,000 songs – are being sold as new via Amazon for up to £670. More than 3,000 of the models – the seventh, final version came out in 2010 – have been sold on eBay since the Classic was retired in October, most for between £350 and £500.Even refurbished older models now cost far more than the £229 for which the later generations retailed.After Apple quietly pulled the Classic from its website, chief executive Tim Cook said the company no longer had access to the components and a redesign would have been too demanding.As long ago as January 2013,Stuffmagazine recommended buying an iPod Classic before it was too late, predicting it would double in price as soon it went into retirement. Editor Will Dunn lamented the product’s demise: “There’s still a huge affection for the iPod Classic and it’s not hard to see why – Spotify might offer 20 million songs, but 120GB of music is more than most people need, and your iTunes library doesn’t carry data charges or a subscription fee. Also, I think the Classic is a more distraction-free listening experience – I’m more likely to get through a full album on one.”The iPod Touch has taken the Classic’s place as the Apple product with the biggest capacity, albeit only up to half of what used to be readily available. Dunn said he could not see the company making the Classic again, but another firm could step into the gap. “The iPod’s days have been numbered since the first iPhone, and the subscription model shows no signs of slowing down. Apple itself is transitioning into music subscriptions with iTunes Radio, and Google has just started trialling YouTube Music Key,” said Dunn.“Another company could make something equally good – there are some nice premium players like Sony’s ZX1 and the Astell &amp; Kern devices – but I don’t think I’d buy one. I have a smartphone that takes 128GB microSD cards; there are apps like doubleTwist that sync iTunes with Android and I have enough things in my pockets already.”However, not everyone has been happy with their secondhand purchases. After buying one last week on Amazon and giving it a one-star review, Ian Murray said: “Rubbish company advertised as grade B – it was scratched, dented and screen had lines through it. It was only fit for the bin.”The iPod Classic is not the first retro gadget to be surging in popularity again . Anna Wintour, editor-in-chief ofAmerican Voguewas spotted at the US Open tennis tournament this yearclasping a flip phoneof the type seldom seen since around a decade ago. Rihanna has also returned to using a pre-smartphone era handset, while Iggy Poprecently confessed he owned a clamshell phone.Versions of the Nokia 8210, epitomising an era when consumers wanted the smallest phone possible, are also ballooning in price in the secondhand market. Similar-sized Ericsson and Motorola phones are on retro websites for hundreds of pounds.Djassem Haddad, who started the sitevintagemobile.frin 2009, said: “Some people don’t blink at the prices. The high prices are due to the difficulty in finding models which were limited editions in their time.” A Nokia 8800 Arte Gold was recently listed on his site for £810, while a Nokia 8800 could be bought for a more affordable £200.Haddad had been hoping to explore what he believed to be a niche market, but since last year sales have taken off, partly due to older handsets being more secure – as they do not connect to a cloud network, they cannot be hacked into so easily.
Just as it feels all wrong wearing tights in July, mid-November is not the best time of year to test a soft top in the north of England. Alas, Citroën’s promotional cycle does not run to the same schedule as the Mancunian seasons, which is how I came to be zipping around the soggy autumnal streets in the C1 Airscape, waiting for an opportunity to try out the retractable fabric roof without getting wet.Every time I even thought about taking the top off, the heavens would open and I’d crank the windscreen wipers into overdrive instead. Only once during my happy week with the C1 did I get to feel the wind in my hair, returning from working on a story down a saltmine in Cheshire. After a couple of hours under the ground learning about trunk road gritting, I emerged into the sunlight in need of fresh, non-salty air, my eyebrows caked with grubby crusts like an unwashed Arctic explorer.This is my moment, I thought, leaving Winsford. I reached up to activate the roof. Then it started raining again and the salt dissolved into my eyes, which is not terribly helpful when bombing along an A-road.Luckily the C1 is designed with the partially sighted in mind. The touchscreen display uses a font of such grand proportions that the driver behind can almost certainly read it, too. It’s a car for people who aren’t very good at driving: a message pops up on the dashboard telling you to shift up or down a gear as appropriate. There’s also a reversing camera and Hill Start Assist, which holds the car steady for two seconds on gradients over 3%. The headlights come on when it’s dark and turn off when you remove the key from the ignition.The C1 is basically a girl’s car: Citroën advertises it as “sassy” – an adjective never deployed to reel in male consumers. Given that it shares its mechanical running gear and much of its bodywork withToyota’s AygoandPeugeot’s 108, more effort has gone into making it look snazzier than its rivals than into making it drive smoothly. I had to put my foot down to get it going, but I enjoyed being seen in it. I’m pretty sure my colleagueJess Cartner-Morleyhas written a column before explaining why red and black do not belong together – it’s a bit office Christmas party – but I thought it looked the biz. I loved the tarty juxtaposition of lipstick-red roof and wing mirrors, and shiny black body, even if it is reminiscent of a box of Black Magic. I only wish it had been summer.Citroën C1 AirscapePricefrom £11,785Top speed106mphAcceleration0-62mph in 11 secondsCombined fuel consumption65.7mpgCO2 emissions99g/kmEco rating8/10Tarty rating9/10
7.17pmGMTFinally, a roll call of “persecuted journalists and hackers” read by actor Francis Magee to finish off the day, and remind the audience that some of the people who couldn’t attend this event are facing the greatest risks.Apologies, a Vine is just a six-second snapshot from a long, long list. But it’s a fitting way to bring the day to a close.7.13pmGMTHarrison is asked about getting these messages across to the general public. “Just education, and keeping on that. I’ve had conversations with some people, it was actually a revelation that the internet is physically carried by cables across the world! In this age of Wi-Fi, people just think the internet is something magically in the air.” she says.“It’s interesting being in Germany whilst these revelations are coming out, there’s still in living memory the history of surveillance here that was in a much more physical way. There’s a bit more of an understanding here that even if you can’t see it, the concept of this surveillance, the taking away of our rights, is hugely problematic... It’s important not to give up.”7.10pmGMTHarrison says one good outcome from the NSA revelations has been more journalists understanding encryption technology – or if not understanding it yet, being open for the need for it – which she says makes it easier for WikiLeaks to work with them. “Now it’s quite easy when I say we’ll have to train you in some encryption methods, most journalists are actually quite pleased to have that training,” she says.“The NSA revelations haven’t necessarily made a large impact on how we’ve had to work ourselves,” she adds. “People do get now that people like Julian and Jake [Jacob Appelbaum] are not actually paranoid, they’re just correct, which is nice.”Could things get worse on the surveillance front? “It doesn’t mean that all is necessarily lost. Encryption does work. People do need to be trained to understand the technologies so they can protect themselves... It really is up to the technical community to help all members of the public find ways to protect themselves.”7.06pmGMTHarrison has some advice for journalists, suggesting that they can follow Glenn Greenwald’s recent career path: “Do the work that you see as correct... and if you feel at any point that you’re being prevented... your pieces are being too editorialised, or you want to publish a piece that the media organisation doesn’t have the guts for, you should not only go it alone, but make some noise about it... make sure the public knows that the information is being filtered.”7.02pmGMTHarrison is asked about the crackdown on press freedom being matched by a less-reported “civil rights crackdown” on the Muslim community by one audience member. Is that something she has views on? “I completely see what you’re referring to. One of the biggest issues is this: the government in the UK and the US as well, they like to use the rhetoric of national security, terrorism etc, basically as propaganda tools to give them the cover to operate in all sorts of abusive ways,” she says.“I don’t think this is questioned enough. If you look at the statements that the US government said about us when we released the Iraq war logs and Afghan war logs, they tried to say we had blood on our hands. Which is quite extraordinary when we’re exposing the tens of thousands of deaths at the hands of the US... This is all done under this guise of national security, and it’s really created problems within the UK and US communities and media on how to deal with Muslim communities, and to understand that it’s not okay for anybody’s rights to be broken... The press in the UK really needs to grow some balls for the most part.”6.59pmGMTShe talks about the Courage Foundation, which spawned from WikiLeaks’ involvement in helping Edward Snowden travel from Hong Kong to Moscow.“We saw that there was a need, and hence we started up Courage, which basically is a whistleblower support organisation. The unique part about Courage is it’s not only global, but it’s being set up specifically for these high-risk cases to help in some of the most dangerous circumstances of whistleblowers to get them the help that they need.”But then it’s questions from the audience. First, John Pilger’s earlier speech about WikiLeaks being airbrushed out of the story of recent leaks in comparison to Snowden and Greenwald. “I think that there has been a lot of, and I don’t really see it as particularly helpful or correct, people like to try and draw these comparisons. Who’s better or who’s achieved more?” she says.“If you look at the case of Snowden and Assange, they’re completely different beings. Edward Snowden is a whistleblower, Julian Assange is a journalist and a publisher. Snowden did a heroic act, and Julian’s life work – starting of WikiLeaks and also the work he did before then – shows great bravery. People who draw these comparisons, it’s about maybe their own misgivings, or they’re playing into the government rhetoric too much.”6.52pmGMTThe UK's &quot;large crackdown on press freedoms&quot;Sarah Harrison Skypeing in to the Logan Symposium.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianThe last speaker at The Logan Symposium is WikiLeaks journalist Sarah Harrison, who is also acting director of the Courage Foundation, which raises money for the legal and public defence of journalistic sources. She’s now based in Berlin, and like Laura Poitras has been advised not to travel to the UK for legal reasons, so is Skypeing in her session.“The UK is having what I think is a large crackdown on press freedoms. It’s under the Terrorism Act that the intelligence services went into the Guardian’s offices... it’s what they used to detain David Miranda, and it’s the reason my lawyers have advised me not to go home,” she says, calling for a campaign in the UK to demand that journalists not be muzzled by legislation intended for terrorists.6.41pmGMTFinally, what has she learned in all her work about the consequences of what the NSA and GCHQ are doing? “I do think that in a strange way, being put on a watch list made me a bit resilient, and ready to handle the story,” she said. “And Snowden learned from other whistleblowers... I think that’s partly the good news. That people are willing to take risks to expose injustice or wrongdoing.”6.35pmGMTAnother question: the harshest reactions to the Snowden revelations seem to have come from the UK rather than the US – the detainment of Glenn Greenwald’s partner during an airport transfer, for example, and that hard-drive destroying Guardian incident. Why?“Your analysis is clearly right... certainly the response has been the most anti-free-press, and really attacking the reporting in a way that we haven’t seen on the same level in the US,” she says, but declines to suggest why. “Perhaps someone in the room who is from the UK can answer that one.”Finally, she’s asked about how she keeps the raw material for her films safe, after it’s been shot. When she flew to Hong Kong she had multiple, encrypted hard drives, and giving them to a local contact so they weren’t stored in her hotel room.“I was very concerned that we could be raided, and that everything could be taken. I had everything backed up – I’m religious about backing up, it’s essential – and the film I shot there’s one copy in Hong Kong, and I travelled with the other.”Updatedat 6.39pm GMT6.30pmGMTShe’s asked about how she conveys “empowerment through technology” to her fellow journalists. “One of the effects of this story is probably a lot more journalists have learned to use encryption, because they care about source protection – which I hope they do! – but also to be prepared if they ever get a knock on the door.”She admits that it can be difficult to get some of the tools required for her work – video editing, for example – that are free [secure] software. “At some point it becomes a case of what is your threat model versus what you want to accomplish. When it comes to protecting sources, we have an obligation to use technology that we believe to be secure,” she says, before addressing hackers directly:“The challenge is on you right now to build tools that people like me can use. Although I did figure out how to get Tails running, it wasn’t easy: there was a learning curve. I had enough information to know that it was essential, but not every journalist does. So it’s important that we focus on building tools that are easy to use, and which don’t require such a steep learning curve.” Something Seymour Hersh also talked about earlier in the day.6.26pmGMTQuestions from the audience: one about the difference between the Guardian and the Washington Post, in their treatment of the Snowden leaks. She talks about her personal (and just as importantly, encrypted) connection with Bart Gellman from the Washington Post, which is why one story was given to him.She talks about the effort she put into getting Glenn Greenwald, then of the Guardian, onto an encrypted connection, and then to meet her in New York ready to work on the story.“The Post were going to go, and then they pulled out, and I was in this kind of limbo phase, when I couldn’t reach Glenn with encryption, and the Post had pulled out, and the Post’s lawyers were advising me not to go,” she says. But as soon as Greenwald got on an encrypted connection and heard Poitras’ story, he “jumped straight on a plane and we went to Hong Kong.”6.21pmGMTWhat has this all been like for Poitras personally, and what is her life like in Berlin? “On the one hand, this has definitely been the scariest film I’ve ever made. I’m very aware of angering people who are really powerful, who operate in the shadows. I’ve felt a lot of fear working on this film,” she says.“On the other hand, being in Berlin has been absolutely extraordinary... it’s been a joy. It’s a coming together of people who are willing to take risks, and form a community. And that’s a great thing.”6.15pmGMTWhy did Poitras share this story with journalist Glenn Greenwald, when she could have kept it to herself and bagged all the glory, wonders moderator Laura Flanders. She says it’s because she defines herself as a filmmaker – a visual storyteller. “This was clearly a print story. And it wasn’t just one journalist’s print story, it was a big story,” she says.“It’s partly because I didn’t move up from a print newsroom background, so I didn’t feel proprietary relationship to breaking stories... I certainly felt an obligation to getting the information out, and for the security of the material.”More on those suspicions of entrapment: Poitras talks about the story of Sabu,the Lulzsec leader who became an FBI informant, and says this is the environment she was working in. She even asked Snowden that: “How do I know you’re not crazy? How do I know you’re not trying to entrap me?” His reply: “You’ll know that I’m not trying to entrap you because I’m not going to be asking anything of you.” Poitras adds that “he appreciated my paranoia.”6.10pmGMT'There was a lot of fear in these organisations'Poitras talks about her conversations with various media organisations in the run-up to meeting Snowden in Hong Kong. “One thing I’d like to stress in all of this, I think in retrospect, journalists and media organisations think of this as a big story that any news organisation would wanna get, but in truth there was a lot of fear in these organisations. And the Washington Post decided in the end not to send Bart Gellman, because they were worried about some of the risks.”She says there was also nervousness within the Guardian. “The decision to publish this information didn’t come without some risk-taking from a lot of people.” She is asked abouther comment about a “freak out” in Hong Kongby a newspaper organisation, referred to earlier in the day.“The Guardian, because it was the US intelligence agency that they were reporting on, maybe felt that it was less risky for them,” she says. But as GCHQ came into the story, she says that “when some of those documents made it to London, they had a bit of a freak-out... and there was a person who came to Hong Kong to help us with some technical things was instructed to destroy some material. But nothing was lost.”Updatedat 6.17pm GMT6.07pmGMTA liveblogger’s eye view of a Skyped-in keynote:6.06pmGMTLaura Poitras speaking at the Logan Symposium.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianNext up is documentary-maker Laura Poitras, beaming in via Skype to talk about her work with NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden, including details of how she communicated with him, and some details of working with the press.She corresponded with Snowden over the course of five months using encryption technology, including theTails operating system, which Poitras hadn’t used before. The person who set it up for her asked “who’s your adversary”, and when being told it was the NSA, replied “Oh, that’s quite a serious adversary!” – this drew a laugh from the audience.Poitras says she had a gut feeling early on in her communications with Snowden that he was a legitimate source with information to reveal that would have a great impact. “I was very concerned or cautious about the risk of there being potentially some kind of entrapment. And that wasn’t an unfounded risk,” she says. “I was very cautious to make sure there was nothing suspicious about our communication, because I was very aware it could be an elaborate entrapment attempt.”5.44pmGMTSo, Fix has some suggestions on how hackers can keep their value system from deteriorating. One rule: “Let us begin to appraise hacks no longer by their technical brilliance alone, but also by their usefulness to make the world a better place,” he says. “And us means everybody, not just hackers. In fact, especiallynothackers... I would love people everywhere talking about the usefulness of a hack, as much as they do its technical details.”Fix updates Karl Marx’s famous “religion is the opium of the people” quote (well, a paraphrasing). “Internet is opium for the people. Don’t get me wrong, I love the internet, I am convinced it can take an important role in the transformation of societies,” he says. “But the internet has one downside: people often use it as an escape from reality. Much cheaper than drugs too... It can lift the burden of caring for the real world... Who cares about the total surveillance that comes with it over the same cables? Well, we do.”Fix wants hackers to act. “Nothing is more important than to get things done,” he says. “Only ask yourself is what you are doing legitimate. Don’t care about legality... And therefore we have to consider everything political. There is no escape from that. The time for the playfulness that was mentioned earlier? I think it is gone... This is about our future. Let us start hacking it.”5.36pmGMTBernd Fix at The Logan Symposium.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianFinally, in this session, Bernd Fix – a German hacker and security expert – to talk about the future of hacking. But he started with its history: famous hacks by the Chaos Computer Club, warning the audience not to be taken in by the legends that have sprung up around them.“But we as hackers did something right in the past... our aim was never the information society. What we struggled for was the informed society,” he says. “We should carry that into the future, and not all these fancy hacks that we talk about.”He compares the fascinating with hackers by “the establishment” today to that shown towards foreigners as “noble savages” centuries ago, and warns of fragmentation and hierarchy among the current hacking community, which he worries are “neglecting solidarity with our own kind... but even worse is the influence of commercialisation.”How so? “Believe it or not, there are so-called hackers with software patents. That’s like a non-smoker with a cigar! For me, that’s completely crazy. They start releasing software just as open source, but not as free software. And they think it’s fine to use Apple hardware ad Faceboogle [sic] services, and even worse, some think it’s okay to work for such companies!”Updatedat 5.39pm GMT5.26pmGMTNext up: an academic history of “hacking Europe” by Ruth Oldenziel from Eindhoven University of Technology and Gerard Alberts from the University of Amsterdam, based on their book of the same name.Alberts’ section of the presentation focuses on “the playfulness of hacking culture” in Europe, during the Cold War. “Play was a quintessential element to the culture of personal computing... hackers were the first to create the space to play in,” he says.Oldenziel adds that the context of this play is very important, talking about the scene in 1989 a few months before the Berlin Wall came down, and criticising the “US-centric” story about how the internet came about. She talked about the role hackers played in the 1980s in Europe “filling the void” left by companies like IBM, who she suggests weren’t interested in Europe.She talks about engineers tinkering with computers in Yugoslavia in 1983; the Greek computing community getting together in a football stadium in 1987; and the Computer Bus Dutch Housewives Association in 1985 – a photo of what looks like a bus full of older Dutch women learning to use computers is shown at this point – as well as the rise of hacker culture in Amsterdam between 1989 and 1993.Oldenziel talks about Amsterdam hackers’ desire to rethink the internet as “a public place... a public square. We had a huge hacker culture that was on a par with the British”. And finally, she talks about the Czech RONJA community in the late 1980s and early 1990s, with its DIY wireless device that people could build themselves to get connected.4.55pmGMTHow many conferences mix a play in with the panel sessions? This one does. Wau-Pengo 1989 is based on the transcript of an encounter between a hacker caught spying for the KGB, and the founder of the hacking club who felt betrayed by his actions.4.02pmGMTOne quick additional comment from Ross Anderson, who was asked about Facebook-owned messaging app WhatsApp recently introducing encryption.“The reaction of the tech industry to Snowden has been helpful,” says Anderson, who also describes Google’s engineers as “hitting the roof” at some of the Snowden revelations of backdoor access by the NSA.“There’s a determination to see to it that the spooks only get stuff through the front door. The WhatsApp decision is part of it, as is the Apple move to encrypt the iPhone, as is Facebook becoming available through Tor.”He talks about attempts by GCHQ in the UK to “bully” Facebook into making information available to the authorities. “If I were Mark Zuckerberg, the only rational reques to that would be for in the future, every request from GCHQ to go through our lawyers. And that will take six months.”3.53pmGMTOlia Lialina at The Logan Symposium.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianDuring the break, I wanted to come back to the talk just after John Pilger from Olia Lialina, an author, net artist and “animated GIF model” who talked about the digital art she’s making around topics such as censorship and technology access.One of her projects is an archive of GeoCities websites, from the early days of mainstream access to the web. “It is supposed to be the most bad-taste of online productions,” she said.“But these are not just funny pages made by amateurs. This is a tradition of working online where you are completely controlling the presentation, the look of what you do. It is a time that should be very dear for us... a lot of choices and decisions were made by users, not by the developers.”Lialina also talked about language, and the move within the online design world to talk less about “users” and more about “people” – something she’s not a fan of. She showed a poster from Facebook’s headquarters with the word “users” crossed out in favour of “people”.“Do you think people from Facebook see you as [more of] a real person, because they have it on the poster?” she asked. “User is not somebody who is dumb. It can be somebody who didn’t write the program, but it can be somebody that did.”Lialina also talked about civil rights beyond privacy: “the right to log out” and “the right to undo”, which she sees as being eroded by modern internet services and devices like smartphones.3.43pmGMTFinally, the environment. Anderson talked about news sites being encrypted, so it’s not obvious who read what, and it also makes targeted censorship harder: “Iran must block it all, or not at all,” he says, by way of example. “And as more and more people encrypt their website the choke point for most investigators – those without NSA-level powers – have to move through mutual legal assistance,” he says. Which is a slower process.His conclusion: “It doesn’t make sense to build special systems to support investigative journalism, any more than gumshoes need special hotels or cars. It makes you stick out a mile... Remember this phrase: anonymity loves company.” He warns that journalists can’t just set a policy and technology and stick to it: they have to keep reassessing it in response to “what the spooks actually do”.Which, Anderson noted, comes back down to tradecraft.3.37pmGMTAnderson says that “many nuggets of information themselves are highly disclosive”, citing medical records as an example where even “anonymised” data can be surprisingly rich, when queried in detail. “Show me the medical records of all 48 year-old women with a nine year-old daughter both of whom have psoriasis”.“If somebody at Whitehall leaks you some stuff, even if you use the most stringent security measures, you’ve got to think really hard about whether you’re going to burn your source,” he says, moving on to tradecraft. 20 years ago, a journalist would try not to compromise their sources by having a way for sources to “walk in”; meet them somewhere innocuous; make sure they weren’t being followed; and would try not to use phones that might be tapped.And now, in the internet era? He says the main source of tradecraft is common sense, then a study of cases where the authorities have made a real effort to get access to data on sources. But also now the Snowden revelations, which he sees as a valuable source of information on how to protect journalistic sources from NSA snooping.3.30pmGMTThe next speaker is Ross Anderson, professor of security engineering at Cambridge University, talking about the systems that investigative journalists need post-Snowden, analysed at three levels: the science and engineering, the tradecraft and the environment.On the first of those: he cited some of the problems of public key cryptography: man-in-the-middle attacks where “the NSA guy pretends to be you to your source, and pretends to you that he’s your source”, and also the fact that “if you’re the only guy in Burma using PGP, you’re going to be conspicuous!”Anderson talks about anonymous technology Tor, and the fact that it “sucks” for GCHQ, but he warns that it’s not a solution everywhere – countries like China and Iran try to block it – and that it has some other limitations.“Anonymity loves company: you can only hide in a crowd,” he notes. So some systems for secure communication don’t have enough users for general-purpose use. “The fact that you’ve got it on your phone is a dead giveaway.” Anderson says mass market tools like Skype and Gmail can be surprisingly good instead “if we get the tradecraft right”.Anderson talks about censorship-resistant systems, including filesharing clients. Why them? “As Snowden tells us, the NSA throws all this stuff away... they take all the peer-to-peer stuff and they throw it in the bin bucket. There’s too much of it. Does that give anybody ideas?”3.21pmGMTHis fifth point: the technical complexity of reporting on leaks like the Snowden documents. It may make sense for journalists to focus on stories that are easier to understand for a mainstream audience, in this case, rather than the more complex aspects that need deep technical knowledge to understand.Sixth: overcoming abstraction: in Germany, Angela Merkel’s phone calls being listened to caused a huge stir, but the monitoring of online activity by 80 million citizens was comparably uncontroversial. Müller-Maguhn says it’s key to make people understand the impact of global surveillance operations for their life, economy and country. And he wants more people to understand that “crypto and operational security can help you” is also important.And finally, Müller-Maguhn talks about dealing with journalists in situations of confrontation: having to go to confront agencies like the NSA when a story is being worked on. And he warns of human aspects: some journalists might not want to “be rude to an NSA guy” who they see as a valuable contact.He also criticises the idea of “balanced reporting” as an obstacle in some cases. “If we’d had this in Germany: ‘Oh, shouldn’t we ask the Nazis, and have a statement from them on the killing of the Jews? We have to make balanced reporting right?’... If we’re talking about massive violation of human rights worldwide, I’m not sure if this is a great point to discuss.”3.12pmGMTSo, that criticism for journalists. What “specific media mechanisms, limitations and implications” does he see in the Snowden leaked documents process? The first is titled simply “shitting in the pants”. What? He refers tothe claim by Laura Poitrasthat one British newspaper had a “freak out” and started destroying some of the Snowden documents.The second: legal considerations of the main actors. Snowden handed his materials to two American journalists, which in turn brought them to the attention of US lawyers, with some specific restrictions over how that material could then be used and distributed. “The judgement of what is public interest becomes the key of the whole thing: if the US audience and the US judge think it was not public interest, then from an American legal point of view, you’re fucked.”His third point: that question of public interest. “Which audience are we talking about?” says Müller-Maguhn. The public interest for the Chinese population would be different to the US population, perhaps. “We de-prioritise the human rights of non-American people,” he says. “It’s sad to see that kind of attitude goes into this kind of publication process.”Fourth: the perception of “legitimate action by the NSA” and whether reporters would have “blood on their hands” for publishing the leaked documents. The publication process has often been about this question: “The narrative of terrorism. The narrative of criminal activity... If we look at the war on drugs, the war on this, the war on that, the question of legitimate activity is a complex one, and also a political one I would say.” And this is why Snowden deliberately handed that decision over to the journalists that he worked with.On the blood-on-the-hands theory: is there more blood on the hands of journalists and whistleblowers if they do publish, and intelligence agents suffer, or if they don’t publish, and activities their agencies are carrying out – Müller-Maguhn cites drone strikes on individuals – continue. “We are in the shit anyhow. It’s just a question of the depth of the shit that we’re in!”Updatedat 3.14pm GMT3.00pmGMTAndy Müller-Maguhn of the German Chaos Computer Club is the next speaker – I’ve missed one, Olia Lialina, but will come back to the tablet notes on her talk in a bit. Müller-Maguhn is talking about “working with the Snowden revelations”, and is promising some more criticism for journalists.But he starts by talking about a project calledTreasuremap, which aims to build “a near real-time, interactive map of the global internet” tracking people and devices – and what it means in the context of the NSA structure, and the structure of that agency within the US government.It’s a presentation that’s perhaps more understandable for a hacker or an expert on the NSA’s structure, just to warn you. But Müller-Maguhn moves on to how the data collected by the NSA is being used, using terminology from the east German Stasi – “Kompromat” – roughly translated as “that stuff you don’t want to have public” for any citizen. If the authorities get that data, they can change your behaviour.He cites an example talked about by Snowden: CIA operatives trying to recruit a Swiss banker by getting him drunk, encouraging him to drive home, and then offering to help when he got arrested for drunk-driving.2.22pmGMTThe liveblog entries may dry up in about 20 minutes by the way. Not for “handmaiden of suppression” reasons, but for “laptop battery life of 24%” reasons. Will be switching to a tablet and collaborating with AutoCorrect to take notes and quotes that will be posted later.Update: I’ve found the overspill room with plug sockets. #technologyUpdatedat 2.49pm GMT2.16pmGMTPilger finishes off by talking about WikiLeaks, suggesting that the organisation and its founder Julian Assange has not got the credit or support that it is due.“People have made big money while WikiLeaks has struggled to survive,” says Pilger, attacking the Guardian, again, over therecent Swedish Right Livelihood awardwhich was won by Edward Snowden, with Guardian editor Alan Rusbridger also one of the recipients.“Assange and WikiLeaks were airbrushed. They didn’t exist. They were un-people. No one spoke up for the man who pioneered digital whistleblowing, and handed the Guardian one of the biggest scoops in its history.”2.11pmGMT“In the news, whole countries are made to disappear,” says Pilger, suggesting that coverage of countries including Saudi Arabia and the Yemen is lacking, as well as developments in Latin America – Hugo Chavez’s Venezuela in particular, where he claims the same three publications’ reports have been “routine in their bad faith”. Then Pilger moves on to news in the UK.“Why are millions of people in Britain convinced that a collective punishment known as austerity is necessary?” he says, harking back to the last financial crash. “For a split second, the banks were lined up as crooks with obligations to the public they’d betrayed, but within a few months... the message changed,” says Pilger.“The mugshots of guilty bankers vanished from the tabloids, and something called austerity became the burden of millions of ordinary people. Was there ever a sleight of hand so brazen?... The economic crisis is pure propaganda. It’s a transfer of wealth from the bottom to the top. But who’s standing up for the majority?”Updatedat 3.58pm GMT2.06pmGMT'The handmaidens of suppression, of fake objectivity...'“The handmaidens of suppression, of fake objectivity, had done their job well,” says Pilger, about the media’s coverage of the war in Iraq. “The trail of blood that goes from Iraq to London has almost been scrubbed clean.”He talks about the power of Rupert Murdoch’s newspapers and TV networks, but suggests that “the influence of Murdoch’s empire is no greater than its reflection of the wider media. The most effective propaganda is often not found in Murdoch’s Sun or Fox News, but beneath a liberal halo.”He points to the New York Times, the Washington Post and the Guardian. “Both of which have played a critical role in conditioning their readers to accept a new and dangerous cold war” – referring to the current situation in Ukraine, which Pilger criticises these three newspapers for “misrepresenting” as a malign campaign by Russian leader Vladimir Putin.Pilger says he also sees coverage of the crash of Malaysia Airlines flight MH17 as a situation where “again, supposedly liberal media are the most convincing censors... Sometimes it feels like a class reunion. The drum-beaters of the Washington Post beating the drum for isolating Russia are the very same editorial writers who quoted the facts about Saddam Hussein’s weapons of mass destruction to be – quote – hard fact.”1.55pmGMTJohn Pilger at The Logan Symposium in London.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the Guardian“Propaganda is no longer an invisible government. Itisthe government,” continues Pilger. “The information age that we refer to, in my opinion is principally a media age. We have war by media, censorship by media, retribution by media, demonology by media, diversion by media. A surreal assembly line of obedient cliches and false assumptions.”Pilger talks about the possibility that if journalists in a free press had “done their job”, the US and UK might not have gone to war in Iraq, and says that’s backed up by his conversations with various mainstream journalists.“Had journalists done their job: had they questioned and investigated the propaganda instead of amplifying it, hundreds of thousands of men, women and children might be alive today, and millions might not have fled their homes... and the infamous Islamic State might not now exist.”Updatedat 2.00pm GMT1.53pmGMTThe first speaker in the afternoon session is journalist John Pilger, who’s going to talk about “journalist as a craft, regardless of the means and regardless of the obstacles”. He kicks off with some questions.“Why has so much journalism succumbed to propaganda? Why are censorship and distortion within the media almost standard practice? Why do great newspapers like the New York Times and the Washington Post deceive their readers?”And he asks why young journalists aren’t taught to analyse media agendas, and decode what they read and see in the mainstream media: “not information, but power”.12.43pmGMTLunch, and Seymour Hersh againBy the way,here’s a standalone piece on the Seymour Hersh keynote, rounding up all those zingers. The conference is breaking for lunch, but I’ll be back with more updates from 2pm-ish.12.40pmGMT“In India right now, there is currently no privacy legislation. They are building all these surveillance systems, yet there is no law which can protect citizens,” says Xynou. There is a draft privacy bill under discussion in 2014, though. “Of course, it’s not perfect... but still I think it’s definitely a very good first step.”“But the main problem in India is a lot of these programs are carried out in secret. There’s no transparency whatsoever,” she finishes.”In order for us to be able to increase transparency in what’s going on in the biggest democracy in terms of population in the world, we definitely need people to leak more documents.”12.37pmGMTXynou has studied 50 companies who sell a range of technologies used for surveillance in India. She talks about some, includingKommlabs, which “looks out for cognitive and emotional stress in voice calls, then flags them”.She also talks about the National Intelligence Grid (NATGRID) which links up various national databases of personal information in India, from vehicle registrations and mobile phone logs to bank account details, train reservations and passport data.Linking these databases for a billion people risks errors, says Xynou. “The probability of errors is extremely high. And the main problem is there is no regulation behind this: no system of checks and balances to see if breaches can occur,” she said, before drawing attention to theUID biometric data collection schemethat recently launched in India.“There’s a huge debate in India whether this violates privacy or not,” she says. For example, some contractors involved in providing devices and infrastructure for the scheme have ties to US intelligence agencies, which may be “problematic” for privacy to say the least.12.29pmGMTMaria Xynou at The Logan Symposium.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianNext to speak is Maria Xynou, a privacy and surveillance researcher at the Tactical Technology Collective in Berlin. She’s talking about surveillance in India.“The majority of the population lives in rural areas and in really bad conditions. Often I feel that marginalised people on the margins of society are the guinea pigs for surveillance. It often affects them first,” she says.Indian mobile operators are required to install lawful intercept and monitoring (LIM) systems to use on request from law enforcement authorities, but Xynou notes that the Indian government has its own system too, monitoring traffic through ISPs. The Network Traffic Analysis (NETRA) system only came to light in 2013.“Essentially what it does: it intercepts and monitors almost all internet communications [looking for] suspicious words and suspicious phrases,” she says. And for anyone considering encryption as a way around this: “If authorities in India ask you to disclose your private encryption keys, you have to.”12.22pmGMTJames Bamford at The Logan Symposium.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianThat document the NSA was so keen to get hold of? It’s here today! Duncan Campbell has hidden a copy under Bamford’s chair, which gets a big laugh from the audience.12.16pmGMT'Have the Justice Department begin a criminal investigation of the NSA...'“I have a great deal of respect for whistleblowers,” says Bamford. “I have a lot of admiration for their courage.” He spent three days in Moscow with Edward Snowden last year, to write a profile piece for Wired.“The key thing for him was encryption. And the key thing for most people these days becoming whistleblowers, they have to trust the person they’re gonna deal with... the more we get involved in encryption, the better it is,” he says, before returning to the theme of the NSA’s capabilities.“This is an agency that has this enormous capability to eavesdrop on everybody. And Ed Snowden for a year is taking what the NSA says is 1.7 million documents out, and they didn’t even know about it until he announced it.”Bamford calls for a new Justice Department investigation into the NSA focusing on lawbreakers within government, like one that followed the Rockefeller Report in 1975 – which hewrote about in a recent article, including threats from the current-day NSA if he published its details.“They can have the Justice Department begin a criminal investigation of the NSA. There’s a precedent for it. Instead of putting whistleblowers in jail, we should be prosecuting the people committing crimes who are in the government,” he says.Updatedat 12.17pm GMT12.06pmGMTBamford is talking about how President Nixon got the NSA to eavesdrop on celebrities: Jane Fonda, Dr. Benjamin Spock and Muhammad Ali, for example. Then he moves on to Senator Frank Church and his Senate Select Committee on Intelligence in 1975, which was one of the first such committees to study the NSA’s capabilities and activities.Bamford also talks about his personal history, working for two weeks of active duty in the Navy Reserve at an NSA facility, and his growing realisation that the agency may have been violating the law by eavesdropping on Americans, not just foreign nationals. Bamford turned whistleblower for the Church Committee.“The NSA had told them they’d stopped a year earlier. Well, I said ‘I’ve just been down there, and I know English when I hear it!’,” he says. “They were eavesdropping on Americans and that made Frank Church very angry. They lied. Before that I didn’t know government actually lied. Nobody told me that!”11.55amGMTJames Bamford at The Logan Symposium.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianNext up: journalist and documentary maker James Bamford to talk about the NSA. “I appreciate following Duncan. All I’ve done in my life is follow Duncan!” he says, graciously.Bamford’s first book about the NSA came out two years before Edward Snowden was even born, so he’s giving another veteran’s perspective on surveillance. “This didn’t just happen a week ago or a year ago when Snowden came out. It’s been going on a long time, and that’s one of the problems,” says Bamford.He notes that it’s the only agency in the US that wasn’t created through the usual process of Congress – it was the creation of President Truman in 1952. “Congress wasn’t even notified about it. Even its name was top secret!” he says, noting that it was also created “outside of normal laws... NSA doesn’t have to follow any other rules unless NSA is specifically mentioned.”For example, if a president says “all domestic agencies must cease domestic eavesdropping”, the NSA would not be included in that. Bamford suggests that the Snowden revelations have since showed “what happens when you have a totally secret agency and you let them operate without any laws.”Updatedat 11.59am GMT11.47amGMT“All sorts of countries have been co-opted,” says Campbell. Denmark, Spain, Sweden – “hugely important” – and he shows a map of a “massive, global, integrated system with third parties playing a major role in feeding in just what NSA wants”.He says the story about the NSA subverting the internet – “a story that is starting to flood out” – is going to be much more prominent in the coming years, and compares this to what’s happening with ECHELON.“Even in the face of this massively expanding empire of surveillance, they want to collect it all,” he continues. “This is also true of the ECHELON program... The greed to take all our data has no end. But it never had. You saw it in the sixties.”Updatedat 11.49am GMT11.44amGMTDuncan Campbell on stage at The Logan Symposium.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the Guardian11.37amGMTIt’s a fascinating talk, going back to 1970, when Campbell says “American money paid for the equipment” to be used for ECHELON. “This was driven, at the height of the Cold War, a project of equal priority, to spy on the population of the United States, United Kingdom and western Europe,” says Campbell, who promises a big feature on this to be published imminently onThe Intercept.“So many people turned it into the Panopticon that does everything... It doesn’t access television cameras, it doesn’t sneak into your house. It doesn’t do many of the things you may read in the looser articles,” he says, stressing the specific use for ECHELON. “It intercepts communication satellites.”Campbell recommends a book by Nicky Hager outlining New Zealand’s role in ECHELON, putting the program into perspective. “The template for what we now see on a scale of... I don’t know, a billion times larger? A thousand billion times larger?”Updatedat 11.41am GMT11.32amGMTThe next speaker at the conference is another investigative journalist, Duncan Campbell, talking about revelations of surveillance long before Edward Snowden. Back to 1976, in fact, and his articles about theMenwith Hill Stationeavesdropping base.He’s talking about a 1980 investigation that was commissioned by the Sunday Times, but was then blocked. “We’ve flushed out what we think was the real way that story was blocked, and hopefully we’ll have that story within a week,” he says.But the main subject of his talk is ECHELON, the “global electronic spy system” that he first reported on in 1988 in the New Statesman, which he says the more recent Snowden revelations have backed up. “We got it right!” he says.10.49amGMTHersh on the NSA again: “Snowden shook up the community, big-time. How many Snowdens are there, they don’t know? They worry about it, because they’re very, very sloppy… They don’t even know what they’ve done wrong. They can’t find out,” he says.“It’s a completely dysfunctional place. And I think we can’t get to it because of secrecy… It’s an agency that needs to be cleaned up. It’s a menace to itself because they’re incompetent, but if somebody competent got in there…”And he finishes off with a rousing call to fellow journalists on their role in holding power to account. “We are here to keep them in check, to keep the powers that be in check. That’s the only thing between them, and chaos – fascism if you like. Because they lie. They are frigging liars, because it’s so easy to lie,” he says.“We have a role to play. We can at least keep them afraid of us.”10.46amGMTHersh has a message for encryption experts, calling for them to continue working with journalists – especially those whose technology skills may not be top-tier.“You guys who know an awful lot about computers, you have to do more for the dummies! You aren’t doing enough for the dummies… I know you all think encryption is easy, but it’s not for a lot of people… When I have trouble with my computer, I wait for some 10 year-old kid to walk by! There has to be some way to really get it going...”But he also says that being a “dummy” remains important in protecting his sources. “I don’t put anything into a computer, and I like it that way. You pick up my iPhone, and I’ve got my wife and kids, but you won’t find anyone who even comes close to being a source. That’s how I protect people, I keep them off the internet.”Updatedat 10.46am GMT10.24amGMTThe NSA: 'They can’t get anything right!'On governments and conspiracy theories: “Usually it’s about ignorance and stupidity and cowardice rather than any plot,” he says, before moving on to the US’ National Security Agency (NSA).“The single most overrated agency in the United States is the NSA... It is so fucked up. They can’t get anything right! It’s just the most useless unproductive agency. It doesn’t get much. Yes, any given day if they decide to go after you, they can do a helluva job. But they always could. But it’s also a question of how do they retrieve it?,” he says.Hersh addresses the journalists and hackers in the audience: “I’m not worried about them. I know you guys should be, and you are. I’m going to let you worry about them. I got other things to worry about!”Updatedat 12.18pm GMT10.18amGMTSeymour Hersh on a good way to find sources: recent retirements from companies or military bodies.10.16amGMTHersh says young journalists shouldn’t be focused on getting a job at a major outlet if they want to do important investigative journalism.“You don’t have to be in the New York Times or something like that. The New York Times is narrative. You want to becounter-narrative,” he says. “Mostly I’m embarrassed for the paper these days, having worked there. And that doesn’t mean it isn’t the best there is.”Updatedat 10.17am GMT10.12amGMTHersh on leaked documents: “Let me say this to you real simple: when you have something like these stolen documents, and you decide you’re only going to publish part of it. We’re not breaking the law. We’re not the guys that are violating the rights around the world… we’re not cheating, we’re not violating the fourth amendment, and also the fifth amendment I would tell you – the right to self-defence,” he says.“So why be afraid? Why not write everything? Do it. As the Guardian guy did, why let some thugs come into your office and destroy some documents that you know don’t exist elsewhere?… We shouldn’t hesitate. The guys who should worry are the guys who are violating the laws.”10.06amGMTHersh is asked what makes a great story for him, and refers to news this week that Iran had flown some missions against the Islamic State, and the suggestion that this means the US is working with Iran – and possibly even Syria.“Here’s the reality: we, the Americans have been working, obviously, with the Iranians and the Syrians… We’re working together. Clearly we have been helping Syria with tactical intelligence for a long time, probably through the Germans… I just think this is a rich story. I’m not going to do it because I’m doing other things, but it’s a rich story not being told.”10.04amGMTSeymour Hersh and Laura Flanders on stage at the Logan Symposium.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the Guardian10.00amGMTThe next speaker today is investigative journalist Seymour Hersh, interviewed on-stage by author and broadcaster Laura Flanders. With his history of reporting including the My Lai massacre in south Vietnam, various Nixon administration controversies and the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq, Hersh is providing the conference’s opening keynote.“He has been the bad news bear of half a dozen or more administrations in Washington,” says Flanders, by way of introduction, before Hersh kicks off with a mini-speech.“My view is very simple: the world since I have been old enough to read has basically been run by idiots, nincompoops, thieves... and unfortunately the solution is the idiots who run most of the mainstream media!”He continues, on the purpose of journalism and hacktivism: “The only purpose I see, what all of us here whether in journalism or in trying to protect information, the whole purpose of what I think we should be doing is counter-narrative. They have their narrative, and we have to show there is another narrative.”Updatedat 10.03am GMT9.54amGMTGavin MacFadyen talking at The Logan Symposium.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianGavin MacFadyen, director and founder of the Centre for Investigative Journalism, speaks first, introducing the event.He talks about the three groups attending the event: investigative reporters; hackers; and their friends, supporters and sponsors. “Given the extraordinary dilemmas confronting journalists and hackers both, there is a natural community of interest between all of them,” he said.“The attacks on journalists have increased… 150 or so killed in the last immediate or so while, and a very large and growing number of hackers being imprisoned, some for astonishingly long sentences, which is horrific especially given that some of them are only teenagers.”MacFadyen outlined the key principles behind the conference: “There is a free internet, there is a free press, and there is free speech, and we share all of those things together.”Updatedat 9.56am GMT9.18amGMT'A single goal — the defence of freedom and democracy'Today is day one ofThe Logan Symposium, a gathering in London of journalists, hacktivists, legal and security experts and artists to discuss topics including secrecy, surveillance and censorship.It’s organised by charity the Centre for Investigative Journalism and Goldsmiths, University of London. Over its three days, the event will host speakers including Seymour Hersh, Laura Poitras, John Pilger, Sarah Harrison, Julian Assange, Annie Machon and Jacob Applebaum.The Guardian will be covering each day of the conference, starting with today’s lineup of talks covering journalism; surveillance systems; the Edward Snowden revelations and other leaks; and the past and future of hacking.Expect updates throughout the day of the key points made by speakers, as well as links to any longer reports on the individual sessions.Updatedat 9.56am GMT
The cyberattack which paralysed Sony Pictures last month exposed flaws in the studio’s data security, but Hollywood rivals and other big corporations have been given a chilling warning: it could happen to anyone.You can spend millions investing in firewalls, encryption and ultra-sophisticated passwords and still find your secrets plundered and splashed across the internet, security experts warned.Sony is still reeling fromthe 24 November attackwhich leaked at least five films online, potentially crippling box office revenues, and unveiledprivate informationabout more than 6,000 employees and stars, from Sylvester Stallone’s social security number to the amount – $6,000 – James Franco earns for driving himself to work.“The only way to fully protect yourself from something like this is to shut down your business,” said Paul Proctor, chief of research for security and risk management at Gartner, a technology research firm.Critics have accused Sony of having lax controls, but the uncomfortable truth is that organisations need to balance security with the needs of running a business, creating inevitable vulnerabilities, Proctor said.“A dedicated enemy with sufficient resources can compromise any security system,” he said. “There is no such thing as perfect protection. This is just a demonstration of it. People who believe they can be protected are likely to have their trust shaken by reality.”Suspicion about those responsible for Sony’s nightmare before Christmas has oscillated between North Korea and company insiders or former insiders, with speculation increasingly tilting toward the latter.Sony employees in Los Angeles discovered the breach when they logged on to computers and were greeted with the image of a red skeleton and a mocking message: “Hacked By #GOP” – a reference to a group calling itself Guardians of Peace.In addition to leaking films like Brad Pitt’s second world war tank movie Fury, which is still in cinemas, and Annie, an upcoming release, the hackers dumped passwords, employee performance appraisals, salaries and other sensitive information online.The FBI is investigating. On Thursday, the US Justice Department announced it was creating a unit within its computer crime and intellectual property section to help the private sector repel cyber attacks.“It is important that we address cyber threats on multiple fronts, with both a robust enforcement strategy as well as a broad prevention strategy,” said Leslie Caldwell, head of the department’s criminal division.John Arquilla, a professor of defence analysis at the US Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey,who invented the term “cyberwarfare”two decades ago, said the attack reinforced his view that the US should actively recruit talented coders who know how to break into networks – and thus how to defend them.“Today’s master hackers are as important to securing cyberspace as yesteryear’s German rocket scientists were to exploring outer space. Many countries actively recruit these master hackers,” he said.“In the United States, however, the relationship is very fraught, with officials torn between their desire to deter hacking by punitive means and their growing awareness that, without hacker help, improving cyber security will be a slow, halting process.”Commercial enterprises are “terribly vulnerable”, as are critical information and military infrastructures, said Arquilla. “Far too little progress has been made in developing sound defences.”Suspicion for the Sony attack fell on North Korea because of Pyongyang’s anger over a forthcoming Sony comedy, The Interview, starring Franco and Seth Rogen, which depicts a fictional plot to assassinate Kim Jong-un. In a June letter to United Nations secretary-general Ban Ki-moon, North Korea called the film an “undisguised sponsoring of terrorism, as well as an act of war”.After initial coyness about any involvement,a New York-based North Korean diplomattold the Voice of America broadcast network his government had nothing to do with it.Data security expertswith Trend Micro and AlienVault said a destructive malware programme which the FBIwarned about this weekwas probably used in the Sony attack. It used the Korean language its its system and was the same malware which crippled South Korea in March 2013, in attacks dubbed “Dark Seoul”.Butexperts also saidit was easy to insert fake Korean-tinged data into the malware and that the Sony attack’s use of taunting imagery, publication of salaries, and emails to journalists bore hallmarks of a “hacktivist play”, possibly related to disgruntled employees or former employees.The studio, already under pressure to cut overheads by $250m, is expected to have to spend tens of millions of dollars on rebuilding its computer network and cyber sleuthing, plus possible legal costs.Legal and technical experts said security and the needs of running a modern business involved a difficult balance.“There is no legal requirement to make maximum effort in every instance to protect data. The law requires you to do what is reasonable,” said Behnam Dayanim, co-chair of global privacy and data security protection at Paul, Hastings, Janofsky &amp; Walker. “It’s not clear to me if Sony reasonably could have done something to prevent this breach from happening.”Sony would not be the last company to suffer in this way because underlying network infastructure was designed for a time when data was protected in silos, said Suni Munshani, chief executive of Protegrity, a data security firm.“To expect organisations to recognise and secure all the gaps that exist among all those exposed connection points is an extraordinary challenge.”
The UK’s privacy regulator, the information commissioner, has taken the unusual step of intervening in a court of appeal case in which Google is seeking to prevent British consumers from suing it.The action, to be heard on Monday 8 December, will consider a high court decision made in January to allowGoogle to be sued in the UK for exploiting security loopholesto track Apple’s devices for advertising. The case is being brought on behalf of about 100 Britons, but if they win it could open the company up to claims from millions more who were using Apple equipment in 2010.In a submission in advance of the hearing, the commissioner, Christopher Graham, said there are serious issues to be tried about whether the data generated by web browsing is personal and whether personal damage can include non-monetary harm.Both points could be key in clarifying areas of the Data Protection Act that have fallen behind the rapid advance in web and internet use along with the rise of targeted advertising by companies including Google, Facebook and Twitter.Google is seeking to have the case dismissed on the basis that “there is no serious issue to be tried” because the “alleged incursion into the private life by [Google’s] use of cookies does not reach a level of seriousness to engage Article 8 [of the Human Rights Act 1998]”. In other words, it argues because the consumers involved suffered no harm, the claim lacks merit.Mr Justice Tugendhat’s decision in the January caseset a legal precedent, creating a new form of legal tort, or harm, in the form of misuse of personal data. He pointed out that Google’s suggestion in its evidence that the data was anonymous was surprising, commenting that “it would not collect and collate the information unless doing so enabled it to produce something of value. The value it produces is the facility for targeted advertising”. That advertising, he noted, “yields the spectacular revenues for which Google Inc is famous”.In his ruling, Tugendhat also said the UK courts were the appropriate jurisdiction for the hearing.Asimilar case brought in the US in the state of Delaware was struck downin October 2013 because the plaintiff could not prove harm, loss of money or property. However Tugendhat’s ruling, and its precedent, could mean the UK case will have a different outcome.Reiterating the company’s position from January, a Google spokesperson said: “A case almost identical to this one was dismissed in its entirety in the US. We don’t think that this case meets the court’s standards required for it to be heard, which is why we are appealing it.”Dan Tench, the Olswang partner who represents the claimants, said: “We are very pleased that the information commissioner has intervened in this case. This is a crucial test of whether Google can be held to account in the English courts or whether there is only justice for a privacy breach where the consumer loses money.”
Facebook was accused of “refusing to listen to the voice of public opinion” on Friday as it emerged that the social network paid only €2.3m (£1.8m) of tax on almost €3bn (£2.37bn) of advert sales channelled through Ireland in order to avoid tax in the UK and other countries.The details of Facebook’s efforts to avoid UK tax come days after the chancellor,George Osborne, introduced a fresh “Google tax” crackdownon the US multinationals’ use of “elaborate structures to avoid paying taxes”.Facebook channelled €2.98bn, or 46%, of its annual global sales through Ireland – making a gross profit of €2.92bn. It was able to cut its tax bill massively by paying out €2.915bn in “administrative expenses” mostly in royalty payments to Facebook’s parent company.The manoeuvre reduced Facebook Ireland’s taxable profit to €7.3m, on which it paid €2.3m of tax, according to accounts filed at Ireland’s Companies Registration Office. Facebook declined to comment.By channelling its UK sales through Ireland, Facebook has been able to avoid paying any tax in the UK for the past two years despite Britain being one of its biggest markets, with 33 million people signing in at least once a month. Facebook’s UK accounts show the company made a loss of £11.6m last year.Margaret Hodge, the chair of the influential Commons public accounts committee, who has repeatedly challenged US multinationals over their avoidance of UK tax, said Facebook appeared to be “using elaborate corporate structures and artificial devices for no purpose other than to avoid tax”.“It is clear from opinion polls that the overwhelming majority of British people do not regard this as morally acceptable,” she said. “We have to take tough action to crack down on this behaviour, and the UK should be leading the way on this issue as well as participating in the multilateral process that is going on through the OECD and G20.“It seems that Facebook, like Starbucks, which this week admitted it will pay no corporation tax in the UK for the next three years, is still refusing to listen to the voice of public opinion.”Hodge was speaking after the Evening Standard had reported that Starbucks would not pay tax for the next three years. But the Standard has since published a correction making clear that the company hoped to make a profit and pay UK taxes “very soon”.Starbucks UK has paid only £8.6m of tax on £3bn of UK sales since opening in Britain in 1998 and madea £20m contribution to the exchequerfollowing a public outcry. Google, which also channels profits via Ireland, paid £20m tax in the UK last year, while its actual British revenues were £5.6bn.In his autumn statement this week, Osborne announced a tax designed to stop multinationals artificially shifting British profits overseas in order to avoid UK taxes.“Some of the largest companies in the world, including those in the tech sector, use elaborate structures to avoid paying taxes,” Osborne said.“That’s not fair to other British firms. It’s not fair to British people either. Today we’re putting a stop to it. My message is consistent and clear: low taxes, but low taxes that will be paid.”He said the levy, dubbed the “Google tax”, which will impose a 25% tax on UK profits artificially shifted abroad, would raise more than £1bn over the next five years.The Treasury was unable to say whether the crackdown would prevent Facebook from being able to avoid UK tax in the future. Details of the “diverted profits tax” will be published in draft legislation on Wednesday.The “Google tax” rate is 5% higher than next year’s UK corporation tax rate of 20%, suggesting the chancellor hopes companies will choose to dismantle complex structures that divert profits to low-tax nations such as Luxembourg and Ireland, and choose to pay HM Revenue and Customs instead.“The chancellor said this will raise a billion over five years, but ultimately this is a tiny proportion of the profits the multinationals he has in mind are generating,” said Toby Ryland, a partner at accountants HW Fisher &amp; Company.“In reality, many of the UK’s double-tax treaties with other countries dictate where profits can be taxed. Sweeping measures like this often come to nothing. The chancellor has made the right noises, but most multinationals will be able to sidestep these new rules without breaking into a sweat.”Heather Self, a partner at law firm Pinsent Masons, said: “The big technical companies are not stupid. I find it very hard to believe that they will have a structure that fits the definition of being abusive.”This article was amended on Sunday 7 December 2014. It previously stated that Starbucks UK would not pay tax for the next three years. This was based on an Evening Standard interview with the boss of Starbucks UK. The Evening Standard has since published a correction saying the company hoped to make a profit and pay UK taxes “very soon”.
It’s easy to be worried about people simply spying on your confidential data. iCloud and Google+ have your intimate photos; Transport for London knows where your travelcard has been; Yahoo holds every email you’ve ever written. We trust these people to respect our privacy, and to be secure. Often they fail: celebrity photosare stolen; emails areshared with spies;the confessional app Whisper is caught tracking the location of users.But these are straightforward failures of security. At the same time, something much more interesting has been happening. Information we have happily shared in public is increasingly being used in ways that make us queasy, because our intuitions about security and privacy have failed to keep up with technology. Nuggets of personal information that seem trivial, individually, can now be aggregated, indexed and processed. When this happens, simple pieces of computer code can produce insights and intrusions that creep us out, or even do us harm. But most of us haven’t noticed yet: for a lack of nerd skills, we are exposing ourselves.At the simplest level, even the act of putting lots of data in one place – and making it searchable – can change its accessibility. As a doctor, I have been to the house ofa newspaper hoarder; as a researcher, I have been to theBritish Library newspaperarchive. The difference between the two is not the amount of information, but rather the index. I recently found myself in the quiet coach on a train, near a stranger shouting into her phone. Between London and York she shared her (unusual) name, her plan to move jobs, her plan to steal a client list, and her wish that she’d snogged her boss. Her entire sense of privacy was predicated on an outdated model: none of what she said had any special interest to the people in coach H. One tweet with her name in would have changed that, and been searchable for ever.An interesting side-effect of public data being indexed and searchable is that you only have to be sloppy once, for your privacy to be compromised.The computer program Creepymakes good fodder for panic. Put in someone’s username from Twitter, or Flickr, and Creepy will churn through every photo hosting service it knows, trying to find every picture they’ve ever posted. Cameras – especially phone cameras – often store the location where the picture was taken in the picture data. Creepy grabs all this geo-location data and puts pins on a map for you. Most of the time, you probably remember to get the privacy settings right. But if you get it wrong just once – maybe the first time you used a new app, maybe before your friend showed you how to change the settings – Creepy will find it, and your home is marked on a map. All because you tweeted a photo of something funny your cat did, in your kitchen.Many people will soon be able to access their full medical records online – but some might get some nasty surprises.Photograph: Sean Justice/GettySome of these services are specifically created to scare people about their leakiness, and nudge us back to common sense: PleaseRobMe.com, for example,checks to see if you’re sharing your location publiclyon Twitter and FourSquare (with sadistic section headings such as “recent empty homes” and “new opportunities”).Some are less benevolent.The Girls Around Meapp took freely shared social data – intended to help friends get together – and repurposed it for ruthless, data-driven sleaziness. Using FourSquare and Facebook data, it drew neat maps with the faces of nearby women pasted on. With your Facebook profile linked, I could research your interests before approaching you. Are all the women visible on Girls Around Me willingly consenting to having their faces mapped across bars or workplaces or at home – with links to their social media profiles – just by accepting the default privacy settings? Are they foolish to not foresee that someone might process this data and present them like products in a store?But beyond mere indexing comes an even bigger new horizon. Once aggregated, these individual fragments of information can be processed and combined, and the resulting data can give away more about our character than our intuitions are able to spot.Last month the Samaritans launched a suicide app. The idea was simple: they monitor the tweets of people you follow, analyse them, and alert you if your friends seem to be making comments suggestive of very low mood, or worse.A brief psychodrama ensued. One camp were up in arms: this is intrusive, they said. You’re monitoring mood, you need to ask permission before you send alerts about me to strangers. Worse, they said, it will be misused. People with bad intentions will monitor vulnerable people, and attack when their enemies are at their lowest ebb. And anyway, it’s just creepy. On the other side, plenty of people couldn’t even conceive of any misuse. This is clearly a beneficent idea, they said. And anyway, your tweets are public property, so any analysis of your mood is fair game. The Samaritans sided with the second team and said, to those worried about the intrusion: tough. Two weeks later they listened, and pulled the app, but the squabble illustrates how much we can disagree on the rights and wrongs around this kind of processing.The Samaritans app, to be fair, was crude, as many of these sites currently are:analyzewords.com, for example, claims to spot personality characteristics by analysing your tweets, but the results are unimpressive. This may not last. Many people are guarded about their sexuality: but a paper from 2013 [pdf donwload] looked at the Facebook likes of 58,000 volunteers and found that, after generating algorithms by looking at the patterns in this dataset, they were able to correctly discriminate between homosexual and heterosexual men 88% of the time. Liking “Colbert” and “Science” were, incidentally, among the best predictors of high IQ.Sometimes, even when people have good intentions and clear permission, data analysis can throw up odd ethical quandaries. Recently, for example, the government has asked family GPs to produce a list of people they think are likely to die in the next year. In itself, this is a good idea: a flag appears on the system reminding the doctor to have a conversation, at the next consultation, about planning “end of life care”. In my day job, I spend a lot of time working on interesting uses of health data. My boss suggested that we could look at automatically analysing medical records in order to instantly identify people who are soon to die. This is also a good idea.But add in one final ingredient and the conclusion isn’t so clear. We are entering an age – which we should welcome with open arms – when patients will finally have access to their own full medical records online. So suddenly we have a new problem. One day, you log in to your medical records, and there’s a new entry on your file: “Likely to die in the next year.” We spend a lot of time teaching medical students to be skilful around breaking bad news. A box ticked on your medical records is not empathic communication. Would we hide the box? Is that ethical? Or are “derived variables” such as these, on a medical record, something doctors should share like anything else? Here, again, different people have different intuitions.Many shopping centres can now use your mobile data to track you as you walk from shop to shop.Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi/GuardianThen there’s the information you didn’t know you were leaking. Every device with Wi-Fi has a unique “MAC address”, which is broadcast constantly as long as wireless networking is switched on. It’s a boring technical aspect of the way Wi-Fi works, and you wouldn’t really care if anyone saw your MAC address on the airwaves as you walk past their router. But again, the issue is not the leakiness of one piece of information, but rather the ability to connect together a thread. Many shops and shopping centres, for example, now use multiple Wi-Fi sensors, monitoring the strength of connections, to triangulate your position, andtrack how you walk around the shop. By matching the signal to the security video, they get to know what you look like. If you give an email address in order to use the free in-store Wi-Fi, they have that too.In some respects, this is no different to an online retailer such as Amazon tracking your movement around their website. The difference, perhaps, is that it feels creepier to be tracked when you walk around in physical space. Maybe you don’t care. Or maybe you didn’t know. But crucially: I doubt that everyone you know agrees about what is right or wrong here, let alone what is obvious or surprising, creepy or friendly.It’s also interesting to see how peoples’ limits shift. I felt OK about in-store tracking, for example, but my intuitions shifted when I realised that I’m traced over much wider spaces.Turnstyle, for example, stretches right across Toronto – a city I love – tracing individuals as they move from one part of town to another. For businesses, this is great intelligence: if your lunchtime coffeeshop customers also visit a Whole Foods store near home after work, you should offer more salads. For the individual, I’m suddenly starting to think: can you stop following me, please? Half of Turnstyle’s infrastructure is outside Canada. They know what country I’m in. This crosses my own, personal creepiness threshold. Maybe you think I’m being precious.There is an extraordinary textbook written by Ross Anderson, professor of computer security at University of Cambridge. It’s calledSecurity Engineering, and despite being more than 1,000 pages long, it’s one of the most readable pop-science slogs of the decade. Firstly, Anderson sets out the basic truisms of security. You could, after all, make your house incredibly secure by fitting reinforced metal shutters over every window, and 10 locks on a single reinforced front door; but it would take a very long time to get in and out, or see the sunshine in the morning.Digital security is the same: we all make a trade-off between security and convenience, but there is a crucial difference between security in the old-fashioned physical domain, and security today. You can kick a door and feel the weight. You can wiggle a lock, and marvel at the detail on the key. But as you wade through the examples in Anderson’s book – learning about the mechanics of passwords, simple electronic garage door keys, and then banks, encryption, medical records and more – the reality gradually dawns on you that for almost everything we do today that requires security, that security is done digitally. And yet to most of us, this entire world is opaque, like a series of black boxes into which we entrust our money, our privacy and everything else we might hope to have under lock and key. We have no clear sight into this world, and we have few sound intuitions into what is safe and what is flimsy – let alone what is ethical and what is creepy. We are left operating on blind, ignorant, misplaced trust; meanwhile, all around us, without our even noticing, choices are being made.• Ben Goldacre’s new book, I Think You’ll Find It’s a Bit More Complicated Than That, is published by Fourth Estate. Buy it for £11.99 atbookshop.theguardian.com
One night a couple of years ago, on a black cab ride from Putney to Kentish Town, the driver told me he’d become a priest. Not an actual priest in a black frock, but certainly the sort who took confessions. Szymon (originally Polish) had been driving a cab for 27 years, always at night. He was nearing retirement age and though he’d made enough money from property development to mean he didn’t have to keep working any more, he carried on because he enjoyed it.“You wouldn’t believe,” he said, “the confessions.” Confessions? What sort of confessions? “People getting down on their knees in the back, shuffling up to the partition and talking through that little cash slot. Asking for absolution, like in church.” What, people seriously do the whole bless me, father thing in the back of a cab? “Yes! I swear!” he said. Why? “Because they want someone to hear them, and you’re a stranger and they know they’ll never see you again. And it’s not one or two doing it, it’s someone every few weeks.”OK, I said, so what do they want to say? “Men want to brag,” he said. “They’re drunk or they’re high and they want to tell you all about the deal they’ve just done. Or the affair they’re having and the women they want. And then after that they tell you what they would have done differently.” And the women? “The women want a shoulder to cry on.” Cry about what? “About men, mostly. About regrets. About how to save their dead marriages. Or the children they wish they’d had.”I wasn’t sure whether to believe him. Truths possibly, the telling of secrets certainly, but the whole on-the-knees absolution thing? Surely not. So on cab rides since, I’ve asked the drivers for their experiences. Yes, they said, almost unanimously. Yes, you get people confessing and, yes, they want absolution. Half of taxi-driving is driving, and the other half is psychology. A city isn’t made of brick and tarmac, a city is made of stories.***What would London be without its black cabs? Whatever you think of cabbies – too expensive, too mouthy – fix the city in your mind and there they always are: Big Ben, London Eye, red bus, black cab.Lately, though, that place in London life has started to look a bit rickety. Backin June, black cabs came out on strike, bringing central London to a standstill over what they claimed was the threat from the Uber minicab mobile app. The strike was widely seen as an impressive own goal, giving national publicity to one app among several that already offer punters a normally cheaper and often faster way to get from one side of London to another. Tap in where you are, where you want to go, and you’ll get back an estimate of how long it will take to get a minicab to you and how much it will cost.A few black cab drivers have joined Uber’s fleet, but the rest stand firm. Uber and its competitors, they say, are killing trade. They’re unreliable, unsafe and their drivers wouldn’t knowAustin Friarsfrom a deep-fat fryer. They’re too dependent on satnav. Worse, Uber drivers – like those of minicab company Addison Lee and its competitors – lease their cars. This means, according to the black cab drivers, they have to complete lots of trips just to break even, which means that for 12 hours on the go they have to drive like the Four Horsemen, hurling the rest of London aside in their wake. Or, as one cabbie put it, “They’ve got their satnav and their crumpled suit, and they think that’s it.”Uber in particular has come in for bad press recently. Customers must register, giving full names, bank details and home addresses, before they can book an Uber car, and questions have been raised about the security of that data, and what the company might do with it. Two other apps, Hailo and GetTaxi, use the same principle to get people black cabs, rather than minicabs.But it’s hard to see how the traditional black cab can compete against a business model offering minicabs that are up to half as cheap and just as easy to come by. So are we witnessing the last days of the black cab, and if we are, should we care?***Up the far end of Caledonian Road, opposite Pentonville prison, is theKnowledge Point school. Beside a row of scooters, a man wearing a yarmulke is talking loudly to a couple of Egyptians about cheese samples. Inside, a small shop is selling every possible version of the London A-Z, from pocket to poster, plus a series of route lists –West London,Embassies &amp; High Commissions,Theatres &amp; Venues.Upstairs, there’s a big classroom in which 22 students sit in various stages of dejection, looking at coloured maps of central London on the table in front of them. All are male, most are middle-aged and all are doing the Knowledge as a second or, in some cases, tenth career. They’re about 18 months into their training and even to get this far takes tenacity: such is the Knowledge’s complexity that there’s a steady seven-in-10 dropout rate.The Knowledge Point school, in Caledonian Road, LondonPhotograph: Gary CarltonThey have started on their “appearances”, the notorious live examinations in which they are tested on the routes they have learned and their capacity to deal with the Great International Public. The examiners might tell them they’ve called a right route wrong, or find a way to wind them up.Today’s tutor is Derek O’Reilly, a cabbie who estimates he’s coached maybe 6,000 drivers through the Knowledge. At the moment, he’s getting them to “call” some of the 320 different routes they may be examined on – say, Alexandra Palace to Crystal Palace by the straightest route possible, noting all the one-way systems and major points of interest within a quarter-mile radius of the destination. In total, they have to learn about 10,000 places as well as the streets and directions.O’Reilly has been working here for 18 years and has watched the demographics change. When he started, cabbing was still a big Jewish profession; there were no women, but a fifth of his intake were from overseas. Now, despite the evidence in this room, he says it’s about 15% women, and over half are first-generation immigrants. The changes in the drivers mirror the changes in their fares. Lots of Chinese, for instance, have settled in East Finchley, while the Japanese want Ealing. Ten years ago, no cab ever got fares to Dalston, Wapping or Aldgate; now every second trip is over east. Chelsea’s so rich that it’s a second-home ghost town; Notting Hill is going the same way.So why, with all the competition, are these apprentices going through this? What’s the point in spending three or four years studying road signs when you could just get an iPhone instead?Freedom, everyone says. Once you’ve got your badge and paid for the taxi, it’s yours to drive or not drive as much as you like. One man was a teacher and got fed up with the abuse. Two or three were in family businesses and wanted a break from fighting with their father or brother. Many have kids and appreciate the flexibility cabbing gives them: “If you get out a couple of days a week driving, you probably keep your marriage going.”Redha Meheni, 40, cites something else: “Freedom of religion. I’m a religious guy, I pray five times a day. If I do the Knowledge, I’ll know every single church around the city. If I get a tourist who doesn’t want to miss prayers, he’ll know I’ll take him to the nearest available synagogue or church or mosque. When it’s Ramadan, I can work within my faith – I don’t have to explain to someone that I need a day off.”Jimmy Williams has a different reason. “I just woke up one day and I’d had enough of what I was doing.” What was that? “I drive horses. I’m a horseman, a carriage master. But there’s not a lot of future in it.” He’s 56 and has been driving horses for 20 years. “Film locations, Lord Mayor’s Show, Harrods’ Christmas Day parade, weddings, funerals, proms. That’s a new big thing, taking kids to proms on a horse-drawn carriage, that’s really popular; six screaming girls all falling out.”But he’s decided it’s time for a change. “I just… I want a pension, really.” At least his knowledge of the city must give him an advantage. He shakes his head, says it’s so much harder than he thought, and echoes the comments of others: you think you know the place, then you do the Knowledge.Cabbie cafe in London.Like every other driver here, Williams has found the Knowledge hard – harder than a degree. Notoriously, according to studies, learning the Knowledge can actually expand the bit of the brain required for navigation. There comes a point at which all the students will start dreaming streets, calling their children by street names, reciting every street within half a mile of a landmark on TV. “This is an opportunity for someone at a late age to educate themselves, and it’s a unique education,” Meheni says. “And once you’ve achieved it, then at least in your life you’ve achieved something. When you achieve it, it will be like, ‘Oh my God, you’ve done the Knowledge!’ I could go and drive [a minicab] tomorrow, but I’m choosing the harder option.”***In Liverpool, they use cabs instead of buses, partly because there aren’t many buses and partly because at night, few people want to take them. So here, in a neat reversal of the situation in London, there are cab ranks at supermarkets and in areas where people can’t afford cars. They’re also deregulated, so apart from a very slimline version of the Knowledge, black cab drivers are unified only by the desire to make a living. Thus, when you come out of Central Station, you can be greeted by any number of wedding, hen and stag cab specialists, plus at least 14 competing flavours of Beatles tour. Tourism is worth £3.1bn a year to Liverpool, and four men from a band that broke up 44 years ago must account for about half of that.Mark Curetan comes from a cabbing family: father, uncle, two brothers all cabbies. When he smashed his foot on a construction job, his dad fixed him up with a test for the cabs and he’s been driving since. His cab has an iPod dock and the ubiquitous CCTV. As we swing through the Liverpool hotspots –Anfield, theChinese arch,Toxteth(rows and rows of tree-lined streets full of boarded-up slate-miners’ cottages all on sale for a quid each) – fellow cabbie Phil Gerrard rattles through the spiel: how Liverpool was left for dead during the 80s, howMichael Heseltineis the only Tory who can hold his head up here, howPaul’s been good to this place butRingohasn’t. All of it is very heavy on the civic pride. “Liverpool’s the most bombed city after London,” Gerrard says proudly at one point. That’s me sold.The difference between now and 20 years ago, when Curetan started, is the drugs: the quantity, variety and degree. In the 90s it was high-grade heroin, now it’s coke selling for £30 a gram and club drugs such as ketamine, plus, of course, the ever popular alcohol. Curetan reckons 80% of his passengers on a weekend will be jigging to the tune of half a dozen different intoxicants, and with extended licensing hours, some city centre clubs are open till 7am. “It’s harder trying to reason with them than it was 20 years ago,” he says.Derek O’Reilly, a taxi driver and teacher at the Knowledge Point school, takes a class.Photograph: Gary CarltonThe other big feature these days is loneliness. “With old people, maybe they don’t see anyone from one day to the next. They get in your cab on the way to the shops and they’ll talk nonstop from the minute you pick them up to the minute you drop them off, because you’re a point of contact, and they might not see someone for three days once they’ve got out of your cab.” Do you get good at spotting loneliness? “Yes, I’d say so. One of the guys the other day got a fare and the guy just wanted to drive around Liverpool. The driver said, ‘Where do you want to go?’ And he said, ‘Anywhere. Just drive.’ He just wanted to chat. It’s a sad situation when they’re having to get into a cab and drive around with someone just for the company.”***Up in Glasgow’s Castlemilk, Jim McNulty is sitting in his taxi and looking out over the city. He grew up here, and from his bedroom window he watched the city being built. There’sBen Lomondin the distance and the scarlet-nettedRed Road flats. There must be cardboard boxes that have lasted longer than those flats; from modernist cure-all to humiliated sink estate in less than 50 years. Originally, the plan was to demolish five of the six as a punchy kind of opener to the Commonwealth Games, but when someone pointed out that it was a funny way to welcome the world to Glasgow, by blowing bits of it up, the plan was scrapped and they gotRod Stewartinstead.If you drive a black (or, in McNulty’s case, white) cab for a long time, you get to know the city well. Not just the geography, but the lore of it all. The story someone at that restaurant told you, the years spent dreaming by the traffic lights, the unresolved conversations. In Glasgow’s case, those conversations often involve God and alcohol. And football.McNulty and three other men are gathered around a table in an office nearCeltic FC’s Parkhead stadium. These four have been driving cabs for over 20 years and know each other very well. There are 21,000 black cabs in London and 1,430 in Glasgow. Glaswegian drivers do a shorter version of the Knowledge, join theGlasgow Taxisco-op and buy their cabs outright, lease them or share them with other drivers.What are the worst fares? David Hodgson, 47, a cabbie of 23 years and two days’ standing, says, “I don’t look for quality of hire at the weekend, I look for quality of person.” Kevin Mackintee, 55, agrees: “High heels, skirt. Must have boobs out to there at least. I’ve got a boobometer – when they come in the door, their boobs must hit the side.”They laugh, but Hodgson adds more seriously: “I don’t like the look of you, I won’t stop. I’d rather knock you back in the city centre than take you to Easterhouse and fight you for 12 quid. You know what to look for, it comes down to experience. It’s not down to being drunk – you can be drunk and fantastic, and you can be sober and an arse.”They all agree women are worse. Tommy McRory is 62 and has been driving for almost 40 years. “I’d rather a drunk guy than a woman,” he says. Hodgson agrees: “If a drunk guy falls asleep, you can jump in the back and wake him up. You can’t jump in the back and wake a woman up. You’ve got to go to a police station. You imagine if a woman falls asleep and she wakes up and there’s a big hairy guy leaning over her.”Hodgson says he’d rather work a Celtic Rangers game than aRobbie Williamsgig. “Because with an Old Firm game, you work it out – you work it out so you pick up your own kind.” So there are Celtic cabbies and Rangers cabbies? Aye, unofficially.“I’m a Celtic man,” McNulty says, “and the boys here are Rangers boys. But if four Rangers fans get in the cab, you know what? I’m a Rangers man.”Ask about their most memorable fares and the stories pour out: couples having sex in the back; times when they’ve helped someone in with shopping or luggage and then driven off, leaving the shopper forgotten; smelly millionairesses; executives on the game; marital and extramarital rows; men who visit clubs they shouldn’t.I ask about the threat from minicabs and apps such as Uber, which hasn’t yet hit Liverpool but, given its success in London, Dublin, Manchester and Leeds, presumably will eventually. Why should punters keep taking black cabs? “The thing about it is, you might encounter a grumpy taxi driver, you might encounter an arsehole of a driver,” McRory says, “but the one thing about him, he’s going to be honest.”“I don’t know what makes us different,” Hodgson says, “but this is our livelihood. This is our life. We’re in this for ever. This is my job.”As a professional endorsement, “Black Cabs – Bitter, but not Actively Criminal” is somewhat lacking. But the truth is, it’s difficult to make a case for black cabs over minicabs, particularly in the age of the internet. They are generally more expensive, they have to go via the shortest route – which may not necessarily be the best one – and for all the rigour of the Knowledge, cabbies are as prone to forgetting as the rest of us.Derek O’Reilly puts up a spirited defence. “Uber drivers don’t have the guts to do the Knowledge,” he says. “It’s a myth that they’re cheaper – they sucker you in with cheap rates, then when it’s raining they push the prices up. We believe the price you see is the price you should pay.”What if the public doesn’t agree with him? “People like Uber initially, but I’ve had several telling me they tried it and found it a rip-off, or the driver got lost, and they’re drifting back to us.”London cabbie Jamie Owens agrees “once Uber have a stranglehold on the market, the rates will go up. If you work it out over a year, I bet the black cab is better value.” He’s been driving for 24 years but believes the future is bleak: “I think in five years you won’t find a black cab in London, because this trade will be dead,” he says, citing Uber as just one problem, along with road closures, the number of buses competing for space and the rising cost of the taxi itself.Black cabs have been with us, in some form, for 400 years. What happens if apps and electronic navigation render them obsolete? Can they survive just as London scenery, forms of heritage transport affordable only to the rich and visiting?“OK, maybe we’re being dinosaurs,” O’Reilly says. “I accept that we need to embrace new technology. But there should be no lowering of standards. Year on year,London cabs are voted the best in the world. Why would we want to lose that?”You’ll never guess who I had in the other day... black cab drivers recall their most memorable farePhil Gerrard, LiverpoolI pickedKen Doddup once. My mother is a huge fan and I told him I’d bought her his double album for Mother’s Day. He said he’d sign it, but I didn’t have it with me. So he said I could ring my mum. He talked to her for ages but I could only hear his side. All he was saying was, “It is, honest, it is me, honest, it’s me.” The fare was £9.60. He gave me a £10 note and said, “Take £9.80 and give me a receipt for £10.” That made me laugh.Paul Cowland, LondonI’ve had people shout at melike David Mellor did, and I just stop the cab and tell them to get out. I don’t need to take that. It’s usually when they’re running late. Once I took a heavily inebriated guy from the City all the way to Hampstead in north London. When we got there, he refused to pay me. He tried to get out but I kept the doors shut, then I drove him all the way back to where he got in. His face was a picture. I’ve been driving for 10 years. You learn quite a bit.I hadSienna Millerin the cab once. She’d arranged to get a limo but it hadn’t turned up. I had no idea who she was, but there were paparazzi everywhere, crawling on the car, trying to get inside. I said, “Are you famous?” She said, “A little bit.” I managed to lose them, stopped round the corner from where she was going and got her to pay me there, so she could get out quickly when we arrived.Jamie Owens, LondonNowadays it seems people can’t just have a drink and enjoy themselves; they have to get absolutely rat-faced. Up until two or three years ago, I’d had just three people be sick in the cab in 20-odd years. Now it’s three or four a year. I haven’t had any babies born in the back, but I’ve had plenty of couples having sex there. A lot of people have it on their bucket list, like joining the mile high club. You just have to carry on driving, not a lot else you can do.Jim McNulty, GlasgowI once picked a guy up and he was so drunk, he fell asleep on the floor of the cab. I forgot he was there. Sometimes you’re just in automatic mode. After about 20 minutes I noticed the meter was still on and switched it off. A couple hailed me and when they got in she started screaming at the sight of this man lying on the floor. He woke up, of course, and they realised that, coincidentally, they were going to the same road. The three of them had a chitchat all the way home and split the fare.Louis Loizou, LondonOnce I had to go and pick up a kosher chicken and take it to St John’s Wood for £29. There I was, sitting next to a chicken! At least it couldn’t complain about the traffic or tell me what route to go. Before the expenses scandal, I used to get a lot of MPs, and they’d get me to wait while they did their shopping or got their hair cut, all on account. I’ve had loads of famous people and I always ask them to sign a book I keep in the front for my daughter. She’s 21 now but I’ve been doing it for her for 10 years.Madonna, Rowan Atkinson, Harry Enfield,Michael Palin. Everyone signs it.•Interviews by Ruth Lewy
Technology that anonymises web browsing is enabling million of people to accessFacebook and circumvent censorshipin countries where the social network is banned, traffic data suggests.Since Facebook announced adedicated web addressfor users of Tor, a secure, anonymising browser, in October 2014, users have been able to hide the location they are connecting from.Until the launch of the Facebook Tor address, users had experienced problems viewing Facebook through the service. Access requests were often mistakenly flagged as hacking attacks, because Tor presents a user as being from multiple, shifting locations. With a dedicated URL, Tor users are now able to more easily access the social network – and with an extra degree of privacy.Government control over social mediaThis is particularly important in markets where Facebook is banned and where governments control access to the internet. According to Freedom House’s latest report “The State of Net 2014”, government control over social media has increased in 36 of 60 countries surveyed by the US-based NGO.Dictatorships and non-democratic governments worldwide have attempted to block the flow of freespeech online, with Syria, Russia and Turkey, according to Freedom House, all tightening internet controls following riots and pro-democracy protests.The most signifcant market where Facebook is blocked is in China, which represents significant potential for Facebook’s audience growth among an increasingly tech-savvy, connected population. Facebook has been inaccessible in China since 2009, along with several other major US social media sites, including Twitter, YouTube and Instagram, all of which are blacklisted by the ruling Communist party.In spite of this, London-based market research firm GlobalWebIndex claims were 103,205,014 users accessing Facebook in China in Q4 2014.GWI’s figures have previously been challenged for their accuracy, with researchers inside China claiming there is not enough reliable data to extrapolate an accurate estimate of Facebook users. The figure is believed to be far higher than the company’s own estimates, which are indicated by the audience of 1.08 million listed in Facebook’s own advertising tool.These are not, it claims, being recorded by popular web traffic analytics tools which record the IP address each user is connecting from;GWI explainedthat its research had tracked the growth of Chinese Facebook users from 7.9 million users in July 2009 to 63.52 million in Q2 2012.A spokeswoman for Facebook said it does not give out audience numbers for countries.Using a virtual private network (VPN) , or Tor, routes user connections through different countries. In this way, someone connecting from China might appear to be connecting from the US, thereby avoiding the censorship that exists in his or her actual country. VPNs are mostly free and relatively easy to set up and run, while Tor is one of the most common means of accessing the internet anonymously, boosted by recent media coverage.“There are two kinds of VPN in China – some are for the international business community, while others serve local dissidents. Censors tend to turn a blind eye to the ones used by businesses,” explains Freedom House researcher and Asia expert Madeline Earp.Facebook users in declineTo assess the number of active Facebook users, GlobalWebIndex (GWI) uses a survey-based methodology that, it claims, returns more accurate results without location bias.Its estimate of the number of active Facebook accounts in China suggests the country would be the largest market for the site. In comparison, Facebook’s audiences in established markets have seen growth slow down, it claims, with a 10% decline in overall active global usage for Q3 2014, compared with Q3 2013, according to GWI.The announcement of a Tor-dedicated URL follows a recent trip by Mark Zuckerberg to China in which he addressed Tsinghua university students in Mandarin. During the trip, Zuckerberg repeatedly expressed his interest in opening Facebook up to the Chinese market: “We want to help different places in the world understand China,” he said, appealing to the commercial benefits for Chinese companies seeking to advertise to overseas consumers.“What’s clear is that there is huge demand for social media in China, and users there should have a choice between Facebook and a local equivalent like Renren,” says Earp.The Chinese government has been trying to influence online conversations by hiring social commentators on domestic social platforms such as RenRen and Weibo, explained GWI’s head of trends Jason Mander. He said this makes an unfiltered Facebook seem more attractive to Chinese.The same effect can be observed in Vietnam, where access to Facebook is also restricted but active usage is growing owing to expanding VPN adoption.According to GlobalWebIndexthere are now 416 million invisible users around the world using VPNs, mainly motivated by the desire to access websites blocked in their countries. 166 million of these users are based in China.Opening a Tor URL represents a powerful economic opportunity for Facebook, but it may also be an opportunity to provide Chinese citizens with a more free and open web. GWI also estimates that 31% of internet users in Turkey and 25% in Russia have used VPNs to circumvent government control.Awareness of the threat online surveillance and censorship poses to fundamental rights has spread across different sectors, with political and civil movements including “Reset The Net”, promoted by Edward Snowden and the inventor of the world wide web, Tim Berners-Lee, both of whom encourage the adoption of VPNs as a means of securing personal privacy.• This article was re-edited on 19 December 2014 to give extra context to the GlobalWebIndex figures. The author is a former employee of GlobalWebIndex.•
It’s 2014, but flipping hell, clamshell phones appear to be making a comeback.Anna Wintour, editor-in-chief of American Vogue, was spotted with a flip phone during this summer’sUS Open, as wasRihannain recent months.Iggy Pophas gone on record as saying he owns a flip phone. And it’s not just that people are rooting around in chest of drawers and pulling out old models – we all have backup phones after all – but current flip phones are stillavailableto purchase, andnew onesare even in production.It might seem strange that anyone would want to trade in a smartphone for a standard feature phone, but I can understand the appeal of clamshell phones.Despite the fact that I’ve been a fully paid-up member of theiPhoneclub since I first bought a 3G, I still hanker after a clamshell. Just like an occasional longing for an ex, I know that a flip phone could never meet my needs after all this time, but I can’t help but remember the good times.Anna Wintour, editor-in-chief of American Vogue, on her flip phone.Photograph: Alessandro Garofalo/ReutersA flip phone made me (erroneously) feel important in the way a non flip cannot. There was nothing more satisfying than the snap of the lid. It could speak of many things – purpose, annoyance, satisfaction. It was the perfect endpoint to a conversation, an onomatopoeic full-stop.So even though I owned the rather quirky and funSamsungA300(the “washing machine” phone) and its successor, theS300, as a schoolgirl, I soon moved on to the MotorolaRazr. I felt like a high-powered, sassy lawyer. Namely,Ally McBeal.When flip phones graduated to colour and external screens on the lids, they became even more popular.It’s interesting that the latest must-have models, such as theiPhone 6,Blackberry Passport,Google Nexus 6andSamsung Galaxy Note 4are getting bigger and bigger: it’s all about screen size and functional keyboards.Back in the early 2000s, status was secured by having a device so small as to be almost invisible to the naked eye.Clearly however, others feel the same way as I do, as aside from the celeb take up of actual flip phones, covers to disguise iPhones as flip phones arebuyable.I probably wouldn’t use a clamshell now, because I’m too attached to smartphones, with their abundance of apps and super-fast internet connection.But there’s no doubt that flip phones are cheaper, often more durable, have a much better battery life and can fit in a jeans pocket (plus they don’t bend;Applewe’re looking at you).The lid also means there’s never an opportunity to pocket call, otherwise known as the butt dial.Celebrities have apparently taken to using them as a result of recenthacking scandalssuch as “The Fappening”. Although it’s debatable whether feature phones are actually all that more secure, given that most also have internet access and GPS functions.Either way, flip phones are having a resurgence. File alongside cassette tapes, typewriters and film cameras.•Clip Art is dead: five things we miss from 90s tech•Google Nexus 6 review: big is beautiful, but not manageable•Samsung Galaxy Note 4 review: big, powerful and Samsung’s best yet•Apple iPhone 6 Plus review: it’s a very big phone and it feels great
Further evidence has emerged that the catastrophic cyber attack on Sony Pictures revealed this week was the work of North Korean hackers.Analysis of the malware that infiltrated Sony, called Destover, revealed the hackers used the Korean language, according to Jaime Blasco, director of cyber security experts AlienVault Labs.US security company Symantecfoundthe malware also connected to the same hacker-controlled servers as Volgmer, another piece of malicious software that was configured specifically to attack South Korean targets and only runs on Korean computers.Kaspersky Lab, a Russian security firm, said the methods used on Sony were similar to those in the DarkSeoul attacks on South Korean banks and media organisations in 2013.Both Kaspersky Lab and Symantec have alsolinked Destover to Shamoon, a so-called “wiper” that knocked out 30,000 machines at oil giant Saudi Aramco in 2012, as the same software drivers were in use. Shamoon was initially linked to Iran.“In all three cases, Shamoon, DarkSeoul and Destover, the groups claiming credit for their destructive impact across entire large networks had no history or real identity of their own,” said Kaspersky’s Kurt Baumgartner.“All attempted to disappear following their act, did not make clear statements but did make bizarre and roundabout accusations of criminal conduct, and instigated their destructive acts immediately after a politically charged event that was suggested as having been at the heart of the matter.There has been speculation that the attack was retaliation for an upcoming comedy film, The Interview, about a CIA plot to assassinate North Korean leader Kim Jong-un.Yet all that still doesn’t lay the blame at the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s door, such is the chimera that is cyber attribution.Rumours from various sources, including ones with knowledge of the investigation who spoke to the Guardian, have suggested the attack was straight out of North Korea. But many doubt The Interview film was really to blame.Some indications point to criminal hackers rather than a military unit. A North Korean diplomat has stated the country was not culpable and the attackers have told media outlets they are not backed by any state, but actually come from Western states.The language and brazen attitude of the hackers is also at odds with the usual silence maintained by state-sponsored hackers. In an email, one of the hackers listed in the original dump of Sony data, called Lena, signed off an email: “Sincerely, North Korean Hacking Team”, but they also left the message “모든 영광스러운 김정은 우박”, which,according to a Twitter contact, is sloppy Korean and could be a translation from Google.How much damage can North Korea’s cyber army do?But regardless of the origins of the attack on Sony, there may be legitimate reasons for the US, UK and others to be concerned about the rise of North Korea as a cyber power. However, the intelligence that has been made public might not be trustworthy, given it largely comes from two countries with clear political bias: the US and South Korea.There are significant roadblocks to understanding North Korea’s digital prowess. The country’s networks are largely isolated from the outside world. Most inside the country only see the government controlled intranet known as the Kwangmyong, while an outward facing web allows access to sites in handpicked countries and is only available to authorised people.North Korea’s electric grid is not thought to be able to support a large technological infrastructure and its technology industry in general is lacking in many departments, one of them being security. In a scan of connected machines it could reach in North Korea, HP said it found dated equipment that could have been compromised by external parties.North Korean attackers have never been caught red-handed, unlike the NSA and GCHQ in the Edward Snowden revelations.What have they done before?Attacks have been linked but not directly attributed to North Korean cyber units such as the much-hyped Unit 121. Reports stretch back to at least 2004, when North Korea was said to have gained access to 33 of 80 South Korean military wireless communication networks. In 2006, Unit 121 was suspected of breaching defences at the South Korean and US defence departments.More recently, a2009 reportby Major Steve Sin, an intelligence analyst at US Forces Korea, suggested North Korean hackers had, at that time, broken through American defence networks more than any other country that had targeted them.In March 2013, theDarkSeoulattacks hit, with 76 pieces launched at various banks and TV broadcasters, taking swathes of systems down. South Korea officially blamed its rival.Later that year,Kasperksy Lab suggestedNorth Korea was the most likely perpetrator of a range of cyber espionage attacks on South Korean organisations, including the Sejong Institute, the Ministry of Unification governmental department and the Korea Institute For Defense Analyses.Unit 121 and beyondLittle is known of the 121 crew. In 2011, Kim Heung-kwang, a defector who now resides in South Korea, toldal-Jazeerathe government handpicked members from the best science and mathematics students in Pyongyang. They are then sent to one of the top technical universities – the Kim Il sung University and Kim Chaek University of Technology to name two. After receiving more training in China and Russia, the successful few are then handed jobs in the elite Unit 121 to infiltrate foreign systems. Kim said at the time there were between 500 and 3,000 in the squadron.Outside of that division, there are a host of associated units, according to HP. These include Unit 35, which trains DPRK’s digital soldiers, and The 225th Bureau, or Office 225, which does some cyber work but tends to be focused on corporeal infiltration into enemy states.There have been some suggestions North Korea borrows from the very capable Chinese cyber divisions. The country is a major customer of China Unicom and Unit 121 is believed to have operations on Chinese soil.Gregory Conti, associate professor for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the United States Military Academy, said: “Unit 121 is above average. I’d place them on a tier below the usual suspect major nation-state actors that have been making headlines. While not at the high end of capability, North Korea does take the space seriously and could present a worrisome threat.”Frank Cilluffo, associate vice president at the George Washington University – where he leads national security and cyber security policy initiatives – said: “DPRK has comparatively decent technical ability in cyberspaceWhile their cyber capabilities are not up to par with countries such as the US, Russia, China, etc. they are still significant and likely on par with Iran“And like Iran, they are difficult to deter, perhaps even more so, since any form of cyber retaliation would have limited effect, given they are not a wired country and would have less to lose.”Ironically, the whole saga with Sony might leave North Korea looking more impressive than it actually is. “Considering how much effort North Korea has put into showing the world what a powerful army they have at their disposal, this will fit perfectly with that strategy,” notes security researcher Andreas Lindh.Should you be worried?If you work at Sony, yes. Reams of employee data has been spewed out onto the web and quickly taken down, though not before some got their hands on it. That stolen information reportedly includes thousands of social security numbers, reams of payroll information, usernames and passwords, as well as leaked scripts and copies of future Sony Pictures films. Given the attackers have only released a slice of the 100 terabytes of information they claim to have, Sony and its workers are set for a not-so-merry Christmas.No one knows how this malware got in to Sony’s systems, but in the past similar attacks started with a malicious email sent to workers. Those at other companies should check their cyber hygiene.The FBI was sufficiently concerned to put out a warning about destructive malware. A Trend Micro analysis of the malware indicates it is comparatively straightforward, using Windows tools to copy itself around in its attempts to steal and delete files, before preventing the infected systems from booting up.A noted yet secretive security expert who goes by the name of The Grugq told the Guardian he believes either the hackers sent emails with malicious attachments, which at least one Sony worker opened, or an insider installed the malware directly onto the network. “No need for anything sophisticated at all,” he added. Users are advised to be wary of emails from untrusted contacts. But they can do little to protect their employers against smart insiders.
Ever wondered how a robot hoover could enhance your life? Or what the best fitness app is for you?Observer Tech Monthly explores the technology at the forefront of the culture, fashion and science worlds and the questions that come with this. Every month, we will give you a snapshot of the stories, people, trends and innovations changing our lives, as well as exclusive previews of articles, interviews and competitions from this months Observer Tech Monthly magazine.Expect stories that inspire a lifestyle with innovation and technology at the heart of it.This month includes recipes from the future and 39 ways technology will transform our diet in a future food special. Plus we ask ‘Is Britain ready for driverless cars?’. Free Sunday 13 September with the Observer.To sign up to Observer Tech Monthly newsletter, please create an account on theguardian.comClick here to open the form.
Can a robot, or a piece of software, be jailed if it commits a crime? Where does legal culpability lie if code is criminal by design or default? What if a robot buys drugs, weapons, or hacking equipment and has them sent to you, and police intercept the package?These are questions we haven’t had to ask until now, but they are part of a pertinent philosophical dilemma thrown up by the emergence of darknet markets, anonymous internet use, and bitcoin. These and other questions are all explored in a new exhibition, The Darknet: From Memes to Onionland, at The Kunst Halle Sankt Gallen, an hour east of Zürich, Switzerland.A robot deployed on the dark web over the past few weeks has bought a pair of fake Diesel jeans, a baseball cap with a hidden camera, a stash can, a pair of Nike trainers, a decoy letter (used to see if your address is being monitored), 200 Chesterfield cigarettes, a set of fire-brigade issued master keys, a fake Louis Vuitton handbag, and10 ecstasy pills. All of the products are on display as part of the exhibition, which runs until 11 January.The ecstasy pills bought by the bot.Photograph: !mediengruppebitnik/!mediengruppebitnikThe ecstasy poills bought by the bot, which are on display at the Swiss gallery.Photograph: !mediengruppebitnik/!mediengruppebitnikLondon-based Swiss artists !Mediengruppe Bitnik,Carmen Weisskopf and Domagoj Smoljo), coded the Random Darknet Shopper, an automated online shopping bot, and instructed it to spend $100 in bitcoin per week on a darknet market that lists over 16,000 items, not all of them illegal.Their aim is to explore the ethical and philosophical implications of these markets, which,despite high-profile internationally co-ordinated raids costing millions, persist and flourish.“The arts should be able to mirror something that is happening in contemporary society in a contemporary way,” says Weisskopf. “We really want to provide new spaces to think about the goods traded on these markets. Why are they traded? How do we as a society deal with these spaces? At the moment there is just a lot of pressure, but not a lot of thinking about stuff, just immediate reaction.”The gallery is next door to a police station, but the artists say they are not afraid of legal repercussions of their bot buying illegal goods.“We are the legal owner of the drugs – we are responsible for everything the bot does, as we executed the code, says Smoljo. “But our lawyer and the Swiss constitution says art in the public interest is allowed to be free.”The project also aims to explore the ways that trust is built between anonymous participants in a commercial transaction for possibly illegal goods. Perhaps most surprisingly, not one of the 12 deals the robot has made has ended in a scam.“The markets copied procedures from Amazon and eBay – their rating and feedback system is so interesting,” adds Smojlo. “With such simple tools you can gain trust. The service level was impressive – we had 12 items and everything arrived.”“There has been no scam, no rip-off, nothing,” says Weiskopff. “One guy could not deliver a handbag the bot ordered, but he then returned the bitcoins to us.”Fake Nike trainers bought by the botPhotograph: !mediengruppebitnik/!mediengruppebitnikThe pair see parallels between copyright law and drug laws: “You can enforce laws, but what does that mean for society? Trading is something people have always done without regulation, but today it is regulated,” says ays Weiskopff.“There have always been darkmarkets in cities, online or offline. These questions need to be explored. But what systems do we have to explore them in? Post Snowden, space for free-thinking online has become limited, and offline is not a lot better.”Previously, the collective have hacked London underground CCTV cameras and invited the operators to a game of chess, and last year they posted a camera and a GPS tracking device to Julian Assange inside the Ecuadorean embassy. The camera live-tweeted its progress to the hands of the Wikileaks founder.Smojlo says the darkmarkets are here to stay, no matter what law enforcement does, identifying bitcoin as a key shift in thinking that will have repercussions beyond its hacker and darknet constituencies. The last few years has witnessed a rupture, a schism between centralised and decentralised systems, they say.“People have realised [with bitcoin] that money is not an absolute. They realised they could shape it. They could create their own things with maths, P2P networks, decentralisation and cryptography. Whether Tor survives or not, you will soon be able to run darknet nodes on your own computer, which can’t be taken down,” says Smoljo.“Something has opened, broken up, this space will be explored,” agrees Weiskopff.Random Darknet Shopper exhibition.Photograph: !mediengruppebitnik/!mediengruppebitnikA spokesman for the National Crime Agency, which incorporates the National Cyber Crime Unit, was less philosophical, acknowledging that the question of criminal culpability in the case of a randomised software agent making a purchase of an illegal drug was “very unusual”.“If the purchase is made in Switzerland, then it’s of course potentially subject to Swiss law, on which we couldn’t comment,” said the NCA. “In the UK, it’s obviously illegal to purchase a prohibited drug (such as ecstasy), but any criminal liability would need to assessed on a case-by-case basis.”•Life after Silk Road: how the darknet drugs market is booming
The Nexus 6 is Google’s first attempt at a phablet with a quad HD 6in screen, the latest version of Android Lollipop and price tag to match.The Nexus line of devices, which Google partners with different manufactures to produce, is designed to show what each new version of Android can do.Part of their appeal is that they run Android without the modifications most manufacturers make and have cost considerably less than the competition in the past.The Nexus 6 manufactured by Lenovo’s Motorola is the the first phablet Google’s ever made, but it also marks a turning point, no longer being as keenly price as theNexus 5and 4 from previous years.CurvaceousThe curved back feels nice in the hand but means the Nexus 6 won’t sit flat on the deck.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThere’s no getting over the fact that the Nexus 6 is a very big phone. It’s bigger almost all the currently available phablets, including competitors the 5.7inSamsung Galaxy Note 4and 5.5iniPhone 6 Plus.The Nexus 6 is essentially an enlargedMotorola Moto X, which has a considerably smaller 5.2 screen, complete with curved plastic back, aluminium frame and smooth glass edges to the screen. It also has the same rigid build quality with no flex or give at all.Whetherit will bendis another story, but it doesn’tpull out beard hairsas far as I can tell.It is comparatively chunky at 10.1mm thick compared to the competition, including the 8.5mm thick Galaxy Note 4 and 7.1mm thick iPhone 6 Plus. It’s heavy too weighing 184g around 10g more than the competition.The screen is big, bold, crisp and vibrant, and while not quite as good as the screen on the Note 4 is one of the best ever made for a smartphone. It also has wide viewing angles and front-facing stereo speakers, which are loud and clear making watching video on the large 6in screen a pleasure.Using it with one hand is very hard. The curved back makes it easier to grip than a flat one and the indented Motorola symbol on the back acts like a hand hold, but the screen is just too big. It also looks a little silly trying to make a phone call on it, despite call quality being excellent.Different ways of holding the Nexus 6 are needed because of its sheer size.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianWhether a phone this size is manageable is down to where it’s used most of the time and whether it has to fit in a tight pocket. Some will love the size, others will simply find it too big.SpecificationsScreen:5.96in quad HD AMOLED (493ppi)Processor:2.7 GHz quad-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 805RAM:3GB of RAMStorage:32/64GB; no SD cardOperating system:Android 5 “Lollipop”Camera:13MP rear camera with OIS, 2MP front-facing cameraConnectivity:LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, Qi wireless charging, Bluetooth 4.0 and GPSDimensions:159.3 x 83 x 10.1mmWeight:184gSpeedyThe white plastic back (also available in very dark blue) is smooth and hard to the touch giving quality feeling, although not as nice as metal or wood.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianLike the Note 4 the Nexus 6 has the powerful Qualcomm 2.7GHz Snapdragon 805 processor with 3GB of RAM. Everything is snappy, smooth and the Nexus 6 will be able handle anything a user is likely to do without breaking a sweat.The phablet also has a large battery and lasts approximately a day and a half of heavy usage without battery saving modes active. That’s with push email all day, hundreds of notifications and three hours of browsing, 30 minutes of gaming and an hour of music streaming over Bluetooth.That’s not quite as good as the Note 4’s two-day battery life orSony’s smaller Z3 Compactthat lasts almost three on a single charge, but is significantly better than the Nexus 5, which often didn’t last a day under similar conditions.Motorola’s “turbo” charger is included in the box, which uses Qualcomm’s quick charge technology and is capable of charging the Nexus 6 at a much faster rate than a standard charger, adding approximately 50% in 35 minutes and a full charge in under two hours.The Nexus 6 also has Qi wireless charging, which is surprisingly useful and lets users simply plonk the phablet on a charging pad to begin charging – no fiddly microUSB cable needed.LollipopAndroid Lollipop now has a built-in battery saving mode, which shuts down some features to extend operation time.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Nexus 6 is the first smartphone to run Google’s new Android 5 Lollipop, which includes a series of design upgrades, usability improvements and a power saving mode.•Google Android 5 Lollipop review - faster, prettier and better battery lifeLollipop on the Nexus 6 runs very smoothly indeed, and is arguably the best Android experience at the moment.The Nexus 6 also has Motorola’s active display notifications. When the screen is off and a notification comes in it dimly displays the notification in black and white. If the notification hasn’t been cleared it does the same when the Nexus 6 is moved.It’s not quite as good as the implementation on the Moto X with expandable icons, but is useful nonetheless.CameraThe optical image stabilisation of the 13-megapixel camera helps to eliminate camera shake, particularly in low-light conditions.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe 13-megapixel camera is very good, and not that far off likes of the Note 4 and iPhone 6 Plus. It produces images with good detail and colour in bright light, while optical image stabilisation helps in poor lighting by removing camera shake.Dimly lit scenes can appear a bit dark, but the detail is retained better than a lot of other smartphones. The ring flash around the lens is quite bright, but can’t illuminate more than a couple of metres away.Video recording is equally decent, although 4K video takes up around 200MB of space per minute so isn’t viable for long shoots.PriceThe aluminium frame is smooth and feels good in the hand, while making the phone rock solid despite its size.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianThe Nexus 6 costs £499 with 32GB of storage or £549 with 64GB of storage in either black or white. Compared to the suggested retail prices of the competition, that’s £130 cheaper than the Note 4, which has 32GB of storage but also an SD card slot for adding more, and £120 cheaper than the iPhone 6 Plus, which only has 16GB of storage.VerdictThe Nexus 6 is a massive smartphone and is likely to be too big for most people. It is surprisingly easy to handle for its size, however, and I quickly got used to the 6in screen. It is also one of the nicest feeling smartphones in the hand.Fitting it in a pocket is another matter and will depend how big those pockets are and how skinny your jeans.It is certainly worth considering if looking for a phablet, but the Note 4 arguably has more going for it with a fingerprint scanner, heart rate monitor, stylus and a microSD card slot.The Nexus 6 is for the Google purests, but unlike the Nexus 5 before it isn’t quite such a universal bargain.Pros:Android Lollipop, great camera, decent battery life, beautiful screen, solid build, nice feelCons:massive size, heavy, thick, no expandable storageOther reviews•Samsung Galaxy Note 4 review: big, powerful and Samsung’s best yet•Apple iPhone 6 Plus review: it’s a very big phone and it feels great•LG G3 review: the most usable phablet to date•Motorola Moto X review: listening out for your dulcet tones•HTC One M8 review: a lightning-quick, five-star phone•Sony Xperia Z3 review: great battery life and quality camera•Google Nexus 5 review: a flagship smartphone that costs the same as a mid-range device
Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak has admitted that the story about forming the company in a garage is “a bit of a myth”.The commonly shared tale is that Apple was not only founded in the garage of 2066 Crist Drive in Los Altos, California – Jobs’s family home – but that the first Macs were designed and built in the garage as the company was bootstrapped.“The garage is a bit of a myth,” Wozniaktold Businessweek. “We did no designs there, no breadboarding, no prototyping, no planning of products. We did no manufacturing there.”Wozniak single-handedly designed and built the first Apple I kits in 1976, which went on sale for $666.66, and also designed the 1977 follow up Apple II computer. By the time the Apple III came along in 1980, Apple had staff and a production line.“The garage didn’t serve much purpose, except it was something for us to feel was our home,” said Wozniak. “We had no money. You have to work out of your home when you have no money.”Despite not playing a major role, the myth was enough to see the garagedesignated as a listed historical site in 2013, joining the garage where computer company Hewlett-Packard was founded in the neighbouring town of Palo Alto.•Apple deleted music from users’ iPods purchased from rivals, court told•Apple becomes first company worth $700bn
The role of investigative journalists remains crucial in holding power to account, even when that power is ‘incompetent’, according to veteran reporter Seymour Hersh.“The whole purpose of what I think we should be doing is counter-narrative. They have their narrative, and we have to show there is another narrative,” said Hersh, in a keynote sessionat The Logan Symposium conferencein London.“Even if you can’t publish, the act of asking, the act of doing, the act of putting it down. It’s all about an informed society, and you’re not going to get informed by the leadership. That’s our function.”Hersh, whose award-winning work include reporting on the My Lai massacre in south Vietnam and more recently the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq, gave a sparky speech blending advice for young journalists and hackers with brickbats for the US National Security Agency (NSA).“My view is very simple: the world since I have been old enough to read has basically been run by idiots, nincompoops, thieves... and unfortunately the solution is the idiots who run most of the mainstream media,” he said.Hersh, who was interviewed on-stage by author and broadcaster Laura Flanders, said journalists should not run scared of bullying by governments and intelligence agencies.“Let me say this to you real simple: when you have something like these stolen documents, and you decide you’re only going to publish part of it. We’re not breaking the law. We’re not the guys that are violating the rights around the world,” he said, before referring tothe Guardian’s decision to destroy hard drivesof files leaked by NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden.“So why be afraid? Why not write everything? Do it. As the Guardian guy did, why let some thugs come into your office and destroy some documents that you know don’t exist elsewhere?… We shouldn’t hesitate. The guys who should worry are the guys who are violating the laws.”Hersh had a barb for his former employer, the New York Times, suggesting that young investigative journalists do not need mainstream media accreditation to do valuable work.“You don’t have to be in the New York Times or something like that. The New York Times is narrative. You want to be counter-narrative,” he said. “Mostly I’m embarrassed for the paper these days, having worked there. And that doesn’t mean it isn’t the best there is.”He reserved his biggest criticism for the NSA, although he portrayed the agency as incompetent rather than malevolent. “The single most overrated agency in the United States is the NSA,” said Hersh.“It is so fucked up. They can’t get anything right! It’s just the most useless unproductive agency. It doesn’t get much. Yes, any given day if they decide to go after you, they can do a helluva job. But they always could… But it’s also a question of how do they retrieve it. I’m not worried about them.”Hersh suggested that the danger posed by the NSA is less about what it has been doing so far, and more about what it could do in the future under a more competent leadership.“Snowden shook up the community, big-time. How many Snowdens are there? They don’t know. They worry about it, because they’re very, very sloppy… They don’t even know what hey’ve done wrong. They can’t find out,” he said.“It’s a completely dysfunctional place. And I think we can’t get to it because of secrecy… It’s an agency that needs to be cleaned up. It’s a menace to itself because they’re incompetent, but if somebody competent got in there…”Hersh called for more collaboration between journalists and encryption experts, warning the latter group that the former often need more help getting to grips with online security technology than they might expect.“You guys who know an awful lot about computers, you have to do more for the dummies. You aren’t doing enough for the dummies… I know you all think encryption is easy, but it’s not for a lot of people,” he said.However, Hersh added that for him, being a technological “dummy” is in part a strategy for protecting sources.“I don’t put anything into a computer, and I like it that way. You pick up my iPhone, and I’ve got my wife and kids, but you won’t find anyone who even comes close to being a source. That’s how I protect people, I keep them off the internet.”Hersh finished by returning to the theme of the role investigative journalism plays in a healthy society.“We are here to keep them in check, to keep the powers that be in check. That’s the only thing between them, and chaos – fascism if you like. Because they lie. They are frigging liars, because it’s so easy to lie,” he said.“We have a role to play. We can at least keep them afraid of us.”•Liveblog: The Logan Symposium – secrecy, surveillance and censorship
Clip Art isdead. Long live Clip Art.Microsofthasannouncedthe discontinuation of the basic image library we all peppered school presentations and work PowerPoints with.Instead, the company will now integrate images in its Office suite with itsBingsearch engine, allowing users to pull pictures from the internet that exist under a Creative Commons license.I, for one, am going to miss the so-called “screen beans”, the basic stickmen figures (lightbulb over the head, feet kicked in the air), that I incongruously added to GCSE coursework on Kenya’s tourism infrastructure.Like Carrie at the end of everySex and the Cityepisode, the end of Clip Art got me to thinking: what other things from 1990s tech and internet will we miss?Game BoyOK, so aWiireckons it can keep you fit.GuitarHeroallows you to pretend to be a rockstar. Whatever. I have many happy memories of aGame Boykeeping me company on long, boring car journeys, eschewing my mother’s attempts to strike up a game of I, spy. (“I spy something beginning with G. MY GAME BOY.”)Born a few months before me in 1989,Nintendo’s handheld device was wonderful in its simplicity. The originalPlayStationremains the defining console of my youth, but the Game Boy was the perfect gateway drug.It introduced me toZeldaandDonkey Kong, and for that I will be forever grateful.The Color and Light successor models were handsome little numbers, but nothing matched the charm of the original design. So well donethis guy, for keeping the dream alive at an airport this week.CassettesThe 80s thinks it owns cassettes, but cassettes were still an important part of every music lover’s life throughout the 90s, and the romanticism attached to vinyl also applies to the humble cassette tape.There was something quite rewarding in the effort it took to sit for hours listening to the radio, attempting to make a mixtape of tracks filched from the airwaves.Mind, there was also something incredibly frustrating about DJs always talking over the ending of songs. Or, in the case of Tim Westwood, adding gun sounds and broken glass effects right in the middle. But getting it just perfect was satisfying.The first bonafide piece of music I ever bought was Rosie Gaines’Closer than Closeon tape (still a classic). I also recall buying Clock’scoverof You Sexy Thing, from Woolworths, and being pissed that it came in a shitty cardboard sleeve and not a proper plastic hinged case.And just like artwork makes a vinyl sleeve special, the squeak of the case opening and the ka-thunk as a new cassette went into the machine was terribly exciting. Never mind the unruly tape which came unwound, cassettes were far better than CDs.Cassette tapes – how I loved thee.Photograph: mark phillips / Alamy/AlamyTamagotchisKids grow up too fast these days. I’m constantly amazed at my friends’ tweens and teens. I look back at photos of myself at 13, and what I thought was a good outfit consisted of a tennis dress combined with a fleece and jelly shoes. My friends’ kids at 13 giveCara Delevingnea run for her money.Not only that, but they do not know of an age pre-internet or social media, and are shaped by all of the benefits and downsides this entails. Added to this, kids seem to be sexualised earlier and earlier. Especially byMail Online.I long for a simpler time, a time when kids played outside in the street; when kids played withTamagotchis. Brought to the market by Bandai in 1996, Tamagotchis were small, egg-shaped devices on a keychain, which housed a digital pet.Tamagotchis themselves (a portmanteau of egg and watch in Japanese) were little alien creatures that players were responsible for raising. You had to care for the pet: feed it and play with it at regular intervals, and look after it when it was sick.And best of all, unlikeFarmvilleand the like, there was no means of pushing your love for your Tamagotchi on your uninterested friends. In late 2013, theyreturned. Praise be.Overhead projectorsLong before PowerPoint and flat-screen TVs monopolised presentations and business meetings, the overhead projector ruled boardrooms and classrooms across the land.There was something about a projector that felt very scientific to me. Sliding sheets on and off, you could easily pretend to be a radiologist surveying x-rays (just me?).There were many things I loved about overhead projectors. Writing on the acetate sheets was a joy, and somehow always seemed to make handwriting neater. Especially great was when a teacher wasn’t looking, and you could quickly scrawl a cock and balls in the corner.Not only this, but the industrial hum sent a weary schoolgirl to sleep like a dream, and after they’d been on for longer than 10 minutes, they heated a room as well as any fire could. And who couldn’t love the beauty of dust dancing in the projector light? Even if it was 90% dead skin cells.‘I loved projectors because it meant I could pretend to be a radiologist looking at x-rays’.Photograph: INDRANIL MUKHERJEE/AFP/Getty ImagesMSN MessengerWhen Microsoft finallykilled offMSN Messenger in 2013 (are Microsoft heartless or what?), there was understandable mourning. Flowers were hurled, noses blown in unison, church bells rang.Audenwould have written a poem about it had he been alive.The most popular messenger service around for a long time – known affectionately if inaccurately just as MSN, and later rebranded as Windows Messenger – the ICA (instant chat application) was responsible for the cementing of teen friendships, workplace affairs and pop culture sharing.Just sneaking into the list, as it launched in 1999, and boomed throughout the 00s, the messenger introduced us to the power of emoticons and emoji.It also, however, introduced us to the irritant of wistful statuses, and people Who All Caps Every Sentence. Or worse, ~ tYpE lIkE tHiS ~. For some reason, MSN messenger was shut down in China a full 18 months after everywhere else, and for that, I will be forever envious.MSN Messenger – thanks for the memories.Photograph: MicroosftLet us know which 90s gadgets, internet culture and tech innovations you miss in the comments below.•From Mario to Sonic: how classic video games are going next level – online
Congratulations to Carole Tidball, who used a Nikon 5100 to take this fantastic image of a mischievous group of lambs escaping for a frolic in the snow, for our temperature project.“Cold and hunger soon drove them back to their anxious mothers,” she explains.You can admire the quality of the work in our top 10 entries in our online gallery by goinghere.
Uber has raised $1.2bn in new funding. One point two billion dollars. The taxi-app startup is now valued at $40bn. 40 billion dol... Well, you get the idea. Huge amounts of money.Ablog post by chief executive Travis Kalanickoutlined the growth that has brought the company to this point.“It was just a year ago that Uber was operating in 60 cities and 21 countries – today we are in over 250 cities in 50 countries. We are 6 times bigger today than 12 months ago – and grew faster this year than last,” he wrote.“In 2015 alone, Uber will generate over 1mm jobs in cities around the world and with that millions of people may decide that they no longer need to own a car because using Uber will be cheaper than owning one.”The company is growing fast, but is itmaturingin terms of its corporate culture? The recent controversy sparked by an Uber executive’s suggestion that it might spend money investigating the personal lives of journalists who’ve criticised the company suggested there was work to do.Kalanick agrees:“The events of the recent weeks have shown us that we also need to invest in internal growth and change. Acknowledging mistakes and learning from them are the first steps. We are collaborating across the company and seeking counsel from those who have gone through similar challenges to allow us to refine and change where needed.Fortunately, taking swift action is where Uber shines, and we will be making changes in the months ahead. Done right, it will lead to a smarter and more humble company that sets new standards in data privacy, gives back more to the cities we serve and defines and refines our company culture effectively.”Do you think the criticism of Uber over data privacy has hit home? Or is it still an example of whatObserver writer John Naughton recently called “digital capitalism”, suggesting that “the billionaire geeks who currently run the giant internet companies may look and talk like a new species of entrepreneur but it would be more prudent to view them as John D Rockefellers in hoodies”?The comments section is open for your thoughts. As well as for opinions on some of the other stories bubbling in tech today:Mark Zuckerberg’s plan to ‘wire the world’Time has a profile piece on the Facebook chief executive’s plans to bring the internet to remote parts of the world. “What we figured out was that in order to get everyone in the world to have basic access to the Internet, that’s a problem that’s probably billions of dollars...”Street Fighter II creator talks mobile vs consolesThe “mobile games will crush consoles” headline seems designed to provoke, but this interview with Yoshiki Okamoto is much more nuanced than that. Not just in his contrasting of mobile and console games, but in his views on free-to-play gaming, and why paying to win isn’t the best way forward.Benedict Evans’ latest mobile questionsMobile industry analyst Benedict Evans has been blogging about some “new questions in mobile”, with Android his focus, but also thoughts about Facebook, Amazon, wearables and more. “For the first time ever, the tech industry is selling not just to big corporations or middle-class families but to four fifths of all the adults on earth...”Russia’s ‘favourite dark web drug lord’ speaksDarkside runs RAMP (the Russian Anonymous Marketplace) and has given an interview to Wired. “We never mess with the CIA, we work only for Russians and this keeps us safe. You can’t rape the whole world and remain safe...”Black Mirror is coming backCharlie Brooker writes for the Guardian, yes, so prepare the “you’re a nepotistic biasmonkey” comments now. But CRIPES I’m excited about the return of Black Mirror this Christmas. Here’s the trailer:What else? Post your thoughts on the stories above, and also your links to other stories of interest today.
Uber, the taxi service that allows users to hail a ride using their smartphone, has been valued at more than $40bn (£25.5bn) after its latest funding round.The total is more than double the $18.2bn the company was said to be worth in June, when it raised $1.2bn from investors including Fidelity Investments and BlackRock.Uber did not reveal who had put a further $1.2bn in the business. It already counts Goldman Sachs and Google Ventures as investors.The latest valuation make the business worth more than listed companies such as the airline Delta ($37.4bn) and Kraft Foods ($35.4bn).Only Facebook was valued higher as a private company – $50bn – by investors when it raised money ahead of floating on Nasdaq. The social network is now valued at almost $210bn.Uber is not expected to become a public company for at least another 12 months.Travis Kalanick, its co-founder and chief executive, said the new funding would allow the company to expand, particularly in the Asia-Pacific region.He said in a blog postthat Uber is now six times larger than it was 12 months ago, operating in more than 250 cities in 50 countries.However, Kalanick admitted that the pace of expansion experienced by the company had resulted in “significant growing pains”.He added: “The events of the recent weeks have shown us that we also need to invest in internal growth and change. Acknowledging mistakes and learning from them are the first steps.”Uber has had to fight fires on a number of fronts this year, including negative stories about its corporate culture and the alleged behaviour of some of its drivers. One driver was charged in San Francisco with assaulting a customer in June.It has also had to deal with attempts to limit its operations in a number of cities.Last month the company apologised after a senior executive suggested the company hire a team of researchers todig up dirt on hostile journalists.The apology came in the same week that Al Franken, the television comedian turned Democrat senator and chairman of the Senate sub-committee on privacy, wrote to Kalanick asking Uber to explain how it dealt with users’ data.Its employees are able to track customers because its smartphone app relies on GPS technology to connect users with drivers.“The reports suggest a troubling disregard for customers’ privacy, including the need to protect their sensitive geolocation data,” Franken wrote. “Under what circumstances would an employee face discipline for a violation of Uber’s privacy policies?”He gave Uber 28 days to respond to his questions. The company said it would do so and had instructed law firm Hogan Lovells to review its data privacy rules.The San Francisco-based firm also said on Thursday that it had set up a software development team in Amsterdam, its international headquarters.Conrad Whelan, Uber’s second employee and first engineer, said he had begun working with a team of 10 Dutch mobile software experts and hoped to expand that number to as many as 40 in the coming year.US technology companies routinely complain about the difficulty of obtaining visas for foreign software engineers. Uber also faces competition from Silicon Valley giants such as Google and Facebook for talent.
Like any fourteen-year-oldStar Trekfan, Wil Wheaton dreamed of boldly going where no one had gone before. But unlike others Wheaton got the chance to live out his fantasy when he was cast as Wesley Crusher, the precocious son of the chief medical officer on the starship Enterprise.“It was a profound experience for me”, Wheaton said. “When I first got to look at the bridge and the engine room and the transporters I wasn’t looking at a set, I was looking at the spaceship I had imagined since I was a child.”Bookish and socially awkward, the young Wheaton ticked many of the boxes commonly associated with the Trekkie stereotype.“When I was growing up the thing that determined your worth in the schoolyard or the playground was your physical prowess”, he said.“If you were uncoordinated or not particularly strong then you gravitated towards books and things that required mental strength rather than physical strength. But to a lot of the kids who were cool or popular, we just seemed weird and difficult to understand.”Wheaton’s Star Trek: The Next Generation character, though, was quite different. Intelligent, capable and confident, Wesley Crusher held his own in conflicts with older, more experienced officers, seeing off dangers and finding solutions to problems that eluded his crewmates.To some viewers, the idea of a teenager repeatedly saving the day was irksome. Some took to online discussions to vent their disapproval – at times spilling over into vitriolic abuse of Wheaton himself.“I can understand why some people were rubbed the wrong way,” Wheaton said. “But the people who were complaining were a very small but incredibly vocal minority who had access to Usenet at a time when nobody really knew what that was. These people were statistically over-represented back in the old days.”Unstoppable trollsThe anonymity of online discussion, Wheaton says, makes abuse inevitable. Forum moderators can block offensive posts or ban the most disruptive trolls, but with a new identity only a few clicks away they invariably pop back up.“Imagine you’re having a house party and 100 people show up. It’s really great and everyone’s having a lovely time, and then six guys show up who just want to start fights. Suddenly everyone who’s been having fun has to stop and deal with them.“Now imagine that there’s no way to keep these guys out of your party. You can make them leave, but they’re just going to come in through the back door wearing a false moustache. The people who are genuinely enjoying themselves say: ‘To Hell with this, I’m going home’, and this tiny, tiny group have ruined a great thing for everyone else.”It was dismay at such poisoning of online communities, particularly in gaming, that led Wheaton to address the Penny Arcade Expo (PAX) video games convention in 2007. There he set out a simple rule for online social interaction which has since become known as Wheaton’s Law: “Don’t Be A Dick.”“I was having so much fun playing games with my friends, but when they weren’t available I would try to find strangers to play with and people were just shitty. They were nasty and awful and they made it not fun”, said Wheaton.“And worse than that, it made the video game community unwelcoming and exclusionary. We want our communities to be growing, but when people are acting as gatekeepers and trying to kick people out then it limits our gene pool and we become kind of inbred and terrible.“So ‘don’t be a dick’ makes sense. Everyone knows what that is. Everybody can generally agree on who’s being a dick in any given situation.”But while Wheaton’s message was enthusiastically taken up by many gamers, trolling, bullying and threats remain an all-too-common part of the hobby – particularly for female players.“What’s happening to women just now online is just an extension of what happens to women all the time out in the world”, Wheaton said. “Every woman I know has at one point been menaced or felt threatened by a man.“But I think one of the hopeful things that we’ve seen has been a clear, unambiguous, massive majority of people saying that this is unacceptable and it has to stop.”Responsibility for mistreatment of women in video gaming doesn’t end with gamers, he added. Game publishers also have a role to play in making their products welcoming for players.“Ten years ago there was an idea that women didn’t play games. That’s clearly incorrect, but to some people there’s still an idea that if you make a game that isn’t exclusionary of women then you’re somehow threatening gaming – that’s super-childish.“The industry needs to grow up and stop treating women as an anomaly.”While gaming is close to Wheaton’s heart, he has also been a vocal campaigner on other tech issues.Despite making a living from the creative industries – these days mixing live-action roles with voice acting in video games and animated series – he has lambasted industry groups for attempts to combat online piracy through legislation that impedes the free flow of information online.“It’s been shown that what corporate lobby groups see as piracy isn’t wrecking or threatening the industry”, he said. “We’ve seen over and over again that people are driven to unauthorised downloads because their customer service needs aren’t being met. When we make it easy for people to be honest consumers, they do that. There will always be the 1% to 5% who just don’t want to pay for anything, but in the effort to stop them you’re hurting and alienating everyone else.“A big part of the problem is that we have legislators who just do not understand computers. They rely on lobbyists to write legislation for them, and instead of trying to adapt to a changing media landscape they’re trying to cripple emerging technology and cling to a business model that was very profitable for a century, but is just no longer relevant.”Wheaton releases much of his own material under acreative commonslicence, a model that allows for copying, sharing and modifying content.“I think the greatest threat to artists isn’t piracy, it’s obscurity”, he said.“By licensing works to the creative commons we encourage people to make derivative works from the things we’ve created. We gain access to new artists and new creative work. We grow a vibrant arts community that prevents a small number of well-promoted, well-financed, corporate-backed artists from dominating the culture.”Analogue gamesNew approaches to content distribution have led to a wave of creativity and innovation in online media. Wheaton’s most notable contribution has been his hit YouTube seriesTableTop, where bloggers, writers, actors and comedians play geek-friendlyboard and card games.Now in its third series, paid for by acrowdfunding campaignthat saw fans pledge more than $1.4m (£890,000), the show has attracted millions of viewers.Wil Wheaton plays the board game Libertalia with guests Seth Green (Family Guy, Buffy the Vampire Slayer), Clare Grant (The Guild, Walk the Line) and Karen Gillan (Doctor Who, Guardians of the Galaxy).Photograph: Geek &amp; Sundry“The original idea was that I’d do a show reviewing board games, but I think the best way to show how great games are is to play them”, Wheaton said.“I thought we could do a show like Celebrity Poker, but with board games. I said: ‘Let’s call it something like TableTop, but better.’”The programme’s premise seems improbable to anyone who hasn’t seen it. With players sitting around a table rolling dice and pushing tokens, board gaming isn’t the most obvious spectator sport. But by focusing on games as a framework for social interaction, TableTop delivers humour, enthusiasm and unabashed nerdishness – an infectious combination that’s contributed to arecent surge in board game sales.“It would never have been sold to broadcast or cable”, Wheaton said. “They would never have believed that we could make it interesting. They would demand that we manufacture drama. They would make it all about winning, which is the antithesis of what TableTop is about.“I play tabletop games as a social activity. I do enjoy a strategic challenge or something that lets me have an imaginative storytelling experience, but when I get together with my friends or family it’s an excuse to be social, and the games can become almost secondary to that.”Ultimately, Wheaton said, the appeal of analogue gaming is the friendships that can be formed across the table.“Like everyone I played Monopoly and Sorry as a kid, but in the 1980s when I discovered [the fantasy adventure roleplaying game]Dungeons &amp; Dragonsit was something that really let me use my imagination and my creativity.“When you’re having this shared experience with people, exploring fantastic worlds and having incredible adventures without ever leaving the table, that’s gaming at its absolute best, and it’s been the mortar and the cornerstone that holds together the longest-lasting and most meaningful relationships of my life.”TableTopis available to view now on theGeek &amp; SundryYouTube channel.
Why are we outraged by the suggestion that Facebook users’ messages should be screened for potential terrorist threats yet we accept that airline passengers are screened for terrorist threats before boarding a plane? What’s the difference between moving people or information around the world? This is the question raised by the UK parliament’sintelligence and security committeewhen it suggests Facebook and other internet platforms should “take responsibility” for detecting terrorist activity online.There are a number of reasons why requiring Facebook and other websites to become partners in state surveillance threatens free expression and privacy, but before considering this radical step, let us examine whether it makes technical sense.We might like to believe that internet powerhouses possess the technological wizardry to pinpoint terrorist behaviour hidden in the hundreds of millions of messages generated each hour with the same accuracy of an airport metal detector which can spot a revolver in a traveller’s pocket. Implicit in the ISC report is the suggestion that these Silicon Valley geniuses could make the world a safer place but just refuse to do so. But the reality is more complex.The committee suggests online services can spot terrorist behaviour in much the same way as ISPs and search engines currently detect and remove child abuse images. Yet these are very different technical undertakings. Most child abuse images are detected by computer programmes designed to notice patterns recurring from one image to another. Law enforcement experts identify an initial set of illegal images and the pattern recognition software flags online picture files that are similar.YouTube uses a similar approach to identifying videos that may infringe copyright. Copyright holders upload samples of their works and then a very clever YouTube system flags any videos on the site that contain similar images or audio. These techniques all depend on being able to train systems to know what kind of material to look for. If you give these systems enough examples of what they are looking for and provide feedback on their success, they tend to work pretty well.Finding terrorist communications is much harder that finding copyright infringing videos or child abuse images. First, there just aren’t that many terrorists in the world (luckily) so there is little data with which to train automated alerts. More importantly, according to the ISC report, terrorist behaviour is adaptive. A video rip-off of a copyrighted movie can’t change is characteristics to avoid detection. Nor can a child abuse image morph into something else. However, terrorists know they are being watched so take steps to avoid detection.In fact, the ISC report is a compelling explication of just how hard it is for expert human investigators to know how to interpret behaviour of potential terrorists. The perpetrators of the terrible murder of Fusilier Lee Rigby were under regular surveillance by British authorities, but they were still not able to pinpoint threats. Similarly, while automated terrorist alerts sound appealing, it is hard to design systems that can discern intent, so any such approach would be subject to risk of misidentification.Of course, the internet ought not be a free-fire zone for terrorists and criminals. So just what kind of help ought websites offer in law enforcement and intelligence investigations? Rather than expect platforms to proactively identify terrorist needles in the giant online haystack, they ought to respond to reasonable and judicially supervised law enforcement requests for information about specific individual suspects. That way courts can assess the reliability of data being sought and provide appropriate protections for individuals. Asking websites to monitor and remove speech from their services on their own poses a grave risk to freedom of expression.Despite the protestations of the committee, US internet platforms do actually respond to UK surveillance requests, returning data roughly three-quarters of the time, only a slightly lower rate than US requests, according to transparency reports produced by the companies. I’m not troubled by the difference. As a user I want the websites I use to scrutinise these requests carefully and resist the ones that seem beyond the bounds of the law. Different countries have varying degrees of privacy protection in their surveillance laws and I want internet companies to stand up for their users’ rights.Online surveillance will continue to be a toxic issue until we have a reset in the relationship between governments (both law enforcement and intelligence agencies) and the online community (both providers and users). This reset requires substantive agreement on human rights norms for global surveillance, and some real accountability mechanism that users can trust.Computer scientists in my lab and around the world are designing a new class of accountable systems that can help restore trust. These systems enable both governments and internet platforms to provide transparent proof to the world that they are actually following the rules as required by law.Restoring trust online begins with a binding commitment to global human rights principles by those who would conduct surveillance, and then legal and technical systems that assure those rules are being followed.Daniel J Weitzner is principal research scientist at the MIT Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Lab, former White House deputy chief technology officer for internet policy, and co-founder of TrustLayers, a new accountable systems company•Jessica Valenti: If tech companies wanted to end online harrassment, they could do it tomorrowhttp://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/series/jessica-valenti-column
Christmas is coming, and no Christmas is really complete without a novelty gadget toy making beeping noises under the tree. The Sphero Ollie promises to betherobotic remote control car for 2015, but is it any good?Ollie is the second toy from robotics startup Sphero. The first was a robotic ball controlled by an iPhone or Android smartphone, which could be programmed to perform certain moves and tricks andushered in a new era in physical gaming.Sphero identified that a large proportion of users simply wanted to drive the robotic ball as fast as possible, so took the motors out, added two wheels andcreated Ollie.Tony Hawk’s in a toyTrick pad on the left, joystick on the right - simple once you have Ollie pointing in the right direction.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOllie is driven a bit like a character in a video game, but on a smartphone and with a virtual joystick on one side and a trick pad on the other. Once calibrated to know which way is forward, the little cylinder freely rolls around with a touch of the thumb.Getting going is easy, but mastering fine control is actually quite difficult. Ollie is designed with jumps and tricks in mind – akin to aTony Hawk’s Pro Skatergame, but in the physical world.It can spin, flip, drift, jump and perform mid-air tricks, and the smartphone app rewards players with points, based on the difficulty and execution of the trick – yes, just like a skateboarding game.Pulling tricks is as easy as swiping a thumb across the trick pad, but steering the little robot into a ramp at high speed (it can hit 14mph at maximum clip and travel up to 30m from the smartphone) is tricky and will require practice. From a 10cm ramp Ollie can reach heights of 1.5m, but is tough enough to survive significant falls and crashes.Full hour of driving per chargeA microUSB port in the back charges from any standard USB power adapter or a computer.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianBecause it relies on weights for generating momentum, leaning forward or backwards like humans do, Ollie can get stuck on lips of doors, but pulling a trick normally gets it going again.Charging via microUSB is straightforward like a smartphone and takes an hour, powering Ollie for a full hour of continuous play on a single charge, which is often longer than you’ll want to play with it in one go.Beyond gaming, Sphero has developed a suite of apps that allow kids – and big kids – to program moves, dances, tricks and routes using either code or simple visual commands. The free apps for both Android and iPhone also come with lesson plans and resources to help teach programming in fun ways.PriceNobbly tyres on for maximum traction, take them off for drifting around the floor.Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the GuardianOllie costs £80 and comes with two nobbly tires, which it can be removed for drifting. Other tyres and colours, ramps and accessories will be available at a later date in the UK.VerdictOllie is fun, robust and lasts for ages on a single charge, which makes it a great toy for kids and gadget fanatics alike. The gaming apps make it more than just a toy car replacement too, while there are some decent educational elements for teaching kids to code.The potential downside is that you have to give kids a smartphone or tablet to control it, so best put one in a bulletproof case.Pros:fast, fun, robust, tricks, easy to control hard to master, lasts 60 minutes on a chargeCons:smartphone required to operate which could be the fragile bit, can get stuckOther reviews•Parrot Minidrones Rolling Spider review: an indoor drone for big kids•Parrot Minidrones Jumping Sumo review: rolling, jumping robo•Artificial intelligence powers Anki Drive to pole position on the indoor racetrack
Can I use an external mic with my HTC One M8 for better sound quality? I would like to record talks/meetings/outdoor sounds etc.StuartOne of the odd things about smartphones is that they are generally not very good at audio. This is partly a handset design problem, and partly a network design problem. Using an external microphone to record sounds avoids both problems, so the results should be acceptable. However, as with cameras and other features, a smartphone won’t match a dedicated device, such as a handheld digital recorder.When it comes to handset design, smartphones are optimised for on-screen operations such as apps and browsing, not for voice. The microphones are tiny and you might well have a problem locating them. Mobile phones also operate with a very restricted frequency range, perhaps 300Hz to 3.4kHz, and use low-cut filters and noise gates to suppress background noise. Worse, most only support mono recording, not stereo. Handsets that support HD Voice (Wideband audio) or 4G’s Voice over LTE (VoLTE) should have better audio capabilities, though they still can’t provide the twice-CD-quality stereo of a handheld recorder.Some smartphones have more than one built-in mic: one is used for recording while others are generally used to detect and remove background noises. (The Lumia 1020 is one of the few smartphones that records good quality stereo.)When it comes to network problems, mobile phones are designed to use very low bit-rates. In fact, theEnhanced Full Rate (EFR)codec used for GSM voice calls offers a maximum of 12.2kbps, which is a fraction of what you’d get from a landline. Again, HD Voice offers better quality, but both handsets have to support it, and so does all the network equipment between the two phones.There are two main ways to fit an external microphone to a smartphone: either it plugs into the headphone/mic socket, or connects via a microUSB or similar port. (The third way is via Bluetooth, but this seems to bevery limiting.)Microphone jacksIn this case, you need a jack-plug with three rings on the end, which is capable of making four connections, ie there’s one extra band for the mic. Technically, these plugs are known as TRS (Tip Ring Sleeve) connectors, and you will need a TRRS version to make mono recordings. TRRS jacks can’t handle stereo.Just to complicate things, TRRS plugs come in two different types, with the mic connection being in a different place. The original Nokia standard for GSM was called OMTP (Open Mobile Terminal Platform), while the newer one is called AHJ (American Headset Jack). I note that Nokia switched to AHJ when it launched its Lumia phones, and it has also been used by HTC and other Android manufacturers. Apple uses an AHJ layout with non-standard signalling and controls: it’s sometimes referred to as CTIA. Software may be able to handle some of the differences.GSM Arenaonly says “3.5mm jack - Yes” for the HTC One M8, so I don’t know if it has an AHJ socket. There are adapters, but jack plugs are flaky at best -- the design goes back to 19th century switchboards -- so I’d recommend getting the right type.There are lots of mics available, and I have no idea which is best. Most seem to beLavalier microphones, which are generally used as lapel mics for TV and theatre performances, and for interviews. Examples include theBoya BY M1(£11.99) and theRode Smartlav+ Lavalier Microphone for Smartphone(£40.33). There are also traditional condenser mics like theProdipe iMic 70051 Microphone for Apple and Android-Based Smartphones/Tablets(£27.23). I don’t know if these will work with your M8. Perhaps Ask Jack readers can recommend products they have used, ideally with HTC phones.Personally, I’d lean towards theIK Multimedia iRig Mic Castbased solely on its reputation in the Apple market. The website says it now works withAndroid devices“compliant with the CTIA/AHJ wiring standard” including “Samsung, LG, Motorola, Google Nexus, HTC, Huawei and Sony”.USB recordingUSB recording has some significant advantages. It’s digital rather than analogue, it bypasses the audio circuitry built into the smartphone, and it enables better-than-CD-quality recording. The HTC One M8 does have a powered USB Host port -- it supports USB-OTG (USB On-The-Go) so it should be able to handle a USB microphone or a mic plugged in via a USB-to-audio-jack adapter.The USB approach has become better known thanks to theApogee MiC 96k, which adds a “studio quality cardioid condenser microphone” to an Apple iPhone or iPad. However, at the Apogee’s £169.99 UK price, it would be cheaper to buy a separate handheld recorder.You might be able to do the same sort of thing with aYeti USB microphonefrom Blue Mic -- Amazon UK has one for £99.99 -- and eXtreme’sUSB Audio Recorder Proapp. (The blurb says: “eXtream Software Development has written custom USB audio code from scratch because Android does not support USB audio.”)The HTC One M8 is on the list of “working Android devices”. If you already have or can borrow a supported USB microphone and a USB-OTG cable then it might be worth downloading the trial version of USB Audio Recorder Pro and having a go. If not, it’s probably better to leave this idea until the Android operating system and supporting ecosystem have caught up with iOS.In conclusionIt’s true that smartphones can be very convenient for recording audio, and it’s also true that an external mic will improve the quality of the recordings. If you had an iPhone, you could just buy an IK Multimedia iRig Mic Cast, plug it in, and expect it to work. However, Android lags iOS in support for recording audio, and it’s trickier to select a microphone and suitable software. You might be able to find a solution, but there are plenty of reasonably priced stereo digital recorders from companies such as Tascam, Zoom, Sony and Yamaha. You’d probably be better off buying one of those, for now.Have you got a query? Email it to Ask.Jack@theguardian.com
Technology has made it difficult in 2014 to be introverted or lazy. It’s impossible to say how Howard Hughes would have coped in a world in which it’s a social faux pas not to reply to a text within an hour of receiving it.The smartphone, in particular, has made connecting easier than ever. In the past, you’d try a person’s landline, then mobile, and then drop them an email. Those were your options. If you found yourself in a signal dead zone your handset became redundant. Now, find a Wi-Fi hotspot and there are myriad ways of contacting someone without having to trouble your network provider.I’m talking, of course, about messaging apps. They are big business (despite mostly being free), and there are plenty to choose from. There are emoji-only messaging apps, gif apps and the infamousYo. The success of a messaging app lies in its ease of use and cross-platform availability but it also helps if, to paraphrase Zoolander, it’s really, really good-looking.A key thing to remember is that different apps work best depending on who one wants to contact: friend, relative, colleague or stranger. Tone and format is important and, as the market has grown, apps have become more feature-packed. Here are 10 to make you forget the carrier pigeon ever existed.WhatsAppFree (initially)iOS, Android, Windows, Nokia, BlackberryPeople professed surprise whenFacebook bought WhatsAppin a $19bn deal last February. They shouldn’t have: WhatsApp was already boasting 450 million MAUs (monthly active users), and is currently on 600 million. Its interface is clean and simple, and it allows photo, video and audio media, as well as group chat. Nifty features include the option to back up chat to iCloud and automatically save in-message media. It’s best for chatting with friends, because all of them will have it.Facebook MessengerFreeiOS, Android, Windows, BlackberryContinuing its apparent aim to splinter all of its web services into individual apps, Facebook made Messenger the only way of chatting via Facebook on smartphones and tablets last August. Over 500 million people downloaded it, because they basically didn’t have a choice, so it goes without saying that there’s a large user base. It has an array of stickers , if you’re into that kind of thing, and offers picture and voice messaging as well as free Wi-Fi calls. Privacy-wise though, Facebook doesn’t have the best record (remember, it now owns WhatsApp).SlackFree, then tiered pricingiOS, Android, Mac desktopSlack has become very popular among younger, hipper business teams (the tech team at the Guardian andObserveruse it, we’ll say no more). Invented from the ashes of a failed game, the app has a beautiful interface and easy usability. It’s colourful and fun, and allows all sorts of content: gifs, PDFs, docs, video, to be shared in different “channels”. Think of it as the cooler, much hotter and less annoying version of Asana. Premium tiers allow deeper archive searching, analytics and guest access.SnapchatFreeiOS, AndroidSnapchat has had some bad publicity over privacy concerns.The so-called “Snappening”was a hack exposing over 100,000 images. Often thought of as a gateway app into the world of nude selfies for teens, its real genius is in capturing the ephemera – sometimes beautiful, often hilarious – of everyday life. For me, this mostly consists of my sister sending me pictures of the cat, over which she has scrawled a comedy moustache or hat. If you’re someone who hates getting into long back-and-forths, a quick snap is a nice way to check in with a person without committing to a two hour text-marathon. Though video and picture chats disappear after 10 seconds, users can take screenshots. Now has ads.CryptocatFreeiOS, AndroidPost-Snowden, most of us are concerned about privacy. Cryptocat is the brainchild of 23-year-old Nadim Kobeissi and allows users to send encrypted chats, including group conversations, over a simple interface. No account has to be set up. All that is needed is a conversation name, which others then access by knowing the name. If you want to send your mum stickers of pugs you won’t need Cryptocat, but for secure conversations it’s a good bet. There’s also a browser version.KikFreeiOS, Android, Windows PhoneIf you have a teen, they’re probably on Kik. It’s also popular with jihadis in Syria and Iraq (no, really). Both groups are attracted by the relative privacy Kik affords – it isn’t hooked up to a phone’s contacts (although this is an option). Accounts are set up with a username and email address instead. It’s the first messenger app with its own browser, and teens love that it’s tailored towards sharing YouTube videos, web pages, memes, sketches, photos and stickers, all in-app. Blackberry sued Kik for copyright infringement of its own messenger app (fight!), so it isn’t available on its phones. Recently acquired gif app Relay.Google HangoutsFreeiOS, AndroidIf you’re lucky enough to work in a fairly casual office, you might know the feeling of spending half the day on GChat. As more and more workplaces use Gmail, the sight and sound of pop-ups flashing “lunch?” is a common one. The smartphone app is therefore a good tool to keep in touch with colleagues whose number you might not have. The app supports animated stickers, pictures, location settings and voice and video group calls.LineFreeiOS, AndroidDespite completely aping WhatsApp’s logo, Japanese app Line offers rather more. Even Taylor Swift has a Line account, as do many brands and celebrities. The app became popular due to its VoIP service (allowing voice calls over the internet), as well as standard messaging fare, but its main difference is its inbuilt wall feature, a bit like Facebook, as well as various games. There are other quirky features – users can add each other via QR code or by simultaneously shaking their phones.MeowChatFreeiOS, AndroidMeow is the 21st-century version of a pen pal scheme. It allows users to find others via their location. So, if you wanted to chat to someone in every corner of the world, you could do. I used Meow to get in touch with an Israeli soldier during the Gazan crisis. It would be a great resource to help meet people when travelling. It would work better, however, if you could enter a location via search instead of just zooming in on the map, tail-on-donkey style. The down side of the app is its “random” chat function. It’s basicallyChatroulette, so expect dick pics aplenty.EthanFreeiOSWe’ve all fallen in love with Siri at one point or another (right?), and now there’s Ethan. Ethan is the most unusual app on this list, given that it’s a chat between you and this one kid in New York called Ethan. It’s also the most useless, given that it’s a chat between you and this one kid in New York called Ethan. Think of it as the descendant of text service AQA (any questions answered), except AQA is manned by students earning minimum wage surfing Google, and Ethan is literally this one kid in New York called Ethan. His full name is Ethan Gliechtenstein, and he’s a real person. If you want to chat to another random New Yorker, there’s also Samantha.
Apple intentionally deleted music not bought from iTunes from users’ iPods between 2007 and 2009, a court was told in a antitrust suit against Apple.Attorneys representing the plaintiffs in apotentially billion dollar antitrust class-action lawsuitagainst Apple for abuse of its iTunes Music Store dominance told the jury that the Californian electronics company scanned for music not bought from iTunes, and forced a factory reset of the iPod if any was detected.“You guys decided to give them the worst possible experience and blow up” a user’s iPod music, attorney Patrick Coughlintold the US District Court in Oakland, California.‘Very paranoid’Users who tried to sync and update an iPod with music from the likes of Amazon or 7Digital were told there was an error with their iPod that could only be solved with a factory restore through iTunes, which completely wiped the iPod.Restoring the iPod from iTunes would not restore music from rival services. Apple decided to “not to tell users the problem” Coughlin explained.Apple security director Augustin Farrugia told the court that the music was deleted for security reasons and that hackers including Jon Lech Johansen also known as “DVD Jon” and software such as the digital rights management removal tool Requiem had made Apple “very paranoid.”“Someone is breaking into our house,” Apple’s founder and chief executive Steve Jobs wrote at the time, according to an email exhibited by Apple software head Eddy Cue.“The system was totally hacked,” said Farrugia and that the music was deleted for security reasons, saying that “we don’t need to give users too much information” because “we don’t want to confuse users.”Apple declined to comment further.•Apple’s Eddy Cue on ebooks price-fixing war: ‘I’d do it again’•Billion-dollar Apple iPod antitrust lawsuit gets under way in US court
The best game I played in 2014 isn’t even finished yet. It’s being released slowly, one “act” at a time, three out of five acts so far, each one building on what went before but somehow self-contained and unique.It has that feeling – rare in the arts, and even rarer in games – of being entirely sui generis, neither a piece in the tradition of what went before, nor an overly rebellious response to previous “mistakes” or lacunae. It’s just itself. It is good. It feels like a game snatched from the future, when all the current fretting and irritation over games and violence, games and sexism, games and children’s brain development are so long over that one can simply use the form to speak to the deep and strange concerns that art has always engaged with.It’s calledKentucky Route Zero, and although it’s one of my favourite arts experiences of the year, it’s hard to put into words exactly what it is and why. With this game, I feel as though I’m trying to“dance about architecture”. Still, let’s give it a go.In a sense, although it is so much its own thing,Kentucky Route Zerodoesn’t leave its players completely at sea. It’s a point-and-click game. It has moving pictures. You click on them. Things happen. There are recognisable people and places. There’s a map.So perhaps we can start by talking about the visual style. It’s stark, but beautiful, elegantly simple, there’s a spareness to the lines which suggests bundles of wires, tangled but bare. The game uses sans serif fonts, especially the typewriter font Courier, which is perfectly suited to the timeless qualities of the game’s world.The aesthetic is of a sketch swiftly penned by a master; three or four quick strokes of a pen and there’s all you need: a slouching figure accustomed to its limp, a complex piece of machinery broken beyond repair, the sun setting behind a hill overlooking a strangely misproportioned petrol station, a road snaking off into the distance.Ah yes, the road. The “Zero” – the road everyone’s looking for and no one can quite explain or locate. At the start of the game, you have control – well, in a way you do, it’s the kind of game where it’s hard to make such clear-cut statements – of a character called Conway. He’s the man with the limp. He’s a delivery driver. He’s got one last delivery to make, maybe because he’s retiring, maybe because the antiques business is closing down, maybe because something much more profound and strange is happening. He stops to ask for directions, but the address he’s been given is somewhere no one can quite pinpoint. They say the only way to get there is via “the Zero”. And how do you find the Zero? Well. You’ll know it when you see it, that’s for sure.But which “you” will you be when you get there? One of the miracles ofKentucky Route Zerois in its characterisation. I can’t begin to tell you how hard it is to write good characters in games – the whole setup of asking your audience to “play” a character mitigates against it. Imagine ifPride and Prejudicewere a game: how would you communicate who Lizzy and Darcy are if your readers could make them do anything they wanted?Kentucky Route Zerocuts the Gordian knot with a stroke of absolute genius: instead of picking what the characters do, you the player choose what they’re thinking while they’re doing it. Conway thinks about his childhood, about previous relationships, about the precise way that old apple tree looked the day before they chopped it down. Other characters, when they come along, think about sometimes more inexplicable things. The world, and the people, slip increasingly out of the everyday reality of the delivery and the driver into the strange logic of the Zero. Obviously, this is an “art game”. That may not be your sort of thing. That’s OK.If you want to try out its style before committing your cash, the makers have just released a small free audio game:Here and There Along the Echo. It takes the form of a phonecall to the Bureau of Secret Tourism, in which you navigate through an automated phone tree by responding to prompts like “If you don’t remember dialling this number, press two”; “If you’re holding a snake right now, press four”. It asks for the same kind of calm and meditative attention as the main game itself.IfKentucky Route Zerois reminiscent of anything, it might be the hit Lovecraftian comic romance surrealist podcastWelcome to Night Vale, but it’s deeper and more rewarding than that. Many games can make you feel frightened, or anxious, or frustrated, or triumphant. This game induces a mood that is rare and hard to describe: a feeling of unhurried and joyful uncertainty, of being in the hands of master storytellers and surrendering to whatever they might have to offer.I played throughKentucky Route Zero– what there is of it so far – this summer, in a cabin on a boat travelling through the Arctic. The seas were choppy. At times the glass-grey-green water sloshed up covering my porthole window completely. The room went dark, then light, dark, then light. It was a surreal and perfect venue for a playthrough, but I can’t help feeling that this game, this brilliant game, would make anywhere you played it feel that strange, that rich, that new.
Google has begun simply asking users whether they are human or not, instead of making them spell out tricky words as a security measure.The new “No Captcha reCaptchas” are the latest in user analysis that allows Google and other websites to monitor user behaviour to figure out whether they are human and prevent robots from abusing the site.“For years, we’ve prompted users to confirm they aren’t robots by asking them to read distorted text and type it into a box,”said Vinay Shet, Google’s product manager for reCaptcha. “But, we figured it would be easier to just directly ask our users whether or not they are robots – so, we did!”No CaptchaScrapers and ticket toutsRobots access sites to scrape information and compete with users for purchases, events and sessions.Many services, including comparison sites, use robots to run the searches for users on multiple websites at once. Others, such as ticket touts, use robots to buy all the tickets for a concert as soon as they’re made available, forcing concert goers to buy them through a third-party reseller at an inflated price.The Captcha tests are used to try and block nuisance robots from accessing sites while allowing humans free access to the site. Since the introduction of Captcha tests that make humans guess some semi obscured text or image, artificial intelligence has improved so that robots can guess the correct answer too with a 99.8% accuracy.To combat the increasingly intelligent robots, Google developed software that monitors how users engage with the Captcha tests – where they click, how long they linger, their typing cadence, whether it is consistent or random – to help see whether a human was filling in the form or not.The “advanced risk analysis” software now enables Google to do away with the obscured text in most cases, simply watching how a user checks a box.If the user passes, that’s all they will need to do. If some doubt as to whether they are human or not remains, they will then be asked to fill in a Captcha form, which could involve clicking or tapping on cats or dogs instead of entering text into a box.Picture matching is faster and easier for humans, but very hard for robots.Photograph: Google“In this version of the Captcha challenge, you’re asked to select all of the images that correspond with the clue,” explained Shet. “It’s much easier to tap photos of cats or turkeys than to tediously type a line of distorted text on your phone.”The new checks are already being used by Snapchat, WordPress and Humble Bundle, with more websites likely to adopt the easier to use forms in the near future.•Facebook launches third free anti-virus scanner•Google Glass review: useful – but overpriced and socially awkward•Jeff Bezos: I’ve made billions of dollars of failures at Amazon
It's Thursday.
YouTube has a massive audience of children watching videos already, even if they’re not (in theory) allowed to sign up for an account.You can tell this by the view counts for channels like toy-unboxing fest DC Toys Collector, whichwith 400 million views in Octoberwas the most popular YouTube channel in the world – bigger even than PewDiePie.Then there’s the popularity of Minecraft-focused channels likeStampy(183m views in October) andThe Diamond Minecart(155m) and nursery-rhyme channels like Little Baby Bum (189.3m). Games/comedy channel Rooster Teeth has evenlaunched a spin-off just for childrencalled Game Kids.One problem I’ve found when my children are watching YouTube logged in on my account is the risk of inappropriate ads – a BetFair gambling ad as a pre-roll to a Stampy video recently, for example – which is because those ads are being targeted to me (an adult) even when my account is playing videos that are obviously for children.Google may have a solution in store: dedicated versions of YouTube and other services like search and Chrome for children. USA Today reports thatthe company is working on the idea for 2015:“The big motivator inside the company is everyone is having kids, so there’s a push to change our products to be fun and safe for children,” says vice president of engineering Pavni Diwanji.“We want to be thoughtful about what we do, giving parents the right tools to oversee their kids’ use of our products. We want kids to be safe, but ultimately it’s about helping them be more than just pure consumers of tech, but creators, too.”This is a controversy in waiting: expect lots of questions about how Google plans to collect data on children using the new versions of its services (or rather, how it plans to NOT collect data on them); how advertising will work; and what kind of controls there’ll be to screen out inappropriate content.Yet in some ways, this is an essential move for Google, on YouTube in particular, because kids are watching it in droves –more than 2.2m in the UK alone in 2013, watching an average of just over four hours a month, according to UK communications regulator Ofcom.Google can’t pretend this trend doesn’t exist, and many parents will appreciate extra safeguards, but the company may have work to do in convincing sceptics that it really does have children’s privacy at the front of its mind. What do you think though? The comments section is open for your views.Other stories that may be worth talking about today:Google unveils ‘No CAPTCHA reCAPTCHA’Google thinks it has a better alternative to the CAPTCHA widgets used to prove to websites that you’re human, not a spambot. “It’s much easier to tap photos of cats or turkeys than to tediously type a line of distorted text on your phone...”Did Apple delete music from people’s iPods?A lawsuit against Apple over iTunes DRM back in the day got underway this week, and there’s already some surprising testimony: the claim that the company deliberately deleted music from rival digital services from customers’ iPods.Ghostery’s privacy-focused Android browserAd-tech company Ghostery has launched a mobile version of its browser plugin that helps people detect and block individual cookies tracking their activity. But wait: ad-tech firm? Yes, the company itself does collect and use some data, if allowed.New data on streaming media devices in the USResearch firm Parks Associates claims 10% of US broadband households have bought a “streaming media player or stick” in 2014. 29% of those purchases were Roku boxes, 20% Chromecast dongles and 17% Apple TV boxes.How Jimmy Iovine persuaded Apple to buy Beats“’I know you guys; I know what you’re capable of; I know you get popular culture. I know you have a hole in music right now; let me plug it.’ I think it was two years before they said yeah... After Steve died, and with the rise of streaming, I could see they needed something. Beats Music fit.”What else? The comments section is open for your suggestions, as well as your thoughts on the stories above.
Kmart has become the second major retailer to pull controversial video game franchise Grand Theft Auto from its Australian stores.A spokeswoman for the company announced on Thursday that the highly popular series would be removed from shelves immediately “following a significant review” of their content.“Kmart apologises for not being closer to the content of this game,” she said.Target saidon Wednesdayit would stop selling the game in response to customer complaints sparkedby an online petitionposted by three women identifying themselves as victims of violence in the sex industry.“This misogynistic GTA 5 literally makes a game of bashing, killing and horrific violence against women,” the petition, which has been signed by more than 40,000 people, said.“We have firsthand experience of this kind of sexual violence … to see this violence that we lived through turned into a form of entertainments is sickening and causes us great pain and harm.”Target’s general manager of corporate affairs, Jim Cooper, said customers had raised a “significant level of concern about the game’s content”.“We’ve also had customer feedback in support of us selling the game, and we respect their perspective on the issue,” he said.“However, we feel the decision to stop selling GTA5 is in line with the majority view of our customers.”A researcher studying the game, James O’Connor, said said there was no evidence linking the GTA franchise to real-life violence.But he said the latest iteration of the game for the Playstation 4 had a “much higher level of fidelity” and was “visually improved to the extent that it feels like a more realistic world”.“There’s also a first-person mode which makes everything feel more gritty and problematic,” he said.“I think within the current climate in game discussions I can respect that people are worried about these issues,” O’Connor said, in reference tothe bitter “gamergate” controversythat has raged in the past months over a perceived culture of misogyny within the industry.Raelene Knowles, from the Interactive Games and Entertainment Association, said she was “surprised” by the backlash, given that the average age of an Australian gamer is 32.“Games should not be treated any differently than books, music, television, or movies rated R18,” Knowles said. “Consumers, which include parents and caregivers, should be allowed to make informed decisions for themselves.”Sex workers’ lobby Scarlet Alliance said they condemned “all platforms that contribute to people understanding violence against sex workers as acceptable”.“However, banning one game from one outlet doesn’t address what is a systemic issue in which mainstream media outlets portray violence against sex workers every day,” the lobby’s chief executive, Janelle Fawkes, said.“The laws and policies that make sex workers vulnerable to violence, as well as community understandings that violence against sex workers is acceptable, must change to have a real impact on this issue.”“Sex workers are campaigning for decriminalisation of sex work and anti-discrimination protection as a first step,” she said.Strauss Zelnick, the chief executive of the game’s publisher, Take-Two Interactive, has previously defended the game’s libertine philosophy,telling Bloomberg: “It’s a criminal setting. It’s a criminal underworld. It is art.”“I embrace that art, and it’s beautiful art, but it is gritty … We stand shoulder to shoulder with other major motion picture releases and major television shows that explore a similar universe.”A number of related petitions have sprung up on the Change.org since Target’s announcement, including one wryly asking for Nintendo’s classic Super Mario franchiseto be pulled as well.The petition cites Mario’s “willful murder of wildlife, consumption of hallucinogenic flora and collection of income without declaration of tax”.Other major retailers, including Big W and Myers, have been contacted for comment.
Applegoes before a US federal appeal court in two weeks to try to overturn a US Justice Department ruling on ebooks price-fixing. But speaking to Fortune this week, the company’s chief iBooks negotiator, Eddy Cue,defendedraising prices - and said Apple would do it all over again.“Is it a fact that certain book prices went up? Yes. If you want to convict us on that, then we’re guilty,” said Cue, Apple’s senior vice president of internet software and services.“I knew some prices were going to go up, but hell, the whole world knew it, because that’s what the publishers were saying: ‘We want to get retailers to raise prices, and if we’re not able to, we’re not going to make the books available digitally.’ You have to fight for your principles no matter what. Because it’s just not right.”In July 2013, Apple wasdeemedby judge Denis Cote to have “facilitated and executed a conspiracy” with publishing houses including Hachette, HarperCollins, MacMillan, Penguin, and Simon &amp; Schuster in order to compete withAmazonin the ebooks market.Publisherssettledthe case for $69m. Apple alsoagreeda conditional settlement: if Apple loses its appeal on 15 December, it will pay $450m, but if the company wins, it will pay nothing.The iBookstore as seen on an Apple iPad 2.Photograph: AlamyBefore theintroductionof the iPad in 2010, Amazon had a virtual monopoly on ebooks, controlling around 90% of the market. The company had a fixed opening price-point of $9.99 on titles, sold for itsKindlee-reader, which was threatening the physical paper book market.After Apple introduced its iBookstore with the iPad on 3 April 2010, however, prices of new release ebooks spikedovernight by 17%.Cue’s comments appear to suggest that Apple’s stance is more about its reputation than money. He also said that he hadTim Cook’s, full support in the matter, saying the Apple CEO felt “exactly like I do”.Apple’s biggest rival in the ebooks space is Amazon.com, who were accused by book publishers of sabotaging traditional bookstores by selling ebooks at $9.99. Apple’s move reinvigorated the books market.Cue, who was instrumental in the launching ofiTunes,Siriand more recentlyApple Pay, said: “If I had it to do all over again, I’d do it again. I’d just take better notes.”Amazon Kindle Voyage review: expensive but top quality e-reader
All around the world, people are writing letters about themselves to a distant, all-powerful figure who can make their dreams come true. But this year, many of those letters will be addressed to Amazon boss Jeff Bezos rather than Father Christmas.Users of Amazon’s Mechanical Turk crowdworking marketplace have launched aChristmas letter writing campaignto the company’s founder and CEO, asking him to stop selling them as cheap labour and to give them tools to represent themselves to employers and the world at large.The campaign is the brainchild of Kristy Milland, a 35-year old Canadian who noted that Jeff Bezos occasionally responds personally to emails sent to his jeff@amazon.com email address.Mechanical Turklaunched in 2005 as a way for companies to farm out digital tasks that computers find difficult but humans breeze through, such as transcribing, writing and tagging images.Over the last nine years, Milland has completed more than 830,000 tasks on Mechanical Turk, earning an average of 20 cents for each. “I hope our letters make Jeff Bezos realise that there are living, breathing human beings who rely on this service he provides to feed and shelter themselves and their families,” she says.Mechanical Turk is named after a famous 18th-century chess-playing robot that turned out to conceal an elf-sized grand master. Some ‘Turkers’, as workers like to call themselves, feel that little has changed since then.“I am a human being, not an algorithm, and yet [employers] seem to think I am there just to serve their bidding,” writes Milland in her letter to Bezos. Amazon does not set minimum rates for work, which can pay less than $2 a hour, and takes a 10% commission from every transaction. Employers can even refuse to pay for work altogether, with no legal consequences.Just like Father Christmas, Jeff Bezos knows which Turkers have been naughty or nice. Each worker is rated by how many of their tasks have been approved or rejected. The most productive are invited to become ‘Masters’ and gain exclusive access to better-paying tasks (for which Amazon gets a bigger commission). Conversely, Amazon can deactivate Turkers’ accounts at any time, without giving a reason.“In the last four years, I have had so many problems getting my cheques that I have considered just quitting,” writes Manish, a Turker from India. “There have been numerous cases of workers losing their accounts without any fault of their own. Workers are left with little to no support from Amazon.”But Amazon must be doing something right. There are now over500,000 Turkers working for Mechanical Turk in 190 countries, and some letter writers are full of praise for the service. A 26-year old Turker called Orlando from California writes, “Since beginning to work on Mechanical Turk, I’ve only made $500, but to me sir that means a lot. It means paying for three weeks of day care, it means groceries for the month, it means car and health insurance premiums.”The letter writing campaign is hosted on a collaborative website for Turkers calledWe are Dynamo, set up this summer by researchers atStanford Universityand UC San Diego in California. “We need different approaches to collective action in the internet age,” says assistant professor Michael Bernstein. “Anyone can pitch a 140-character idea on the site, which then needs to get sufficient votes to make it happen. This whole campaign was driven by the Turkers themselves.”The goals of the campaign, which hopes to eventually beam hundreds of letters into Jeff Bezos’s inbox, are as varied as the Turkers themselves. Some just want to celebrate Mechanical Turk’s flexibility and bite-size tasks. Others are demanding a more modern website that allows them to market themselves to employers and, in return, rate companies as good or bad to work for.“These are not rants,” says Bernstein. “One difference from letters to Santa is that many are not even explicitly asking for something. They all have things they’d like to change but what they really want is recognition.”The Turkers also want to correct the impression that they are all untrained workers earning a pittance in developing countries. “The group of workers that you have are highly skilled and educated,” writes a 55-year old ex-tax accountant and small business owner from California. “Most employers would jump at the chance to have the skills that some of us possess.”Of course, the $2 question is whether Jeff Bezos will actually reply to them. “I think that Jeff’s team will read our letters, but I’m not sure if they’ll make it to the top,” admits Kristy Milland. “But once we have more Turkers writing, he’ll have to get involved as the word spreads that we’re organising.”“From the Turkers’ perspective, they win either way,” says Michael Bernstein. “If Bezos responds, they can say that Jeff understands their situation. But if he doesn’t respond, and yet people are paying attention to the letters, what does that say about him and about Amazon?”If it is recognition the Turkers want, perhaps Bezos should take another leaf out of Father Christmas’s book. Any letter sent toSanta’s grotto in Reindeerland(with a stamped envelope) by this Saturday is guaranteed a cheery Christmas card by return of post.Even withoutdrones, Amazon Prime could probably even get it there faster than that.•Jeff Bezos: I’ve made billions of dollars of failures at Amazon
Zoe Quinn is sitting uncomfortably on a plastic chair, in a small empty room upstairs from the GameCity festival in Nottingham. Outside, above the jagged rows of Victorian shops and houses, the sky is slate grey and a gentle rain has started to fall. Quinn’s bright clothes and dyed red and orange hair are a stark contrast to the gloom beyond the window. “I like the weather in England,” she says absentmindedly.Quinn is in the UK to talk about her work as a games designer, but most people at the event have come to know her as patient zero of Gamergate, the vociferous video game “protest movement” that exploded across the internet in August. Leaderless and chaotic, this ragtag community of self-identifying “hardcore” gamers sees its culture under threat from insidious outsiders – usually feminists and academics – who are challenging the industry on its sometimes questionable representation of violence, minorities and gender. Gamergate wants video games to be left alone.But proponents of this movement say their key target is games journalism. Gamergate complains about cronyism between certain writers and developers and has taken exception to the progressive sociopolitical leanings of news sources such as Polygon and Rock, Paper, Shotgun. It has even organised mass email campaigns asking major corporations to pull adverts from targeted sites.The undercurrent, however, has always been darkly misogynistic. The victims of Gamergate’s ire have mostly been female developers, academics and writers. It was an alleged relationship between Zoe Quinn and a prominent games journalist that kickstarted the whole furore this summer. Quinn and several other women have since had to flee their homes after death and rape threats – mostly for pointing out that the games industry has a problem with representing women.When I speak to her, Quinn has been in the UK for four days. She doesn’t know where she’s going next. She’s been staying on friends’ couches, at hotels. There is no destination.“How could I go back to my home?” she asks. “I have people online bragging about putting dead animals through my mailbox. I’ve got some asshole in California who I’ve never talked to hiring a private investigator to stalk me. What am I going to do – go home and just wait until someone makes good on their threats? I’m scared that what it’s going to take to stop this is the death of one of the women who’s been targeted.”She is teary and shaking as she talks, but through it all she’s also funny and engaging. Despite the trauma she has been through, she still loves games.Zoe Quinn: ‘I’m scared that it’s going to take the death of a woman to stop this’Photograph: BBC“I grew up in a super small town in upstate New York; my nearest neighbour was really far away,” she says. “A friend of the family gave me a Game Boy when I was very little, and it was amazing. I used to run around the woods pretending to be Samus Aran [from the gameMetroid], using sticks as swords, imagining I was beating up aliens.”When Quinn was 12, her dad bought her a 3DO console at a garage sale and she discovered games such asNight TrapandStar Control 2. “Dad knew I was a little nerd,” she says. “I’d been stealingNintendo Powermagazines from the library. I still feel bad about that. I just loved those long screenshots of a whole level, where you could see all the items and everything – I was so vividly in love with those games.”Through her teens, she knew she wanted to do something creative, but didn’t know what. She wrote “terrible” science fiction stories (“in gel-pen!”) and later started taking photographs. She was offered a photography job in Toronto, but when she got there, the position fell through. She stuck around and met a few people from the city’s indie game development scene.“It was like coming home,” she says. “I thought, this is what I want to do for ever. Game development combines all this disparate art stuff I’d been doing into one single thing that I could use to say very specific stuff. My brain breaks everything down into systems – and I realised, ah, these are game mechanics! I can communicate now!”She started using the intuitive development package Stencyl, but it was in beta and kept crashing, so she taught herself Flash. “I made the silliest point-and-click ever,” she laughs. “I go back now and think, what was I doing? I never went to college or anything, I have no formal training, I just made my own way into programming.”Quinn designs mostly short comedy games; little sketches about life, love and sadness.Realistic Relationship Simulator,for example, is about holding in a fart at the beginning of a love affair until you feel comfortable enough with the other person to let it out. “I make really dumb games based on Twitter jokes,” she says during a discussion with fellow designer Christos Reid. “I notice funny things, it tends to be autobiographical by accident.”Her work typifies the emerging independent game development scene, which has prospered in the age of digital distribution. Small teams and even lone programmers are now able to produce offbeat and idiosyncratic games and sell them online to a growing global audience. It means that alongside the mainstream hits we see in high street stores, there are experimental titles such as the border control simulatorPapers, Please,and the heart-wrenchingThat Dragon, Cancer, which is about one family’s struggle with the disease. Like many other indies, Quinn slowly built up a community around her games. But then one project changed everything.The year after arriving in Toronto, Zoe started working on an interactive novel namedDepression Questabout her own struggles with the condition. She made a trailer the day her job was canned and then began writing, giving herself a tight deadline to ensure she’d finish it. The game puts players into the role of a depression sufferer, trying to keep hold of a job and a relationship, seeking therapy, taking medication. Released as a browser game in February 2013, it gained traction very quickly.“A lot of it was because of how accessible I made it,” says Quinn. “You didn’t have to download it, you could send it as a link to someone. The control system was very simple – I wanted to make sure that, if there was someone it could help who doesn’t know how to use a two-stick controller or doesn’t want to download something, it was still available … it was about removing the barriers. I asked very little of the player other than time.”With interest growing, and positive press coming in, she put the game on Greenlight, the community review section of the popular gaming download site Steam – a sort of PC version of the Apple app store. IfDepression Questwas approved for inclusion on the service, it would open up a new audience of millions.A typical Gamergate-related memeBut very quickly it became obvious that being a woman and setting out to make quirky semi-autobiographical games was going to make her a target, and a subset of Steam users took exception to this odd outsider infiltrating their sanctum. In an interview with Vice media at the time, Quinn spoke about receiving harassing phone calls and rape threats. “I started getting stuff sent to my email: ‘Oh I saw your game on Greenlight and I hope you kill yourself.’”She withdrew the game, only to resubmit later, more determined. This time, it was approved by the Steam Greenlight community, but the hate never stopped. Looking back, it’s obvious how starkly premonitory this all was. The tinder for Gamergate had been there for months. All it needed was a lit match.Then, in August, Quinn’s ex-boyfriend, Eron Gjoni, uploaded a blog post about their breakup. He alleged she had cheated on him several times, mentioning her relationship with a games writer for the US gaming site Kotaku, Nathan Grayson. The post was linked to on the internet chat site 4Chan, a popular hangout out for gamers; some saw a confirmation of their fears about games industry collusion and corruption, others a chance to bully another female game developer. “It was very precise and deliberate,” says Quinn about Gjoni’s blog post. “I fully believe it was there to ruin my life. As soon as it hit 4Chan, they went into ‘get this bitch’ mode. They started doxxing me immediately, asking who had hacking skills.”Doxxing, or the public posting of a person’s contact details on social media, has become a favoured method of online intimidation. Soon Quinn’s home address, as well as personal photos, were all over the internet. The situation erupted. There were allegations that she had slept with Grayson in order to secure a favourable review for Depression Quest – though he never actually reviewed the game. A small but vocal minority harbouring a simmering resentment towards certain games writers and their relationships with developers bubbled over. There was a growing rabble mentality. A fury.On 25 August, media critic Anita Sarkeesian released the latest online video instalment of her controversial Tropes vs Women in video games series, examining the objectification of female characters in many hit titles. It’s not an uncommon theme, and it reflects an unease many have with the mainstream games industry. Blockbuster titles like Call of Duty, Grand Theft Auto and Hitman revel in depictions of weaponised slaughter and sexual violence; even confirmed fans see elements of these highly marketed experiences as problematic. These games are often consumed like misogynistic rap music, as a guilty adult pleasure.Nevertheless, the launch of Sarkeesian’s video reignited a nonsensical conspiracy that feminist academics were seeking to control and censor games, instead of merely exploring them. The anger directed at Quinn and Sarkeesian merged and intensified.Somehow Hollywood actor Adam Baldwin got involved, tweeting in support of enraged gamers, ostensibly asking questions about journalistic integrity. He penned the hashtag #GamerGate and linked to videos critical of Quinn. The loose affiliation of hardcore gamers suddenly transmogrified into a seething pressure group. In the midst of it all, Quinn’s life evaporated.Anita Sarkeesian appears on US satirical talk show The Colbert Report, discussing GamergateGamergate continued to suck in more people – some trying to reinvent its origins to make the campaign seem more credible, and some clinging to it as a way of expressing concerns about games journalism, seemingly without comprehending Gamergate’s roots in abuse and harassment. The size and demographic of the group is hard to measure as its members are anonymous and its organisation decentralised. However, the focus on the US games industry suggests that most active supporters are in North America, while the age of active members seems to range from the stereotypical teenagers hiding away in their bedrooms, to mature gamers with wives and families.I ask Quinn, what about those people who have found Gamergate to be a supportive community, who genuinely do see it as about journalistic ethics?“No!” she says. “I have 16 gigabytes of evidence, I’ve got massive amounts of screen grabs. But proof doesn’t matter, logic doesn’t matter – the fact that the review they’re propping up as the excuse for their crusade doesn’t exist and has never existed, that does not matter – it still gets thrown at me constantly.“People can just make shit up and you can’t debunk it, they’ll just replay it. This is used to terrorise my family and go after my boyfriend, to ruin his life too for the crime of being associated with me. Now tell me it’s about ethics in games journalism.”I realise she is shaking not in fear, but in anger. She has carried this for months. “I was hoping no one would buy into that ethics reinvention because it’s so very transparent,” she says. “It’s like a cardboard prop of a city – it looks like a city, but if you touch it, it all falls over. And now people who do care about ethics in journalism are part of my ex’s revenge on me! Goddamn celebrities and corporations have weighed in on attempts to destroy my life. I don’t think there’s a handbook on how to deal with a hate group coming out of a blog post by your ex. It would be like the Tea party starting over a shitty relationship.”She is withering too about #notyourshield, the hashtag supposedly for women and people from minorities to express support for Gamergate, which is characterised as populated by entitled white men. “It’s all based on utter stupidity,” she explodes. “Every single thing they’ve done has been doublespeak, everything they’ve done has been harmful and toxic. Not a single positive thing has come out of Gamergate – all it’s done is ruin people’s lives. It’s disgusting.A rape threat made to Brianna Wu this October“I am losing patience with people who say, ‘maybe the truth is somewhere in the middle’. Really? Who sees somebody burning down a house and says, ‘maybe we should get the arsonist’s opinion’? Fuck you.”Partly, what Quinn’s experience says is that, in the games culture orthodoxy, women don’t get to be ambiguous, weird and idiosyncratic – or at least they don’t get to do all that and be visible and loud. The pervading social media narrative forces all women who enter this arena into prescribed roles: you get to be a professional victim or a hero. Quinn chose neither of those – she wanted to make quirky games and just get by. The same has happened with Sarkeesian, as well as game developer Brianna Wu, actress Felicia Day and writer Jenn Frank – high-profile games industry women, drawn into the Gamergate vortex of abuse and harassment, their lives reconstructed into mega-bitch or martyr archetypes.Quinn gets many messages of support, she says, but they place her under unbearable pressure. “I never wanted this many eyes on me – I just wanted to make fun stuff in relative peace. It’s become this huge thing and there’s no going back from it. I can’t move on because that means giving up the thing I love. It means giving in. The takeaway from Gamergate can’t become that if you harass someone for long enough they’ll leave. Even though my heart’s not fully in it, I don’t feel like I have another choice that I can live with.”Anita Sarkeesian’s tweet after being threatened with ‘the deadliest school shooting in American history’In August, Quinn left her home, and hasn’t been back. Sarkeesian fled her home too, and now cannot appear at events without receiving death threats. Gamergate followers either deny culpability or deny that it’s really happening; many are disgusted by the abuse, or fall victim themselves. But the forums they frequent bristle with hate-speak and attract abusers happy to ruin lives for momentary kudos; and this is all happening in the shadow of the Gamergate banner.Outside of the maelstrom, industry watchers try to remain pragmatic. It’s arguably true that games journalism, a small arm of the wider entertainment journalism sector, needs to mature; it needs to make clear codes of conduct and to remain transparent to readers. But some of the fears driving Gamergate – that a feminist cabal is attempting to infiltrate and ruin games – are bizarre and laughable.The movement claims to be anti-censorship and anti-political, but then it enthusiastically uses the tactics of reactionary moral campaigners, including hassling corporations into dropping advertising from sites that support controversial writers. They proclaim to support free expression, yet have sought to restrict opposing voices.Many games sites have been intimidated into staying silent – and Quinn is convinced this allowed things to escalate. “While everyone else was being quiet, I had to deal with it myself,” she says. “I had to sit in a ‘raid’ [internet chat] room for three weeks collecting the hows and whys of what happened, people talking about how to smokescreen it, how to pull other people in, about how to make counter-arguments – all the while, they were targeting members of my family and sending naked pictures of me to my dad.”But Quinn is threading her life back together. She’s working on several projects, including a full-motion video adventure, partially inspired by the retro gaming classic Night Trap. Under the working title Camp’s Not Dead, it’s a homage to trashy B-movies – she’s even managed to rope in one of the actors from infamous flop The Room to star. “I also have an idea for a graphic novel that deals with the very small moments from the last few months,” she says. “Like having to explain to a detective how Adam Baldwin got involved with your sex life.”And in Nottingham, at the GameCity festival, she was warm, funny and entertaining, joking with fellow game designers Ed Stern and Chris Avellone in a talk about the writing process; taking part in a hilarious live text adventure night; sharing stories about her games, especially Depression Quest. “I met this one kid at IndieCade,” she says during her talk with Reid. “He said, ‘I fell out with my father over the fact that he lives with depression and I didn’t talk to him for seven years. We sat down and played your game and now we’re talking and things are getting better.’“The fact that we can do something like that with a game is so powerful. To think my little thing helped anyone. Nothing I say can express what that means to me. The people who feel that way – they’re the ones who make me want to do all this again.”HOW THE SAGA UNFOLDEDFebruary 2013Zoe Quinn releasesDepression Questindependently, for the first time.19 March 2014The Game Developers Choice awards receive bomb threats: the aggressors say they will explode a bomb if the organisers go ahead with giving Anita Sarkeesian an award. She is given the award and the threat proves empty. Police search the building beforehand yet find nothing.11 August 2014Depression Quest, the game developed and created by Quinn, Patrick Lindsey and Isaac Schankler, is debuted on Steampowered.com, the same day as Robin Williams’s suicide is announced.16 August 2014Quinn’s ex-boyfriend, Eron Gjoni, posts a defamatory blog post alleging that Nathan Grayson, a games journalist, had an affair with Quinn, leading to positive reviews from the magazineKotaku.19 August 2014Quinn is “doxxed” anonymously – this is where someone’s address, bank details, telephone numbers are published on the internet. It is hard to trace the culprits, and leads to harassment and very real threats.27 August 2014Sarkeesian becomes embroiled after she posts a new episode of the “Women as Background Decoration, part 2” series online, commenting on sexism in gaming.27 August 2014As a response to the criticism of women in the gaming world, actor Adam Baldwin coins the hashtag #GamerGate.15 September 2014: Julian Assange tweets using #GamerGate after an “Ask Me Anything” discussion on Reddit is interrupted with questions about the topic.Late September, early October 2014An online movement, called “Operation Disrespectful Nod”, begins to target companies that advertise on gaming sites that have published criticisms of sexism within the industry.1 October 2014Online gaming website Gamasutra tweets: “Yes, our partners at @intel were flooded with complaints over a recent opinion piece, and they did pull an ad campaign.”3 October 2014Intel publishes a statement online claiming: “We recognise that our action inadvertently created a perception that we are somehow taking sides in an increasingly bitter debate in the gaming community. That was not our intent, and that is not the case”.9 October 2014Game developer Brianna Wu shares an image on Twitter which mocks #GamerGate. It is met with overwhelming negativity.10 October 2014As a result, Wu too is “doxxed” and her private details are published on the forum 8chan. After numerous threats online, including death threats, Wu and her husband contact police and flee their home.14 October 2014Sarkeesian pulls out of a talk at Utah State University after several terrorist threats are received, one referring to the 1989 massacre at Montreal’s Ecole Polytechnique. The university is unable to guarantee Sarkeesian’s safety, and she pulls out.31 October 2014Wu creates a fund to offer legal support to those in the games industry who are victims of online harassment. She offers a reward of $11,000 for information on those responsible for her death threats.Luisa Le Voguer Couyet
Facebook is launching another free anti-virus software that monitors for malicious activity and offers to scan infected computers directly from the social network.The scanning software is being provided by security firm Eset and is intended to protect Facebook accounts from being attacked by malicious software on users’ computers.“Our goal is to offer our users the right technology to improve their experience of our services and better protect their devices,” said Chetan Gowda, a web developer at Facebook responsible for fighting spam. “ESET Online Scanner for Facebook will significantly decrease the number of malicious links from among the trillions of clicks that take place every day on Facebook.”Combatting spam and malwareIn 2012, Facebook launched a service that detected malicious activity on Facebook accounts and offered users with suspected infected computers a list of free anti-virus software.Facebookannouncedpartnerships with two security firms F-Secure and Trend Micro in May, and now Eset makes three providing users more options for directly removing infections when they are detected.“A larger number of providers increases the chances that malware will get caught and cleaned up, which will help people on Facebook keep their information more secure,” said Gowda.Users will be notified when they first log into Facebook if suspicious behaviour is detected such as spam messages or the posting of infected links. They will then need to download and install a small programme that scans the computer, but the progress of the scan and results are delivered through Facebook, allowing users to get on and do other things while the scanner checks the computer.The move comes as an increasing number of scams and malicious software have taken to spreading through Facebook, attracted by the 1.35 billion monthly active users.The scams have used social engineering to getpeople to click on infected linksspreading through friends’ news feeds with click-bait headlines. Facebook hasbeen proactively blocking and removing linksit spots as malicious, but has not been able to stop the root of the problem – infected computers.The social network hopes the new free anti-virus service will help cut down on the amount of malware spread through Facebook, tackling the cause directly.•If you see this woman’s knickers in your Facebook feed, don’t click the link•No, you can’t get free Audi R8 cars on Facebook – it’s a scam
