Among devotees of the PlayStation brand, there must have been a few crestfallen faces when it became apparent that Killzone: Shadow Fall will be the most enticing exclusive game on offer at the PlayStation 4's launch. The first-person shooting franchise developed by Guerrilla Games may have inspired admiration at times, but never adulation: previous iterations have been solidly constructed but tended towards the generic. But if you pre-ordered a PS4, you can cheer up now: Shadow Fall is an order of magnitude better than any of its predecessors, and "generic" is one word you definitely would not use when describing it.You would characterise previous iterations of Killzone as classic cover-shooters, in which you would hunker down behind cover, emerging cautiously to mow down waves of Helghast. But not Shadow Fall. From the very off, it is clear that beyond retaining the Helghast, Guerrilla has rethought every element of the franchise. For a start, the drab black-and-brown colour palette has been replaced by something positively vibrant and colourful (although you do find dank-looking areas when you enter Helghast territory). But the main difference lies in the gameplay: Shadow Fall is a proper tactical shooter, much of which is enacted in open-world environments.After a scene-setting preamble kicks off proceedings, in which you learn that you're a Vektan (a suspiciously human-like race) called Lucas Kellan, and that following a war with the Helghast, Vekta City has been divided with a huge wall, so the Helghast are right on your doorstep. An uneasy peace soon degenerates into a civil war, and Lucas sees his father killed by the Helghast and becomes a Shadow Marshal, a sort of super-soldier, under the aegis of surrogate father Sinclair.Into the gameplayThe first proper mission you play is a revelation. You start off on a cliff, unarmed, but in possession of a dead handy drone called an OWL. By swiping in different directions on the Dual Shock 4's touch-pad, you can tell it to attack Helghast, operate as a zip-line, send out an EMP blast or construct a small shield in front of you. You see two Helghast below, and once your OWL has taken them out (any more than two enemies, and it won't be able to cope), you can zip down and pick up some weaponry.Now the fun really starts. Another essential part of Kellan's armoury is an echo-scanner, which picks out enemies within range, plus traps, alarms, ammo stashes and adrenalin packs: the OWL can revive you, but only if you have adrenalin, and you can only carry a maximum of two packs, so it's by no means a free pass. It's vital to use this to gain an advantage: for example, you can send the OWL off to hack alarms (as long as you have line of sight), which will stop the Helghast calling in a dropship full of reinforcements. Another technique you soon learn is to send the OWL out to attack a straggler from a bunch of Helghast, then sneak around and take out his colleagues while the OWL claims their attention. You have to think your way through the game, because the Helghast have pretty full-on artificial intelligence – no bullet-sponges here.Later on in the game, traps such as bins full of exploding spider-robots become a real danger (again, the OWL can hack them), and you meet some formidable enemies, such as giant mechs which only take damage when stunned, either by EMP grenades or your OWL's EMP blast.Varied gameplayBut another surprise that Killzone: Shadow Fall offers lies in the way in which its gameplay varies: it's by no means all tactical, open-world stuff. There are more conventional corridor-shooting sequences (mercifully not that many). Several missions take place in space, often with a modicum of puzzle-solving (generally involving powering up doors and objects with "petrusite capacitors"). There are free-falling sequences, in which you discover a full pitch-and-yaw engine – in one particularly thrilling such sequence, a whole city is disintegrating around your ears. After you hook up with an unlikely partner (we won't spoil the plot for you), devoid of your OWL or any weaponry, you can even paint targets for her to snipe. And there are boss-battles and some full-on, frenetic close-quarters combat, in which your OWL isn't much help, but some of the weaponry you find is, such as an electric gun, which is slow and cumbersome, but can take out tanks and Helghast with nano-shields. Shadow Fall's gameplay keeps you interested at every turn.Glorious visualsAnd the icing on top of that is a level of visual polish that will have your mates instantly comprehending why you lashed out £350 on a PlayStation 4. Shadow Fall looks stunning – as, indeed, any next-gen game should. Draw-distances appear to stretch to infinity. Metal, glass and cloth look like their real-life counterparts. And cliffs look as though they were shaped by nature, rather than a programmer virtually chipping away at rectangular blocks.But the visual aspect that really takes the breath away is Shadow Fall's level design. It has an incredible sense of vertical space, and never passes up an opportunity to show that off – for example when you're dragged around Vekta City on a rope attached to a gunship. The Helghan half of Vekta City features a slum built from an array of containers thousands of feet high. It's a good job that the gameplay gives you occasional opportunities to slow down and take in your surroundings.Stilted dialogueKillzone: Shadow Fall isn't perfect. One particularly jarring aspect is the wooden dialogue that pollutes its cut-scenes – especially the portentous mutterings that emanate from Sinclair, who turns into a deeply annoying character. Kellan himself is a cipher: he hardly utters a word throughout. And sometimes plot advancements feel more like excuses to introduce a new gameplay variation, although many would argue that is no bad thing for a first-person shooter.Fresh-feeling multiplayerThe impression that Guerrilla has massively upped its game persists when you go online with Killzone: Shadow Fall. Purists can dive into 12v12 team deathmatches, or search and destroy missions, but Shadow Fall's multiplayer is all about the Classic Warzone mode, in which your mission changes every five minutes, so you might start off retrieving beacons then taking them to designated places, before a spot of team deathmatch followed by a set charges-and-defend passage.A minimal but clever class system – there are just three, Scout, Assault and Support, with distinctive abilities – encourages you take a rounded approach; just camping and meleeing won't pay dividends, for example. You can change class whenever you respawn, and instead of XP, there are over 1,500 challenges to meet; as you fulfil those, you unlock and upgrade weapons and abilities. Die-hard online shooter fanatics may be dubious about that system but, again, it encourages all-round players at the expense of those who specialise in just one approach. The maps are fabulous, and Shadow Fall's multiplayer is fantastically addictive.Pick of the launch bunchThere's no doubt that Killzone: Shadow Fall is far and away the best PlayStation 4 launch title. It feels fresh and innovative throughout – after playing it, we checked out Call of Duty: Ghosts on the PS4, which felt one-dimensional and strangely old-fashioned – looks stunning and through its beautifully fettled multiplayer side, offers infinite replay value. It towers above previous versions of Killzone in terms of quality and taking a much more interesting approach. All of which makes it the one must-buy exclusive in the PS4's launch line-up.
The birth of singer Maria Callas 90 years ago has been celebrated in a new Google doodle.The animation shows the  legendary soprano performing on stage. Callas, who died in 1977, was a colourful figure who was renowned as a prima donna.The New York-born daughter of Greek parents first appeared on stage in the early 1940s. Despite a relatively short career – it lasted until 1965 – many consider her the greatest soprano of all time. But there are those who have asked if the personal price she paid for her success was worth it.She went through a drastic loss of weight in the 1950s and, in her later career, her performances would become more sporadic. By the time of her last appearance, her vocal powers had waned.Writing for the Guardian in 2007, the critic Tim Ashley wrote: "It has always been said – and even she herself would never deny it – that her voice was not classically beautiful. In her day, many people disliked that sometimes throttled, sometimes metallic sound, and there are some who still do. What she stood for, however, was truth rather than beauty, for expressive veracity rather than display."Her personal life was tinged with tragedy. She had a love affair with Aristotle Onassis, who would later marry Jacqueline Kennedy, the widow of  John F Kennedy. And her relationship with her mother became strained. By the time she died, Maria Callas was a virtual recluse.Last month, the actor Faye Dunaway said she was determined to finish a film – which she is also directing and producing – telling Callas's life story. The Independent quoted Dunaway as saying: "That woman changed an art form and not many people can say that. Callas is to opera what Fellini is to cinema."
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamList of distributed computing projects &gt;&gt; WikipediaLook at Bitcoin - which is at least four times larger than the next largest project. (The identity of that second-placed one isn't obvious; see if you can guess it.)Roughly 40% of Black Friday iPads bought by Android users &gt;&gt; InfoScout BlogWith so much at stake, it's no wonder that Google and Apple are adapting their respective Android and iOS platforms to become the brains of our living room. This begs the question: which platform, Android or iOS, has the upper hand?Today, we had the opportunity to observe and analyse Black Friday tablet purchases in real-time.  Our US-based panel of Android and iOS users submitted over 90,000 shopping trip receipts within the day, giving us plenty of data to work with. As we noted in our previous posts (hereandhere), iPads are this year's hottest commodity. To our surprise, however, we found that roughly 40% of Black Friday iPad purchases could be attributed to existing Android smartphone users. This discovery clearly poses a challenge for Android moving forward and heightens the importance of Chromecast as Google competes for mindshare in the living room of the future.The Chromecast however doesn't appear on Infoscout's top 20 most-bought items forWalmartor the top 10 atTarget.  The only other tablets listed in those stores' best sellers are a $49 RCA and $99 Nabi ones, both running Android, which together seem to have sold a quarter as many as the iPad mini.Pavlovian shoppers and the demise of TV retailing &gt;&gt; DisplaySearch BlogPaul Gagnon:how can the TV industry (brands and retailers) keep the market for TVs growing in light of these pressures? By keeping the discounts big, consumers can be prompted to buy another TV, almost on impulse, whether they need one or not. But big discounts these days require huge sacrifices in margin because the costs of the flat panel TVs are not going down as fast anymore. According to our TV cost modeling, average margins for brands at key sizes are in the low single digits at best, and mostly negative, while retailers make half of what they used to a decade ago on flat panel TVs. Therefore, they can only push these big discounts selectively, hence the heightened focus on the holiday season and Black Friday in particular. The most deeply discounted TVs on Black Friday probably even have double digit negative combined brand and retailer margins.TVs as the Trojan Horse for... what? And whodoesmake money on them?10 reasons why I switched from Android to iOS &gt;&gt; SirstevenSteven Millward's biggest reasons are principally Asia-related (and Google+-related) ones, though the battery life claim is surprising. Three days? (Alternative link: hereposted it on Google+.)Google and Apple alums invent adorable robots that teach kids to code &gt;&gt; Wired UKJust last year, Gupta, the former head of consumer payments at Google, had his first child. This got him thinking a lot about how he might be able to teach his daughter programming skills someday. Sitting in front of a bright screen writing lines of code isn't fun for anyone, let alone a 7-year-old who would rather be playing outside. "How do you turn programming into something that kids want to do?" he wondered.This question led Gupta to quit his job at Google and start Play-i with co-founders Saurabh Gupta, a former engineer at Apple, and Mikal Greaves, formerly of Frog Design. Play-i's focus is to make little robots that teach children programming concepts and languages through interaction and play. Since launching a crowdfunding campaign a few weeks ago, the company has brought in more than triple its original goal of $250,000 (£154,000) (it's currently sitting at $793,000 [£488,000]).How many patents does Google have? Plenty &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewAntonio Regalado:Google has signalled that its intentions remain defensive. The company has supported patent reform legislation that would make it more difficult both to win software patents and use them in court. It also sought positive publicity by making a few dozen patents freely available to open source projects, pledging not to sue "unless first attacked."What's up for debate is whether Google's blistering rate of patenting means the company is inventing more — and more valuable — technology than it did before. Is Google 500 times as innovative as it was a decade ago just because it is winning 500 times as many patents? Or have circumstances forced the search giant into behaving like the kind of company it professes to despise: the kind that spends a great deal of time, money, and effort on legal maneuvers of dubious value to the public?How to burst the "filter bubble" that protects us from opposing views &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewEduardo Graells-Garrido at the Universitat Pompeu Fabra in Barcelona as well as Mounia Lalmas and Daniel Quercia, both at Yahoo Labs, say they've hit on a way to burst the filter bubble. Their idea that although people may have opposing views on sensitive topics, they may also share interests in other areas. And they've built a recommendation engine that points these kinds of people towards each other based on their own preferences.The result is that individuals are exposed to a much wider range of opinions, ideas and people than they would otherwise experience. And because this is done using their own interests, they end up being equally satisfied with the results (although not without a period of acclimitisation). "We nudge users to read content from people who may have opposite views, or high view gaps, in those issues, while still being relevant according to their preferences," say Graells-Garrido and co.A sort of anti-search serendipity engine?Hands-on with Jolla, the Nokia that could have been &gt;&gt; The VergeVlad Savov:Swiping in from the sides brings you to the home screen, swiping up from the bottom accesses your notifications and social feeds, while a swipe down from the top either closes the active app or locks the phone if already on the home screen.Yes, it sounds very reminiscent of the Nokia N9, but in practice it's highly unintuitive and unwieldy to the point where the entire UI paradigm can be considered broken. Screen transitions and in-app animations go from left to right, inviting the user to swipe from right to left to go back, but that's not how you're supposed to do it. A notification pops down from the top of the screen, but if you try to swipe down to view it, you're liable to unintentionally close your current app, or more annoyingly, lock the entire phone.And that's before you get to the lack of app stores and repeated app crashes.Can Micromax become India's leading smartphone maker? &gt;&gt; Forbes IndiaMicromax has come a distance since making its first mobile phones in 2008. According to research firms IDC and CyberMedia Research (CMR), the company is the third largest seller of mobile phones in India behind Samsung and Nokia.The mobile phone market is currently going through a major upheaval as hundreds of millions of users in India and around the world upgrade from cheaper and less-capable feature phones to smartphones. In the smartphone race, both these research firms place Micromax firmly at the number two position behind Samsung in market share—22.7% versus Samsung's 31.9%, according to CMR; and 22.2% versus 25.7%, according to IDC.Samsung India declined to speak with Forbes India for this story. A spokesperson said the company did not believe the IDC and CMR figures were accurate; they were more convinced by the GfK-Nielsen numbers (a proprietary subscription service, the specifics of which Samsung did not disclose). "We do not consider Micromax a competitor," the spokesperson added.Compare "They couldn't hit an elephant at this distance".You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's Monday. Let's get this week started with some game chat!
Amazon is testing delivering its parcels using drones, the company’s CEO has revealed. The company hopes to have the scheme up and running within five years.Jeff Bezosunveiled the idea, which would be known as Amazon Prime Air,on the American news program60 Minuteson Sunday night.“The big idea is half-hour delivery,” he said. “You order something and within half an hour you can have a drone land on your front porch, drop off a little box and off it goes.”Octocopterswould pick up a yellow box containing a customer’s order and then fly it to the customer’s address using GPS co-ordinates, dropping it in the front yard as long as it is within a 10-mile radius of a “fulfilment centre”.Amazon has tested drone delivery at one of its centres in Virginia and Bezos said the toughest part of the scheme was demonstrating to the Federal Aviation Administration that it was safe.“I don’t want anyone to think this is just around the corner,” he said. “This is years of additional work – I’m an optimist – four or five years.” Bezos was hopeful the scheme will be operating in major cities in America sometime in 2015. He added that the drones would be “very green” as they would burn far less petrol than delivery trucks.It not known when Amazon would look at expanding the drone delivery system outside America. The service may have difficulty coming to countries, including Australia, with strict laws in place to control the use of drones.In Australia, drones are not allowed to be used in heavily populated areas and have to be 30m away from buildings and people at all times. Pilotless drones – being used with no-one in control of a remote – are also banned.The announcement hasdivided opiniononTwitter, some peopletweetingtheir concerns about the potential damage Amazondronescould do if they crashed, others posting jokes about theservice.
Nestled around the remnants of a medieval stone cross, the hamlet of Dean in the heart of the Cotswolds can hardly be said to have entered the digital age. But there is at least one house that boasts a modern, superfast internet connection. The prime minister's constituency home has a line leased by the Home Office from BT.His neighbours make do with the grindingly slow copper broadband network, and now their hopes of an upgrade have been dashed. Despite behind-the-scenes support from David Cameron and the more overt backing of his culture secretary, Maria Miller, a project designed to bring fibre connections to every home in Dean, and a total of 1,300 premises in west Oxfordshire, is to miss out on government funding.Cotswolds Broadbandwas one of four projects championed by Miller that could have brought a total of 14,000 remote homes and offices online starting next year, but now look set to be denied public funding. They were some of the dozens of local broadband initiatives bidding for a share of the £20m rural community broadband fund (RCBF). Launched two years ago with the aim of bringing superfast service to 70,000 remote homes and businesses, the taxpayer-funded scheme was trumpeted as a means of countering economic decline in villages.The RCBF is to be wound down in March next year with just a fraction of the money spent. So far only three projects – claiming less than £1m in total – have been approved, and these will connect just 2,500 homes. Frustrated at the lack of progress, spurned communities are now in open rebellion. Many blame their failure on BT.Red tape, complex rules drawn up by civil servants and a reluctance on the part of councils to hand work to companies other than BT have left numerous projects unable to secure money from the scheme, which is operated by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs."The money is there but the officials have made it impossible to spend," said Steve Adamson, whoseTrailway project in Dorsetwould have connected 4,500 premises but will not receive funds, despite making the shortlist. "The RCBF is dead. The officials running it got so tied up in their own process it was impossible to deliver. This has happened because of the incompetence and ineptitude in central government."A few projects are still under consideration, but those close to the process say most of the money will go unspent, and £10m of RCBF cash originally granted by the European Union may have to be returned to Brussels.A Defra spokesperson said: "Several applications are currently under the consideration and more are expected to be successful. We want to ensure that people in rural communities are better connected."After a damning report this year from the national auditor on the rural broadband process, Miller invited six community projects to Whitehall in July, in a widely publicised meeting designed to show government support. She then wrote to councils urging them to consider the projects.Her department has bent over backwards to remove hurdles. It has offered to pay the administrative costs of redrawing wider county contracts with BT to make room for the community initiatives, and to pay BT to build in these areas should the local projects fail to proceed to contract.But five months later it is clear that Miller's efforts will have little impact. Of the six she met – Cotswolds Broadband, Northmoor and Noke in Oxfordshire, Trailways in Dorset, South Hams Broadband in Devon and B4RN in Lancashire – it is likely that only two will go ahead: Northmoor, serving 520 homes, and Noke, whose network will be built by BT and covers just 65 premises."It's extraordinary that we've ended up in a situation like this," said Malcolm Corbett, a broadband campaigner who heads the Independent Networks Co-operative. "These rural communities are going to get left behind. Broadband in rural areas is extremely important for economic activity because many people work from home or from small offices."Of the three projects that have so far secured RCBF money, the largest is Rothbury in Northumberland. Its £460,000 of funding is going to BT, which won the contract to carry out the work. The money will bring superfast broadband to 1,500 homes. Tove has been approved for a network reaching 450 homes, and Fell End in Cumbria was a pilot initiative covering just 29 homes.In Lancashire, farmers are venting their fury at BT, with landowners in the village of Dolphinholme barring its workers from their land. Local residents have invested in B4RN, which has already started building its own network using private money. By the new year, its fibre-optic cables will reach 400 homes.RCBF money would have helped extend the build from 1,400 premises to 3,200. Now B4RN has learned that BT, using taxpayer funds from Lancashire county council, is laying its own cables in Dolphinholme. "It's a pointless exercise," said the B4RN project head, Barry Forde. "They are just playing games. What we object to is the community putting the time effort and money in and then having BT subsidised by the taxpayer to come and compete with us."B4RN applied for RCBF money, but Forde is not optimistic. "Our bid is in. We can't see any reason why they would not award us the money, but there is a tremendous amount of power behind the BT lobby."In order to secure RCBF funds, community projects must have a cast-iron guarantee from their council that BT will not use public money to also build in their area. This is because under RCBF and European rules, no one community can benefit from two networks both paid for by the taxpayer.The BT rural money comes from a much larger pot, the £530m fund known as BDUK, operated by civil servants in the Department for Culture, Media and Sport. BDUK's remit is to bring superfast broadband to more than 90% of premises by 2017. The RCBF is there to provide help to the 10% that BDUK will leave out.A DCMS spokesman said: "As part of our broadband rollout we are continuing to work closely with a wide range of community projects and with county councils to ensure that more and more homes and businesses will benefit from superfast broadband. Of course, we are keen to support those RCBF projects which comply with EU state aid rules and which bring in private sector funds to maximise value for money."The BDUK money is being awarded on a county basis, meaning 44 councils are competing to get BT to their area – and may be afraid of falling to the back of the queue. "We heard that BT have been putting pressure on county councils not to change their agreed plans or they would risk slipped timescales," said Hugo Pickering, who leads the Cotswolds project.An email from the chief executive of Oxfordsire CC refusing backing for his scheme makes it clear that delays are a concern. "Whilst the council is always keen to support local business initiatives, we have to ensure that the council's financial position is secured and that there is no impact on the very public timeline and coverage commitments that we have announced," it said.A BT spokesman said: "Community groups can ask their local council if their area sits within the scope of their BDUK plans or not. It is for councils to provide that information rather than BT. If an area is and the council wish for it to be excluded, that will inevitably require some remodelling if BT is to meet its commercial commitments under the contract."Campaigners are concerned because many rural projects claimed to offer better value for money than BT. The taxpayer is funding an average of 73% of BT's rural build costs, and the company's network is bringing fibre only to street cabinets, with the ageing copper lines relied on to carry the signal to homes.A number of projects, including Trailways and Cotswolds Broadband, had offered to build future-proof, all-fibre networks at a third of the cost claimed from the public purse. "The shame is that those projects were an opportunity to get better value for money than we are getting in the main programme with BT in deeply rural areas," Corbett said.
You know the Samsungwhistle ringtone? You must do: five chirpy, chirrupping notes that are a bit like a wolf-whistle, but with no suggestion of sexual harassment.The first time I heard it I thought there was someone messing about on the bus. Then I thought the whistler must be stalking me, because I was hearing it more and more: in the supermarket, the cafe, the park. Then a colleague's phone made the noise in the office, and the penny dropped. Finally last week my wife got a Samsung phone, so now I hear it at home.First heard with the launch of the Samsung Galaxy S1 in 2010, the whistle ringtone is one of several variants of a tune named Over the Horizon, specially composed – perhaps "designed" is a better word – for Samsung. The South Korean company won't say exactly how many people have the Over the Horizon ringtone, but it does say it is the most popular. And Samsung is the world's most popular maker of smartphones – it sold 213m in 2012, about a third of the market. Over the Horizon has earned its place in the pantheon of ringtones we love to hate – wrongtones, if you will – alongsideNokia's signature theme, a descending arpeggio based on Tarrega's Chopin-inspired Gran Vals.That one came into being thanks in part to Thomas Dolby, famed for 80s synthpop hits such as She Blinded Me With Science; in the 90s, Dolby helped invent the polyphonic ringtone for Nokia. At the height of its popularity, Gran Valse was being heard 1.8bn times per day and was immortalised by Dom Joly and his giant mobile phone on Trigger Happy TV. The ringtone signified newness for a while, before newness became naffness.But the Samsung whistle ringtone is different. For a start, it's not polyphonic – it's deliberately naturalistic. It was composed, says Samsung, by its senior sound designer, Joongsam Yun. How did he do it? Not, it seems, just by improvising a jolly tune – or by finding a catchy sequence of notes that was out of copyright in the way Nokia did. First, Samsung did some market research: it says it canvassed 900 users in North America and Europe and came up with a list of positive words associated with its brand ("innovative", "friendly" and "trustworthy"). Joongsam was then asked to "develop these words into sounds".Perhaps it does sound innovative, friendly and trustworthy. It sounds human (albeit an unusually perky, over-caffeinated human). Which, of course, might account for its success. So I'm no longer surprised to hear it on the train, in restaurants or when I'm doing the washing-up. But I do long for the day when its ubiquity makes it as socially unacceptable as Nokia's.* This article was amended on 4 December 2013. An earlier version referred to the Nokia ringtone as being based on Chopin's Gran Valse, rather than Tarrega's Chopin-inspired Gran Vals.
Price £15,300MPG 62.8Top speed 126mph"This place was a real dump beforeBMWtook it over," says the taxi driver as we pull up outside the vast complex that isPlant Oxford. It is 100 years since William Morris converted an old military college into a car factory – and no one could have foreseen that it would develop into one of the world's most technologically sophisticated automotive manufacturers. Now lines of laser-guided robots work together in a perfectly sequenced choreography to churn out a new car every 68 seconds – a total of 900 a day. One in every six cars built by BMW is a&nbsp;Mini, and 40% of all UK car exports are Minis. It is impossible to overstate how important Mr Bean's little car is to this country's stuttering economy.And that is why the Rt Hon Patrick McLoughlin, secretary of state for transport, has joined many of BMW's top brass on a miserably wet November morning in Cowley for the launch of the newNew Mini. After coffee and a few moments to learn some startling facts about one of the world's most recognisable cars – did you know that each one is brushed with ostrich feathers to remove dust in the paint shop, or that the greatAlec Issigonisonce designed an amphibious wheelbarrow? – we were&nbsp;ushered into a huge darkened hall to meet and greet the third generation of BMW's baby boomer.Inside story: the latest Mini is the most 'connected' to date.The honour of introducing the car was given to the historianDominic Sandbrook, who arrived on stage in one of Sir Alec's original Minis accompanied by Spike the bulldog. (Spike is the star of the new Mini's ad campaign. "Spike" is just his stage name. He's actually called Turbo. Isn't that better? For a car star?) Journalists fiddled with their multilingual headsets. The chap next to me was from Moscow. On the other side, it was a bloke from… Cowley. Oh well. Dominic said Spike was a symbol of Britishness. He slobbered a bit and licked his testicles – Spike, that is. Dominic said the Mini was also a symbol of Britishness – lovable, cheeky, reliable, robust. A&nbsp;small car with big clout.The old Mini revved off the stage to make way for its latest incarnation. Lights flashed, engines roared, and three new Minis spurted on to the stage from the shadows. They looked nearly the same as the ones we've got used to over the past 12 years, since BMW reinvented the car and began this remarkable renaissance. Out stepped Harald Krüger and Peter Schwarzenbauer, two of BMW's most senior figures – both slim, suave, grey-haired, immaculate. These industrialists run an ¤8bn a&nbsp;year company. Success seems to do wonders for your complexion. They stood on either side of the new car. More cameras flashed; we applauded. It was a rock-star moment.Not so long ago a launch like this would have been accompanied by a host of beautiful women wearing skirts slit to the thigh; now it was well-groomed men in suits. One said: "Mini is a way of life, a friend. It holds a special place in our hearts." We all cheered. Car launches are always interesting and often star-studded, but I&nbsp;can't remember one where we all felt so proud, or so emotional.This new Mini is a perfect blend of heritage and innovation. It's quicker, cleaner and safer than the last one. It looks tidy. It comes with a choice of ground-breaking three-cylinder engines. It's more interactive and smarter than ever. Production officially started last Thursday – which would have been Sir Alec Issigonis's 107th birthday. He'd have been proud, too. Go, Mini, go!Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor follow him on Twitter@MartinLove166
Wizardry IV: The Return of Werdna (1987)Vintage role-playing games rarely leap to mind when considering the trickiest titles ever released. But ready to storm the frontal lobe wielding an oversized axe isWizardry IV. Obscure puzzles and a wildly maze-like structure didn't help even the most devoted players, but it was the game's punishment for not just failure but bad luck that really challenged the user. The game also demanded intimate knowledge of the first threeWizardrytitles, making it stunningly inaccessible.Grand Prix 2 (1996)Released just as home computers were beginning to offer something like a realistic impression of how vehicles actually behaved on tarmac, this popular PC game became a proving ground for those that fancied their virtual automotive talents. Playing properly is to do so without any of the game's driver assists, and relative to today's racing games, with their instant rewind functions and curiously kind road surfaces, the result is an impossibly trying undertaking.Rick Dangerous (1989)A split second into vintage platformerRick Dangerous, and you're on the run from a tumbling boulder, dodging death from multiple directions. Indiana Jones may empathise, but he never had it this tough. Designed by the team that went on to createTomb Raiderand the iconicLara Croft, the game never relinquishes its brutal treatment of the player, and absolute devotion is required from anybody who hopes to overcome the trials on offer here.Super Meat Boy (2010)When indie game design duo Tommy Refenes and Edmund McMillen set out to make a game that captured their favourites from childhood, they really succeeded in terms of how difficult their highly regarded creation,Super Meat Boy, is. Unlike the titles that inspired it, the sensationally popular platformer doesn't punish players for failure, but by modern standards it is ferociously unkind to those that tackle it.Pink Sweets (2006)The 2D shooter, or shmup, has existed since the likes ofSpace Invaders. It's simple in form and spirit, but as the genre has evolved, as withShinobi(below), it has bucked the trend for games to become easier over time. Modern shmups demand incredible skill levels, pushing the ability to react to dense clouds of bullets.Pink Sweetsis one of the toughest shmups there is, although the genre is generally tough, so even this goliath of demanding gaming is not without rivals to its throne.Shinobi (2002)It's commonly thought that the heyday of difficult gaming was back in the 1980s. Back then arcades – the era's dominant cultural force – arguably used difficulty to pull more cash from the public by shortening how long they could actually make that cash last. As console gaming rose to power, demands on players fell. Not so withShinobi. Created as an arcade title in 1987, it took nine sequels until it became a true monster of testing gaming, with 2002's masterful PS2 release, also named, simply,Shinobi.Do you agree with our selection? Have your say below
A lot of people don't realise that just one metre below your feet walking alongGower Streetor Malet Street in London, you have thousands upon thousands of very hungry, potentially dangerous insects.In the basement we have our insectary colonies where we keep lots of different species of mosquitoes, found in all parts of the world. None of them are infected with malaria, but they are in very high numbers. We also have bed bugs, house dust mites, cockroaches, and house flies, among other insects.I'm asenior lecturerat theLondon School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, where my speciality ismedical entomology. I run a research group where we investigate new ways to control diseases spread by insects, such asmalaria, dengue fever and other parasites. Out of pure interest – and because I like self-experimenting – I gave myselfhookworms.Hook worm.  Photograph: Sebastian Kaulitzki/AlamyHookworms are known to have surprising positive effects on your body. They modify theimmune system, although this is a fine balance because if they modulate it too much you become ill, and if they don't modulate it enough, you'd get rid of them. But by suppressing the immune system, they have been shown to have a beneficial effect on diseases such asCrohn's, irritable bowel syndrome, asthma, and there's even a clinical trial looking at effects onMS. Maybe if we understand the science of how these worms do this, we could develop a drug which could mimic them.For some years I've had a food allergy where I can't eat bread without feeling ill. So partly I just wanted to find out if the rumours were true and whether the worms would help me, but we also filmed them using a special camera which is usually used to look for skin cancer.It's basically an ultrasound machine which allowed us to visualise a section through the skin, so we were able to see how the worms entered my arm, and moved through the layers. It was previously unknown how long they took to penetrate the skin, and it was thought that perhaps they hang around in the layers of the skin for some time.When the worms enter the body they're microscopic. Normally you get them by walking around barefoot in infected areas, which is why children get them quite a lot in developing countries because they are often sitting on the ground. In the lab, we put them on to my arm in a droplet of water.In no time at all, they started burrowing in, far quicker than anybody would have thought. While they were burrowing I could feel very slight nips. Using the camera we could see them move through the skin, and again, that happened much faster than people had thought, which was a new finding.Then they make this incredible journey through the body. They go in the bloodstream, through the heart, to eventually burst through the lungs. You develop a bit of a cough, so you hack them up then you swallow them into your stomach. I kept thinking: "Am I coughing up worms?"When they reach the stomach they develop into adults, where they hook on to the gut wall and suck your blood. They produce saliva which is injected into the bloodstream, which is what modulates the immune system so that you don't get rid of them.Remarkably, the hookworm therapy actually worked. I had a good few weeks of scoffing pizza and garlic bread, which was just brilliant, but after about four weeks I started to develop really severe stomach pains. It was horrible, excruciating, and reached the point where I was unable sleep. It was making me feel ill and dizzy, and at one point I was on the verge of giving up and saying this is just enough.A couple of days later I swallowed a pill-sized camera, so we were able to see the hookworms in place. But we were also able to see their path of destruction. There were lots of round, red wounds on the inside of my stomach wall in the shape of their mouth parts where they had been attached. This worried me, because some of them looked like ulcers. The specialist gastroenterologist we were speaking to said that if I went to him with all these symptoms, he'd be incredibly concerned.Despite this, I actually spent a long time debating whether or not to get rid of them. I thought the likelihood was that this will all settle down eventually, my body will adjust and it will go back to how it should be – meaning I could continue to eat bread. However, my wife was unconvinced. She didn't really like the thought of sleeping in a bed beside somebody infested with worms. So after two months of being infected, I took the pill and got rid of them. I probably would do it again, but there would have to be a good reason, such as if there was a new aspect to hookworm biology that we didn't know about, or if I decided I wanted to eat bread again.Leech therapy. Photograph: Hans-Joachim Schneider/AlamySince the hookworms, I've also triedleech therapyto help cure a muscle injury. There's anecdotal evidence that leeches can help by stimulating the flow of blood through the muscle, helping it to heal. So I gave it a go when after four months of physio a quad injury wasn't getting any better. I let three leeches feed on my leg for about an hour, until they were the size of big sausages, full of blood. Amazingly, about a week later my injury had disappeared. Whether it was coincidence or not, I don't know, but it certainly raises the possibility.The next thing I want to experience is maggot therapy. I want to know what it's like, whether you can feel it, and how effective it actually is. I'm not sure how that'll work out.
Jing Zhang (1), director of operations,and Roger Coulston (2) CSOAqdotCompany launched: 2012What it doesAqdothas developed and patented new technology for creating microcapsules filled with a range of active ingredients.These ingredients can then be released, under control – a technique that can be tuned to myriad applications."The early priorities are the home care, personal care, nutraceuticals and agrochemicals markets," says ZhangWhy Cambridge?The company has close links to the University of Cambridge chemistry department, while the city's ability to attract talent is also beneficial, as is its accommodating and supportive entrepreneurial community. "This is ideal for a young start-up like us," says Zhang.Future PlansThe next few years should see Aqdot develop significantly. "The primary opportunity is for us to grow by licensing the technology," says Zhang. "This would be among a variety of other business models including straight licensing, joint development agreements, joint ventures and production of our product." Work is currently underway to commercialise the technology.Steve Greaves (3), CEO, co-founderCambridge Communication Systems (CCS)Company launched: 2010What it doesMobile traffic is currently reliant on "macro-cells" – base stations with high-level antennas covering large areas. But with mobile data exploding, cells covering smaller areas are required.CCShas harnessed microwaves to create a flexible, cost-effective small-cell system that uses street level antennas and boasts a self-organising network.The company secured £1.3m seed funding in December 2011. "In less than a year the company had completed laboratory trials and had deployments of pilot systems with two of the world's largest mobile operators," says Greaves.Why Cambridge?Many of the company's members have long been associated with research and businesses in Cambridge, making it the logical location for CCS.Future plansFurther pilot networks are planned, with larger-scale small-cell deployments expected in 2014/2015.Emily MacKay (4), founderCrowdsurferCompany launched: 2012What it doesCrowdsurferis a search website for alternative finance options. "There are hundreds of crowd finance and peer-to-peer finance platforms available, and more launching all the time," explains MacKay. "It's currently impossible to search and extremely hard to analyse. We're solving those problems."Why Cambridge?While Mackay values the wealth of tech talent and support for startups Cambridge offers, she also feels the attraction of London."There's some real momentum in fintech innovation in east London, so you're as likely to see us in Old Street," she says.Future plans"Our aim is to be the market authority, globally, for alternative finance," says MacKay.As well as raising the visibility of platforms, Crowdsurfer will benefit all those brands, fundraisers, investors and economists who are wanting to analyse the market, from examining the flow of money to spotting the next big thing.Michael Priestnall (6), CTO, co-founderCambridge Carbon CaptureCompany launched: 2010What it doesThe company uses electrochemical technology to produce energy while combining carbon dioxide with calcium or magnesium materials to form carbonates, similar to limestone."We are locking [CO2] up as a solid and we have a process whereby we can turn it into magnesium bicarbonate in the sea," revealsPriestnall. This is important for controlling emissions from ships.Why Cambridge?"We work extremely closely with Cambridge University," says Priestnall. The proximity of the Judge Business School and the Institute of Manufacturing, together with top-class students, was also a draw.Future PlansA strategic link-up with a producer of calcium and magnesium materials could be the next step."There's a lot of strategic interest in addressing this big problem of industrial CO2 sequestration, but in this case the interest is coming from those who are going to provide the materials," says Priestnall.Simon Bransfield-Garth (7), former CEO Eight19now CEOAzuriCompany launched: 2010What it doesEight19produces flexible, lightweight printed plastic solar cells.Why Cambridge?With the technology originally pioneered by Professor Sir Richard Friend's team in theCavendish Laboratory, Cambridge was the natural choice for Eight19. The thriving tech base offered further incentive.Future plans"Eight19 continues to develop flexible printed plastic solar with a view to supply into a wide range of applications from consumer electronics to indoor, battery free devices," says Bransfield-Garth.Last year it spun out a separate company,Azuri Technologies, that offers pay-as-you-go solar technology to consumers living in rural areas without mains electricity.Eben Upton (8), co-founderRaspberry Pi Foundation/Raspberry Pi TradingLaunched: 2009What it doesRaspberry Piis a credit-card sized computer that has inspired swathes of youngsters to learn how to code."On the trading side we make the computer, we make a camera accessory, we do an enormous amount of software work," explains Upton. The foundation side is engaged in a wide range of activities from developing educational material to lobbying the government.Why Cambridge?Already based in Cambridge, it was logical for Upton and his colleagues to set up Raspberry Pi there. Cambridge's ability to attract talented graduates from across the country was also positive.Future plans"The biggest piece of work I am doing at the moment is trying to sand off the corners, trying to make the platform easier for non-technical people to get to grips with," says Upton.Paulo Ferreira de Castro (9), CTO Knowledge TransmissionCompany launched: 2010What it does:Knowledge Transmissionbrings high-quality learning materials to students at low cost through tablets, mobiles and other such communications technology. "Emerging economies struggle with delivering education to large populations through the limited resources of teachers, schools and universities. Knowledge Transmission helps fix that," says Ferreira de Castro.Why Cambridge?A pool of talented software engineers is a boon. "We are also an educational technology company and have access to some of the greatest education resources in the world, both people and content, by being based in Cambridge," says de Castro.Future plansThe company is focused on broadening access to education in emerging economies. "We want to try and tap the lower-income groups and give them access to affordable education products via mobile devices using micro payments for content and bundled as part of schools' and universities' broadband packages," de Castro says.Vivian Chan (10) and Nilu Satharasinghe (12), co-foundersSparrhoCompany launched: 2013What it does"Sparrhois an intelligent discovery platform for science, we help users stay up-to-date on relevant scientific developments," says Chan. The website provides scientific updates and recommendations tailored to your interests and enables you to share them with others.Why Cambridge?"The problem Sparrho is solving arose when I was doing my PhD here, so we wanted to be close to our initial target audience," says Chan. The multidisciplinary talent is also a draw, as is the city's ethos."I love the fact that nearly everyone rocks up to a meeting on their bike!" adds Chan.Future PlansMaking Sparrho the "go-to" platform for those wanting to keep tabs on relevant research.Steve Huxter (11), managing director and co-founderDarktraceCompany launched: 2013What it doesCyber security companyDarktraceprovides technology for companies to keep tabs on the threats posed to their networks and data from both inside and outside the business. The approach uses mathematics to spot unusual behaviour as it happens.Why Cambridge?The high concentration of top technical specialists holds a strong appeal.Future plansExpansion is on the cards, "Darktrace will be increasing its presence in Europe and the United States in 2014," says Huxter. There are also plans to expand into Asia.Steve Jackson (13), CSO, co-founderMISSION TherapeuticsCompany launched: 2011What it doesMISSION Therapeuticsaims to develop new drugs that can be incorporated into pills or injections to fight many types of cancer. "There are some exciting opportunities for coming up with drugs that would kill cancer cells but not normal cells and that's what you really want to achieve in cancer therapy," says Jackson.Why Cambridge?Jackson's laboratory is based at Cambridge University'sGurdon Instituteand the co-founders are also in the area, making Mission's location logical. The wealth of pharmaceutical companies, talented individuals, opportunities for commercial collaborations and hubs such as theBabraham Research Campuswere among the attractions."I think the other thing for me is a can-do kind of attitude," Jackson says.Future plans"Our goal is to develop compounds ready to go into man and then secure financing that will allow us to take them into man either alone, or in collaboration with a pharmaceutical partner," says Jackson.Shankar Balasubramanian (14), co-founderCambridge Epigenetix (CEGX)Company launched: 2012What it doesBalasubramanian previously developed a technique to sequence the four bases of DNA as a founder of the company Solexa. NowCEGXis creating technology to identify bases that have been chemically altered, and their exact location in the DNA, starting with the "C" base."[This] can be chemically modified to subtly different forms which do not change the genetic code b ut they change the way the double helix is seen and read by other components in biology," explains Balasubramanian. Such changes are called "epigenetic" and have implications in many fields ranging from stem cell biology to cancer research.Why Cambridge?As a professor at Cambridge University, the city was an obvious choice for Balasubramanian. "It's always good to grow something close to the people who actually understood the nuts and bolts that got it started in the first place," he says. Cambridge is also home to world-class research into epigenetics, stem cells and cancer biology.Future PlansWith the first products launched earlier this year, CEGX is primed for growth. "I see this as the next frontier for science and medicine that's related to DNA," says Balasubramanian.Sam Bose (15), CEO, founderIntelliSense.ioCompany launched: 2013What it doesEmbracing the "internet of things",IntelliSense.iohooks up wireless-enabled sensors to industrial equipment and processes. When linked to analytics apps, efficiencies can be scrutinised, processes improved and performance predicted.Why Cambridge?As well as its boasting useful networks, cutting-edge research and talented individuals, Bose has another reason for favouring the fen: "There are fewer distractions for our team to focus on the problem solving," he says.Future plansFor Bose it's a double-pronged approach. "Extend the number of apps/solutions and target new industries," he says.Chris Mitchell (16), founderAudio AnalyticCompany launched: 2009What it doesAudio Analyticproduces software that uses computer analysis to identify specific sounds, ranging from car alarms to a baby's wail, even in noisy situations. "Audio Analytic technology is deployed in several consumer electronic markets such as home automation and security," Mitchell says.Why Cambridge?Capital and talented individuals were important attractions, but there are other bonuses: "The presence of incubators such asIdea Spacegives the flexibility and support needed at this early stage of the business," Mitchell says.Future plansExtending Audio Analytic's reach across a wide range of professional and consumer markets.Emmanuel Carraud (17), CEO, co-founderMagicsolverCompany launched: 2009What it doesMagicsolveris all about apps – helping consumers get the best ones for free on Apple and Android devices, and promoting apps produced by the best developers. Magicsolver also develops its own apps.Why Cambridge?With 90% of Magicsolver's clients outside the UK, Cambridge's reputation is a leading factor. "[The] Cambridge brand gives us credibility working with major companies overseas," Carraud says.Future plansMagicsolver is set to expand on its success, teaming up with new partners and developing new apps. Its 2013 Advent Calendar featuring mini games and 25 new, free apps launched yesterday.Barnaby Perks (19), CEO, Sue Wright (21) and Nadine Field (20), co-founders Psychology OnlineCompany launched: 2011What it doesPsychology Onlineoffers a secure messaging service for patients to undertake cognitive behavioural therapy with a therapist."This way [patients] are comfortable, they can do it from home, they can do it at a time that suits them," says Perks. The results show the system has higher recovery rates, and takes fewer sessions, than face-to-face therapy and has been commissioned by five NHS clinical commissioning groups.Why Cambridge?For Psychology Online, based just outside the city, Cambridge has the right environment and support networks, including lawyers, accountants and non-executive directors. "When I looked at the skills we needed, the software development skills, the clinical management skills, here was the best place and all the best people were here," says Perks.Future plans"Last year our main project in Surrey had 100 patients over a six-month period. This year we're getting 100 patients every month and we expect a similar change in scale next year," says Perks.Robert Young (18) co-founder andStan Boland (5), CEONeulLaunched: 2010What it doesNeuldevelops telecommunications equipment to facilitate the internet of things (IoT). "Neul delivers everything from the end-points, to the base stations and the cloud-based Connected Device Platform which enable end-users to pull data from, push data to and manage their IoT devices in the field," they say.Why Cambridge?With Neul's founders drawn from another Cambridge-based company, CSR, Cambridge was a natural choice, while the rich talent pool is a bonus. "We also have good links with other Cambridge technology companies and with the university," they say.
Once self-driving cars become the norm, what will we do with all that extra time? When we can sit back and let the car take the strain, what will we do during that three-hour drive to the grandparents, or the 30-minute drive to work? The reality will be that, rather than seizing those precious chunks of time for all the things we always say we wish we could do more of, we'll end up working and poring distractedly over our phones. Like two-thirds of the people on our commuter trains in the morning, we'll be frantically cramming in as much email, texting, or vanity-scrolling of our infinite, pointless Facebook newsfeeds as we possibly can before our final destination looms. So will we really have gained anything?William Powers expressed a simple but astute observation about the impact of technology use on his behaviour in his bookHamlet's Blackberry. The digital consciousness, he wrote, can't tolerate three minutes of pure focus. "It had become hard for me to stay focused on a single task of any kind, mental or physical, without adding new ones. While brushing my teeth, I would wander out of the bathroom in search of something else to do at the same time. I'd be organising my sock drawer with one hand while trying to reach my wisdom teeth with the other, and even then I could feel myself craving still another job."We all recognise that kind of twitch; the instinctive check of the mobile phone (each of us does that every six minutes throughout the day, on average), the trouble concentrating for an entire film, or for a whole book. The arguments for technology ruining our brains and destroying our ability to focus have, thankfully, been superseded by research into neuroplasticity, that our brains are far more flexible and open to re-wiring than we ever previously imagined. But the restlessness of Powers's observation of his own behaviour resonates. What is the toll of this constant distraction and lack of digital discipline on our relationships, on our wellbeing, on our productivity?Unsurprisingly, with the maturity of the technology industry and the appetite for a healthier way of dealing with digital overload, the mindfulness and meditation movements are undergoing a significant revival of interest. It feels as opposite to that state of restless online anxiety as it is possible to feel. And though you don't have to look far to find the hippy culture these practices have become known for, these thousand-year-old disciplines are far bigger than that. Certainly the corporate world is taking it seriously, and they might be expected to show little tolerance for anything that doesn't pay its way towards the bottom line.Mindfulness is also a business in itself, of course, which means there is already a swath of meditation apps, expensive retreats and the inevitable conference,Wisdom 2.0. The event can claim not-unimpressive alumni including Twitter co-founders Evan Williams and Biz Stone, Facebook co-founder Dustin Moskovitz andHuffington Postcreator Arianna Huffington.Williams told theNew York Timesthat the tech industry had previously dismissed the bad "hand wavy" branding of meditation, but that it enables him "to think more clearly and not feel so swept up".Sceptics could point out that wealthy Americans and their bubbly tech businesses can afford to indulge the luxury of meditation classes. Google hosted the celebrated mindfulness practitioner and zen master Thich Nhat Hanh in 2011, and runs regular over-subscribed courses on energy, neural re-programming and "mindful lunches". Elsewhere Williams's new company, Medium, runs guided meditations twice weekly, Facebook organises regular office sessions offering mindfulness and meditation practice and General Mills, the American Cheerios manufacturer, has become the unlikely inspiration for many corporate mindfulness programmes, with 700 practising staff.Hippy hype aside, the unwillingness for many to explore this kind of psychological exercise speaks to our ancient hangups over mental health. Physical exercise we accept, but psychological health we are too scared to embrace. What's the equivalent of a fitness bootcamp for your mind?"We are humans, not robots," Asana co-founderJustin Rosenstein told Fast Company recently. "We're engaged in a creative endeavour that requires a lot of energy, and so if you're constantly involved in the output – in the exhale – then you'll run out of breath." The nub for his company, which runs a project management service, is that balance is about the wellbeing of his staff, and means more than just productivity. Mindfulness is seen as an enquiry for objectivity, a way to claw back some of the equilibrium of how we exist in the real world, rather than the hyper-mediated place we create for parts of ourselves online.Real world productivity for mere mortals outside Silicon Valley is more likely to be incentivised with cheap cakes and bad coffee. But in this ongoing battle to regain some control over the demands technology makes of us, mindfulness is a powerful tool in creating an invaluable bit of space and perspective.The next time you find yourself lost in a mindless web, maybe mindfulness is worth a thought. It's about exploring the sensory experience of being alive, rather than the superficial sensations of being online.
Innovation is like motherhood and apple pie, in that everyone's in favour of it. Especially governments. They all want more of it. The only problem is that they haven't the faintest idea of how to make it happen and so are suckers for anyone with a Big Idea about it.A few years ago, an economist named Richard Florida found himself the beneficiary of this syndrome. He published a book with the beguiling title ofThe Rise of the Creative Classand the even more beguiling subtitle "… and how it's transforming work, leisure, community, and everyday life". Florida's argument was that, as our economies are being transformed into knowledge economies, creativity is to our century what access to natural resources was to the 18th. Creative occupations – an occupational category comprising knowledge-workers, intellectuals and artists – were growing to the point where almost a third of the US workforce could be regarded as "creative" and companies, cities and regions were bending over backwards to attract them.riverOnce, the fate of great industrial centres was determined by geography – their proximity to natural resources, navigable rivers, harbours, etc. But the "resources" of the new economy are footloose. The message of Florida's book for urban planners and municipal authorities, therefore, was that if cities want to succeed they must attract the creative types. In order to do so, they must cherish the three "Ts" – talent (a highly educated population), tolerance (cultural and sexual diversity) and technology (the infrastructure necessary to sustain an entrepreneurial culture). In other words, they should look a bit like San Francisco.As it happens, some of Florida's insights were really just contemporary articulations of the ideas of ancient economists.Alfred Marshallobserved many years ago that workers in skilled occupations tend to cluster in areas where their peers live and work. But why did those people choose to settle there in the first place?Which brings us to Cambridge, Marshall's alma mater and the nearest thing Europe has to Silicon Valley. Inevitably, it has been dubbed Silicon Fen. The "Cambridge phenomenon" – the extraordinary ecosystem of science- and technology-based companies in and around the town – has acquired near-mythological status. At the moment there are something like 1,500 of these companies in the region, some of which have become market leaders in the UK and the wider world. Five of them have valuations in the billion-dollar region, and one, ARM, is one of the UK's most successful companies and the dominant firm in one of the fastest-growing markets in the world: that for the processor chips that power smartphones and other mobile devices.The Cambridge phenomenon has functioned as a honeypot attracting venture capitalists, big consultancy firms, bankers and other specialist organisations that attend to the needs of growing firms in complex industries. Cambridge is now ranked as one of the top three "innovation ecosystems" in the world, according to arecent international survey. It is where Microsoft chose to set up its major European research lab. Ditto Toshiba. And it's where AstraZeneca has chosen to locate its global R&amp;D and corporate headquarters, a decision that will involve spending upwards of £300m and bring about 2,000 researchers and support staff.Just down the road, in the village of Hinxton, is theGenome Campus, at the heart of which sits the Sanger Institute, named after the only British scientist to win two Nobel prizes, whereSir John Sulstonand his colleagues first sequenced the human genome. And not far away is theBabraham Research Campus, which specialises in the incubation of bioscience companies and into which the government recently injected £44m of public funding.For decades, policy-makers from Europe and beyond have been coming to Cambridge, wistfully eyeing its "technology cluster", shaking their heads at the list of vibrant companies that it has spawned, interviewing academics, executives, planners and venture capitalists and wondering what its secret formula is.There is no formula. Nobody planned the Cambridge phenomenon, just as nobody planned Silicon Valley. Both developed organically. That doesn't mean that similar phenomena can't happen elsewhere, just that they can't be delivered to order. And they take lots of time to evolve and mature.In Silicon Valley's case,the story goes back to 1939, when two Stanford-trained engineers, David Packard and William Hewlett, set up a little electronics company in a Palo Alto garage. In the case of Cambridge it also goes back a long way. Because of lobbying by the university in the early part of the 20th century, the town had no "legacy" industries – no mass production, no car manufacturing (unlike Oxford), no smokestacks. Insofar as Cambridge had any industrial sector at all in the first half of the 20th century, it was in relatively clean areas such as consumer and broadcasting technology (Pye, founded in 1896) and scientific instrumentation (Cambridge Scientific Instruments, co-founded by Charles Darwin's fifth son, Horace, in 1881).The first stirrings of change came in the early 1950s, when Cambridge University embarked on the growth path that has turned it into one of the world's intellectual powerhouses. In 1949, in what was then called the Mathematical Laboratory (and eventually became the Computer Laboratory), Maurice Wilkes and his colleagues had built the Edsac, one of the first general-purpose electronic computers. Unlike other researchers who were building similar machines in other places, Wilkes &amp; Co made theirs immediately available as a computing tool to colleagues in a range of disciplines. This had two effects: it led to a series of scientific breakthroughs (for example, plate tectonics in earth sciences); and it established Cambridge as a leader in information technology and computing.A second source of innovation was the discovery in 1953 by Watson and Crick of the structure of the DNA molecule. This was the first link in a chain that led to the sequencing of the human genome in 2000 – and eventually spawned a whole ecosystem of biotechnology companies.A third significant development was the founding, in 1960, of Cambridge Consultants, one of the UK's first technology-transfer companies. It was set up by three Cambridge alumni to "put the brains of Cambridge University at the disposal of the problems of British industry". As far as the IT segment of the ecosystem is concerned, Cambridge Consultants played a critical role, because one can trace links from many of today's successful companies (for example ARM) that stretch back to it.A fourth factor was the change that took place in the 1960s in the university's and the local authority's attitude to industrial development in the town. Within the university, much of the pressure came from researchers in physics, engineering and computing who came to see local industrial development in their fields as desirable for various reasons: as a way of exploiting their research via startup ventures; as a potential source of research collaboration and funding; and as a way of boosting the employability of their students. These pressures were amplified by the university's liberal – some would say relaxed – attitude to intellectual property.On the planners' side, there were pressures from central government to reverse their previous anti-industrial bias for the area. A particular cause célèbre had been their refusal to permit IBM to locate its European R&amp;D laboratory in Cambridge. In the end, the planners changed their minds after a commission led by Sir Nevill Mott, head of the Cavendish Laboratory, signalled a radical shift in the university's attitude to industrial development. From that moment, the die was cast.What we see in Cambridge and Silicon Valley today are complex industrial ecosystems. But while a formula is unattainable, we can see that such ecosystems need certain key ingredients if they are to thrive.First of all, the ecosystem needs to have a significant research university at its heart. It has to be in a pleasant urban environment that has a good housing stock, reasonable transport links, good state and private schools, good healthcare and a lively cultural life. And the local planners have to be sympathetic to the needs of small tech-based companies, especially in their early stages of their corporate life.It's important that the university at the heart of the ecosystem should be one that gives considerable freedom to its academics and has a liberal attitude towards intellectual property. Also needed are legal firms that understand IP, and outposts of the global accounting and consulting firms because venture capitalists do not feel comfortable funding ventures which are audited by local firms. And there even needs to be a range of different kinds of hotel – including boutique ones – to cater for visiting researchers, financiers and conference attendees.The ecosystem needs a lot of small specialist firms that can quickly tackle specific commissions together with a networking system that enables people quickly to locate a particular specialist when they need him or her. Most important of all, it needs a significant population of "angel" investors – experienced entrepreneurs who have acquired wealth through building successful companies and who are willing and able to invest in, and mentor, firms at the startup stage, long before any venture capitalist would deign to look at them.Cambridge has a club of such angel investors. Membership requirements include a net worth in excess of £15m and a track record of at least one successful "exit" from a startup. At present, the club has 56 members. It functions as an arena in which innovators and entrepreneurs can pitch ideas to an audience that is experienced, sympathetic but critical and exceedingly well-informed. Not every pitch that succeeds in this forum results in a successful new company. But it provides a useful reality check on scientific and technological dreams.At another level, the "Cambridge phenomenon"  tells us that innovation ecosystems cannot be bought off the shelf and installed wherever governments wish to locate them. Innovation is a complex and delicate plant. You have to prepare the soil carefully, be prepared to wait for the fruits and accept that your administration will be long gone before they materialise. Even in quickly moving technologies, patience is a virtue.
The tradition is that when the temperature hits -50C you're supposed to run around the outside of the base naked. This year it only hit -48C, though with windchill it can feel much colder. There's a big difference between -50C with zero wind, and -20C with gusts of 15 knots. With a bit of wind, it'll feel a heck of a lot colder.This job – I'm an electronics engineer with theBritish Antarctic Survey– runs for just over a year, but we started a few months before when we got all the technical training we need in Cambridge: a week learning how to survive outdoors and three days being trained by a medical unit. Some people take advanced medical training, where they shadow doctors in an emergency centre, actually performing procedures on patients. It was intensive, but important because we're down here for so long with just one doctor. If something should happen to him, or we're out in the field, there have to be a lot of people who know what they are doing.We spend time mastering all we need to survive outdoors, such as linked travel on foot and skidoos, ice climbing, how to rescue people from crevasses, and setting up tents (surprisingly similar to those used byCaptain Robert F Scott, and are still called Scott tents). We each get two week-long winter training trips to some of the more interesting areas around the ice shelf to explore and practise on. On my second trip, we were camping for the first two nights in -40C, with no heat in the tent at night.Really simple things can be a challenge, such as when you're walking on soft snow – just a kilometre is hard work. And there's a heck of a lot of digging, such as when the steps are buried in, the containers are buried in, and all the experiments that you set out are under a couple of metres of snow and you have to dig them out. So there can be a lot of physical aspects to the work. And just keeping warm is an issue. You have to take your gloves off to do fiddly things, and end up with just absolutely frozen hands, which means you have to work quickly and efficiently.Henderson outside the Halley VI research station. Photograph: Christoph LarndorferThis year we had 108 days of total darkness, with only 13 of us on base. Having24 hours of darkness affects usfar more than we think. After it's been dark for around a week, suddenly you just can't sleep as well at night. Then you get tired and want to sleep during the day, so you can get caught up in a bad rhythm unless you sort it out. To help, we have lights to mimic sunlight, which can be set to come on in the morning so that you wake up to apparent daylight. Coming out of winter we have to go through the whole transition again. When you've been active, and it's bright sunlight outside at midnight, it can be really difficult to switch off.During mid-winter, we really are on our own for a good few months, when it's really dark and unbelievably cold. A ship would have no chance of getting in because there would be miles of incredibly thick sea ice before they reach the coast. The only option would be a plane, but it would be phenomenally difficult to find a period of good weather for them to come in and land, then keep the plane warm enough to be able to take off again. So I think there would be periods when we would be entirely on our own.Being such asmall team, you've got to work with people whether you're getting on with them at that point,or not. The biggest&nbsp;challenge is living and working in the same building, which isn't particularly big. YYou've got to be very good at being pleasant and polite, and talkative with people even if you're in a bit of a mood.This year we've had few, if any, significant fallings out. You go through periods where you are better friends with someone for a couple of weeks, then you're a bit more apart. But I think you kind of need that variation to stay sane. That's the biggest challenge – living confined in such a small space.
Some myths that don't die: the idea that Bill Gates ever said "640 kilobytes [of RAM] should be enough for anyone" (he never said it, and is far too smart to think it); that doubling the number of people on a late project halves the time to finish it (it makes it even later); and that lots of people rush to change the settings – and especially the default settings – on computers and other devices.It's the third of those that is most fascinating, because it could be codified as the Rule Of Defaults: 95% of users don't change a damn thing. Sure, they'll enter login details, and give passwords. But if you think that most people are going to voluntarily download and install a different web browser for their new phone, or download a different app to do email from the one that came on their computer, you're dreaming.The truth of this was revealed to some Microsoft researchers, who in the early days of Microsoft Word asked lots of people to send them their configuration files. These were anonymous, because the researchers just wanted to find out what people actually preferred, so they could have those set as the defaults. To their amazement, they discovered that less than 5% had made any changes. At all. Even though there was a fantastically useful autosave feature but it was off by default. Why? Because a programmer inside Microsoft had set the configuration file to all zeroes for simplicity. And "zero" in the config file meant "no autosave".Meanwhile, researchers at Google discovered that more than 90% of people don't knowhow to use Ctrl-Fto find a piece of text in a document. "This is on a sample size of thousands," Dan Russell, a Google researcher, told theAtlantic. (Pressing the "Ctrl" key together with "F" – or on an Apple computer, the "Cmd" key and "F" – brings up a box to hunt for any text you type in the document, browser window, or similar.)Sometimes, defaults are a moneyspinner. In 2007, New York City obliged cab drivers to start taking credit cards; that meant putting in touchscreens to take payments. You could also input a tip, touching the onscreen buttons. Or there were three quick options, for 20%, 25% or 30%. No surprise! Most people didn't bother to type in a tip; they just hit the 20% or 25% button. The average tip leapt from10% to 22%.That's why when I'm testing any equipment I try it with the defaults untouched. I'm happy to explore what other settings or possibilities exist – but you discover how most people will experience the device by using the defaults. To be clear, things like brightness, volume, Wi-Fi connection are settings. Defaults are things like: "Which browser opens when you click a link?" or: "What maps app opens for map-related stuff?"Defaults are powerful – and dangerous: Microsoft was taken to court because it made Internet Explorer the default browser on all Windows machines; the fact that it used its Windows monopoly to do it displeased judges in the US and Europe. Apple pushed Google Maps off the iPhone and iPad in September 2012; even though the maps were notably worse (though they're improved), Apple Maps was the default. Google lost tons of users. (Apple has no monopoly of smartphones, so no judicial examination has ensued.)But many geeks who do change defaults forget that the majority of people don't. Those people assume – reasonably – that the device they bought for umpteen hundred pounds should already have the ideal setup. Changing defaults isn't unreasonable. But nor should it be necessary. You paid for it. The maker should have got it right. If they don't, maybe you should take it back.This article was corrected: Apple replaced Google as its default maps provider in September 2012, not as implied 2013.
Cooks seem to be divided into two camps – those who love their gadgets and others who stick with the basics. Which do you belong to?Definitely the basics. I like to keep it simple in my kitchen apart from my two mixer gadgets, aKitchenAidand akMix, both of which I love. With a KitchenAid you get lots of different attachments, making it great not just for baking but also for making sausages, fresh pasta, or getting ingredients chopped quickly and efficiently.Which tech has revolutionised the kitchen?Sous vides [the devices for slow-cooking food beloved by modernist chefs such asFerran AdriàandHeston Blumenthal] enable you to cook ingredients in little pouches until they are succulent and beautifully tender. Results like this really weren't possible before sous vides were introduced and now they are available for home kitchens as well as professional ones. That said, I don't have one.How has technology changed cooking?Getting food on the table fast and conveniently seems to be the priority these days, and technology like the microwave facilitates that. I think cooking was done for pleasure more, and that food brought people together more regularly, in the old days.Satnav or map book?I know London pretty well, I've been here since I was 16, but on bad days I do rely on my satnav.Would you keep your phone on the table at dinner?If I'm not with my daughter, then yes I do, just in case she calls, but otherwise I try not to.What's your favourite app?Hailo's brilliant and I like theTED Talks appas well. I watched high school teacherRita Pierson's amazing "Every Kid Needs a Champion" talk about how she inspires her pupils. But perhaps my favourite app at the moment isYou Are Your Own Gym.It gives you exercises, videos, targets and reminders for a workout from home – all you need is a chair, a bed and a door frame.What social media do you use?Instagram, Twitter and Facebook. They are pretty different audiences. Twitter can be a tough crowd, so I like the simplicity of Instagram. I upload lots of pictures of beautiful skies.Is technology making us stupider?It's probably not helping our memories. Technology means we don't ever have to remember anything – there's always a search engine at our fingertips or an iPhone with all our important information. This probably makes us less patient and in need of instant gratification, but I think there are huge advantages to it too. The accessibility of so much information stimulates intellectual curiosity and means we know about more things outside our everyday experience. If you wanted to know the national flag of a certain country in the old days you'd have to march down to the library. Now you can find out immediately.Does technology isolate or connect?It gives the illusion of connection but I think it in fact isolates us. I have a lot of friends abroad so it serves the noble purpose of keeping us in touch, but there's nothing like looking into the whites of someone's eyes and having a face-to-face conversation. That's real connection.Alarm clock or mobile phone?I don't sleep – so I don't need either! I actually downloaded a sleep app to monitor my sleeping patterns, but knowing it was there beside me stressed me out … so it made things worse!Do you talk on the phone at a check out?Yes, I'm afraid I probably do! I know it's rude...Are you a fan of self service tills?Yes, I love them. They are quicker, you can bag up yourself and avoid queues.What's the most entertaining piece of technology on the market?The iPhone – I've had a few and they are amazing. I do find it strange how regularly handsets and mobile phone technology are upgraded, though. Imagine if you got a new oven every year like that. Kitchen equipment is built to last, not like computers and phones. I've only just thrown away a conked-out Magimix after 12 years of faithful service, and knives last a lifetime.Kindle or paperback?I prefer paperbacks. I like the satisfaction of seeing how much you've read, the feeling of the book in my hands, and putting it back on the shelf when I've read it.Do you use text-speak when writing text messages and emails?Goodness, no! I'm too old to do all that! I might use the odd 'lol', but that's normally to my daughter.Online banking or in the branch?I'm too scared to use online banking, I'd rather talk to the bank manager. I don't feel secure managing money online.Which three websites couldn't you live without?Google, TripAdvisor,Guardianonline. My guilty pleasure is theDaily Mail's sidebar of shame ... sorry.The Matrix: fiction or the future?Future. Everything feels very high tech at the moment – I think anything could happen with where we're going. I love my mobile but I do miss the days when they weren't around...when you had a green phone card and a pager clipped to your belt.How many times a week do you Google yourself?Never, never, never! I used to, but stopped because there might be some nice stuff but there's always horrid stuff too.If you could invent anything, what would you like to create?An app that could invoke calm and peaceful energy at one click. You'd just put it on the table and it would create zen.Teleport or time travel?Time travel, but sometime after the 1950s when race relations were a bit more friendly.Lorraine Pascale'sA Lighter Way to Bakeis out now (HarperCollins, £20)
Lots of sites now give you  the option (sometimes the only option) to log in using Facebook or Twitter. What are the risks of doing this?Saul, via emailSocial logins have a few advantages and disadvantages, the convenience of a single click to log in and only having to remember a limited set of credentials. However, there is a darker side to SSO (single sign on). If your social network details are stolen or hacked, the culprits can then access all your other online accounts and services. There are also privacy concerns, as it ties all your actions back to a central account.It also means that if your social network of choice ever closes, there may be no way to regain access to your online profiles without a probably complex process of verifying users' identities.In most cases, these issues are not too prevalent and in many instances it may be more secure to use social authentication as they generally have entire teams working to protect their databases and users' data – whereas lots of sites may only have a few people – and they often give rewards to "white hat hackers" who try to break into services to see if they can find security flaws. As such, they are quite secure as most bugs are picked up and fixed quite quickly.What's VPN and when you should use one? Can you use them to watch streaming content on foreign servers that you would otherwise be blocked from seeing?Stefan, via emailVPN (virtual private network) is where a private computer network is formed using security techniques over a public network, typically the internet. VPNs are usually used by companies to provide secure access to computer files and servers so that employees can work remotely or from other offices while maintaining security. Although a VPN can be used to fake your location and could potentially watch the content on foreign servers, this would be a breach of copyright.Under what circumstances is it a good idea to open an Incognito window in Chrome?Waheed, via emailIncognito and private browsing modes prevent sites from storing permanent cookies (small text files used for temporary user data), session tracking, saving history and more. This can be useful in a few circumstances, for example:If you are buying a gift for someone who has access to your computer, it could appear in Amazon or in your browser history, spoiling the surprise. Incognito mode would prevent this, as it doesn't save the history (although I would recommend using a temporary/second Amazon account if you share one).It can also often save you money when buying plane tickets, holidays and hotel rooms as they often offer different prices for some users (such as those that use Apple products).An example of a company that does this isOrbitz, which wasouted by theWall Street Journalin 2012.It has been reported that people have seen up to 20% drops in prices when booking in Incognito mode on some holidays, and is therefore a worthwhile thing to try when booking.I have an oldMacintosh SEthat has been gathering dust in my cupboard. I haven't thrown it away because there are files on the hard drive. I don't have any keyboards or a mouse that will connect with it. How can I dispose of it safely?Jason, via emailThe Macintosh SE is an old computer (1987-1990) and if it works, then you are probably better off selling it  than destroying it, to preserve what was quite an impressive computer in its day (just as you would do with a piece of art), as it would be treasured in the right home. If the buyer is a collector, they would probably have some compatible peripherals (mouse and keyboards etc), or would be buying them from elsewhere at the same time, so they would probably be fine with letting you delete any old files before they take it away.If you do want to dispose of it, you should do so carefully, and try to recycle any parts that can be recycled and be especially careful with things that may be harmful, as older materials were not as safe as those we use in computers today.If you do intend on disposing of the computer, then you have to ensure that any storage media is fully destroyed to prevent people from recovering anything important (although, given the age of the machine, it's unlikely to be an issue as most information would be quite outdated). Then take it to a household waste recycling facility to get them to recycle as much as possible.After the recent terrible upgrade of Yahoo! Mail, I want to switch to another email service. Hotmail is a spam magnet, Gmail is run by Google – so what other services would you recommend? I'd like an address I could keep for the foreseeable future, where I have some control over the design/functionality, which doesn't harvest loads of my data and one where my messages are less liable to be hacked by the NSA if at all possible. Is that too much to ask?Helen, SheffieldThis is quite a large question, and would be hard to give a small answer for, so I'll try to answer it in parts.Email is a difficult thing to make reliable and Google Apps is the most tried and tested system. However, if you want something not run by the kind of company that sells your details, then you are going to have to pay for your email and the domain name (eg myname.com).One service that comes widely recommended isFastmail(from $10 a year). It allows you to access your email from any email client (eg Outlook or Mail on your phone) as well as offering capable web mail clients. Fastmail offers fully encrypted connections, two-factor authentication and one-time passwords. There are other similar services such as  but they are priced and aimed at business users.Using a custom domains means that even if a service goes away, you can transfer it and still have the same email address. The ability to have a custom domain gives you full future proofing as you can move services or do whatever you wish, and even old contacts will still be able to reach you. This gives you flexibility.Fastmail will not harvest your data as you are their customer, not the advertisers, and are unlikely to give up your data without a warrant.Daniel is a freelance programmer for iOS and the web. He is a student and has been coding since he was eight. He is an ambassador for Young Rewired State and can be found on Twitter @DanToml. If you have a tech problem for Daniel, email tech.questions@observer.co.uk with your full name and where you live.
The first item I see in Amazon's Swansea warehouse is a package of dog nappies. The second is a massive pink plastic dildo. The warehouse is 800,000 square feet, or, in what is Amazon's standard unit of measurement, the size of 11 football pitches (its Dunfermline warehouse, the UK's largest, is 14 football pitches). It is a quarter of a mile from end to end. There is space, it turns out, for an awful lot of crap.But then there are more than 100m items on its UK website: if you can possibly imagine it, Amazon sells it. And if you can't possibly imagine it, well, Amazon sells it too. To spend 10½ hours a day picking items off the shelves is to contemplate the darkest recesses of our consumerist desires, the wilder reaches of stuff, the things that money can buy: a One Direction charm bracelet, a dog onesie, a cat scratching post designed to look like a DJ's record deck, a banana slicer, a fake twig. I work mostly in the outsize "non-conveyable" section, the home of diabetic dog food, and bio-organic vegetarian dog food, and obese dog food; of 52in TVs, and six-packs of water shipped in from Fiji, and oversized sex toys – the 18in double dong (regular-sized sex toys are shelved in the sortables section).On my second day, the manager tells us that we alone have picked and packed 155,000 items in the past 24 hours. Tomorrow, 2 December – the busiest online shopping day of the year – that figure will be closer to 450,000. And this is just one of eight warehouses across the country. Amazon took 3.5m orders on a single day last year. Christmas is its Vietnam – a test of its corporate mettle and the kind of challenge that would make even the most experienced distribution supply manager break down and weep. In the past two weeks, it has taken on an extra 15,000 agency staff in Britain. And it expects to double the number of warehouses in Britain in the next three years. It expects to continue the growth that has made it one of the most powerful multinationals on the planet.Right now, in Swansea, four shifts will be working at least a 50-hour week, hand-picking and packing each item, or, astheDaily Mailput it in an article a few weeks ago, being "Amazon's elves" in the "21st-century Santa's grotto".If Santa had a track record in paying his temporary elves the minimum wage while pushing them to the limits of the EU working time directive, and sacking them if they take three sick breaks in any three-month period, this would be an apt comparison. It is probably reasonable to assume that tax avoidance is not "constitutionally" a part of the Santa business model as Brad Stone, the author of a new book on Amazon,The Everything Store: Jeff Bezos and the Age of Amazon,tells me it is in Amazon's case. Neither does Santa attempt to bully his competitors, as Mark Constantine, the founder of Lush cosmetics, who last week took Amazon to the high court, accuses it of doing. Santa was not called before the Commons public accounts committee and called "immoral" by MPs.For a week, I was an Amazon elf: a temporary worker who got a job through a Swansea employment agency – though it turned out I wasn't the only journalist who happened upon this idea. Last Monday, BBC'sPanoramaaired a programme that featured secret filming from inside the same warehouse. I wonder for a moment if we have committed the ultimate media absurdity and the show's undercover reporter, Adam Littler, has secretly filmed me while I was secretly interviewing him. He didn't, but it's not a coincidence that the heat is on the world's most successful online business. Because Amazon is the future of shopping; being an Amazon "associate" in an Amazon "fulfilment centre" – take that for doublespeak, Mr Orwell – is the future of work; and Amazon's payment of minimal tax in any jurisdiction is the future of global business. A future in which multinational corporations wield more power than governments.But then who hasn't absent-mindedly clicked at something in an idle moment at work, or while watching telly in your pyjamas, and, in what's a small miracle of modern life, received a familiar brown cardboard package dropping on to your doormat a day later. Amazon is successful for a reason. It is brilliant at what it does. "It solved these huge challenges," says Brad Stone. "It mastered the chaos of storing tens of millions of products and figuring out how to get them to people, on time, without fail, and no one else has come even close." We didn't just pick and pack&nbsp;more than 155,000 items on my first day. We picked and packed the right items and sent them to the right customers. "We didn't miss a single order," our section manager tells us with proper pride.At the end of my first day, I log into my Amazon account. I'd left my mum's house outside Cardiff at 6.45am and got in at 7.30pm and I want some Compeed blister plasters for my toes and I can't do it before work and I can't do it after work. My finger hovers over the "add to basket" option but, instead, I look at my Amazon history. I made my first purchase,TheRough Guide to Italy, in February 2000 and remember that I'd bought it for an article I wrote on booking a holiday on the internet. It's so quaint reading it now. It's from the age before broadband (I itemise my phone bill for the day and it cost me £25.10), when Google was in its infancy. It's littered with the names of defunct websites (remember Sir Bob Geldof'sdeckchair.com, anyone?). It was a frustrating task and of pretty much everything I ordered, only the book turned up on time, as requested.But then it's a phenomenal operation. And to work in – and I find it hard to type these words without suffering irony seizure – a "fulfilment centre" is to be a tiny cog in a massive global distribution machine. It's an industrialised process, on a truly massive scale, made possible by new technology. The place might look like it's been stocked at 2am by a drunk shelf-filler: a typical shelf might have a set of razor blades, a packet of condoms and aMy Little PonyDVD. And yet everything is systemised, because it has to be. It's what makes it all the more unlikely that at the heart of the operation, shuffling items from stowing to picking to packing to shipping, are those flesh-shaped, not-always-reliable, prone-to-malfunctioning things we know as people.It's here, where actual people rub up against the business demands of one of the most sophisticated technology companies on the planet, that things get messy. It's a system that includes unsystemisable things like hopes and fears and plans for the future and children and lives. And in places of high unemployment and low economic opportunities, places where Amazon deliberately sites its distribution centres&nbsp;– it received £8.8m in grants from the Welsh government for bringing the warehouse here – despair leaks around the edges. At the interview&nbsp;– a form-filling, drug- and alcohol-testing, general-checking-you-can-read session at a local employment agency – we're shown a video. The process is explained and a selection of people are interviewed. "Like you, I started as an agency worker over Christmas," says one man in it. "But I quickly got a permanent job and then promoted and now, two years later, I'm an area manager."Amazon will be taking people on permanently after Christmas, we're told, and if you work hard, you can be one of them. In the Swansea/Neath/Port Talbot area, an area still suffering the body blows of Britain's post-industrial decline, these are powerful words, though it all starts to unravel pretty quickly. There are four agencies who have supplied staff to the warehouse, and their reps work from desks on the warehouse floor. Walking from one training session to another, I ask one of them how many permanent employees work in the warehouse but he mishears me and answers another question entirely: "Well, obviously not everyone will be taken on. Just look at the numbers. To be honest, the agencies have to say that just to get people through the door."It does that. It's what the majority of people in my induction group are after. I train with Pete – not his real name – who has been unemployed for the past three years. Before that, he was a care worker. He lives at the top of the Rhondda Valley, and his partner, Susan (not her real name either), an unemployed IT repair technician, has also just started. It took them more than an hour to get to work. "We had to get the kids up at five," he says. After a 10½-hour shift, and about another hour's drive back, before picking up the children from his parents, they got home at 9pm. The next day, they did the same, except Susan twisted her ankle on the first shift. She phones in but she will receive a "point". If she receives three points, she will be "released", which is how you get sacked in modern corporatese.The Observer's Carole Cadwalladr outside the warehouse where she worked for a week. Photograph: Stephen Shepherd for the ObserverAnd then there's "Les", who is one of our trainers. He has a special, coloured lanyard that shows he's an Amazon "ambassador", and another that says he's a first aider. He's worked at the warehouse for more than a year and over the course of the week I see him, speeding across the floor, going at least twice the rate I'm managing. He's in his 60s and tells me how he lost two stone in the first two months he worked there from all the walking. We were told when we applied for the jobs that we may walk up to 15 miles a shift. He'd been a senior manager in the same firm for 32 years before he was made redundant and landed up here. How long was it before you got a permanent job, I ask him. "I haven't," he says, and he holds up his green ID badge. Permanent employees have blue ones, a better hourly rate, and after two years share options, and there is a subtle apartheid at work."They dangle those blue badges in front of you," says Bill Woolcock, an ex-employee at Amazon's fulfilment centre in Rugeley, Staffordshire. "If you have a blue badge you have better wages, proper rights. You can be working alongside someone in the same job, but they're stable and you're just cannon fodder. I worked there from September 2011 to February 2012 and on Christmas Eve an agency rep with a clipboard stood by the exit and said: 'You're back after Christmas. And you're back. And you're not. You're not.' It was just brutal. It reminded me of stories about the great depression, where men would stand at the factory gate in the hope of being selected for a few days' labour. You just feel you have no personal value at all."Why haven't they given you a proper job, I ask Les, and he shrugs his head but elsewhere people mutter: it's friends of the managers who get the jobs. It's HR picking names at random. It's some sort of black magic nobody understands. Walking off shift in a great wave of orange high-vis vests, I chat to another man in his 60s. He'd been working in the Unity mine, near Neath, he told me, until a month ago, the second time he'd been laid off in two years. He'd worked at Amazon last Christmas too. "And they just let me go straight after, no warning or anything. And I couldn't have worked any harder! I worked my socks off!"When I put the question to Amazon, it responded: "A small number of seasonal associates have been with us for an extended period of time and we are keen to retain those individuals in order that we can provide them with a permanent role when one becomes available. We were able to create 2,300 full-time permanent positions for seasonal associates in 2013 by taking advantage of Christmas seasonality to find great permanent employees but, unfortunately, we simply cannot retain 15,000 seasonal employees."And this is what Amazon says about its policy relating to sickness: "Amazon is a company in growth and we offer a high level of security for all our associates. Like many companies, we employ a system to record employee attendance. We consider and review all personal circumstances in relation to any attendance issues and we would not dismiss anyone for being ill. The current systems used to record employee attendance is fair and predictable and has resulted in dismissals of 11 permanent employees out of a workforce of over 5,000 permanent employees in 2013."It's worth noting that agency workers are not Amazon employees.There's no doubt that it is hard, physical work. ThePanoramadocumentary majored on the miles that Adam walked, the blisters he suffered, the ridiculous targets, and the fact that you're monitored by an Orwellian handset every second of every shift. As an agency worker, you're paid 19p an hour over the minimum wage – £6.50 – and the shifts are 10½ hours long. But lots of jobs involve hard, physical work. That's not the thing that bothers people. Almost everybody remains stoical in the face of physical discomfort and exhaustion. And they're Welsh: there's a warmth and friendliness from almost everyone who works there. My team leader is no corporate droid. He started on the shop floor, sounds like Richard Burton, and is gently encouraging. And yet."I've worked everywhere," a forklift truck driver tells me. "And this is the worst. They pay shit because they can. Because there's no other jobs out there. Trust me, I know, I tried. I was working for £12 an hour in my last job. I'm getting £8 an hour here. I worked for Sony before and they were strict but fair. It's the unfairness that gets you here."An unfairness that has no outlet. In the wake of the BBC documentary, Hywel Francis, the MP for Aberavon, managed to get a meeting last week with Amazon's director of public policy, a meeting he's been trying to get for years. He's reluctant to speak about the complaints he's heard from his constituents but says that "the plant is exceptional in the local area in having no union representation. It's been a long haul to even get in there and find out what is going on." It's been a black hole where the lack of any checks upon its power has left a sense that everything is pared to the absolute bone  – from the cheapest of the cheap plastic safety boots, which most long-term employees seem to spend their own money replacing with something they can walk in, to the sack-you-if-you're-sick policy, to the 15-minute break that starts wherever you happen to be in the warehouse. On my third morning, at my lowest point, when my energy has run out and my spirits are low, it takes me six minutes to walk to the airport-style scanners, where I spend a minute being frisked. I queue a minute for the loos, get a banana out of my locker, sit down for 30 seconds, and then I get up and walk the six minutes back to my station.To work at Amazon is to spend your days at the coalface of consumerism. To witness our lust for stuff. This year's stuff includes great piles of Xboxes and Kindles and this season's Jamie Oliver cookbook,Save With Jamie(you want to save with Jamie? Don't buy his sodding book), and Paul Hollywood'sPies &amp; Puds, andRick Stein'sIndia.The celebrity chef cookbooks incense me. They don't even bother taking them out of the boxes. They lie in great EU butter mountain-sized piles at the ends of the aisle. Cook an egg on the telly and it's like being  given a licence to print money for all eternity. The vast majority of people working in the warehouse are white, Welsh, working class, but I train with a man who's not called Sammy, and who isn't an asylum seeker from Sudan, but another country, and I spend an afternoon explaining to him what the scanner means when it tells him to look for a Good Boy Luxury Dog Stocking or a Gastric Mind Band hypnosis CD.It's the Barbie Doll girl's Christmas advent calendar, however, that nearly breaks me. I traipse back and forth to section F, where I slice open a box, take another Barbie advent calendar, unpick the box and put it on the recycling pile, put the calendar, which has been shipped from China, passed from the container port to a third-party distributor and from there to the Amazon warehouse, on to my trolley and pass it to the packers, where it will be repackaged in a different box and finally reach its ultimate destination: the joy in a small child's heart. Because nothing captures the magic of Christmas more than a picture of a pneumatic blonde carrying multiple shopping bags. You can't put a price on that (£9.23 with free delivery).Amazon's arrival has coincided with the decline of the high street in nearby town Briton Ferry. Photograph: Stephen Shepherd for the ObserverWe want cheap stuff. And we want to order it from our armchairs. And we want it to be delivered to our doors. And it's Amazon that has worked out how to do this. Over time, like a hardened drug user, my Amazon habit has increased. In 2002, I ordered my first non-book item, aThis Lifeseries 1 video; in 2005, my first non-Amazon product, a secondhand copy of a biography of Patricia Highsmith; and in 2008, I started doing the online equivalent of injecting intravenously, when I bought a TV on the site. "We are the most customer-centric company on earth," we're told in our induction briefing, shortly before it's explained that if we're late we'll get half a point, and after three of them we're out. What constitutes late, I ask. "A minute," I'm told.I grew up in South Wales and saw first-hand how the 1980s recession slashed a brutal gash through everything, including my own extended family. I've always known that there's only a tissue-thin piece of luck between very different sorts of lives. But then my grandfather worked in a warehouse in Swansea. In my case, there really is only a tissue-thin piece of luck between me and an Amazon life. I have a lot of time to think about this during my 10½-hour day.At the Neath working men's club down the road, one of the staff tells me that Amazon is "the employer of last resort". It's where you get a job if you can't get a job anywhere else. And it's this that's so heartbreaking. What did you do before, I ask people. And they say they're builders, hospitality managers, marketing graduates, IT technicians, carpenters, electricians. They owned their own businesses, and they were made redundant. Or the business went bust. Or they had a stroke. Or their contract ended. They are people who had skilled jobs, or professional jobs, or just better-paying jobs. And now they work for Amazon, earning the minimum wage, and most of them are grateful to have that.Amazon isn't responsible for the wider economy, but it's the wider economy that makes the Amazon model&nbsp;so chilling. It's not just the nicey nice jobs that are becoming endangered, such as working in a bookshop, as Hugh&nbsp;Grant did inNotting Hill, or a record store, as the hero did in Nick Hornby'sHigh Fidelity, or the jobs that have gone at Borders and Woolworths and Jessops and HMV, it's pretty much everything else too. Next in line is everything: working in the shoe department at John Lewis, or behind the tills at Tesco, or doing their HR, or auditing their accounts, or building their websites, or writing their corporate magazines. Swansea's shopping centre down the road is already a planning disaster; a wasteland of charity shops and what Sarah Rees ofCover to Cover bookshopcalls "a second-rate Debenhams and a third-rate Marks and Spencer"."People know about their employment practices, and all the delivery men hate them, but do people remember that when they click? Probably not. We try and kill them with kindness," she says. "You can't put the genie back in the bottle." But then there is nothing else to try and kill them with. It's cheaper, often for her, to order books on Amazon than through her distributor. "We're upfront about it and tell people, but there is just no way to compete with them on price."There is no end to Amazon's appetite. "It's expanding in every conceivable direction," Brad Stone tells me. "It's why I called my bookThe Everything Store. Their ambition is to sell everything. They already have their digital services and their enterprise services. They've just started selling art. Apparel is still very immature and is set for expansion. Groceries are the next big thing. They're going very strongly after that because it will cut down costs elsewhere. If they can start running their own trucks in major metro areas, they can cut down the costs of third-party shippers."In the UK, I point out, everyone already delivers groceries: Tesco, Asda, Waitrose, Sainsbury's. "I suspect they'll acquire," he says. And everywhere it kills jobs. Shops employ 47 people for every $10m in sales, according to research done by a company calledILSR. Amazon employs only 14 people per $10m of revenue. In Britain, it turned over £4.2bn last year, which is a net loss of 23,000 jobs. And even the remaining jobs, the hard, badly paid jobs in Amazon's warehouses, are hardly future-proof. Amazon has just bought an automated sorting system calledKiva for $775m. How many retail jobs, of any description, will there be left in 10 years'&nbsp;time?Our lust for cheap, discounted goods delivered to our doors promptly and efficiently has a price. We just haven't worked out what it is yet.It's taxes, of course, that pay for the roads on which Amazon's delivery trucks drive, and the schools in which its employees are educated, and the hospitals in which their babies are born and their arteries are patched up, and in which, one day, they may be nursed in their dying days. Taxes that all its workers pay, and that, it emerged in 2012, it tends not to pay. On UK sales of £4.2bn in 2012, it paid £3.2m in corporation tax. In 2006, it transferred its UK business to Luxembourg and reclassified its UK operation as simply "order fulfilment" business. The Luxembourg office employs 380 people. The UK operation employs 21,000. You do the math.Brad Stone tells me that tax avoidance is built into the company's DNA. From the very beginning it has been "constitutionally oriented to securing every possible advantage for its customers, setting the lowest possible prices, taking advantage of every known tax loophole or creating new ones". It's something that Mark Constantine, the co-founder of Lush cosmetics, has spent time thinking about. He refuses to sell through Amazon, but it didn't stop Amazon using the Lush name to direct buyers to its site, where it suggested alternative products they might like."It's a way of bullying businesses to use their services. And we refused. We've been in the high court this week to sue them for breach of trademark. It's&nbsp;cost us half a million pounds so far to defend our business. Most companies&nbsp;just can't afford that. But we've done it because it's a matter of principle. They keep on forcing your hand and yet they don't have a viable business model. The only way they can afford to run it is by not paying tax. If they had to behave in a more conventional way, they would struggle."It's a form of piracy capitalism. They rush into people's countries, they take the money out, and they dump it in some port of convenience. That's not a business in any traditional sense. It's an ugly return to a form of exploitative capitalism that we had a century ago and we decided as a society to move on from."In Swansea I chat to someone whose name is not Martin for a while. It's Saturday, the sun is shining and the warehouse has gone quiet. We've been told to stop picking. The orders have been turned off like a tap. "It's the weather," he says. "When it rains, it can suddenly go mental." We clear away boxes and the tax issue comes up. "There was a lot of anger here," he says. "People were very bitter about it. But I'd always say to them: 'If someone told you that you could pay less tax, do you honestly think you would volunteer to pay more?'" He's right. And the people who were angry were also right. It's an unignorable fact of modern life that, as Stuart Roper of Manchester Business School tells me, "some of these big brands are more powerful than governments. They're wealthier. If they were countries, they would be pretty large economies. They're multinational and the global financial situation allows them to ship money all over the world. And the government is so desperate for jobs that it has given away large elements of control."It's a mirror image of what is happening on the shop floor. Just as Amazon has eroded 200 years' worth of workers' rights through its use of agencies and rendered a large swath of its workers powerless, so it has pulled off the same trick with corporate responsibility. MPs like to slag off Amazon and Starbucks and Google for not paying their taxes but they've yet to actually create the legislation that would compel them to do so."They are taking these massive subsidies from the state and they are not paying back," says Martin Smith of the GMB union. "Their argument is that they are creating jobs but what they are doing is displacing and replacing other jobs. Better jobs. And high street shops tend to pay their taxes. There is a £120bn tax gap that is only possible because the government pay tax benefits to enable people to survive. When companies pay the minimum wage they are in effect being subsidised by the taxpayer."Back in Swansea, on the last break of my last day, I sit and chat with Pete and Susan from the Rhondda and Sammy, the asylum seeker from Sudan. Susan still wants a permanent job but is looking more doubtful about it happening. Her ankle is still swollen. Her pick rate has been low. We've been told that next week, the hours will increase by an hour a day and there will be an extra day of compulsory overtime. It will mean getting their children up by 4.30am and Pete is worried about finding a baby-sitter at three days' notice. When I ask Sammy how the job compares with the one he had in Sudan, where he was a foreman in a factory, he thinks for a minute then shrugs: "It's the&nbsp;same."There have always been rubbish jobs. Ian Brinkley, the director of the Work Foundation, calls Amazon's employment practices "old wine in new bottles". Restaurants and kebab shops have done the same sort of thing for years. But Amazon is not a kebab shop. It's the future. Which may or may not be something to think about as you click "add to basket".
Warning: this car may change your politics. I've just told the occupants of the passenger seat and the child seat behind, who were complaining of being cold, to put another jumper on. Suddenly I'm David bloody Cameron and his energy secretary.We did put the heating on, but the range indicator immediately dropped from 68 miles to 60, so we, that is, I turned it off again. I've already banned music. Sing, it might keep you warm, I tell them. The people in the car go shiver shiver shiver, shiver shiver shiver, shiver shiver shiver, the people in the car do nothing nothing nothing, cos Daddy's a c-word. They don't have spare jumpers, they moan. I should have warned them before we set off that we were Tories.It's all about the range indicator when you're driving one of these. You become obsessed, to the point that your driving (as well as your politics, possibly) changes radically. I'm planning, looking far ahead, for junctions, lights, pedestrian crossings, anything that's going to make me slow down.I will not use the brake.It must be bloody annoying for anyone behind. But I'm having a&nbsp;good time: it adds a new dimension, excitement even, to a journey. It's something that not a lot of people know: electric cars are fun to drive.Didn't we do a Leaf before? Well&nbsp;remembered. But this new one is lighter, more powerful, will go farther, has more luggage space and is more practical. It's also got an improved heating system, which doesn't use up too much… yeah, but it's still robbing me of eight miles, so I'm not using it, OK?More significantly, the new Leaf is cheaper – down to less than £16,000 (including a £5,000 government grant) if you're prepared to lease the battery for £70 a month. Still not dirt cheap, but when you consider Nissan's claimed running costs of just 2.5p per mile, it starts to look more attractive. Oh, and it's now made in Britain, too.They – Leafs, and other electric vehicles – will continue to get better and go farther. And the infrastructure will improve, too. The Leaf's improved range is up to 124 miles, though you'll do that only if you drive it as if you're making love to it. Gently and tantrically. Eighty is more realistic. That's obviously the most important factor. If a) you never need to go farther (plus, you can easily charge from your home), a Leaf could make a lot of sense. If b) you do, occasionally, want to do greater distances, it makes no sense. Yet.I'm b). Except maybe I'll get a Leaf to zip about town in, to show I&nbsp;care. And a sneaky Range Rover, for taking to the Cotswolds at weekends. But then I am a Tory c-word.Nissan LeafPriceFrom £15,990Top speed100mphAcceleration0-60mph in 11.5 secondsRange124 milesGreen rating9/10Cool rating7/10
Games out this week includeOne Piece: Romance Dawn(3DS), a role-playing game based on the largely inscrutable anime series;Power Rangers Megaforce(3DS), a disastrous and repetitious mess of a game featuring the mysteriously popular Lycra-and-crash-helmet-wearers;Lego Friends(DS, 3DS) is the interactive version of Lego's purple-hued, gender stereotype-reinforcing range, with enough pony riding and hair styling to make you vomit rainbows; andYoung Justice: Legacy(X360, PS3, Wii, DS, 3DS) is a generic beat-'em-up designed to cash in on the DC Comics TV series. Freshly minted PlayStation 4 owners will also be looking forward to the definitive console versions of the excellentAssassin's Creed IV: Black Flagand the slightly more middlingCall Of Duty: GhostsandBattlefield 4, along with entertaining and family friendlyLego Marvel Super Heroes.• This article was amended on 4 December 2013. An earlier version referred to Lego's purple-hewn, rather than purple-hued, range.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewThe byways of fictitious Redview County are full of snaking mountain roads and stretches of motorway which are perfect for Rivals' game of high-speed cops and racers. Playing as a policeman, your job is to ram cheeky lawbreakers off the road, while as a racer you need to escape the onrushing feds. The result is a riot of screaming tyres, top-speed crashes and delirious near misses, enhanced by EA's competition-encouraging online leaderboards.
Killzone: Shadow Fallis a beautiful-looking but otherwise undistinguished first-person shooter. In it, your unseen soldier has an attack drone at his disposal, which acts as an ally in firefights as well as providing DIY zip lines and a near-pointless temporary shield. The action's solid enough but won't be troubling Call Of Duty's hegemony.Knack, meanwhile is a third-person action game from the man who led PS4's creation. It looks pretty, its inoffensive little characters knocking about in a charming retro-futuristic world of hover cars and goblins, but it's depressingly dull to play, the tactics-free combat a matter of mashing sadly on a single button.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewMonochrome and inspired by the perspective-mocking art of MC Escher, The Bridge is a 2D puzzle game. Divided into six worlds of six levels, you walk the game's bearded protagonist to the exit, avoiding rolling boulders, infinite drops and object-trapping vortices by rotating the world, using gravity to dislodge obstacles and grab keys. First released on PC, it works nicely on Xbox 360, its exquisitely drawn puzzles initially seeming impossible before succumbing to logic, luck and a bit of crafty jiggling.
Making games hardware is a hard and unforgiving business, and one of the most vexing problems any manufacturer faces when creating a new console is its line-up of games at launch. In order to make it credible – which they rarely are – you need two things: to cover all the major games genres, and to offer some exclusive games that aren't just versions of existing franchises. Knack, created by Sony's Japan Studio, ticks both those boxes. But ultimately, it doesn't convince.It is, at least, original, and contains some cute ideas. Aimed at a younger, more casual audience than the rest of the PS4's launch games, it's set in a fantasy land studded with mysterious relics. Knack is the result of a professor's tinkering: a sentient character made from those relics, he has the power to absorb any other relics he comes across, and thereby grow from a tiny three feet high to a house-sized hulk. The game starts with goblins invading human territory; the professor uses that as an opportunity to test out Knack's powers, although he soon sees himself up against the robots created by the sinister human Viktor as well.During the course of the game, Knack discovers he can augment himself, and bulk up massively, using shards of ice, wood or metal, and he also learns special attacks, powered up by the yellow Sunstones that litter the landscape. These enchanting ideas translate into what you would describe as action-platform gameplay – Knack has a punch, jump and evade move, enabling him to take on an increasingly formidable roster of enemies, and there are plenty of conventional platform-style sequences involving a modicum of puzzle-solving, such as avoiding magnets when Knack has augmented himself with iron, or morphing him into a crystal version of himself in order to pass through lasers unseen.Nice ideas, repetitive gameplayKnack contains plenty of cute ideas and clever touches – ice-Knack will melt back to his base-state when outside in the sunlight, for example, or sometimes when he's wooden, you have to set him on fire to solve puzzles. But the trouble is that the game's cuter ideas don't generate particularly interesting gameplay. The control system is very simplified, and despite manful attempts to introduce varied sequences, such as fans which cause him to float in the air, the whole game is more or less one big trawl of punching enemies punctuated by platform sequences, which becomes pretty repetitive.Also, controlling Knack is much more fun when he's big, but that only tends to happen towards the end of each chapter. In his base state, he has so little health that a couple of hits will take him out, so one mistimed move, even against a thoroughly unthreatening enemy, can send you back to the previous checkpoint. There are big boss-battles in which 100-foot-high Knack takes on enemies of a similar size, but they are too few and far between. Some sequences are pretty hard, requiring you take a strategic approach, which is good, may lead to frustration among younger gamers.Disappointing visualsAnother glaring problem is that Knack just doesn't look like a next-gen game: frankly, its graphics would be pretty unremarkable on the PlayStation 3. Sony Japan has opted for a cartoonish look, but that negates the PS4's ability to display convincing-looking textures; the humans and goblins, along with much of the landscape, look like they are made from plasticine. And other visual elements jar: for example, when you smash crates full of relics, the smashed bits take a while to disappear, like some sort of ghosts from the 16-bit days of gaming.The annoyance doesn't end there, either: you can find hidden areas containing chests that hold components for creating objects that will upgrade Knack in useful ways, but either they are too well hidden or they are too rare, as you will have progressed through most of the game before you even construct one such upgrade.Plenty of charm for kidsOn the plus side, Knack is frequently rather charming. The storyline, although hardly remarkable, should grip and enchant a younger audience, and Knack himself has plenty of personality (despite a slightly annoying growly American voice). His abilities are interesting, and it would be nice to see him return in the future with substantially better vehicle in which to showcase his talents.Knack isn't a bad game: there is satisfaction to be derived from it, some of the gameplay is genuinely good fun (at its best moments, it does begin to acquire an air reminiscent of a more ponderous Crash Bandicoot), and it's one of the longer games to emerge in recent years, so will at least keep youngsters occupied for decent periods of time. But neither is it a particularly good game, which is hugely disappointing given that it's supposed to be one of the flagship reasons for buying a PlayStation 4. If you're buying a PlayStation 4, and want to get one game for the kids, you'd be much better off with a copy of the vastly superior Lego Marvel Super Heroes – and you'd actually enjoy playing that yourself when the kids have been packed off to bed.
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPod touch and iPad devices. It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (free) may mean (freemium) in some cases.There&apos;s a separate roundup for Android apps, which waspublished earlier in the day. There&apos;s also a new format this week, separating out games and non-game apps. For now, read on for this week&apos;s iOS selection (and when you&apos;ve finished, check out previousBest iPhone and iPad appsposts).APPSThe Who Tommy (Free)Accompanying the latest reissue of The Who&apos;s famous rock opera, this is being pitched as a &quot;digital box set&quot;. The idea: if you&apos;ve bought the remastered Tommy, you can play its tracks while browsing artwork and photos, reading a brand new book about the band, playing a themed pinball game and watching live videos from 1969.iPadFIFA Official App (Free)Footballing body FIFA is getting ready for the World Cup 2014 draw on 6 December with a new app, which will bring details of who&apos;s playing who to fans live on the day. Meanwhile, the app promises scores, results and news from 197 leagues around the world, as well as fixtures, destination guides and team profiles in the run-up to the World Cup in Brazil. The link above is for iPhone, buthere&apos;s the iPad version.iPhone / iPadPaul Smith (Free)Or to give this app its full name: Hello, My Name is Paul Smith. It&apos;s an official app for British designer Paul Smith for fans to flick through his virtual notes, create Smith-like patterns, and browse his paintings and photos. It ties in with a new exhibition at the Design Museum, and is a treat for design students and fashion hounds alike.iPadThe Elements in Action (£2.49)Publisher Touch Press made a big splash with the original app for The Elements, a digital book that debuted alongside Apple&apos;s first iPad. This is even more fun though: a collection of 79 videos showing (often bonkers, in the best possible way) experiments showing the properties of various elements. &quot;What happens when highly reactive rubidium is dropped into water? Or when a cannonball is placed in a pool of mercury?&quot; and so on. It&apos;s a wonderful app, no matter what your chemistry knowledge.iPhone / iPadDisney Classics Collection (Free)This is an app for parents and children to enjoy together: a collection of digital picturebooks based on classic Disney films Dumbo, Snow White, Bambi and the Aristocats, with animation, colouring, puzzles and music creation. Dumbo comes for free, with each other story costing £1.49 via in-app purchase.iPhone / iPadMega (Free)Mega is the cloud storage service of former MegaUpload boss Kim Dotcom, a controversial figure in the technology world. Mega is more of a rival to Dropbox, offering 50GB of storage for free, and more for paying subscribers. The iOS app gives you access to your stored files, and includes the ability to subscribe in-app.iPhoneBarefoot Me Books (Free)More picturebooks for children here, this time all from well-respected publisher Barefoot Books. It has digitised several of its fairytale books, which are available as £1.99 in-app purchases from the app&apos;s parental zone. The key selling point is the ability for children to record their own voice narration and sound effects on every page.iPhone / iPadDK Trip Planner (Free)This comes from the travel division of book publisher DK: a neat way to plan overseas jaunts with places to visit, eat and shop, as well as offline maps, photographs to browse ahead of time, and the ability to sync customised itineraries from the DK Trip Planner website to the iPhone for on-the-go reference.iPhoneNick (Free)Nick is the official app for children&apos;s TV network Nickelodeon in the UK, following 5m downloads of the US version since its release earlier this year. While it has two full episodes to stream, the app is more about games, shorter video clips and photos of popular shows and characters, including iCarly, SpongeBob SquarePants and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. New stuff will be added regularly to keep children coming back.iPhone / iPadContinuum (£2.99)This is absorbing stuff for anyone with an interest in London: an app based on the snaps of photographer Chris Dorley Brown, who took his shots over two decades in the same locations in the borough of Hackney, with the same composition, to see how things had changed. More than 60 photos are included.iPadEndless Reader (Free)Developer Originator made a marvellous Endless Alphabet app earlier in the year, featuring colourful monsters teaching children how to spell an array of weird and wonderful words. This follow-up adds sentence construction into the mix, still with the monsters, who act out the words to help children understand their meaning.iPhone / iPadArt and Skin (£2.99)Two groups of people will be most interested in Art and Skin. First, anyone with an interest in tattoos, and second, anyone with an interest in slick app design. It&apos;s &quot;the world&apos;s first digital 3D tattoo magazine&quot;, with its male and female subjects shot in 3D so they can be rotated around and zoomed in on for the best angles on their body art.iPadGalaxy on Fire - Alliances is an interstellar strategy game.GAMESGalaxy on Fire - Alliances (Free)If you like your epic space adventures, you should definitely check out the previous Galaxy on Fire games, which are in the same space sector as Wing Commander and Elite. This brand new game is set in the same universe, but is more about colonising planets and collaborating (or, indeed, waging war) with other players. It looks beautiful, and although it&apos;s early days, there looks to be lots of depth.iPhone / iPadPapa Pear Saga (Free)The last word is the clue here: this is the latest mobile game from King, whose Candy Crush Saga has become a bona-fide phenomenon over the last year. Where that game was a Bejeweled-style match-three puzzler, this is essentially a rewrite of another game, Peggle. Already available on Facebook, it sees you firing balls into levels to destroy pegs – comparing your scores to friends. In-app purchases play a prominent role.iPhone / iPadDoctor Who: Legacy (Free)Talking of games that make their inspiration clear... The latest Doctor Who game will be instantly familiar to anyone who&apos;s played Puzzle &amp; Dragons – one of the few mobile games to be making as much money as Candy Crush Saga. It sees you swapping colourful orbs around to attack monsters while building a team of the Doctor and his companions.iPhone / iPadAdventure Town (Free)Supersolid is the latest hot free-to-play game maker on mobile, following the success of its Super Penguins game earlier in the year. Super Adventure sounds like same-old same-old: build a town, harvest crops, compare with friends etc. But its twist – you have to attract heroes to defend it from monsters, while exploring the land – plus some very polished gameplay makes it a cut above the herd.iPhone / iPadFinal Fantasy IV: The After Years (£10.99)In an apps world increasingly dominated by free-to-play games, Square Enix is standing its ground and charging a premium for remastered Final Fantasy RPGs. This is a sequel to Final Fantasy IV with a familiar mix of exploration, battles and yet more battles.iPhone / iPadDarklings (£0.69)Amid the excitement recently about officially-sanctioned joypads for Apple devices, it&apos;s useful to remember that a fair few developers are experimenting instead with adapting traditional game genres to touchscreen controls. Darklings is a bewitching example: an atmospheric action game where combat is about drawing shapes on enemies.iPhone / iPadWrath of Psychobos - Ben 10 Omniverse (£1.99)This one&apos;s for The Kids: a new game based on Cartoon Network&apos;s Ben 10 series. This one involves controlling Ben or his friend Rook as they battle their way through 31 alien-strewn levels. A satisfying mix of puzzles and combat, whatever your age.iPhone / iPadDrive on Moscow (£6.99)Finally, something for grizzled veterans of wargames: a title where you can play as the Russians or Germans in one of the key battles of the second world war. Tanks, cavalry and a map that changes with the bitterly-cold winter weather promise plenty of scope for tactics, while multiplayer ensures you can test your war-wits against other humans.iPad
The latest wireless M1BT headphones from Philips bring quality, balanced sound and great battery life to the compact, on-ear headphone market with very little in the way of compromise.The Philips Fidelio brand has long been known for quality headphones and speaker products, but the M1BTs mark its first move into Bluetooth headphones – a market which has rapidly expanded in recent years thanks to the vastly improved audio quality of new Bluetooth technologies like Bluetooth 4.0 and CSR&apos;saptX.Distinctly premium designThe Philips M1BT Bluetooth headphones are a wireless variant of the well-received Fidelio M1 wired headphones, and as such match their look and feel almost exactly.With a compact but distinctively premium design, the M1BTs are very well built and feel robust enough to throw into a bag without having to worry about them too much.The headband is clad in a soft faux-leather, while the size adjustment has a reassuring resistance to it, ensuring that once sized correctly they say that way while on your head as you go about your travels.With soft, dense memory-foam ear cups, their on-ear configuration fits snuggly and comfortably while creating effective sound isolation, blocking out the hustle and bustle of the outside world.Philips Fidelio M1BT review &ndash; solid build and a premium feelDepending on the size and shape of your head and your ears, you might find they pinch after a time as is the case with almost all on-ear headphones, but the M1BTs are some of the most comfortable I have ever worn.They are also light and slim enough not to be a burden while commuting; there&apos;s none of the scalp pain common with headphones.The left-hand ear cup sports a 3.5mm headphones jack for wired connections when at a desk or when the battery runs flat, while on the right-hand side there is a microUSB port for charging the headphones and the built-in music controls.Battery life on the M1BTs is rated at 10 hours of listening over Bluetooth, but in my testing I found that to be a significant underestimate. Connected to an aptX smartphone, I got more than 30 hours&apos; listening, meaning that the M1BTs have more than enough playtime to get you through almost any listening scenario, and should power through at least 15 days of an hour-long commute to and from work, for instance.SpecificationsFrequency response: 15-24,000HzDriver size: 40mmImpedance: 16 ohmsSensitivity: 107 dBConnectivity: Bluetooth 4.0Supported codecs: SBC, AAC, aptXBuilt for portable listeningThe Philips Fidelio range is well known for its decent, balanced sound quality and the M1BTs are no exception.Built for portable listening they reproduce smooth mids with relaxed treble, tight and punchy bass and decent, if not overly pronounced high notes. Their balanced sound profile will fit a wide range of musical genres, something particularly suited to listening while out and about.The M1BTs also articulate different sounds well for a compact portable set of on-ear headphones, allowing the listener to differentiate various instruments and sounds clearly within the audio track, while the soundscape is rather closed and direct as a consequence of the form factor.Philips Fidelio M1BT review &ndash; lightweight and comfortable for a set of on-ear headphones. Model: headphones' own.The M1BTs performance on Bluetooth is indistinguishable from wired, which is an achievement on the part of Philips. They support aptX, which provides higher sound quality over standard Bluetooth, but the drop was not noticeable when connected to devices that do not support aptX.In fact, the M1BTs sounded great whichever way you connected or used them, while Bluetooth signal strength was excellent with all devices tested including smartphones, tablets and computers, without any drop outs or interference.Fiddly controlsThe M1BTs one area of weakness is the controls. Like most other Bluetooth headphones, they support wireless playback control of supported smartphones, tablets and computers over the Bluetooth AVRCP protocol.The music controls are mounted on the right-hand ear cup with a jog switch-type scheme, which for the most part moves and functions well enough. But Philips has tried to squeeze too many controls into the jog switch; it would be better suited to separate, dedicated buttons.Philips Fidelio M1BT review &ndash; one jog switch doesn't quite rule them all.The jog switch has to do everything. Flick up or down to adjust the playback volume. Press in once to pause or play. But you also have to press in twice to skip forward one track, or three times to skip back to the track start. This is fiddly: it&apos;s easy to change the volume by mistake while trying to skip, and if you click too fast it isn&apos;t noticed, while if you click too slowly you&apos;ll give the wrong instruction.Given that the headphones are not short of space on either ear cup, the skip track buttons could easily have been given dedicated controls, making it a frustrating omission if you happen to be listening to an album with a few bum songs, for instance.Premium priceThe £250 price places these at the bottom of the high-end price bracket for wireless headphones. They&apos;re premium, though the jog switch feels a little cheap and plasticky compared to the rest of the build.Verdict: great, on-ear Bluetooth headphonesThe Philips M1BT Bluetooth headphones are compact, robust and sound great for general listening.Their long battery life means that they can go the distance without repeated charging, while the strong, good quality audio performance over Bluetooth means there is no tradeoff for forgoing the wire.If the battery runs out, or you need to listen to something without Bluetooth, the integrated cable is there and does not affect their sound.While they don&apos;t have the best controls, won’t suit someone looking for a truly high-end expansive soundscape, and the on-ear form factor can cause earache with extended listening, the M1BTs are some of the best wireless headphones available at the moment.Star rating: 4/5Pros:Compact, lightweight, long battery life, balanced sound with punchy bass, excellent Bluetooth connection qualityCons:Unnecessarily fiddly controls, no NFC for one-tap pairing, on-ear design may not suit everyone, relatively high price
It&apos;s time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets. It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (free) may mean (freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later today.There&apos;s a new structure based on feedback from readers of previous posts. The non-game apps are listed first, followed by the games. Read on for this week&apos;s Android selection (and when you&apos;ve finished, check out previousBest Android appsposts).APPSVirgin TV Anywhere (Free)British ISP Virgin Media&apos;s &quot;TV Anywhere&quot; app comes with some strings: it doesn&apos;t yet play nice with the latest version of Android – KitKat – and not all devices can use its live TV streaming features. But if you&apos;re one of the lucky ones, with one of Virgin&apos;s TiVo set-top boxes at home, you&apos;ll be able to browse the TV guide, set recordings, control the box with your touchscreen rather than a remote, and (device permitting) watch live TV over Wi-Fi.FIFA (Free)Footballing body FIFA is getting ready for the World Cup 2014 draw on 6 December with a new app, which will bring details of who&apos;s playing who to fans live on the day. Meanwhile, the app promises scores, results and news from 197 leagues around the world, as well as fixtures, destination guides and team profiles in the run-up to the World Cup in Brazil.HTC FootballFeed (Free)HTC also has a new football app this week, and it doesn&apos;t just work on the company&apos;s own smartphones and tablets. It&apos;s focused on European club competitions: the Champions League and Europa Cup, offering news, scores, group tables, lineups and push notifications to keep you posted of important changes.Dr Panda&apos;s Home (£1.79)Developer TribePlay has produced a succession of cutesy Dr Panda apps for children on Android, with this being the latest. The theme is... housework? Yes, housework. A house full of animals with chores to complete, from teeth-brushing to floor-mopping. Developed in Unity, its 3D visuals are a step on for the series.Branches for Twitter (Free)Twitter is famously not that keen on third-party apps that just mirror the main features of its official mobile clients. What does Branches have to offer that&apos;s different? Its main schtick is the way it groups tweets by the same author over a period of time into single &apos;branches&apos;, with a view to decluttering your feed. Worth a look.Fiete Christmas (Free)Just in time for the start of December comes this well-crafted advent calendar app for children, with a new interactive surprise for every day leading up to the 25th. It&apos;s a free app to promote the existing Fiete apps for kids, starring the same cartoon sailor.SidePlayer Pro (£1.08)This is a simple but very good idea: a widget to control the music playing on your Android device that pops up when you shake the device, letting you quickly flick between songs. Its developer is pitching it as an ideal companion for games, so you don&apos;t have to quit out when playing to change the tune.Datanator Sync (Free)Datanator is the latest entrant in the increasingly competitive cloud storage space: a way to store data and files in the cloud, then access them from all your devices. In this case, what&apos;s stored includes photos, contacts, documents and other multimedia files, with an option to automatically sync what&apos;s on your phone regularly, without you having to trigger the process.Fun Town for Kids (£0.65)An urban-themed sandbox app for children to explore, here: 14 mini-games, each based on a different location in a cartoon town. They can cook hamburgers, build bikes, match shoes and sort vegetables among other activities. It&apos;s colourful, accessible and fun.Geography Drive Arcade (£0.61)One more app for kids: it&apos;s a good week, perhaps because developers are preparing for millions of new Android tablets sold to parents this Christmas. This is aimed more at American children learning the geography of their country: an entertaining trivia quiz about the 50 states.Can Papa Pear Saga become as big a hit as Candy Crush Saga?GAMESRidiculous Fishing (£1.99)I&apos;ve tried fishing in the real world, but it was never quite like this. Ridiculous Fishing is, well, ridiculous: you lower your bait down as far as possible while avoiding a variety of creatures, then haul it back up again catching as many as possible along the way, hurl them into the air, and blast them to bits with a shotgun. Obviously to be frowned upon in real life, but quirkily fun in a game.Papa Pear Saga (Free)The last word is the clue here: this is the latest mobile game from King, whose Candy Crush Saga has become a bona-fide phenomenon over the last year. Where that game was a Bejeweled-style match-three puzzler, this is essentially a rewrite of another game, Peggle. Already available on Facebook, it sees you firing balls into levels to destroy pegs – comparing your scores to friends. In-app purchases play a prominent role.Doctor Who: Legacy (Free)Talking of games that make their inspiration clear... The latest Doctor Who game will be instantly familiar to anyone who&apos;s played Puzzle &amp; Dragons – one of the few mobile games to be making as much money as Candy Crush Saga. It sees you swapping colourful orbs around to attack monsters while building a team of the Doctor and his companions.Adventure Town (Free)Supersolid is the latest hot free-to-play game maker on mobile, following the success of its Super Penguins game earlier in the year. Super Adventure sounds like same-old same-old: build a town, harvest crops, compare with friends etc. But its twist – you have to attract heroes to defend it from monsters, while exploring the land – plus some very polished gameplay makes it a cut above the herd.Final Fantasy IV: The After Years (£10.99)In an apps world increasingly dominated by free-to-play games, Square Enix is standing its ground and charging a premium for remastered Final Fantasy RPGs. This is a sequel to Final Fantasy IV with a familiar mix of exploration, battles and yet more battles.Nakama (Free)I&apos;m a sucker for games like Nakama: all retro pixelly graphics and... Well, that&apos;s the main selling point really, but the game is also full of character, and no little depth as you master its beat &apos;em up action and boss battles.Runes of War (Free)Something more modern here: a free-to-play &quot;strategy builder multiplayer game&quot; with familiar tropes of building a city, constructing an army, gathering resources and pitting your wits against players around the world.Sonic Dash (Free)You might be tempted to say Sega is jumping on the endless-runner bandwagon (think Temple Run) with its latest Sonic the Hedgehog mobile game, but longtime fans will know it&apos;s more of a return to gameplay seen in snippets in some of his older games. Anyway, you run, dash and spin through the game world, with power-ups (earned and/or bought) helping you along.Boson X (£1.49)Talking of endless-running, there&apos;s no famous character here, but Boson X is a genuinely inventive take on the genre: the most hypnotic Android game I&apos;ve played this week. The plot sees you jumping &quot;from Planck to Planck&quot; inside a particle accelerator, with the gameplay certainly not going easy. And as the Google Play listing puts it: &quot;no in-app purchases, superfluous power-ups, coins or XP systems - just deadly serious scientific research&quot;.Wrath of Psychobos - Ben 10 (£1.86)Finally, here&apos;s one more Android app for The Kids: a new game based on Cartoon Network&apos;s Ben 10 series. This one involves controlling Ben or his friend Rook as they battle their way through 31 alien-strewn levels. A satisfying mix of puzzles and combat, whatever your age.
See if you can guess the sex of the person writing this letter. &quot;Hey honey, not sure if you&apos;ve heard, but Xbox One is available. That means we can start playing games like Dead Rising 3. I know, I know. You&apos;d rather knit than watch me slay zombies, but hear me out on this. Xbox One is actually for both of us…&quot;And it continues: &quot;Maybe you don&apos;t LOVE games like I do, but there&apos;s really something for everyone… You love movies and I love football. Well, with the Xbox One, we can love both.&quot;But it&apos;s not just about games and films: &quot;We can talk on Skype with your favourite sister, whom, of course, I love dearly. &quot; And there&apos;s the signoff: &quot;ps Did I mention how beautiful you are?&quot;Did you guess that the writer is male? Microsoft seems to be a little surprised if you did. That was a &quot;form letter&quot; entitled &quot;We Got Your Back&quot; which it put online this week so that would-be Xbox One buyers could convince their partners that buying one was a good idea.But it took no time for gamers, commentators and journalists to conclude that it was simply sexist, and that it assumed only men would be interested in the new console. Microsofthad to issue an apology over the letter, and pretty quickly pulled it; theoriginal linknow diverts to the Xbox One site. (There&apos;s an imagehere.)But that wasn&apos;t the only element of the Xbox One&apos;s launch marketing which sparked accusations of sexism.The official launch of the family-friendly Xbox One included an appearance by KSI, a YouTuber whose content has been repeatedly noted for an overtly derogatory attitude towards women, and which has seen himbanned from all events organised by Eurogamer, a site that hosts the UK’s biggest annual games expo. (His manager has sincereleased a statementseeking to distance the blogger from &quot;past indiscretions&quot;.)He sang one just song on the night - butaccording to major industry news site GamesIndustry.biz,Phil Harrison, a corporate vice president at Microsoft (and formerly at Sony Computer Entertainment, where he worked on the PlayStation), seemed unaware of the issues around hiring KSI as they were put to himduring an interview.A Microsoft spokesperson said: &quot;At the Xbox One launch in London last night, KSI performed a song with three other artists, which was one part of a 10-hour event featuring a main stage show, Xbox One gameplay, and a midnight launch for hundreds of our fans. This does not represent Microsoft&apos;s endorsement of KSI&apos;s personal views, and we are not planning on working with KSI in the future.&quot;Critical videoMatt Lees of popular UK game site, Videogamer is. He produceda video criticising KSI&apos;s inclusion in the event. An influential games critic, his scathing attack has been viewed almost 100,000 times on YouTube, and caused a spike of controversy within the games industry.He told the Guardian: &quot;Microsoft&apos;s marketing angle this year more than ever has been all about the all-in-one &apos;entertainment hub&apos;. It&apos;s a very family-oriented angle, and KSI&apos;s unresolved history of making light of sexual objectification and rape didn&apos;t feel like a good fit for a family brand.&quot;This is happening at a time in which the games industry is attempting to change its image as a big boys-only club. The booth babe culture of major exhibitions like E3 in Los Angeles is being re-evaluated and the use of booth babes has been banned outright at both PAX and Eurogamer events. Last year, a Twitter hashtag,#1ReasonWhywas used by hundreds of women developers to voice their experiences of sexist behaviour in the industry, while a fiery panel discussion on the topic at the Game Developers Conference in San Francisco in Marchdrew a standing ovation from the crowd.Underachieving oversightIn response to the complaints about the letter, Microsoft offered the following: &quot;The letter is fully customisable and we meant no offence, but understand how the defaults could be perceived. We’re making changes to the letter defaults and apologise for the oversight.&quot; The claim from its end being that the default options accidentally created an impression of sexism; the implication being that a computer process was at fault rather than, say, a marketing team or a group of creatives at an agency.Looking at the fiasco there are two scenarios which present themselves. For the first, take Microsoft at its word. The default settings accidentally created a narrative which feeds into a perception of women and games that the industry is (or at least should be) trying to leave behind.This presents the company as rather clueless. It would seem no one with an understanding of the wider issues and conversations taking place in and around gaming looked at the letter. No one tested out different permutations of the defaults to check that nothing iffy was going to end up being pilloried on Twitter. It suggests someone just looked at the page and ticked the big box saying &quot;this is definitely a template letter&quot;.The second possibility is that Microsoft intentionally pulled a marketing stunt that doesn&apos;t even attempt to satirise a tired cliche – one that could potentially be brushed off as an oversight if it backfired. That scenario is cynical and depressing, and it would mean that a company keen to market the Xbox One to as wide an audience as possible was willing to belittle or patronise half that audience in the process.Neither looks great - clueless v cynical - and isn&apos;t helped by the PR faux pas of KSI&apos;s appearance.With that in mind, what likely happened is this. Marketing pushes are judged on terms like &quot;social reach&quot;. That&apos;s measured by how many people are likely to have seen tweets about a product or an event so the marketing team or agency tends to pick people with a big social footprint - lots of Twitter followers or Facebook page likes or, in KSI&apos;s case, YouTube subscribers. In the quest for reach, it&apos;s plausible that no-one thought to check whether KSI was actually a good fit for the image Xbox One is trying to convey.What these two events suggest is a worrying lack of awareness on the part of Microsoft. It&apos;s a company vying for dominance in your living room. It wants to be the centrepiece of your leisure time, the focus of your digital entertainment desires.But you need a degree of trust and goodwill to be invited into that space. By linking the console to poisonous attitudes, these screwups run the risk of making Microsoft a presence you don&apos;t want in your home. As much as anything, it has revived the #1ReasonWhy hashtag on Twitter - and unfavourably, they&apos;re pointed at the Xbox.• Charlie Brooker on why video game television is so hard to make
There are few more visible proponents of game culture in UK media than Charlie Brooker. The presenter, writer and satirist started out as a games writer for PC Zone magazine in the 90s, before setting up his scurrilous TV listings parody site TVGoHome. From there, he took his caustic wit to television, co-writing the sitcom Nathan Barley with Chris Morris, and presenting satirical shows Screenwipe, Newswipe and Ten O&apos;Clock Live.But at heart he is still a gamer and on Saturday he is hosting a two-hour documentary, How Video Games Changed the World, which looks at the ways gaming has shaped culture and society – even if many people still dismiss computer games as something kids do instead of going out to play or reading.Here, we speak to Brooker about the documentary and about games culture in general, from the violence of Mortal Kombat to the &quot;con&quot; of free-to-play.Can you tell us how the documentary came about? It seems that it&apos;s difficult to get programmes about video games commissioned…Well, in 2009, I did Gameswipe, which was a sort of games-flavoured spin-off of Screenwipe. And it&apos;s bizarre because when it was shown on BBC 4 I think it actually did better than Screenwipe in terms of viewership, but there wasn&apos;t much hunger for a follow up from the channel generally. I think that&apos;s because games are still seen as a niche pursuit; you&apos;re constantly bumping up against the assumption that they&apos;re all for teenage boys.We did have conversations with the BBC about doing a documentary series about games… but the thing is, games are a strange area. It&apos;s kind of like internet culture, it feels slightly divorced from the real world. So most of the time, you need to have a commissioner who knows about video games, so they understand that they&apos;re interesting to the masses.And it&apos;s not just about understanding, I suppose, it&apos;s also about knowing how to communicate what these things are?A language has been built around video games, which is alienating to many people. And lots of people erroneously think that games aren&apos;t for them – even as they&apos;re playing Angry Birds or Words With Friends.So you&apos;re sort of combating all of that, and any TV commissioner&apos;s job is to make sure that they&apos;re making programmes people are going to want to watch. There&apos;s just a reticence there. So as a result most games programming tends to be either aimed at teenage boys or incredibly defensive. How many times have you seen a mainstream news report that begins, &apos;these days video games are big business!&apos; What? That&apos;s still news? And that&apos;s where you&apos;ll see most games coverage – on the news when you have people queuing for the latest Call of Duty or whatever. We&apos;re fortunate because Tabitha Jackson who commissioned this programme doesn&apos;t know about games but realised their importance; she told us that what we needed to do was keep harking back to wider culture, to place games in context. Which is what we&apos;ve tried to do.Manadatory Credit: Photo by Michael Bowles / Rex Features (1489516c) Call of Duty soldiers man the midnight launch of Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3 &ndash; the sort of game story that tends to make the TV news. Photograph: Michael Bowles/Rex FeaturesSo the documentary is for a mainstream audience?Yes, but whether they&apos;ll show up or not I don&apos;t know. Maybe they won&apos;t realise it&apos;s for them. It&apos;s interesting because most of the production team – myself, the producer Dan Tucker, and all the writers we&apos;ve had on the show - we all know a lot about video games. But we&apos;ve also had Annabel Jones, our exec producer, who is sort of the canary down the coal mine. She knows nothing about games and it&apos;s been quite useful. She&apos;d come along to the edit and watch a section, and say something like, &apos;whatisa platform game?&apos; You&apos;re trying not to alienate those people. Hopefully we&apos;ve struck the right balance. But there is a lot of explaining to do. That&apos;s why most games programming tends to be explanatory rather than exploratory.It&apos;s the same as when I write stories for the newspaper. As a games specialist, I have to shed years of assumptions about what people know, and it&apos;s hard not to end up with an article that basically just explains what games are.Exactly. When will that end? This doesn&apos;t exist on the internet - you don&apos;t have to explain what games are there.I wonder if part of it is that technology is so intrinsic to the gaming experience. We&apos;re going through a console change at the moment so everyone is having to talk about hardware again. But with, say, film coverage, they don&apos;t have to continually talk about new cameras or projection equipment.Yeah, that&apos;s true. It was interesting when the Hobbit film came out and there were all these discussions about frame rate - it reminded me of writing for PC Zone in the 90s. Imagine you turn up at the cinema and they don&apos;t have the right 3D accelerator card, and you have to wait while someone downloads a driver…One thing we pinpoint in the show is that, when you look at the evolution of games, they were quite a blokey pursuit for a long time. But then colour came along, and designers could start representing cute little characters. The point at which games started to resemble little cartoons was the point they became locked in the public consciousness as a thing for children. We&apos;ve been fighting that ever since.So how did you come up with your twenty games? What was the criteria you applied?We sat down – myself, the producer, and the writers, Matt Lees, Cara Ellison and Jon Blyth – and we sort of came up with the list. We discussed back and forth and decided early on that it should be chronological rather than grading these games in terms of importance. We also decided that it didn&apos;t have to be a list of thebestgames, just the most significant. This is why Night Trap is on there - it was significant in terms of age ratings coming in.I&apos;ve seen some people comment, &quot;oh, why does every video game programme have to be a history of video games?&quot; The reason is, as you go along, you do have to explain the grammar of gaming. That&apos;s easier if you start with the basics, you have to start in a sort of tutorial mode. Any gamers tuning in who moan about how we&apos;re starting with Pong, should bear in mind that almost every game they&apos;ve ever played starts with a tutorial – we&apos;re not patronising them half as much as that.So yes, it was a tricky list to come up with and any of the titles could be substituted for something else. There are also some glaring omissions that people will complain about. Zelda for instance. I wanted Xcom on the list but you can&apos;t really argue that it&apos;s a hugely significant title in the history of gaming in terms of influence. But Monkey Island is on there to represent interactive storytelling and the involvement of Hollywood. Starcraft is in there to represent esports. It&apos;s video gaming boiled down to a sort of… thick sauce.The Secret of Monkey Island &ndash; featured in Brooker's documentary for its classic depiction of an interactive narrative. Photograph: /PRDid you learn anything new about games during the process of making the programme?I suppose yes, it did. When you lay it all out like that. I understood why I&apos;ve never really connected with Mario. I love the Mario games but I could not give a shit about Mario himself. He could be anyone; he&apos;s become an icon despite having no personality that I can discern. It&apos;s weird actually – Mario is probably one of the most accessible games, but it&apos;s also the hardest to talk about to someone who doesn&apos;t play them. All you can say is that they are brilliantly designed. It&apos;s all about the experience.I also realised what a weird and unique medium it is, in that it does have this barrier to entry. It&apos;s interesting how these technological leaps suddenly propel things forward – you know, gaming suddenly sprouts an interesting new limb that it works out how to use, be that colour graphics or 3D graphics or Wii-style gesture inputs. And at the same time the technological leaps have the side effect of complicating what&apos;s going on.As a gamer what you&apos;ve been doing your whole life is learning a foreign language. When you hand someone a controller who doesn&apos;t play games, they approach it gingerly. It&apos;s exactly the same as when people who aren&apos;t confident of a foreign language try to order something in a restaurant when they&apos;re abroad. The programme made me think about that a lot more.Did it make you reconsider any of your beliefs about games?I think my attitude to violence in games is slightly shifting. I&apos;m sure people will see this as evidence of me becoming soft. I loved things like Carmageddon which was basically a splatter comedy. Doom was obviously incredibly violent. I loved playing Tekken, I played it shit-loads in the nineties. I don&apos;t believe that games make you violent, but… we have some game footage in the documentary that we&apos;ve had to get signed off by the head of the channel. You cannot broadcast it without having properly considered the editorial context of what you&apos;re showing, the time slot, who is watching, what you are trying to say… it&apos;s just unacceptable otherwise.This is only a small minority of the games we talk about, but it&apos;s things like the latest Mortal Kombat and Sniper Elite. We were asked to take out one little clip of someone machine-gunning a pedestrian in the face in Grand Theft Auto and then getting run over by a bus. We had to slightly slip the shot so you couldn&apos;t see the bus going over their head or it was editorially unjustified.I think that&apos;s one of the key issues – the violence of games, when placed in the context of linear media, looks deranged and almost psychopathic.There are things that would be utterly unacceptable in any other media. I looked at a scene from Mortal Kombat 9 with a woman being vertically sawn in half on a buzz saw as she screams. I look at that and think &apos;that issohorrifying&apos;. I have to remind myself that if I was 23 and I was playing this game with a bunch of friends, that would probably be hilarious. It&apos;s the context - what you&apos;re doing in that game is killing your friends in an over-the-top way. It&apos;s all a sort of joke. But at the same time, it is incredibly graphic footage of a woman being sawn in half by a buzz saw.I think that because games tend to fly under the cultural radar they&apos;re often not really called upon to justify themselves and so consequently they often don&apos;t even try. They just throw things in which are very troubling and which don&apos;t help the image of games as a whole. When we used that clip from Mortal Kombat it caused more debate than anything else in the programme: the lawyer flagged it up, the channel flagged it up… We had to have a whole discussion on whether we showed it or not. In a television programme you&apos;d have to have a very good reason to show that, but in a video game you may see that happen 25 times in a night.And that&apos;s why violence in games has dominated the wider discourse on games, I suppose. Because it looks just so insane to those outside of gaming. You can see how certain connections are made...I really don&apos;t think violent games turn gamers into violent people. I mean, if you look at Carmageddon now, it&apos;s ridiculous, it&apos;s Pythonesque, it&apos;s like one of those early Peter Jackson horror comedies. The notion anyone thought that was worth banning is bizarre. But as graphics become more explicit, the industry will be called upon more to justify violence. And if games want to become a more mainstream pursuit they willhaveto justify those things - even if the justification is, &apos;hey, this is a splatter movie&apos;.Anyway, this is something I&apos;ve been thinking about. Games have been locked in a room and they&apos;ve invented their own language, like mad twins.Carmageddon: essentially a Monty Python sketch in the form of a blood-splattered racing game Photograph: /PRAnd game culture is still really defensive isn&apos;t it?It&apos;s massively defensive. Gamers are used to hearing their entire interest being disparaged as pointless and childish. So if you ask, &apos;is it really on to have S&amp;M nuns being slaughtered by a man in an advert for a game?&apos; some tend to react as though you&apos;re calling all games disgusting. You don&apos;t get that with cinema. If you criticise the Human Centipede 2, everyone knows you&apos;re not suggesting that Wall:E should be banned. So yes, gamers are defensive and insular, and games are locked in a terrible cycle from which they can never escape.Do you not think that the rise of indie games is a possible release from this ghetto? Titles likeGone HomeandPapers Pleasehave shown that games can talk about humanity and emotions…Sort of. There&apos;s a crossroads here, much like in cinema where you&apos;ve got blockbusters on one hand that are just enjoyable theme park rides, and you&apos;ve got low budget experimental, quirky, playful titles on the other.If you look at The Last of Us, that&apos;s more like a TV box set. Increasingly, film makers are looking at television and thinking, hang on that&apos;s interesting, you can make a risky 25-part series that works across five seasons and is edgy and challenging and people will go with it. That&apos;s hopefully where gaming is going to head.But indie games are kind of becoming the equivalent of what the Edinburgh Fringe is for comedy commissioners. Actually, they&apos;re like the short film industry, where people work on small projects and then get snapped up to make bigger films and bigger films until they&apos;re making Inception. Indie games are the Galapagos Islands - a place where weird little mutations can occur which, simply by existing, will affect the mainstream. But again, this has happened because of technology – because consoles got an internet connection. I mean, shareware has always existed but it hasn&apos;t always been as accessible as switching on Xbox and downloading Limbo, or to going to the App Store. That is a huge ecosystem of mental little games.And because of the way indie games are priced, people are perhaps more likely to try something unusual or challenging, maybe?Rab Florence makes an interesting point in the documentary. He says he played Braid up to a point and then he decided he wasn&apos;t enjoying it anymore and stopped playing it – but that was fine because it&apos;s what an indie game should do. It should explore what a game is. It&apos;s okay for it to be not much fun, in some ways. It can be something you admire rather than just something you consume as a piece of popcorn entertainment. That market not only exists now, it is thriving.You mentioned the App Store as a hotbed of indie titles, but it has also introduced this very divisive new business model of free-to-play and microtransactions. And these are now finding their way into full-price console releases. What do you think about it all?I find it very fucking annoying sometimes. It feels like a con. I mean, something like Killer Instinct, where you get a fighter for free and then pay for the rest – that actually sounds like a pretty good deal. That just reminds me of shareware. But you don&apos;t want to feel like you&apos;re playing something that&apos;s been deliberately hobbled. I hate the free version of games where you get payment reminders popping up on the screen or if you&apos;re a bit clumsy with your thumbs you end up accidentally downloading a new type of hat. That feels like flying on a budget airline where you&apos;re charged for breathing, or if you sit next to a man with a moustache you have to pay an extra £20. On that front it&apos;s irritating. It&apos;s like being constantly fined by tiny policemen.But then, the amount of games I&apos;ve paid fifty quid for and then played maybe 15% of… it would make me vomit if I actually added it up. Whereas if I&apos;m paying incrementally, like watching a series of TV shows that I download individually, I can give up and leave whenever I want. Maybe I&apos;d be happy if I was paying for each level - as long as each one was more brilliantly designed than the last. That would be the right form of microtransaction.Are you interested in the new consoles, by the way? They&apos;re doing microtransactions as well…I have a PS4 but I haven&apos;t even got it out of the box yet. And I&apos;m worried about the Xbox One, I&apos;ve heard about the juddering TV picture. How are they going to fix that? It sounds like an almighty fuck-up. It reminds me of when I used to have to buy step-down transformers to play old Japanese consoles. Why didn&apos;t Microsoft see this coming?So, how do you think games have changed the world? I ought to ask that considering the title of the documentary…Erm, good question. At first I just thought it was a good click bait title, but when you think about it, gameshavechanged the world in lots of way. Minecraft is a very clear example – it is a game that is also an educational tool, and it&apos;s a collective experience. But really, it&apos;s probably not that individual games have changed the world, it&apos;s more about what games in general have taught us. Bear in mind that most people&apos;s first experience with a computer was probably via some sort of game, so the degree to which they have helped us interact with machinery is world-changing.Minecraft: bringing community and creativity to over 33 million gamers wordwideOne thing we are seeing is the gamification of other media and services, like corporate websites...Yes. I wrote a column about this once, but I genuinely believe that if there was an app that let you toss virtual coins out of your phone on to a computer screen, if you could toss a 10p piece at the Guardian website, it would be a brilliant modern currency. If it was as satisfying as flinging an Angry Bird, it would be revolutionary. Imagine if every time you wanted to purchase something on an app store, you didn&apos;t just press buy, you flung an Angry Bird at it - and if you hit the target just right you may get 30% off… you&apos;d buy shitloads more stuff wouldn&apos;t you? Maybe I should copyright that.And there are so many other systems that work like games and use the same mechanisms of reward and compulsion. Fitness applications for example…A while ago I took up running because I had an app that slightly turned it into a game. I&apos;d never ever understood why anyone would willingly do exercise until I got an app that allowed me to unlock little achievements. The minute that happened, it was something I felt compelled to do. Just getting that little bit of positive feedback was enough to get me to completely change my behaviour, to the point where I lost two stone.In terms of culture though, do you see a point in which games become a medium for, say, satire and social comment? I mean, could Black Mirror have been a game?It&apos;s funny you should ask that, because I&apos;ve had exactly the same thought. We&apos;ve been looking at doing more of Black Mirror and I was wondering if I could do one as a game. I mean, in one previous episode, 50 Million Merits, we show a nightmarishly gamified future, which is based on a cross between the App Store, freemium games and Kinect. And also in White Bear, the people hunting the main woman down are based on characters from the Rockstar game Manhunt.So it&apos;s something I&apos;ve been interested in, I&apos;m just not sure how it would work. If you look at something like Papers Please, that gives us some pointers. A game that shoves you into the shoes of someone in a comically bleak situation is probably the way to do it. I doubt I&apos;d be the right person to pull it off, though - it would need to be someone much younger.That&apos;s it, it may just be a question of time. I feel that something like Papers Please could one day be put on the front of the Guardian website when the subject of immigration or border control came up…Yes, it would almost be the equivalent of a political cartoon. That&apos;s an interesting idea and we&apos;ll definitely see it in the future. As more and more idiosyncratic personalities are reflected through this medium, we will inevitably, at some point, get the Jonathan Swift of games. They will produce something that no one saw coming. I just can&apos;t… I just can&apos;t see what it is. But someone is out there. They&apos;ve probably already been born. They just need to get a fucking move on.Maybe it&apos;ll be your son?Maybe. He is quite sarcastic.• How Video Games Changed the World, is showing on Channel 4 at 9pm, Saturday 30 November• Ignore the GTA 5 sceptics: adults do play video games• Minecraft at 33 million users – a personal story
The search for the next Mark Zuckerberg or digital Richard Branson is on, and it&apos;s a group of teenagers doing the searching.Pioneers, the new off-shoot project from coding non-profitThinkspace, is looking for the next generation of entrepreneurial app developers – a hand-picked bunch of talented teenagers given access to like minds, venture capitalists and mentoring backers. At least that’s the plan.“We believe that the work of talented students should be cherished and recognised, which is why we formed Pioneers,” said Thinkspace’s 16-year-old co-founder James Anderson talking to the Guardian. “What we’re looking for is more than just coding skills and knowledge. We’re looking for the next Mark Zuckerberg or Richard Branson – they have to be serious, but unique and innovative with the entrepreneurial spirit.”Wheat from the chaffLaunching today,Thinkspace Pioneerswill be opened up to applicants aged 13-18 with projects spanning apps, games and websites – anything that shows promise in the digital space.The application procedure is free, and anyone can apply, but won’t be easy, as Anderson says “they will only have 400 characters or less to get their proposal across, so we’re hoping the best and brightest will really be able to sparkle and standout”.The selection of applicants to be put through to the incubator-like project falls to Belfast-based Jordan Earle, director of the Pioneers project for Thinkspace. His task is to weed out the wheat from the chaff as “only a handful will make it though the application process.”“What I want to be able to see is that they have a passion for technology,” said Earle. “I really hope we can inspire and mould the next generation of digital thinkers, makers and doers.”“It&apos;s incredibly important that young people are given as many opportunities as possible these days so they can discover their full potential,” he said.Those that do make it through, notified within 72 hours of application, will be invited to take part in weekly or bi-weekly networking and discussion opportunities, both online using Google+ Hangouts and in a central, likely London, location. They will also be given access to Thinkspace’s “Social” coding and development-focussed social network, which launched in closed beta earlier in the year for schools, teachers and pupils.To support the Pioneers project, Thinkspace is looking for backing to the tune of around £50,000 or partnerships from the big names in tech, Microsoft and Google included. It has certainly had success in that department in the past year, with endorsements from Twitter’s chief executive Dick Costolo, Google&apos;s senior vice president of social Vic Gundotra, Microsoft’s UK director of education Steve Beswick, Apple Co-founder Steve Wozniak and even Stephen Fry to name but a few.‘Make a real difference to the lives of students’Thinkspace was originally launched in September this year, aiming to place a Google headquarters-style spaces filled with modern computers, minimalist furniture and bright white walls within schools in Britain to encourage children to learn to code in a creative, non-school-like environment.“We want to make a real difference to the lives of students in the UK and globally, and Pioneers is the next stage in that dream,” said Anderson.• In November, aKickstarter project called Kano launchedto help kids learn to code using the Raspberry Pi
FIFA is preparing for the draw for 2014&apos;s football World Cup on 6 December by launching a new app, through which fans will be able to follow the draw live.The free app has been released foriPhone,iPadandAndroidsmartphones and tablets, with a focus that goes beyond international tournaments to cover 197 leagues around the world.Besides streaming the World Cup draw live, the app will serve up match schedules, destination guides and team profiles for the tournament, which takes place in Brazil next summer.However, its central feature is a &quot;World Match Centre&quot; which fans can customise to show results from their preferred competitions and clubs. The app will thus be competing with independent apps likeThe Football App, which said in October that it was attracting 4.5m active users.FIFA&apos;s app will also show the men&apos;s and women&apos;s international rankings, and promote the body&apos;s activities in grassroots football around the world.This being an official app, fans should probably expect it to give a wide berth to negative stories about FIFA and its competitions: more &quot;FIFA President offers assistance to Philippines&quot; than articles aboutabuse of migrant workers,Brazilian stadium protests, orhair-related spats with prominent footballers.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamfiatleak.com - watch the world's currencies flow into BTC in realtimeMesmerising - and a very sizeable chunk is going into China. Why? Because you can evade capital transfer controls if you use a virtual currency. China is behind the huge leap in Bitcoin's value. And it could - if those capital transfer controls go away - be the cause of any fail.End of the Galapagos era? Japan's tech and Internet habits have never been more western &gt;&gt; The Next Web...even today Japanese consumers are still kicking the habit of flip phones, buying devices from the likes of Panasonic, Fujitsu, NEC and other brands not usually associated with mobile.Those are just some examples of Japan's 'galapagos' syndrome —summarized nicelyby the Wall Street Journal last year. Essentially it's an explanation of how the country's culture, ideals and consumer trends differ to the US, Europe and the rest of Asia — but here's something interesting: many of the features of galapagos are being eroded from Japan's tech space.Not sure about the use of "Galapagos" as an abstract noun/adjective.Firefox OS fan Geeksphone plans high-end Revolution &gt;&gt; CNET NewsGeeksphone, the first Firefox OS phone maker, announced on Wednesday a new high-end smartphone called the Revolution.The Spanish company didn't disclose details such as price, features, ship date, and appearance. But judging byGeeksphone Revolutionweb page's wording, "a creation with a powerful heart," we can expect a faster processor than what's in the company's first models, the low-end Keon and mdirange Peak."We are...confident that we will surprise everyone by its very high performance," said Geeksphone co-founder Javier Aguera in a statement. "And it's very competitively priced."Will also run Android.Baidu says Android now has 270 million daily active users in China&gt;&gt; Unwired ViewNote that these are AOSP users - Google doesn't get any benefit from these users:According to Baidu, there are now 270 million daily active Android users in China. However, its growth is starting to slow – only 13% in Q3 2013, compared to 55% in the same quarter a year ago. Though it's still a bit of improvement over 10% increase Android delivered in Q2.Most Android device sales – 52% – now come from the old users upgrading old Android phones, while 48% buy a smartphone for the first time. A big part of Android growth –45% – is now concentrated in rural areas and small, third and fourth tier cities. Last year this number was 35%. Android owners now spend 150 minutes a day on their smartphones (an increase of 26 minutes from a year before), checking the device 53 times a day (compared to 47 in 2012).China's most popular, and most-used, computer is an AOSP smartphone.OCZ filing for bankruptcy, assets could go to Toshiba &gt;&gt; The Tech ReportAlthough the company has a checkered past, OCZ deserves some credit for helping to popularize SSDs. Its aggressive discounting practices touched off a price war that delivered some fantastic deals, especially last year. However, those discounts probably weren't good for the company's bottom line. OCZ is also responsible for the mistrust some folks have of SSDs.  Early problems with the Vertex 2 and other drives didn't inspire a lot of confidence.Surprisingly, OCZ was named to Deloitte's list ofTechnology Fast 500(PDF) companies just last week.  That list ranks the "fastest growing technology, media, telecommunications, life sciences, and clean technology companies" in North America, but it's based on revenue growth between 2008 and 2012.  AsSeeking Alpha points out, OCZ financial statements during that period weren't entirely accurate.So not accurate that the SEC began an investigation, in fact.The failure of the Encore weekly tablet app (and what we've learned from it) &gt;&gt; mUmBRELLAMumbrella is an Australian B2B publisher:We were keen to publish to tablets on Google's Android operating system too, so we switched away from Oomph to Reddo, who could help us with both. (Oomph warned us that they were seeing 90 per cent of demand for tablet magazines on the superior iPad platform, advice we chose not to follow).We estimated that we would probably need about 5,000 downloads per edition for advertisers to take us seriously. So we knew that we probably faced a long haul.We kicked off 2013 with 872 iPad downloads of the first edition. And just 48 to Android.After that initial number, things fell away slightly for the next few weeks, and we didn't exceed that initial number for a further 16 editions. We delivered 877 iPad downloads for that 16th edition. (And 12 for Android).CyanogenMod installer application removed from Play Store &gt;&gt; CyanogenModToday, we were contacted by the Google Play Support team to say that our CyanogenMod Installer application is in violation of Google Play's developer terms.They advised us to voluntarily remove the application, or they would be forced to remove it administratively. We have complied with their wishes while we wait for a more favourable resolution.To those unfamiliar with the application, it has a single function – to guide users to enable "ADB", a built in development and debugging tool, and then navigates the user to the desktop installer. The desktop application then performs the installation of the CyanogenMod on their Android device.After reaching out to the Play team, their feedback was that though application itself is harmless, and not actually in violation of their Terms of Service, since it 'encourages users to void their warranty', it would not be allowed to remain in the store.Oh.3DMark delists Android devices with suspicious scores &gt;&gt; FuturemarkPeople rely on Futuremark benchmarks to produce accurate and unbiased results. That's why we haveclear rulesfor hardware manufacturers and software developers that specify how a platform can interact with our benchmark software. In simple terms, a device must run our benchmarks without modification as if they were any other application.When a device is suspected of breaking our rules it is delisted. 3DMark scores from delisted devices should not be used to compare devices. Delisted devices appear unranked, and without scores, at the bottom of the 3DMark Device Channel and theBest Mobile Deviceslist on our website.Currentlydelisted: HTC One, HTC One Mini, Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1, Samsung Galaxy Note 3. Will more follow?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Friday! PS4 launch day! Have you got one?
Google&apos;s practice of combining personal data from its many different online services violates Dutch data protection law, the country&apos;s privacy watchdog said on Thursday after a seven-month investigation.The Dutch Data Protection Authority, or DPA, asked Google to attend a meeting to discuss its concerns, after which it would decide whether to take any action against the cloud services, internet search and advertising giant, which could include fines.Jacob Kohnstamm, chairman of the College for the Protection of Personal Data, said that Google&apos;s combining of data from different services, including surfing multiple websites, to tailor ads and personalize services like YouTube &quot;spins an invisible web of our personal information, without our permission, and that is outlawed.&quot;The report said it was &quot;almost impossible&quot; for a Dutch internet user not to interact with Google &quot;be it via Search, YouTube or Maps, or passively through third-party websites&quot; and that &quot;Google does not properly inform users which personal data the company collects and combines, and for what purposes.&quot; It also said that proper user permission &quot;cannot be obtained by [their] accepting general (privacy) terms of service.&quot;Google, responding to the Dutch authority&apos;s findings, said it provided users of its services with sufficiently specific information about the way it processed their personal data.&quot;Our privacy policy respects European law and allows us to create simpler, more effective services. We have engaged fully with the Dutch DPA throughout this process and will continue to do so going forward,&quot; the company said in a statement.The Dutch decision reflects concerns across Europe about the volume of personal data that is held in foreign jurisdictions in so-called &quot;cloud&quot; storage services, where data is stored remotely via the internet instead of on-site, giving individuals little control over their personal information.Six European nations are investigating Google&apos;s privacy policy - the Netherlands, France, Spain, Germany, Britain and Italy - though the fines regulators can typically impose are modest compared to the company&apos;s revenues and profits.Spain&apos;s Data Protection Agency said in June that it had initiated sanction proceedings, after initial investigations showed Google Spain and Google US may be committing six infractions against the country&apos;s data protection law. It said the company could also face fines of up to €300,000 ($408,000).By contrast, Google generates revenues of more than $545,000 every five minutes, according to its latest results.Privacy campaigners have also pointed to documents leaked by the former CIA technician and National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden that suggest US intelligence services have access to material stored in US-based cloud services.In March 2012, Googleunilaterally imposed new terms of serviceon users of all its cloud services, which include the YouTube video streaming site, the GMail email service, and the ubiquitous Google search engine.In France, the maximum fine is €300,000 ($408,000). In a previous Dutch case involving the gathering of data from Wi-fi networks, a spokeswoman for the agency said Google - which has a market capitalisation of over $350bn - could have been fined up to €1m if it had not subsequently complied.
I've been using a bulky analogue TV set as a screen for my DVD player. I'd like a flatter screen and asked in a PC store whether a free-standing PC monitor could be connected in any way to the player. "No". The obvious answer is to buy a flat screen TV but that would mean paying nearly £3 a week for a licence, when I don't want to access TV programmes. So I'm now thinking of playing the DVD's through my laptop, a Dell Inspiron 1545 Model PP41L running Windows 7.If I buy a monitor for this purpose, what specification should I aim for? Looking at catalogues, they list the following inputs: D-SUB, VGA, DVI, DVI-D, DVI-W, HDMI.KayMost DVD players output an analogue video signal in a variety of formats (usually interlaced 480i, 576i or 1080i), whereas PC monitors accept digital video using progressive scan (usually 720p and 1080p). If you overcome that problem, the pixels aren't the same shape (monitors use square pixels). Other hazards include the encryption used to protect DVDs andHDCP(High-bandwidth Digital Content Protection). Although you could buy a conversion cable like theSCART to VGA SyncBlaster(£67.99) -- now discontinued -- to connect a Scart port to LCD screen, the PC option is usually a better bet.Flat-screen PC monitors are typically used to display digital signals viaDVIor more recentlyHDMIports. Unfortunately, your Dell laptop does not have either of those. It has aVGAconnector, which outputs an analogue RGB signal. If you buy an LCD/LED monitor with a VGA port, that should show your videos, but the results will not be as good as if you used a DVI or HDMI connection.I'm hesitant because I suspect HDCP could be problem with DVD movies (unless you rip them first). Windows 7 and Vista both support HDCP, as do "HD Ready" TV sets and presumably HDMI monitors. However, VGA is older than HDCP and I don't know if will carry HDCP to the monitor. If it doesn't, the monitor should display a low-resolution image (480p) or no image at all. That's how it "protects" content.You can buy a VGA to DVI adaptors but a simple plug will not convert analogue VGA to digital DVI. That would need some form of electronic reprocessing, which will also reduce the image quality.New laptop or new DVD player?The Asus MX239H multimedia monitor has two HDMI ports plus a VGA port for older devicesIf you had a desktop PC, you could solve the problem easily by installing a cheap graphics card, but I don't think you can do that with a Dell Inspiron 1545, even if you want to.If you have a friendly local retailer, try taking your laptop to the shop, connect it to a PC monitor's VGA port, play a DVD and see how it looks. Right-click on your desktop screen, select "Screen resolution" from the drop-down menu, and see what the options are for the second screen. Will it work with a vertical resolution of 1080 pixels?If you still have a friendly local retailer, there may be a simpler, better option. Blu-ray players and some cheap "upscaling" DVD players also have HDMI ports, and these should work when plugged directly into the HDMI port on a PC monitor. I have not tried this so I'd like to see it working before handing over the cash. However, if you specifically make the point that it's the purpose of your purchase, you will be covered under the Sale of Goods Act.("Goods must be fit for their general purpose and any particular purpose that a consumer makes known to the trader at the time of purchase.")Bear in mind that you will need to buy a Blu-ray or DVD player that does NOT have a built-in Freeview tuner or you will still have to pay for a TV license.If your current DVD player does not have an HDMI port, then it will be cheaper to buy a new Blu-ray or DVD player than a new laptop.Choosing a monitorWhen it comes to choosing a PC monitor, the general standard is now very good: they only become expensive if you want a very big screen or a high resolution. Your current laptop has a standard 1366 x 768-pixel display so a monitor that displays 1080p (Full HD) should be a significant improvement.Bob Raikes, monitor expert and founder of display consultancyMeko Ltd, says that "the better panels will tend to be in sets from 24in and upwards, so size is a part of the choice". Since almost all TVs with 27in and smaller screens now use monitor panels, Bob says "fundamentally, there is little difference in reality". However, he does warn that "TV viewing tends to need higher brightness, so it's worth checking the brightness of the monitor. Quality TVs have brightness of 500cd/m2 (Candela per square metre), but monitors are typically between 200 and 350cd/m2. If the TV is watched in the daytime and brightish conditions, then it's worth looking for sets with 300 or 350cd/m2. I would recommend a minimum of 250."For convenience, you will probably want a "multimedia monitor" with built-in loudspeakers, though these will not be the best speakers. I'd also suggest choosing a monitor with anIPS(In-plane switching) display, and the more input ports the better.Suggested productsAsus, AOC, BenQ all offer good, reasonably priced multimedia monitors. The IPS options include theAsus MX239H23in widescreen multimedia monitor (£186 at amazon.co.uk) and theAOC I2367FH(£136.09). There are also 27in versions of the same models at£270.95and£206.98respectively, but both have the same 1920 x 1080-pixel resolution.Cheaper non-IPS options include the 23.6inAOC E2450SWHK(£111.86) and the 24inBenQ GL2450HM(£115.98) orBenQ GL2460HM(£127.80).There is a much wider choice of monitors that don't have built-in speakers. Good examples include the 23in DellDell Ultrasharp U2312HMIPS (£151.63) and the 24in SamsungSamsung S24C300HS(£129.55).Amazon prices are, of course, subject to change.Finally, if you dispose of everything you own that can receive a TV signal, you cantell the TV licensing authorityby making a declaration online. You can also apply for a refund for any quarters you have paid in advance. However, the site warns: "As it is our duty to ensure that everyone in the UK who needs a licence has one, we may visit your address to check that no licence is required. It's unfortunately necessary to do this, as when we make contact on these visits, almost one in five people are found to need a TV Licence." In this case, "you could risk prosecution and a fine of up to £1,000".
Launched on Friday in the UK and Australia, Sony's PlayStation 4 is the final video game console to enter the fray in the current war for the space beneath our TV sets.This sleek black system, engineered in Japan but designed by an American, Mark Cerny (a game designer who cut his teeth at Atari around the time Apple's founder Steve Jobs worked there), goes head to head with Microsoft's Xbox One, which launched last week and sold a million units in 24 hours. Both consoles are super-computers that can play Blu-Ray discs and the latest high-definition, online-enabled video games, as well as acting as conduits to a host of other music, film and televisual services. In the Xbox One's case, this includes a camera-enabled fitness program.The battle to "own" our living rooms has been waged between the two tech giants since 2001, when Microsoft entered the video game market with the first Xbox to compete against Sony's PlayStation 2.Nintendo, with its enormously successful Wii (and less successful follow-up, the Wii U), which emphasises gimmicks such as motion-control and a second screen over processing power, stepped out of the technological arms race that has defined the console business since the early 1980s, leaving Sony and Microsoft to duke it out this Christmas as they court older players, particularly men in their 20s and 30s.It's a high-stakes war. Video games have been the most profitable medium across the entertainment industries for decades. Even in the early 1990s Nintendo generated more annual profits than all the American film studios combined. In 2012, the traditional video game market boasted revenues of £35.5bn, excluding smartphone, tablet and Facebook games. Since the first PlayStation launched in 1994, Sony has sold approximately 350m consoles – roughly equivalent to the total number of iPods sold by Apple up to the end of 2012.Culturally too, video games are slowly emerging from the shadow of the long-held view that theyare children's playthings. In August a New York Times article argued that, due to their ubiquity, "these days, writing about video games feels more important than writing about politics".The philosopher Slavoj Žižek has a Call of Duty: Black Ops poster on his apartment wall, while novelists John Lanchester and Will Self have written about video games in the London Review of Books. Mark DeLoura, the White House's senior adviser for digital media, has held managerial positions at Sony and Nintendo, and advises Barack Obama on the potential role of games.Despite this, the role of the traditional console is in question. The stratospheric rise of smartphones and tablets has vastly broadened the audience of "gamers", even if many do not see themselves that way. Downloadable games such as Angry Birds and Minecraft, which can be played on mobile phones and basic PCs, are now a major part of the industry.  In April, Angry Birds' developer, Rovio, estimated its games had been downloaded 1.7bn times.Jack Tretton, the president of Sony Computer Entertainment America,  has no fear the games console will decline. He says he has managed to "ride the 'last console'" wave for 27 years. "There's a reason the console came about. [People like] sitting in front of a big-screen TV on a couch with [their] friends."Early sales figures support his claim. PlayStation 4's US launch was a resounding success: more than a million consoles were sold in its first week, a feat Sony hopes to repeat in Europe and Australia.
Bitcoin’s recent meteoric rise in value to over $1,000 has shone the spotlight on alternative currencies, butbitcoinis not the only new digital currency vying for relevancy in 2013.Likebitcoinsmost of these currencies are mined by computers solving hard mathematical problems. The &quot;coins&quot; do not exist physically, of course, as the currencies are virtual existing only as computer files.As they are based on peer-to-peer protocols, no one computer controls the currencies, but networks keep track of all transactions made using these digital currencies, but they do not know what the coins were actually used for – just the ID of the computer &quot;wallet&quot; they move from and to.Here are nine alternatives to think about before putting your time, effort and money into bitcoin.LitecoinLike bitcoin,litecoinis another crytography-based digital currency, which has also seen a dramatic rise in value in recent months.Litecoin, a peer-to-peer opensource digital currency, could be described as an offshoot of bitcoin. In fact, it is based on the bitcoin protocol, but instead of requiring extraordinary computing power to mine effectively, can be mined efficiently using standard computers due to its algorithm originally designed by Dr Colin Percival for theTarsnapsecure online backup service for Linux and other opensource operating systems.NamecoinAlso based on bitcoin, namecoin is another opensource offshoot. A cryptocurrency, namecoin also acts as a decentralisedDNS– the protocol on theinternetthat turns human-comprehensible website names such as theguardian.com into addresses understandable by machines. By acting as its own DNS, the currency operates outside the regular internet and therefore outside the governance of theInternet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers(Icann).The currency values and domain names are stored within the blockchain record, which limits the total number of namecoins to 21m, with each coin divisible down to eight decimal places.PeercoinAnother variant of the bitcoin-like peer-to-peer currency principle, peercoin promises increased efficiency of mining, improved security and safeguards to avoid abuse by group mining, which has recently been highlighted as a potential flaw with bitcoin.Peercoin has the fourth-largest market cap among “altcoins” as these alternative digital currencies are known, according toCoinMarketCap.com, which tracks emerging and traded currencies.PrimecoinA cryptocurrency like bitcoin, primecoin differs at its core because it uses a totally separate mathematical basis for mining. Instead of relying on bitcoin’s “Hashcash” algorithm, primecoin finds long Cunningham chains – a certain sequence of prime numbers named after the mathematician AJC Cunningham – to build value into the currency.Unlike bitcoin, primecoin’s mining difficulty increases slightly with each new coin created, scaling more evenly than bitcoin’s bigger shift in mining difficulty every 2016 blocks.FeathercoinBased upon litecoin, feathercoin adjusts its mining difficulty more often than litecoin and was announced in April 2013. Unlike some other digital currencies, feathercoin updates regularly to incorporate new features and enhancements, including protections from abuse and forking by group mining.NovacoinYet another peer-to-peer digital cryptocurrency, Novacoin differs from most of the other altcoins by integrating protection schemes within the core of the currency, which deters abuse by mining groups.Novacoin also has a technical cap of 2bn coins, a much larger number than most of the other digital currencies which top out in the millions, rather than billions of coins. The cap could also be increased if it was ever reached, giving novacoin a theoretical dynamic inflation.InfinitecoinAnnounced in June 2013, as another litecoin spin-off, infinitecoin differs with more frequent difficulty adjustment rate during mining and the total number of coins that can be created, which is 1142.86 times as many as litecoin.MegacoinA bitcoin analogue in its infancy, created within the fourth quarter of 2013, megacoin is limited to 42m total coins and is mined like every other crytocurrency. Each coin worth around $0.50, and its main selling point is its overt branding, something quite a few other digital currencies lack.Quark coinAnother altcoin in its infancy, launched in 2013, Quark coin takes the security elements of the cryptocurrency very seriously employing nine separate rounds of encryption using six different algorithms.If those nine bitcoin alternatives weren’t enough for you, there are over 60 different altcoin currencies currently being traded at various exchanges likeCryptsy, including AndroidsTokens, AlphaCoin, AmericanCoin, AnonCoin, Argentum, AsicCoin, BBQCoin, BitCar, ByteCoin, BitGem, BottleCaps, CryptoBuck, CryptogenicBullion, CopperLark, Cosmoscoin, CHNCoin, ColossusCoin, CopperBars, CraftCoin, CasinoCoin ...• In November, £4m in bitcoin was revealed to belurking on a hard drive buried within the Newport landfill site
Twenty years have passed since the original PlayStation games console arrived, utterly disrupting and revolutionising the industry. Sony had a simple plan: build a powerful console that would inspire gamers and developers. The company has done just this – again – with the PlayStation 4.It is a machine built for games creation – and actually designed by a veteran game maker, Mark Cerny, who contributed to classic PlayStation titles such as Crash Bandicoot and Jak &amp; Daxter. It features super-fast graphics memory and an optimised processing environment. Everything is geared towards making the technology accessible to programmers.As a result, many blockbuster titles such as Battlefield 4 and Assassin's Creed IV look better on PS4 than they do on Microsoft's rival console the Xbox One, which has a slightly less powerful set-up and is designed to drive Microsoft's multimedia ambitions as much as it is the latest super-fast sci-fi shooter.Sony's designers wanted the PS4 to look like a games console with a striking, slanted chassis that repeats the architectural look of the PlayStation 2. It is smaller and lighter, and I find the new Dualshock controller, with its clever touchpad addition, curved triggers and refined analogue sticks, more comfortable than its (still very impressive) Xbox One rival. When you boot up PS4, the menu is subtle, almost ethereal, with swirling blue lines and ambient music.Sony is clearly sold on the idea of social gaming because the user interface is filled with information on what your friends are playing – you can even log in via Facebook so that your real name is available (this can be limited, of course). Add in the Share function, which lets you record game footage or broadcast it live on the PlayStation Network, and you have a machine designed to foster gaming communities. While Xbox One wants to be your TV, your cinema and, of course, your console, the message from the PS4 interface is – this is a games machine for us to all play together.There are the usual selection of video apps to download, including iPlayer,  Netflix and Sony's own Music and Video Unlimited services. There's a web browser, too, which isn't great, but it works. None of this stuff feels as well integrated as it is on Xbox One.The launch line-up of games is no more than OK. Killzone: Shadow Fall is a noisy sci-fi blaster, Knack is a passable family adventure. The highlight, ironically enough, is a flashy retro shooter named Resogun, which packs more joy into its essentially 2D landscape than most of the blockbuster HD releases manage over entire simulated worlds.The big disappointment is that Sony has made such a huge deal of supporting independent developers, yet so few indie titles are available for launch. On top of this, the promising open-world racing game Drive Club has been delayed, so we're only getting a glimpse of what this machine can do.And so just like the Xbox One, which launched with an unprecedented fanfare last week, the PlayStation 4 is a beautiful and exciting box of tricks, which has opened just enough to tease us with the future, but nothing more. If early adopters really have to rush out and buy one of these things, it's really down to personal choice. If you  love games, PS4 is a smart choice, and if you want a progressive media hub, Xbox One is your thing.
MumProfessor Layton and the Azran LegacyFormat: 3DSIf your mum likesCandy Crushor Solitaire, then check outProfessor Layton. Rammed with brainteasers linked by a bizarre detective story, the series has been a smash hit with women. The latest boasts more than 500 puzzles.AlternativeBeyond: Two Soulswas a unique game. Starring Hollywood's finest, the PS3 title is a story-driven, emotional epic.DadGran Turismo 6Gran TurismoFormat: PS3(out 6 Dec)There are fantastic-looking racers for the wannabe Jeremy Clarkson out this Christmas, butGran Turismois the franchise of choice for the true petrolhead, although for Xbox fans the newForza 5also looks hugely impressive. This sixth game in the 15-year-old franchise has the edge though with 1,200 cars, 33 tracks and is one of the most visually realistic games on the current generation of consoles.AlternativeMen love football but you know what they also love? Tractors. So check outFarming Simulator 2013on PC, 360 or PS3.Tween girlsAnimal CrossingAnimal Crossing: New LeafFormat: 3DSBuild a house, decorate, dress-up, catch butterflies and make friends,Animal Crossingis the ultimate video game dolls' house (indeed it's surprising how popular it is with boys). The latest title sees kids become the town mayor and lets them compare their houses with friends.AlternativeDid you know there's a version ofJust Danceaimed specifically at youngsters?Just Dance Kids 2014features the musical marvels that are One Direction, Selena Gomez and, er, the cast ofFraggle Rock.Teen BoyFifa 14FIFA 14Formats: VariousFor parents that realiseGTA Vmay not be the most suitable game for their 14-year-old son, look no further thanFIFA 14. The franchise is unbeatable when it comes to sports games, and this year's edition is wonderful, with a huge amount of content that will keep gamers playing until the next comes out.AlternativeFor the rockstar:Rocksmith 2014on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360. The guitar game teaches you how to play the instrument.The familyRayman LegendsRayman LegendsFormat: VariousThere are a number of fun family platformers this Christmas, fromSuper MariotoRatchet &amp; Clank. But one of the finest (and most affordable) new games isRayman Legends. The beautiful 2D platform adventure is great in single player but with four players it becomes a genuine joy.AlternativeIf you're investing in Xbox One, downloadKinect Sports Rivals Pre-season. The jet-ski racer shows off the capabilities of the newKinect.
It has been another busy year for EA Dice. The Stockholm-based studio, founded 20 years ago by a bunch of ex-demo scene coders, is now one of the prize assets in the Electronic Arts armoury, its Battlefield series providing the only serious military shooter competition to the Call of Duty behemoth.But while development on Battlefield 4 was rumbling on, the team announced two exciting new projects: a sequel to its innovative 2008 adventure, Mirror's Edge, and a re-boot of Star Wars: Battlefront – the multiplayer shooter set in the vaguely familiar sci-fi movie universe.To find out more about these projects, we spoke to Patrick Söderlund, once CEO of Dice, and now executive vice president of EA Studios. We wanted to find out about the difficulties of creating super-connected games in the modern era, but also the potential of the PS4 and Xbox one going forwards...So Battlefield 4 is now out on both current and "next generation" consoles – what were the challenges of working on a cross-generational title?Any team trying to launch a game on five platforms is going to have a tough time – especially with two platforms that are, to some extent, unknown. There are two ways to handle this - you can go with current gen and then up-res as best you can, or you lead on the next-gen, try and get as much as possible out of those platforms and then then downsize the game so that it fits on a PS3 or Xbox 360.The first way is probably the easier approach – you try to scale up as much as you have time to do. I think that's probably how many of our competitors looked at it. We took the other approach with this game - and with Need for Speed for that matter: both lead on next-gen and then pushed the current gen machines. That caused some development challenges, but I think it's going to give EA a stronger line-up on next-gen consoles. I hope it's going to pay off. You never know!Battlefield 4  – the siege of Shanghai levelYou've obviously had some major stability issues with the PS4 version of Battlefield. Are you happy those are being sorted out now?Listen, we have to do a better job of getting games into the market that are as bug-free as possible. What I would say is, games are becoming more and more complex – even though we'll run a beta and we'll do massive amounts of testing, there are certain things, especially in an online-focused environment, that you won't catch. I wish I could day that we will, but I don't think we'll ever catcheverything. I think we've got better at it, but I certainly think we're not where we need to be in terms of getting games to market that offer a friction-free experience.What we need to do, and what we are doing is, when we launch a game, we have to work very quickly to work course-correct to fix issues and then to get fixes into the hands of the consumers. I have to say that gamers have been good with us – they realise that we work hard, I think we've had eight or nine server updates since the launch of the PC side. We try and do an update every second day to improve the game experience, and there are patches in the works for the PS3 and Xbox 360. I bet we'll have to do the same thing on the next-gen machines. But our commitment to making the best gameplay experience on a continual basis is there. We devote a lot of time and effort toward making the game better as we go. But I think we need to do a better job as a company in making sure that what comes to market is in as good a shape as it possibly can be.We saw a lot of controversy and anger of over the troubled launch of GTA Online recently, too. Do you think developers need to communicate to gamers how complex it is to bring an online experience to millions of users?It is very difficult to be honest – even for the best coders in the world who have been building operating systems for years. Look at Apple – I don't know how many updates I've downloaded for Maverick so far. It works, but there have been some problems with it. I don't blame Apple - we live in a world where consistently updating is part of the norm. Look how often all the apps update on your phone. I think consumers are fine with that, but the problem comes when you put something into the market that doesn't work at all. And you know what? That should be a problem. We should be criticised for that.Fortunately, that hasn't been the case with Battlefield – there have been some issues and I think we've done a good job rectifying some of them and we'll work around the clock do do the rest. If you look at GTA though, that was a game that had done tremendously well for Rockstar, so there was a very large installed base waiting to go online; when they switched it on, I still think they were surprised by the sheer load.And I bet you they tested everything, I bet they were nervous but felt pretty confident, but then scale does so much to your systems. The number one reason for things going wrong is scale. We do a lot of testing and load balancing, we do everything we can, but my personal experience tells me there's no such thing, at this point at least, that can emulate real physical load. It's so hard to simulate that because there are so many different user cases that you can't simulate in a test environment. So should players be patient and allow us to update games when they come out? Yes. Should players expect base functionality for something they've purchased? Absolutely. I think if there are two people screaming at you out of a thousand, you can ask for patience, but if there are 500 out of 1,000, you've got to change something, right? You've got a problem.Does Dice see any intriguing new design possibilities in the next-gen hardware?The machines actually offer up more differences than people may think. The first thing you'll notice is obviously the better graphics - that's an easy thing to understand. But I think as people get their hands on the consoles, they'll realise that the Xbox 360 and PS3 were designed when the world looked very different; there was no such thing as Facebook or Twitter or Instagram. People's consumption behaviour around entertainment was entirely different too.So the new machines are more prepared for today's world - they're much more about social, viral experiences. The PS4's Share button, when you start using it, you understand the power of it, the ability to express yourself via a console – that's going to be very important. Xbox One has the Upload studio where you can capture and comment on material – it fits more with how people want to express themselves.The second thing is the peripherals that come with the machines, the updated Kinect, the PlayStation Eye – they will allow games to detect finger movements! Before, Kinect saw you as a big lump maybe with arms and in the best case scenario with two legs. The fidelity of the new camera is so much better - you'll see very different gameplay experiences and applications around movement that you haven't seen before. You and I don't know what they are yet, but that will offer up some interesting possibilities.And voice commands is something that is beginning to become real. When you talk to the Xbox One and it does the things you want it to - that's really cool. It's like migrating over to the iPhone 5s. This whole fingerprint thing - I thought why would I ever need that? Until I started using it. Now I can't use my iPad because it doesn't have that feature. I want all my devices to have it.I would say the new consoles are really exciting.We're entering into an age of persistent worlds and seamless interchange between single and multiplayer. Can a legacy title like Battlefield exist in that era?I would say that we probably have to modernise the experience to some extent. But listen, if you try the multiplayer today on PS4 or Xbox One you'll find it's a very different Battlefield game than what you would have played on Xbox 360 a few years ago. Not only does it run at a higher frame rate, you see things you haven't seen before. You have the dynamic battlefields, the dynamic maps – people may say that Levolution is a gimmick, but it isn't at all, it adds an extra layer to the gameplay. Those elements are on the current generation consoles but the experience is multiplied on next-gen.And look at the work we've done on extending the experience to tablets and phones. It's starting to feel like a different experience. When I play on PS4, I find it hard if I don't have my tablet next to the screen displaying the mini-map. I can drag my squads around with my finger. I never thought I'd use a second screen in that way. And with the Commander app I can sit on a bus and play against my friends who are  playing multiplayer live on their PCs or consoles – and the fact that I can also talk to them via VoIP on my iPad is just crazy.So the game has evolved immensely. But the mantra at Dice is, let's not do anything with these technologies just because we can. What are the meaningful gameplay extensions? If we're going to do a Commander app that works on a tablet, let's make sure it works the way we want it to work. And if it doesn't let's not do it at all. That's how we need to look at everything on the next-gen machines - they offer up a bunch of possibilities, but doing stuff just because we can, to fill up the back of a box, then we're in a world of hurt. But if we can push ourselves and look for meaningful innovation, then I think there will be rewards.As a veteran Battlefield fan, I can definitely see the possibilities of very large persistent environments. For me the game has always been about freedom and scale - I think having a cloud-based map supporting hundreds of players in seamless skirmishes … that's very exciting.To us as developers … we have to look at ourselves, every version we do of something, we have to say to ourselves, okay, if we make another one – and the big word there is 'if' – we'd better make sure it has an impact, that it changes and feels like a meaningful evolution of the brand. If you stagnate, you're better off moving to something else. I sit the floor above the Battlefield development team and there is no lack of ideas down there! It's just a matter of, how many of them are feasible and how many can we do.There are thousands of ideas, liked the one you just described. One of the things I think is cool in Battlefield 4 is the geo-leaderboard - you can find out who in your neighbourhood is, say, the best best assault player. That's cool. And so let's take that a step further and say, what if we had servers where it pulls in just things as simple as weather and day time from the local area. If the server is in Stockholm and it's sunny, what if the map is sunny, too? What if it's snowing and dark in Moscow? Okay, let's have the servers there playing snowy and dark maps. You look at the possibilities and realise you can do so many more things in the cloud-enabled world than we couldn't do before. That's frankly one dumb idea from me, but it's kind of cool! You're right, though, you have to keep evolving.Mirror's Edge is one of the few games to feature a strong female protagonistI know you won't say much about Mirror's Edge 2, but let's cover it briefly. When the original came out, I really loved that game, andwrote a blog post attacking other criticsfor not understanding the concept of innovation. Do you think the world is more ready for it now?Mirror's Edge is something that's very close to my heart - I was extensively involved in the first one. I think it's fair to say the game was unique, it was innovative in so many ways – even today, there's no game that looks like it. It is very distinctive in look and feel – you only have to see a single screenshot to know exactly what game it is. I also think we managed to create an iconic heroine that people really like.But let's be honest - some of the execution around the movement was not up to the standards that it should have been. In essence, I think you're right, I think we should have been more rewarded for innovation. At the same time, I look at some of the criticism that was around back then and say, yes you're right, we should have polished it further, we should have figured out some of these problems around falling all the time. It had a lot of promise and we delivered on 75% of it.And that's why it's taken us quite a while to get to a concept that we really like. Once we started to think about Mirror's Edge on a next-gen platform, we were thinking about correcting the problems we had the first time, but also going back to the roots of what Mirror's Edge actually was and what we wanted to do with it. During that search, we found a concept that we liked. So is this the time right for Mirror's Edge now? Absolutely. Do I think we'll come out with a game that keeps the innovation but redefines what the game should have been? For sure. We have a very talented group of people working on it, it's one of the games I'm most excited about in our portfolio. I can't wait to show people what we're doing with it.And you had one of the great female game characters of the last console generation. Is it frustrating that Faith is still in a very small minority of women game avatars who aren't overtly sexualised? Do you think the industry can grow out of that in the coming generation?I really hope so. For the sake of humanity, we have to, right? The way Faith was designed it was a very deliberate decision. We wanted to create a character who felt powerful, who was agile, lethal, but yet had a look that people would be attracted to. I think the team did very well; it was about respect for women. There are too many bad examples in our industry of women displayed in a video game with certain body parts that are ... over-tuned and very small clothes. That doesn't represent anything that I want to be involved with or that EA wants to be involved with. I think the time has come for more characters like Faith. And if you see the fan following we have, we have people who have tattooed themselves to look like her. I didn't really realise how powerful she was until I saw that reaction from everyone. I didn't realise she was an icon. It doesn't matter whether it was – Sweden, the UK, Japan or the US – people gravitated toward her. They had a connection with Faith. That was cool.And now, what the team has been able to do with the evolved version of Faith is keep that integrity but yet make her feel even more interesting. It feels like there is more depth to her now. And once people see the story and see what we've done with her, they're going to be really interested. They'll want to know more.And very quickly -Star Wars: Battlefront. Now that EA Dice has begun development, has an exciting prospect suddenly turned into a hugely daunting one? Star Wars has quite a few "keen" admirers…We need to be humble! The idea of doing it is really cool, but then, it's "uh-oh, how do we do this?" We have to treat the brand with respect but then put our personal flavour on it. That's the only way that makes sense to us. I think we're there now; the team knows exactly what it's doing, and I can tell you that some of the things you'll see … they're mind-blowing. But it took a while, it was almost as though we did have to sit down and say, oh shit, how do we treat this with the respect that it deserves – and to be very blunt, how do we not screw it up?How did you get past that?Once you get familiar with that thought, you quickly have to move on and think, okay, how do we make this awesome? How are we going to make people love what we've done? That's where we are right now. Another good thing is, we didn't really know what it would be like to work with Disney and LucasFilm – Dice has never worked with a licensor before in that sense, we've always developed our own IPs. We didn't know what to expect! But now we know them, we know they share our passion, they share a lot of the same views as we do – it has become a lot easier.Now, we're over the honeymoon period when everyone is nice to each other, we're into production, but the relationship is getting stronger. The same aspiration is there to make something unique and not to follow some of the previous attempts to make great games from a movie license - attempts that failed. We think, how do we become what Warner Bros did with Batman? How do we become that iconic computer game that respects the license, that brings it forward? If we can do that we'll be fine.And it really has to be Dice's version of Star Wars, right? Just as GoldenEye was Rare's version of James Bond and Arkham Asylum is Rocksteady's vision of Batman…Yes, and I can tell you that's been the spirit of the collaboration from day one. When Disney understood that Dice was going to develop this, they were like, "cool, do what you think, stay in touch." So far it's been very good. I'm very happy with how the team is working.And from outside of Dice, from EA's other studios, what's coming that interests you?Fifa 14, which is very good on next-gen, and Need For Speed: Rivals, which may surprise some people. The system they've introduced – All Drive – which seamlessly connects multiplayer and single-player and allows player worlds to interact - it's a really exciting idea. It took them a while to get it to work, with a lot of UI tweaks – how do you make sure you're only interrupted by a friend if you want to be? But once they got their heads around that, they created something that feels very different. Going from single to multiplayer is a very seamless experience.And again, I do wonder if we'll see that seamlessness coming in to the Battlefield universe?I certainly hope so.• PlayStation 4 hands-on review and Xbox One comparison - video
When he was five years old Mark Cerny taught himself to code. He used a CDC 6400 mainframe computer at the University of California at Berkeley, where his father worked as a lecturer in nuclear chemistry. At thirteen he began to attend maths and physics classes at the university and, when he was sixteen, he joined as a full-time student.As well as a talent for programming Cerny had a talent for video games. When Cerny saw Space Invaders in a local arcade in 1978 he decided to become “one of the best players in the United States”. His skill brought Cerny to the attention of the author Craig Kubey who, in 1982 was researching a book of arcade game tips. “He was touring the arcades looking for hotshot players, visiting game companies and interviewing game creators,” Cerny tells me. “I was looking for a way to turn my hobbies into a job and Kubey agreed to mention me to Atari during one of his interviews.” Within weeks Cerny was invited to interview for a job at Atari. At 17 he became an employee, working as one of the company’s 15 core game programmers.Cerny’s career lacks the consistency of focus of, say, Nintendo’s Shigeru Miyamoto. But he has been either on the periphery or at the very centre of numerous major events in the medium’s evolution. When he was 18 he designed Marble Madness, which went on to become one of Atari’s most successful arcade machines in the mid-1980s. He worked on the seminal platform game Sonic The Hedgehog at Sega in Japan alongside Yuji Naka before returning to California in the mid-1990s to join Universal as VP of its games group. Even at this management position he was still programming video games and designing levels. It was during this time that he met Shuhei Yoshida, a producer in Japan who is now head of Sony’s worldwide studios. Yoshida carried out consumer testing on Cerny’s first project at Universal, the PlayStation game Crash Bandicoot.Brutal criticisms“The testers’ comments were brutal: long criticisms of the game by people who were obviously frustrated,” recalls Cerny. “I spent the next six months on that game trying to make it as friendly as it could be.” Later Cerny became a freelancer, working more closely with Sony, optimising games such as Ratchet and Clank and even writing the Dolby Digital Live decoder for the PlayStation 3. But his greatest challenge came in 2008. After a holiday break spent researching the 30-year history of the x86 computer architecture (the foundation of most modern PCs) he mentioned to his old friend Yoshida that he believed a video game console could be built on the same principles. Yoshida promptly appointed Cerny lead architect of PlayStation 4.Scott Kirkland is group technical director at Evolution Studios, one of Sony’s key development partners and the creator of DriveClub, one of PlayStation 4’s forthcoming titles. “We were asked to come into the studio at midnight on a Sunday in early 2008,” he says. “We weren’t even allowed to mention this to the company’s directors.” The PlayStation 4 project had only been live within Sony for a few weeks. Kirkland was given a San Francisco phone number. He dialed in and the conference call screen blinked to reveal a large meeting room on the other side of the world. At the centre of the room was Mark Cerny.“We sat from midnight to 2am while Mark explained his vision for the platform,” he recalls. “He revealed his experimental ambitions but, most importantly, the desire present a platform that would be accessible to developers. It was incredibly exciting.” During the next five years Kirkland had regular calls with Cerny, who made good on his promise to involve game developers in the systems design. “We had quite a bit of input in terms of processor technologies, caches and buses and File IO systems and all sorts of aspects of the platform.”&apos;It&apos;s that one&apos;The key for Kirkland and the rest of the hardware team was to create a system that worked in as similar a way as possible to a PC. “The PlayStation 3 architecture was so different from PC architecture that was a real chore,” he says. “While the engineers loved working on PS3 and there was a real sense of achievement when you got things working, from a commercial perspective it was difficult and expensive to produce games for multiple platforms. Now we&apos;re able to exploit the similarities between PC and PlayStation 4. In talking to third parties as well, who develop games for PCs and other consoles - you could just see the relief in their eyes.”Once the PlayStation 4’s internal architecture was settled, Sony had the challenge of finding a design for the look of the system. The company decided to pass on Takashi Sogabe, who designed the Walkman and, more recently, Sony’s handheld games machine, the Vita. Instead they tasked Tetsu Sumii, a Japanese contractor and talented furniture designer, to work on the machine’s design. “I was not at all happy with the first design Sumii showed me,” says Andrew House, who had final sign off on the designs. “Sumii was very disappointed and then he said, quite correctly: ‘Give me some direction then.’”House told Sumii that he wanted the design to be “an archetype, a silhouette, in an architectural sense” and “something a kid could draw on a sheet of paper from memory”. Sumii returned with five different designs each one featuring a blue highlight, the PlayStation’s defining colour. House honed it down to three options. “The poor guys had to go and create a design prototype for all three,” says House. “Then [Masayasu] Ito-san, the chief of the home console division and I umm-ed and ahh-ed. In the end we just said: ‘It&apos;s that one’.”Circuit boards and black rubberAs well as the challenge of the console’s design, the PlayStation 4 team wanted to spend an equal amount of thought on the controller, the bridge that carries a player’s inputs and outputs them onto the screen. Cerny, wanting to demonstrate how cumbersome a traditional controller can be to a child, mocked up an oversized scale PlayStation controller, so the designers could feel what it was like for younger players. “Today’s games are enormously complex,” he tells me. “The PlayStation 4 controller has 16 buttons and a blockbuster game uses almost all of them. I’ve had decades to get used to the increasing complexity of video games. But these days children learn how to play games on iPads and smart phones which are button-less. So we have a gulf between the beginner players and the blockbuster game players.”Evolution’s Kirkland was also involved in the controller’s design. “It was around Christmas 2010 and Yoshida introduced us to Toshi Ioki, the product planning guy who was also looking after the controller,” he says. “We had 9am calls every week with Guerrilla Games, Media Molecule, the hardware guys in Japan and the US … That&apos;s the kind of work where you’re pinching yourself not believing it’s real. Then we received this brown box in the post with something that looked like a prop out of a Christopher Nolan Batman movie - all circuit boards and black rubber. We iterated on a number of controller prototypes. I&apos;m not sure how much we can say about the features that fell by the wayside but there were certainly some interesting control mechanisms in there.” At one point the team tried adding a microphone to the controller itself, to negate the need for a headset, but the clacking of the button made it unusable.Bedroom codersThe invention on display in PlayStation 4’s hardware is interesting, but as its predecessor demonstrated, its software where the true battle for consumers’ hearts and minds will take place. For Sony, who has long supported blockbuster studios such as Evolution and Naughty Dog, indie games are a crucial part of the strategy. It’s in its support of the new generation of bedroom coders that the company has arguably gained the most ground over rival Microsoft.Rarely has a video game executive enjoyed such an honest moment of joy on stage as Jack Tretton, President and CEO of Sony Computer Entertainment of America, when, at E3 2013, he delivered the news that PlayStation 4 will permit used game sales and retail for $100 less than its rival Xbox One. This one-two suckerpunch was aimed at Microsoft’s hardware plans, but it was when Sony called a clutch of indie game makers to the Los Angeles Memorial Sports Arena stage that the publisher started a fight on the software front.“We absolutely love scouring the earth for inspirational indie developers,” said Adam Boyes, VP of third party relations at SCE, while the eight creators played their games in a semi-circle of giant screens, front and centre of Sony’s next generation presentation. “We’re developing the worlds best indie game portfolio across all the PlayStation platforms, and giving developers the ability to self-publish their games.”Sony’s bold pledge to indies was on parade at E3 and, indeed, a number of the system’s most promising launch titles come from independent studios. But does this showboating represent a true commitment? “I do think Sony is real about this,” says Jonathan Blow, creator of the indie smash hit Braid and one of the formative names in the contemporary indie game scene. “Yes, at some level it is a commercial choice because Sony is a big company. But they are very supportive of indie games in a real way. I think that was clear at E3 this year when a huge percentage of Sony&apos;s booth space was devoted to indie games. That booth space is hugely expensive. If they just wanted to PR that they support indies, they could just be signing indies but leaving expensive independent game promotion for the AAA games. But they are not doing that; they are doing the real thing.”Rami Ismail, one of the founders of Vlambeer, the Netherlands-based indie studio behind Super Crate Box and Ridiculous Fishing agrees. “I sincerely believe that the teams that we deal with in Sony are fans of indie games and genuinely care about the games and their creators.” Indeed, Ismail signed a recent deal with Sony in a London pub. “Sony’s Shahid Kamal had seen a really early build of LUFTRAUSERS, our upcoming dogfighting game and got really excited. He asked us what we needed, wrote it down on the back of a napkin and asked if the terms were agreeable. The deal was signed right there on that napkin. We received a real executed version of the contract a few days later and the developer kits we requested arrived within the week. With the bureaucracy that Microsoft had at the time that would&apos;ve taken us three months.”Console warsVideo game consoles are expensive and, increasingly, the games they run appear across every machine. For that reason few consumers will purchase both Sony and Microsoft’s machines this Christmas. Instead they will have to make a choice and, having heavily invested in that choice, will be likely to vociferously defend it to their peers. This leads to the so-called &quot;console wars&quot;, the playground-esque war of words between the rival console makers and their defenders. Are you &quot;Team Sony&quot; or &quot;Team Microsoft&quot;? It’s a question that Sony has, to a certain extent, played up to in 2013, making viral ads that poke fun at Mircosoft’s previous decision to tie games to player accounts, preventing the sharing or re-sale of games.This petty (if rather enjoyable) sniping is, perhaps, the last vestige of a hardware-driven industry. Some commentators doubt whether there will be a PlayStation V or Xbox Next in future years, as the world moves towards Spotify-esque cloud-based services. Hardware will continue its trajectory towards obsolescence, as access becomes everything. But, for now, Christmas 2013 is the setting for a traditional face-off between two tech giants, the battle for hearts, minds and wallets, that ungainly trench scramble for the two feet of territory in the living room beneath the television.Back in Acton, where a film crew hopes to condense PlayStation’s 20-year history into an advertisement, the filming takes a short break. As the fluttering make-up attendants reset the actors’ faces, the ad’s creative director tells me: “One of my friends realised that he’d announced to me that he was getting married, having a baby and getting divorced to me while we were playing PlayStation at different times of our life.” He smiles. “Video games are a part of the larger fabric of our lives. That’s what we’re trying to communicate here.”The truth in his statement is that video games, not video game consoles are what form our treasured memories. It’s their soundtracks, graphics, sound effects and imprints on our muscles that are able to call up those reminiscences with such force and immediacy. The marque of the console doesn’t matter very much. At least, it doesn’t apart from the fact that PlayStation 4 assuredly delivers on an old, old promise. “We will never withdraw from this business,” said Ogha, 20 years ago. With PlayStation 4 that resolve shows no sign of weakening.• Part one: PlayStation 4: the rebirth of cool
Justin Bieber famously found his first fame on YouTube, but music industry veteran Scott Cohen thinks artists can learn from a new generation of stars emerging on the video service.Speaking at the Music 4.5: The Rise of Video conference in London, Cohen saidJenna Marbles,Tiffany AlvordandDave Daysare just three examples of YouTubers who can offer valuable lessons for labels and musicians alike.&quot;What are these kids teaching us that we’re missing? Because they’re doing things very differently to the way the music industry’s doing it,&quot; said Cohen, who claimed that Marbles (real name: Jenna Mourey) is on track for $10m of earnings from a mixture of advertising and endorsements in 2013, driven by her YouTube channel&apos;s 11.4m subscribers.&quot;YouTube is their social media platform. It is how they’re getting their message out. That is how they’re engaging with their audience. And it’s their revenue platform. When was the last time you saw an artist that had a really popular tweet that went viral: how much were they paid? On YouTube, you’re making money.&quot;Cohen is the founder of digital music distributor The Orchard, as well as managing bands including the Raveonettes and the Dum Dum Girls. In October, his company launched a multi-channel network (MCN) on YouTube to help labels and artists make more money from use of their music on Google&apos;s video service.&quot;Now we’re in a world of micro-content: 15 seconds, 30 seconds … Four minutes long? Fucking hell, is that too long! Who has got enough time to stop and check out something that is four minutes long,&quot; said Cohen. &quot;But 15 seconds? Yeah. And it’s not all dogs on skateboards … What we’ve got to learn is what can artists do with this format?&quot;The Music 4.5 conference focused on YouTube&apos;s potential for the music industry and musicians, including trends that are being driven by MCNs – the term used for companies with networks of channels on the video service – and their young YouTubers, rather than established companies and stars.&quot;The music industry is moving ever more from a unit-based to an attention-based economy. Engagement is measured and rewarded,&quot; said Caroline Bottomley, chief executive of Radar, a company that pairs labels and artists with music video directors.Cohen agreed. &quot;The idea is attention equals money. No longer are we in a world where we’re selling products in units of things,&quot; he said. &quot;We now have to get our heads around that we’re not actually in the attention economy, and those YouTubers totally get it: they build their audience, feed them all week long, and that’s how they get their money.&quot;She Makes War's YouTube video for DeleteThe musician Laura Kidd, who records under the name She Makes War, praised YouTube as a way for people to find out about her music, then buy it or tickets to see her concerts through links embedded in her videos.Kidd recently sold 100 handmade packages of herButterflies Audiovisual EPcosting £15 or £20, which included a DVD with videos for each track. &quot;A lot of my fans want to sit with their big TV watching the performances, and some of them just want to watch them on YouTube,&quot; she said.&quot;For me, it became the new MySpace when everyone thought Facebook was going to become the new MySpace. MySpace was really easy to browse, and Facebook is not easy to browse.&quot;At the event, YouTube&apos;s head of music partnerships in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, Candice Morrissey, said labels and artists are learning to use YouTube for more than just publishing their official videos – another lesson learned from the YouTubers.&quot;A lot of musicians are doing way more than just putting their songs: interacting with their audience, doing backstage, behind the scenes, asking ‘what song would you like me to play tomorrow?’,&quot; said Morrissey. &quot;This is more easy as the different social platforms are getting integrated into YouTube. Mainly Google+ but not only that.&quot;The idea of musicians connecting with their fans through these kinds of videos was mirrored by Eric Mackay, vice president of international business affairs and business development at Vevo, which currently generates 4.8bn monthly views of music videos from 256m viewers.&quot;For us, the really big thing is about fan engagement. It’s really important to know what your fans want, and then you super-serve them,&quot; he said. &quot;If it’s a 30-second clip of them on the road because something funny has happened … If a user feels connected to that artist, they’ll watch more videos.&quot;The Orchard's Scott Cohen, talking at Music 4.5. Photograph: Stuart Dredge/The GuardianMCN Base79 works with a number of labels and artists on YouTube, and its head of music content partnerships Jamie Searle said more labels now understand that they need to actively build communities of fans on YouTube around their artists&apos; videos, rather than simply publishing them and hoping for a viral hit.&quot;You have to think a lot now about how people are going to find your content. Audience development is a really important consideration,&quot; he said. &quot;You need to think about building up your audience around your content, especially if you’re a label. You can’t just rely on people finding it and sharing it and it going viral. You need to have a readymade audience to seed this content to.&quot;YouTube&apos;s ability to be used for commerce – those links to music, merchandise and ticket stores – is already a powerful tool for musicians, at a time when streaming audio services like Spotify are being criticised for lacking them. Mackay warned that these features should not be misused, however.&quot;If you’re trying to flog me shit, I’m not going to buy it. Consumers are savvy: they know when you’re trying to flog them something that’s completely pointless,&quot; he said.Mackay also hinted at the potential for subscription-based music video services: for example, parents paying for a service that filtered out videos inappropriate for children. Vevo isone of the companies under pressure to introduce age ratings for music videos, spearheaded by theRewind&amp;Reframecampaign.The conference also saw Cohen giving his views on a new area of expansion for music videos: in-car viewing, initially through cars with connectivity built in and screens for rear-seat passengers, but eventually for every occupant of self-driving vehicles.&quot;In 10 years, when we begin to take away driving as one of the things somebody does in an automobile, and you’re just sitting in it, this is another place where video consumption is going to go on the rise.&quot;•PewDiePie unseats Miley Cyrus as world&apos;s most popular YouTube channel
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSeattle diner booting customers for wearing Google Glass &gt;&gt; Forbes[Google Glass wearer Nick] Starr goes on to say that "I would love an explanation, apology, clarification, and if the staff member was in the wrong and lost the owner money last night and also future income as well, that this income be deducted from her pay or her termination." Starr is clearly miffed."I think the crazy part is that this guy comes into a diner," [restaurant owner David] Meinert tells me, "and is asked to change his behaviour in a way that's our right to ask of him. He doesn't like it, so he tries to get the server fired. It's a total [expletive] move." Meinert also tells me that there had been a staff meeting just a few days prior to the incident where Glass was specifically addressed as being a forbidden item.Lajeunesse points out that Glass isn't like a cellphone or other camera, where people can easily tell when they're being filmed. "It's about privacy," he says. "It's one thing to take out a camera and capture a moment, people see you doing it, they have a chance to step out if the want to. With glass people don't have a chance to do that. We want our customers to feel comfortable, not like they're being watched."SmartWatch 2: 6 weeks later (the flaws) &gt;&gt; Kate's CommentKate Craig-Wood:In early October I bought myself a SmartWatch 2. You can see my initial reviewhere. Six weeks on, and I have a new one. Here is why...Bluetooth problems not the worst of it.Gesture sensing is the future! Apple's move on PrimeSense &gt;&gt; DisplaySearch BlogThe current BOM [bill of materials] cost could be $40-50, which would also put it out of range for these applications. Finally, the SoC power consumption would likely be too high. Consequently, the most logical platform is Apple TV. Samsung has used gesture sensing by built-in webcam for their smart TVs since 2012, but its performance and utility are not quite acceptable yet, and they use 2D based instead of 3D depth sensing. If Apple uses structured light in a future TV product, it would be the first to enable 3D gesture sensing.Apple would likely encourage developers to design apps suitable for gesture sensing on Apple TV, enabling it to expand the iPad to the big screen in the living room, moving beyond video. However, this would be more likely in a set-top box Apple TV than in a TV. Attractive flat panel TV designs do not have enough space to accommodate structured light elements (light source, CMOS image sensor and SoC PCB assembly); in addition, the use of active light requires the source and sensor to be in the front of the set.NaturalMotion's A.I. breakthrough: Clumsy Ninja melds zany character with true human motion &amp; reacts to you &gt;&gt; VentureBeatDean Takahashi:Indeed, Clumsy Ninja is a wonderfully funny and warm character. You can tickle him by rubbing the touchscreen. You can pick him up and toss him into a basketball hoop. He gets slightly annoyed at that, but he doesn't express any serious attitude. Reil picked him up and tossed him to the hoop, and he grabbed on to it. That was an act of self-preservation on Clumsy Ninja's part. It was not a canned animation."Everything is physically accurate," Reil said. "You can toss him and he'll land on a box. We got away from all of the shackles of animation."The significance of that autonomous action can't be understated.Interview: Leadbolt CEO Dale Carr on Android's push ad ban &gt;&gt; MobyaffiliatesQ: How profitable were the banned ads for developers in your experience?Carr: Despite the criticism of these ads, they were a very effective marketing tool when implemented in such a way as not to disturb users during their app usage. Users then had the opportunity to review these ads when it was convenient for them, which meant much higher response rates and therefore higher returns for both developers and advertisers. ECPMs [effective payment per thousand views]  differed across regions etc, but averaged between $4-$7.Q: Opinions are split on the issue, but a number of devs we spoke to agree push notification ads were spammy and not welcomed by users. What's Leadbolt's take on this?Carr: The media did push the notion of these ads as spammy, but I believe that was more due to uncontrolled networks in the industry allowing the developers to abuse this format. When you allow an application to push notifications too often or interrupt the user experience it will certainly be unwelcome and considered as spammy. On the other hand, if the message is very directed and focused and infrequent but delivers value to the end users, it will be appreciated.Yeah, they're spammy. "Uncontrolled networks" == spam.All can be lost: the risk of putting our knowledge in the hands of machines &gt;&gt; The AtlanticNicholas Carr:The Q400 [aircraft] was well into its approach to the Buffalo airport, its landing gear down, its wing flaps out, when the pilot's control yoke began to shudder noisily, a signal that the plane was losing lift and risked going into an aerodynamic stall. The autopilot disconnected, and the captain took over the controls. He reacted quickly, but he did precisely the wrong thing: he jerked back on the yoke, lifting the plane's nose and reducing its airspeed, instead of pushing the yoke forward to gain velocity. Rather than preventing a stall, Renslow's action caused one.The question is, why?New Apple iPhone 5S, 5C doing much better than Samsung Galaxy S4 &gt;&gt; Indian ExpressAfter a much hyped 1 November launch, Apple Inc.'s iPhone 5S and 5C have captured the imagination of smartphone lovers in India. The new Apple buyback offer as well as lucrative deals from telecom operators like Reliance, Airtel and Vodafone have added to the sales. On the other hand, Samsung Electronics' new Galaxy S4 and Galaxy Gear combo does not seem to have caught the Indian buyer's fancy.Then again, the S4 has been on sale in India since April.Touch screen penetration in notebook PCs modest, but on the rise &gt;&gt; NPD DisplaySearch"Touch penetration in notebooks was modest in the first half of the year, and we expect a slight increase to 10% in the second half [of 2013]. Premium pricing and a lack of compelling uses for touch screens on notebooks continue to hinder adoption," said Richard Shim, senior analyst at NPD DisplaySearch. "As touch interfaces become increasingly common across all mobile devices, however, it is just a matter of time before the technology also becomes more prevalent in notebooks."Factors encouraging adoption include Intel's mandate that third-generation Ultrabooks include touch, as well as hybrids, sliders, convertibles, and other new touch-friendly form factors that will become more common in the years to come. "A touch panel on a clamshell notebook seems less intuitive than it does on a tablet-like device, which is better suited to touch interactions," according to Shim.No kidding. The expectation is that by 2017 cumulative shipments of touchscreen notebooks 2013-2017 will total 208m - in an installed base of 1.5bn PCs.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Samsung Electronics is expected to spend around $14bn - more than Iceland&apos;s GDP - on advertising and marketing this year, but it doesn&apos;t always get value for money.The outlay buys the South Korean technology giant publicity in TV and cinema ads, on billboards, and at sports and arts events from the Sydney Opera House to New York&apos;s Radio City Music Hall. Google spent less on buying Motorola&apos;s handset business.And Samsung, which has a market value of $227bn, has made no secret of keeping up its aggressive marketing and promotion splurge as it seeks to make its brand as aspirational as Apple&apos;s. But the money it&apos;s spending doesn&apos;t always bring the desired result.Last month, a Samsung-sponsored short-film contest finale at the Sydney Opera Housereceived poor reviews for blatant product placementin a series of &apos;behind the scenes&apos; videos. In Britain, viewers panned a product placement deal with ITV&apos;s popular X-Factor talent show. &quot;Is this a singing competition or an extended Samsung advert?&quot;askedTwitter user Ryan Browne.Earlier this year, Samsung&apos;s New York launch of its latest top-of-the-range Galaxy smartphonecame under fire for being sexist, portraying giggling women chatting about jewelery and nail polish while the men discussed the new phone, and the company&apos;s new fridge and washing machine launch in South Africadrew similar complaintsas it featured female dancers in swimsuits.&quot;Samsung&apos;s marketing is too much focused on projecting an image they aspire to: being innovative and ahead of the pack,&quot; said Oh Jung-suk, associate professor at the business school of Seoul National University. &quot;They are failing to efficiently bridge the gap between the aspiration and how consumers actually respond to the campaign. It&apos;s got to be more aligned.&quot;Samsung spends a bigger chunk of its annual revenue on advertising and promotion than any other of the world&apos;s top 20 companies by sales: 5.4%, according to Thomson Reuters data. Apple spends just 0.6%, and General Motors 3.5%.&quot;When your brand doesn&apos;t have a clear identity, as is the case with Samsung, to keep spending is probably the best strategy,&quot; said Moon Ji-hun, head of brand consultant Interbrand&apos;s Korean operation. &quot;But maintaining marketing spend at that level in the longer term wouldn&apos;t bring much more benefit. No one can beat Samsung in terms of (ad) presence, and I doubt whether keeping investing at this level is effective.&quot;In a statement to Reuters, Samsung said it will &quot;continue to leverage our brand power to maintain growth momentum, while focusing on optimizing the efficiency of our marketing activities,&quot; reiterating recent comments by its co-CEO.&quot;Our product innovation and marketing strategy have made Samsung the world&apos;s most preferred smartphone brand,&quot; J.K. Shin, who also heads the group&apos;s mobile business, told investors recently. &quot;Now we&apos;ll move from the most preferred brand to become one of the world&apos;s leading aspirational brands.&quot;Innovating or following?Samsung&apos;s &apos;Next Big Thing,&apos; and &apos;It&apos;s Time to Change&apos; marketing campaigns stress that its products are cutting-edge, and even trumpet its technology &apos;world firsts&apos; before they&apos;re ready for prime time, such ascurved smartphones, available only in South Korea, and curved TVs that cost nearly $10,000.For a company long seen as a follower, this is now a big sell on it being an innovator.But, while Samsung has become the world&apos;s biggest advertiser, spending $4.3bn on ads alone last year, its global brand value of $39.6bn is less than half that of Apple, which spent only $1bn on advertising, according to Interbrand and ad researcher Ad Age.To be sure, Samsung has a more diverse range of mobile products, which along with its chips and household appliance businesses need more marketing across different target audiences. But the heavy marketing spend suggests a need to convince consumers that it belongs at the top. Apple can afford to spend less as it already has that brand recognition, and cachet.&quot;The stronger, more differentiated the product, the less it needs to be propped up by advertising,&quot; said Horace Dediu, founder of independent research firm Asymco and a former Nokia business development manager, referring to Apple&apos;s ad spend.Defending its marketing budget, Samsung can point to its lead in the global smartphone market - it sells one in every three smartphones and has more than double Apple&apos;s market share. The Korean group&apos;s savvy adverts mocking Apple devotees, and heavy investment in distribution channels have strengthened its Galaxy mobile brand.&quot;The Galaxy brand has established itself, and the Samsung brand is now much stronger than Android or any of the other OEM brands, except Apple,&quot; said Benedict Evans, an independent technology and media consultant in London. &quot;The underlying problem is that Samsung has established itself as a dependable quality brand, not a differentiated or premium quality product, so it does best where it&apos;s not competing directly with Apple.&quot;Samsung works with a number of advertising agencies, including Publicis Groupe, Interpublic Group, and MDC Partners.Low gearSamsung&apos;s latest marketing splash has been on its Galaxy Gear smartwatch, which has beenalmost universally panned by reviewers. The device has been aggressively marketed through adverts and collaboration with fashion shows - yet only 800,000 Gears have been shipped since its launch two months ago. Compare that to the more than 5m Note 3 smartphones that have been shipped since its late September launch, and it suggests fewer than a fifth of the Note buyers are also getting the accessory device.Undeterred, Samsung has vowed more Gear promotions for the crucial year-end holiday season as it seeks to lead the wearable computer market and prove its innovation credentials.&quot;Probably Samsung knows better than anyone that Gear will not become a mainstream product. Still, they are trying to convey the message that &apos;we are first with such technology,&apos; which they hope will help build their brand as an advanced technology firm,&quot; said Interbrand&apos;s Moon.A deep-pocketed Samsung - it earned operating profits of $9.6bn in the third quarter alone - is still pushing the envelope to win over consumers.This month, the big-spending official sponsor of the past eight Winter and Summer Olympics launched a fantasy-inspired soccer marketing campaign ahead of the mid-2014 World Cup in Brazil - selecting 11 of the world&apos;s top players, including Argentine striker Lionel Messi, for a virtual match to save Earth from aliens - with the help of Galaxy devices.
It's Thursday.
Buried somewhere under four feet of mud and rubbish, in the Docksway landfill site near Newport, Wales, in a space about the size of a football pitch is a computer hard drive worth more than £4m.It belonged to James Howells, who threw it out when he was clearing up his desk in mid-summer and discovered the part, rescued from a defunct Dell laptop. He found it in a drawer and put it in a bin.And then last Friday he realised that it held a digital wallet with 7,500 Bitcoins created for almost nothing in 2009 - and then worth about the same."You know when you put something in the bin, and in your head, say to yourself 'that's a bad idea'? I really did have that," Howells, who works in IT, told the Guardian. "I don't have an exact date, the only time period I can give – and I've been racking my own brains – is between 20 June and 10 August. Probably mid-July". At the time he obliviously threw them away, the 7,500 Bitcoins on the hard-drive were worth around £500,000. Since then, the cryptocurrency's value has soared, passing $1,000 on Wednesday afternoon.In 2009, a few months after Bitcoin's launch, it was comparatively easy to 'mine' the digital currency, effectively creating money by computing. Photograph: Rick Bowmer/APAlthough Bitcoins have recently become part of the zeitgeist – with Virgin saying it will accept the currency for its Virgin Galactic flights, and central bankers considering its position in finance seriously – Howells generated his in early 2009, when the currency was only known in tech circles. At that time, a few months after its launch, it was comparatively easy to "mine" the digital currency, effectively creating money by computing: Howells ran a program on his laptop for a week to generate his stash. Nowadays, doing the same would require enormously expensive computing power.That lost hard drive, though, contains the cryptographic "private key" that is needed to be able to access and spend the Bitcoins; without it, the "money" is lost forever.And Howells didn't have a backup.Howells stopped mining after a week because his girlfriend complained that the laptop was getting too noisy and hot while it ran the programs to solve the complex mathematical problems needed to create new Bitcoins.In 2010, the Dell XPS N1710 broke after he accidentally tipped lemonade on it, so he dismantled it for parts. Most were thrown away or sold, but he kept the hard drive in a desk drawer for the next three years – until that fateful summer day when he had the clearout.Howells didn't realise his mistake until Friday. Since then, he said, "I've searched high and low. I've tried to retrieve files from all of my USB sticks, from all of my hard drives. I've tried everything just in case I had a backup file, or had copied it by accident. And … nothing."He even went down to the landfill site itself. "I had a word with one of the guys down there, explained the situation. And he actually took me out in his truck to where the landfill site is, the current ditch they're working on. It's about the size of a football field, and he said something from three or four months ago would be about three or four feet down."After he stopped mining Bitcoins in 2009, Howells hadn't given the currency much thought. "I hadn't kept up on Bitcoin, I'd been distracted. I'd had a couple of kids since then, I'd been doing the house up, and forgot about it until it was in the news again."Howells considered retrieving the hard drive himself, but was told that "even for the police to find something, they need a team of 15 guys, two diggers, and all the personal protection equipment. So for me to fund that, it's not possible without the guarantee of money at the end." As such, he's resigned to never getting the virtual money back."There's a pot of gold there for someone … I'm even thinking of registering www.returnmybitcoin.com. It's available," he said. He hasalso set up a Bitcoin wallet for donationsaimed at recovering the hard drive."If they were to offer me a share, fair enough," he said. "If they were to go out and find it for themselves … it's my mistake throwing the hard drive out, at the end of the day."A spokeswoman from Newport council emphasised that any treasure hunters turning up to the landfill site wouldn't be allowed in, but "obviously, if it was easily retrieved, we'd return it.""I'm at the point where it's either laugh about it or cry about it," Howells says. "Why aren't I out there with a shovel now? I think I'm just resigned to never being able to find it."Nonetheless, he continues to believe, as he did four years ago, that Bitcoin is the future of money. "I still think it's going to go higher. I just think it's the next step of the internet, which is why I mined it in the first place. When I first came across it, I knew straight away. We had everything else at the time; Google, Facebook, they were already the market leaders in their areas. The only thing that was missing was an internet money."•Bitcoin: what you need to know
Age:In development.Appearance:Like hair. But smarter.This can't be what it sounds like.Oh, but it can and it is.Please tell me it's just a smart-looking wig.I can't and won't.Fine. It's a computer in a toupee, isn't it?That's the idea.Whose idea, exactly, and how are they still alive?Engineers at Sony. And they're alive and thriving because enough of their ridiculous ideas turn into hugely successful products.But … but … a wig? A smart wig?So they hope. The electronics giant has applied to patent a "wearable computing device" wired into a hairpiece. The application states the smart wig could be made from "horse hair, human hair, wool, feathers, yak hair, buffalo hair or any kind of synthetic material".Wool? Feathers? Human hair? Are they drunk?To be fair, the purpose of a patent is to cover all possible bases. It doesn't mean the finished product has to come in a choice of yak or buffalo.But why would anyone want a feathery PC on their head?Well, for one thing, because it might give them super powers.Are you drunk now as well?No, I've just been browsing thepatent's extensive list of possible smart wig functions.Such as?Bat-vision. Apparently it could deploy "ultrasound waves" to detect nearby objects and help navigate through darkness.Pssh. And?Wig-sensing. It could use vibration or small electric shocks to provide "tactile feedback" to the wearer. Plus it could monitor environmental conditions and users' vital signs.Oh. Hmm. Any more?Telepathy, for one. Or "wig-to-wig communication" via the tactile feedback mechanisms. Also telekinesis, using facial expressions or brain activity to control, for example, a computer presentation.That sounds brilliant. Anything else?Self-awareness. It could be fitted with an electronic compass and camera to let the user know "whether the wig is correctly mounted on the head or not".I must have it.You'll have to wait a while.I must have it at once!Keep your hair on.Do say:"At the end of the day, it's still a wig."Don't say:"What next, mind-reading merkins?"
