It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for iPhone, iPad and iPod touch. It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases.Looking for Android apps? Check this week's30 best Android appsroundup, which was published earlier in the day.Here's this week's comparable iOS selection:Toy Story: Story Theater (£1.99)Disney's latest book-app isn't just about reading: it's about creating. Starring familiar characters from the Toy Story films, the app encourages children to create their own scenes and record their own dialogue with Buzz, Woody and co, moving characters around as they go.iPhone / iPadDraw Something 2 (£1.99)With 100m downloads of the original Draw Something, Zynga has a tough act to follow. This sequel adds more drawing tools and a social feed to show you what friends (and celebrity players) have been scribbling. New to Draw Something? The idea is to sketch phrases Pictionary-style for friends to guess. Afree version is also available.iPhoneLittle Red Riding Hood by Nosy Crow (£2.99)This wasreviewed at greater lengthearlier in the week. It's the latest fairytale book-app from British publisher Nosy Crow, retelling the tale of Little Red Riding Hood and the Big Bad Wolf with a nonlinear-narrative twist: children choose her path through the forest to pick up items to defeat the wolf, with a different selection each time.iPhone / iPadLinkedIn Contacts (Free)For now, you have to request an invitation to use LinkedIn's new iPhone app. It's interesting though, promising to aggregate all your address books, emails and calendars into one place, and access it from this standalone iPhone app.iPhoneNetmums Chat (Free)The Netmums Chat forums have been a godsend for many parents in recent years, and now they've got an official app. It's a simple way to access the discussions on the popular parenting website, and having ended up on Netmums a fair few times in the middle of the night with a sleeping (or otherwise) child in one arm, an easier way to browse one-handed on a mobile device is welcome indeed.iPhone / iPadGoComics (Free)A number of apps are available that aggregate comics of the Marvel/DC kind, but what about comic strips – the ones you see in newspapers? That's the idea behind GoComics, which aggregates strips from the likes of Garfield, Peanuts, Doonesbury, The Boondocks and Dilbert, and presents them in an app whose archives go back more than 20 years.iPhone / iPadPaper Fox (Free)Developer Bento Box's Paper Fox is a beautifully-crafted storybook-app for children where the animals all have a papercraft look. It sees the titular fox trying to get to the bottom of a series of earthquakes, while meeting other animals along the way to help his quest. Storytelling and mini-games are the order of the day, with two chapters free and the rest unlocked with a £1.99 in-app purchase.iPhone / iPadFocusTwist (£1.49)There's a lot of interest in FocusTwist this week: a photography app for iPhone that promises that the images it captures "can be refocused later". It's built around the idea of "twists" where some elements in the photo are nearby and others are further away.iPhoneThe Sonnet Project (Free)The latest app with a Shakespearian focus comes from New York, where the team behind The Sonnet Project are promising to film 154 short films – one for each of the Bard's sonnets – around the city, and make them available through this app. An in-app map shows which films/sonnets were filmed near your current location in NYC, too.iPhone / iPadBeauty and the Beast (£2.99)StoryToys has turned a succession of familiar fairytales into pop-up book-apps, with Beauty and the Beast the latest to get the treatment. Aimed at children, it mixes text, animated and interactive scenes, and music. Simple mini-games keep kids amused, while the pop-up scenes are well-crafted and fun.iPhone / iPadThe Nightjar (£2.99)When The Nightjar first came out a couple of years ago, it was an audio-only game from London firm Somethin' Else starring the dulcet tones of up-and-coming actor Benedict Cumberbatch. Whatever happened to him? Anyway, it's been rewritten and relaunched as a paid game, as you explore a spooky spacecraft through sound alone.iPhone / iPadFade &gt; Black (Free)This is a marvellous app for anyone interested in filmmaking or photography, from the people who publish the British Journal of Photography. It promises quarterly issues showcasing "the entire panorama of lens-based art" – films, music videos, photography and installations – selling six-month subscriptions for £8.99 through Apple's Newsstand.iPadFotopedia Reporter (Free)Photographic community Fotopedia has released several themed iPad apps, but this is a little different. It helps people create their own photo stories "to share the things you love with whoever you want", while browsing those shared by other Fotopedia users.iPadAppShopper Social (Free)AppShopper is a website for tracking new iOS app releases, as well as price drops and charts. Its original app was kicked off the App Store after falling foul of Apple's app rules, but now there's a new version with social as its focus: "Share your app interests with your friends and see what apps your friends are interested in," as it explains.iPhoneGoogle Fiber (Free)This is only available in the US – and only useful in places where the Google Fiber TV service is available (i.e. Kansas City). It's a sign of Google's plans though: "Find and discover TV shows and movies that are airing live, recorded on your DVR, and available on-demand," explains its App Store listing.iPadGaze – A modern review (£4.99)Gaze is a brand new magazine (including this digital edition) that promises content that's "gay(ish), political, cultural, diverse and above all serious" from a broadly Left-liberal perspective. Many of the journalists involved are well-known in the UK: managing editors Julie Bindel and Paul Burston, with contributors like Julie Burchill, Giles Fraser, Bonnie Greer, Suzanne Moore and Andrew Pierce.iPhone / iPadLEGO Batman: DC Super Heroes (£2.99)The latest brand mash-up from Lego isn't just about Batman. The game features a big collection of DC superheroes and villains: Superman, Wonder Woman, Green Lantern, Poison Ivy, Penguin and so on. More than 80 playable characters in all, all rendered lovingly in brick-o-vision.iPhone / iPadCrabitron (£1.99)Crabitron is a marvellously-unhinged "game about destroying the universe as a Giant Space Crab", where you pinch your fingers and thumbs on the iPad's touchscreen to snap the crab's claws shut to maximum destructive effect. Its developer is tracking sales of the game on aspoof Kickstarter page, too.iPadFood Network: Super Soups (£0.69)The US Food Network TV channel is launching a series of iPad cookery apps, with this one focusing on soups. You may have guessed that from the title, of course... Dozens of recipes are included with instructions, photos and videos.iPadNutrino (Free)Sadly not a (badly spelt) solo app for that chap who used to rap with Oxide. This is a "personal virtual nutritionist" app that asks for your dietary goals, then suggests healthy recipes and restaurant recommendations. Its developer says it will soon integrate data from health-tracking gadgets too.iPhoneSpreecast (Free)Spreecast is yet another video-chat app in a sea of video-chat apps. The twist here is its focus on themes – "conversations happening now on topics you're interested in" – although you can also use it to chat privately to friends.iPhoneMax's Pirate Planet - A Board Game Adventure (£1.99)This looks very nice from developer Slant Six Games: an all-ages piratical board game (a digital one) where you sail the world looking for treasure, and battling other players on the same device. It can also be played on a bigger TV screen when connected via cable or wirelessly via Apple TV.iPhone / iPadIron Man 3 - The Official Game (Free)Fans of the Iron Man films will take a shine to this tie-in game from Gameloft, which is billed as an endless-runner. Actually, endless-flyer would be more accurate, as Iron Man zooms through Malibu Shores, New York and China battling villains, and avoiding traffic and obstacles. It's freemium, so in-app purchases are used to speed up progress in upgrading Iron Man's powers.iPhone / iPadThe House of the Dead: Overkill­ - The Lost Reels (£2.99)If you, like me, have spent many a happy hour shooting at zombies in Sega's House of the Dead console games, this all-new mobile version is definitely worth a look. I say "all-new" – it's more a "remix" of 2009's The House of the Dead Overkill, with touchscreen-friendly controls and three worlds to explore.iPhone / iPadCif The Web (Free)Nowthisis a curveball. "You already know you can rely on Cif to clean your home. Well now Cif cleans the internet too," explains the App Store listing. That's right: a web browser designed to filter out "all traces of grime, muck and dirt from the web", as a promotion for the cleaning-products brand. "You can leave your kids to 'Cif The Web', safe in the knowledge that they won't see anything they're not supposed to..."iPadTransformers Legends (Free)Japanese social games giant DeNA has made some of the most successful "card-battler" games on mobile so far. Now it's applying the genre to the Transformers. Fans will be collecting virtual cards of Autobots and Decepticons and taking on the world. Bagsy the one that turns into a cassette tape. If he still exists, of course.iPhone / iPadyoung + healthy Haringey (Free)An app for teenagers featuring a "Sex Lottery" section sounds like a recipe for Daily Mail outrage. The aims here for youngsters in the London borough are educational though. "Think about the relationships you have. Change the ones that lead you to make unhealthy choices. Build on the ones that help you make good choices. It's your right to be healthy," explains its App Store listing. Meanwhile, in-app surveys encourage users to "make health services better for young people in Haringey".iPhoneCircles Memory Game (£1.49)Circles is a minimal yet hypnotic iOS game that sees you trying to memorise taps on glowing circles. Game Center ranks your performances against friends, and it's in a good cause – a portion of every sale will help fund Alzheimer's research and support programs.iPhone / iPadTalisman Prologue HD (£2.99)Games Workshop's venerale Talisman: The Magical Quest Game evokes fond memories for many role-playing veterans. Now it's available in app form courtesy of Thumbstar Games. It offers 50 solo quests to play, with cards, dice and monsters a-plenty. Thumbstar says multiplayer features will be added in future updates, too.iPhone / iPadRobot Unicorn Attack 2 (Free)Unicorns! Music! More unicorns! The original Robot Unicorn Attack was a viral hit, but now it has a sequel on the App Store. You build, customise and upgrade a unicorn then race through a new level every day. Background music is sold in-app, and there's one more new feature: "Oh, also? You can fly now. Yeah. Yeah, man."iPhone / iPadThat's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
Steve Gaynor of the Fullbright Company slumps against the wall with me on the floor of Moscone North hall at the Game Developer's Conference. It's four days into the event: he must feel hungover, I think. He must at least be as hungover and exhausted as me. But he's all grin and giggle as usual. I decide to test him. "So... You moved back to Portland to make your new game Gone Home," I say. "Yeeeees," he says. "So...." I hesitate. "Does that mean that you... went home.... to make.... Gone Home?" I scrunch my face up in all sorts of agony.Steve looks at me in disbelief. "Yes," he says. "You could...You couldsay that."Once a senior level designer at 2K Marin and Irrational Games, Steve left to set upFullbrightwith two co-workers. Now, there's a freeing simplicity around the way that he sees games. In the IGF Award-nominatedGone Home, you arrive home to an empty family house, and the only indication of where your missing family are is told through the notes and objects they have left lying around."We came from working on Bioshock together and we wanted to make an environmental storytelling exploration game, and we didn't want to have combat or puzzles in it," Steve says. "We're a small team, so we were like, how can we have that experience of being a person that's in a place, that's exploring, that's finding a house, like a family's house - it'll be small, so we can build it, and really dense with all this ephemera that tells you all about the people's lives."It's interesting that games haven't fully utilised the impetus of human curiosity that much. Last year's Dear Esther did a good job of bringing the industry's attention to first-person exploratory narrative games, but still, it had an experimental air. There haven't been many attempts at the sort of structured environmental story design the Fullbright Company is creating - and without one combat or puzzle mechanic present. Steve is involved in making a first person game that is the antidote to years and years of run and gun shooters. He's breaking the curse over us, like some sort of cheeky punk-influenced gilet-wearing shaman. It's the beginning of a slow fierce rebellion, one in which atmospheric game space sharpens our appetite for investigation and human stories stripped bare.Gone Home is set on a day in 1995 to the sound of a howling storm, a Riot Grrl soundtrack, the scratch of television static and the squeak of answerphone messages. The period is a time that many players of the game will have lived through and will be immediately familiar with - even affectionate towards. But the Fullbright Company chose it deliberately as the best way of telling a story through design.Steve explains: "We weren't like 'we want to make a game about the 90s'. We came from the opposite direction. We were like 'we want to make it as contemporary as possible'. If you set it in 2012, if you set it even in 2000, half the interesting stuff that's in the house is gonna be like, okay you get the password to dad's computer and you read all his emails. You know? Cos we knew we wanted to have a bit of the story and a piece there...  So we went back far enough and we were like, 95? Maybe they don't have AOL yet because that's actually plausible, and they left notes everywhere for each other."Triumphant about his team's decision to use Riot Grrl music (as demonstrated in the trailer above), I ask about his research into what seems like a video game 'period piece'. Immediately I feel as if I have pissed off the spirit of the Riot Grrls by somehow conjuring images of Jane Austen and petticoats. But Steve's adamant that he's into the '1995 period piece', just with extra Quentin Tarantino. "I was talking to somebody yesterday and they were like, 'oh yeah if you got Sleater Kinney that would have been too mainstream' - but also, that's not period. That was in 1996, so it'd be a paradox... I was looking for movies that came out at the time that people would be into during the actual months before the game takes place, and I was like, oh Pulp Fiction came out a few months before - that's perfect. Looking up when all these little cultural things happened was interesting."Gone Home is not just a game about exploring an environment; it also explores the relationship between two sisters, and how one sister's secrets are shared with the other.  "The mystery has to be why is nobody here, what happened to everybody, where has everyone gone, so obviously that points to… there's gotta be conflict within the family. The one teenage kid that still lives at home is in high school and lives with the parents, and then you'll be a part of the family too, so you have a connection to the house and feel like you should be there, you're not just a home invader... you're like, 'I have a reason to care about these people'."Steve and his story partner Karla Zimonja have brought a great deal of experience and many influences to Gone Home from their previous design work on Bioshock 2: Minerva's Den. It's clear that they share the same principles of pragmatism and interest in the player's emotional entanglement in the narrative."I mean, [Karla]'s interested in telling stories from a female perspective but above and beyond that, we just started trying to imagine who the most interesting character to get to know in that situation would be. And we just started picturing Sam: this teenage girl, this stuff she's going through. ...We were influenced by most of My So Called Life, which is very much focussed on Angela as an individual, and different interesting issues happen to a girl in high school than a guy in high school. We wanted Sam to be speaking to the player, not like fourth wall breaking, but like you're supposed to be hearing the stuff that she's saying, like she's writing in such a way that is addressed to the player and as if... she was telling her older sister... Then it allows her to be completely honest about the stuff that she is going through."I tell Steve about a part of Gone Home where I was shocked by my own discovery, by a deduction his level design had led me through. And because I'd pieced it together myself, it had a huge impact on me. He nods. "Most game stories are about some fantastical context, you know, even something that takes place in the real world is really pushed - like GTA or Tomb Raider or whatever.They're mechanically extraordinary individuals in extraordinary situations. A sort of pushed reality..."He pauses and slows down for emphasis. "Normal people's stories are really interesting if you are able to discover them. We wanted to make this game about giving people the ability to really deeply get to know the stories of just normal people who could live down the road. The moment that you had was a culmination of a series of bits of information that give you more insight into who these people are and what has happened to them; the surprising things that you find may be a totally mundane thing without the rest of that context. It's not like being in Portal and finding hieroglyphics scrawled on the wall and all these symbols and stuff - it's just like... that's a Post-It note."The sophisticated gradual accumulation, and the connecting together of fragments of lives Gone Home asked of me was heady, emotional, and memorable. And the game is wordy and dense with the level design chops to realise expert narrative space and pacing. Though only the first hour of Gone Home was playable at GDC, exploring that empty house provoked in me a full range of emotions. It is a house haunted by sentimental shards of the 90s, lonely voices of teenage angst, and numerous unreliable household electrics. And I didn't have to beat one person to death with a crowbar in the name of story. If I ever want to talk to Steve again, I'll post him a cryptic note written in a Trapper Keeper along with my favourite episode of the X-Files on VHS. He'll be able to piece it together.• Gone Home is scheduled for release in mid-2013, and will be playable on PC, Mac  and Linux
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new and notable apps for Android smartphones and tablets.It covers apps and games, with the prices referring to the initial download: so (Free) may mean (Freemium) in some cases. The equivalent iOS roundup will be published later in the day.For now, read on for this week's Android selection (and when you've finished, check outprevious weeks' collections).Swype (£0.65)Typing app Swype has been available on a select few Android devices before, but now it's on the Google Play store for many more. Its signature swipe-based typing can now be found in other virtual keyboards (including Google's own), but the Nuance-owned app is hoping its predictive engine, voice recognition features and ability to update its dictionary with "the latest trending words" will win it an audience.BBC iPlayer Radio (Free)Releasedearlier this week, BBC iPlayer Radio for Android is a port of the existing iOS app, offering live streams from the BBC's national radio stations, plus access to shows from the last seven days (and podcasts) on demand. Video clips, alerts for upcoming programmes and an alarm-clock function are also part of the mix.Fieldrunners 2 (£1.87)The original Fieldrunners remains one of the best tower-defence games for mobile devices, and its sequel has now made the leap from iOS to Android. If you're new to the genre, it involves placing towers to fend off increasingly tough hordes of enemies, building mazes to contain and destroy the marching troops before they reach your base.Beauty and the Beast (£2.99)StoryToys has turned a succession of familiar fairytales into pop-up book-apps, with Beauty and the Beast the latest to get the treatment. Aimed at children, it mixes text, animated and interactive scenes, and music. Simple mini-games keep kids amused, while the pop-up scenes are well-crafted and fun.GoComics (Free)A number of apps are available that aggregate comics of the Marvel/DC kind, but what about comic strips – the ones you see in newspapers? That's the idea behind GoComics, which aggregates strips from the likes of Garfield, Peanuts, Doonesbury, The Boondocks and Dilbert, and presents them in an app whose archives go back more than 20 years.NASCAR RaceView Mobile '13 (Free)One more for the US, it's fair to day, although NASCAR fans elsewhere in the world will also be interested. This official app is used for the Sprint Cup Series race day, pulling in data from the cars and turning it into a virtual representation of what's happening, with leaderboards and live audio.House of the Dead Overkill: LR (£3.88)If you, like me, have spent many a happy hour shooting at zombies in Sega's House of the Dead console games, this all-new mobile version is definitely worth a look. I say "all-new" – it's more a "remix" of 2009's The House of the Dead Overkill, with touchscreen-friendly controls and three worlds to explore.Earbits Radio (Free)Earbits is the latest streaming radio app, with a focus on independent bands large and small. It promises to analyse the music stored on your Android smartphone, and use the data to suggest one of more than 350 streaming stations that you'll enjoy. It uses an in-app currency called "Groovies" for users to earn on-demand tunes by supporting artists that they discover in the app.Iron Man 3 – The Official Game (Free)Fans of the Iron Man films will take a shine to this tie-in game from Gameloft, which is billed as an endless-runner. Actually, endless-flyer would be more accurate, as Iron Man zooms through Malibu Shores, New York and China battling villains, and avoiding traffic and obstacles. It's freemium, so in-app purchases are used to speed up progress in upgrading Iron Man's powers.RE-VOLT Classic Premium (£2.93)In similar vein to the House of the Dead game, Re-Volt brings back some fond memories of Sega's Dreamcast console. It's a remote-controlled car racing game that's been lovingly remade by developer WeGo Interactive, offering 14 tracks, 42 cars and five modes to tickle nostalgic gamers' fancies.doo (Free)Doo is the latest cloud-storage app, this time promising that it "puts all your documents, whether stored locally or in the cloud, in your pocket, along with the intellgent tag-based doo search". A handy way to aggregate files, including those stored in Google Drive, Dropbox and Gmail.Zombie HQ (Free)More zombies! This game was warmly received in its iOS incarnation, and is now available on Android. Expect shooting, more shooting and – unusually for the genre – interior decoration as you "deck out your ultimate man-cave with pool tables, hot tubs, TVs, turntables, plants and more". You don't getthatin The Walking Dead...Runtastic Mountain Bike (Free)Runtastic made its name, self-evidently, with apps for runners. Now it's after the cyclist market too with a pair of new apps. Runtastic Mountain Bike is all about the off-roaders, offering maps, suggested trails to ride, and tracking every aspect of their journeys – enabling them to add photos as they go. It also works with compatible hardware, including heart monitors and sports armbands.Runtastic Road Bike (Free)And here's the second biking app from Runtastic, focused on cyclists who prefer to stick to road-riding. Here too, though, it offers maps, route suggestions, tracks the rides and plays nice with Runtastic's hardware.Talisman Prologue HD (£2.99)Games Workshop's venerale Talisman: The Magical Quest Game evokes fond memories for many role-playing veterans. Now it's available in app form courtesy of Thumbstar Games. It offers 50 solo quests to play, with cards, dice and monsters a-plenty. Thumbstar says multiplayer features will be added in future updates, too.Krowds (Free)No, not the latest Kardashian sibling. Krowds is the latest video-sharing app, with a focus on group-sharing and location. "The app lets you tap into the videos and points of view of anyone else nearby who's also using Krowds," explains its Google Play listing. Editing features are included to jazz your videos up before sharing them.mTrip Travel Guides (Free)There are enough travel-guide apps for smartphones that you could take 10 or more for each holiday. mTrip Travel Guides is the latest on Android, promising to work entirely offline (hence no roaming data charges) with guides to more than 35 destinations included as in-app purchases. This collection app joins the standalone guides on Google Play.Thor: Lord of Storms (Free)Social games developer Animoca (of Pretty Pet Salon fame/fortune) is at it again, this time with a game based on Norse myths. You can play as Thor, Freya or Brunhilde, battling "demons, giants and monsters" along with the nefarious Loki, Surt and Fenrir. It's a colourful action game with plenty of players already on board.The Shape Monster (Free)Children's apps developer Wombi Apps is having a busy April, with three apps out this week – all linked by their characterful monsters. The Shape Monster is a free taster, starring a monster chef who wants children to feed him certain-shaped ingredients. The educational spin: "The key to keeping his belly satisfied is knowing your shapes."The Number Monster (£2.79)The second app in Wombi's monster trilogy is a paid title. This time the monster is a scientist who wants kids to help him with "an experiment on futuristic mushrooms". The emphasis here is on recognising numbers and dragging them into place.The Letter Monster (£2.79)Finally, the Letter Monster is a sea-dwelling beast who wants to be fed letters, in this alphabetically educational game for children aged three and up. As with the apps above, the instructions are read out to ensure that even the earliest readers know what to do.Boulder Dash-XL (£2)Another famous old game makes its way to Android, this time courtesy of HeroCraft. Boulder Dash-XL offers more than 100 caves to explore, finding diamonds and destroying (or avoiding) boulders. It's a conversion of the Xbox 360 and PC version of the game.Kingdom &amp; Dragons (Free)You can't fault Gamevil for being afraid to mix genres. This is "a fantasy action RPG featuring elements of kingdom building" as you build a village then battle enemies who want to overrun it. As it's freemium, expect in-app purchases to be a factor if you want to do anything faster.Laypuzzle (Free)Laypuzzle is one of the more intriguing Android children's apps I've seen recently, stocked with claymation characters, magic trees, pigs and a Google Play store description that needs a bit of work to make sense of what's going on. It looks fun though.Acute Kidney Injury Mobile App (Free)Very few people reading this roundup will need to use this app from the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh – it's for junior doctors and non-renal specialists treating Acute Kidney Injury patients. But I thought the fact that it exists was worth highlighting, as a way apps are being put to use in a professional medical context. It offers a medical calculator, diagnosis information and illustrative case studies.Shiny The Firefly (£1.49)Another colourful game that may well apply to kids as well as adults, this follows a firefly called Shiny's quest to find his babies, with mosquitoes, toads, wasps and centipedes (among other enemies) getting in the way.Picvie (£1.29)A photo-sharing app? More than just that: Picvie is about building albums of photos, videos, audio clips and websites, created on the smartphone or tablet then shared to Facebook if required.The Floor Escape (Free)The description claims this is one of the best "door exit" games on Android – a genre that may be new to you. More than 1m people have already downloaded this free example though, puzzling their way through doors with a selection of mini-games.Planets Defense (£1.30)One final game this week: a 3D space strategy title where you have to upgrade a fleet of spaceships, research new technologies and mine planets and debris to fund your plans for intergalactic conflict.SoothPostr (Free)"A modern-day soothsayer, SoothPostr is more than just a fortune-telling app," claims the Google Play listing for this new Q&amp;A app. By which it means it provides randomly-generated answers to questions about life, love and other matters, which can then be posted to social networks.That's this week's selection, but what do you think? Make your own recommendations, or give your views on the apps above, by posting a comment.
We haven't done one of these in ages, so here's a big selection of upcoming video game events, festivals, meetings, jams, hacks and discussions, taking place around the UK over the next few months. I'm going to copy these onto the events calendar on the Games front page, so you can head back there and catch up whenever you have a spare weekend!Okay here goes:LudamDareWhen:26-29 AprilWhere:Everywhere!What:The long-running online game jam returns this weekend, inviting participants from all over the world to participate in condensed development shenanigans. If you miss this, the event is closely aligned withOneGameAMonth, which, as the title suggests, encourages allcomers to make – one game a month, earning XP for each submitted title; like a sort of year-long real-life creative RPG.The Gaming DenWhen:4 MayWhere:Visual Collective, 10 Vyner Street, LondonWhat:The latest in a regular series of events organised byAverage Gamer. As editor Debbie Timmins explains, "One day a month we take over an art gallery in Bethnal Green and fill it with games for the ultimate multiplayer experience. With three massive projectors covering the walls, gamers can race head-to-head in the first public, multiplayer demo of GRID 2. Serious racers will be able to test their skills in the Vesaro racing rig. Set the best time on the Red Bull Ring Power Lap to win GRID 2 swag and a copy of the game when it comes out. Over in the retro room The Gaming Den has your favourite living room classics. Grab a drink from the cash bar and challenge your friends at Mario Kart 64, Micro Machines v1, v2 and v3, Virtua Cop 2, Super Smash Bros Melee, Tekken and many more."Wild Rumpus: On a Fucking BoatWhen:11 MayWhere:MS Stubniz, Wood Wharf, LondonWhat:The Wild Rumpus nights are a glorious mash-up of music, play and alcohol, showcasing some of the most intriguing developments in social gaming. TryTenya Wanya Teens, hearChipzeland MUCH more (keep checking the website for updates). Seriously, if you've never caught one of these things, come along – and bring lots of people who 'don't usually play games', because their lives are about to change.GameCamp 6When:18 MayWhere:Keyworth Centre, London South Bank UniversityWhat:Described as an "unconference" this is an annual gathering of artists, designers and coders, with the aim of talking about and making games. From the website: "There's a theme this year: Show and Tell, or Run What You Brung. Bring along a game you've made, a prototype you've got in testing or a work you have in progress, and be ready to show it off and talk about it. Digital or physical, both are great. Have a session to crow about your success or explore why something failed, or asking where you go from here, or to pull people into your new project. Get people to playtest and give you feedback on the day. Unashamed bragging is absolutely encouraged."GameDev Midlands 2When:18 MayWhere:Utopia Bar, BirminghamWhat:From the nice people who bought you GameDevNorth comes this midlands version – essentially a networking event for all developers in the area, whether they're running a major studio or writing Android games in the garden shed. It's free and there's a bar!Leamington BackspaceWhen:18 May - 2 JuneWhere:Leamington Spa, various venuesWhat:Taking place as part of the Leamington Looks Back heritage festival, this fortnight-long collection of events will celebrate the town's rich history in games development. From the website: "The event will also include programming workshops, a cross-town 'games trail' and a careers evening, and is designed to showcase the current and future of creative innovation in the region as well as tell the story of times past." Also,IndieCitywill be running a Rapsberry Pi Workshop for anyone who wants to learn how to use this ingenious home computer.GaMe 2013When:20 MayWhere:Imperial College, LondonWhat:A day of lectures on games-related research by academics and industry insiders. Eidos and Games Workshop legend Ian Livingstone is one of the speakers!MCM ExpoWhen:24-26 MayWhere:Excel, LondonWhat:Once again the London comic convention features a video game component, this year organised by the chaps atXboxAchievements.Site founder Dan Webb says, "We'll be showing off a host of upcoming games, giving out cool prizes, getting all kinds of studio talent up on the stage for Q&amp;As, as well as some big name voice actors and even closing the show with a video game-themed musical arrangement by a pianist." I suspect we can expect cosplay too.London Game JamWhen:1-2 JuneWhere:Modern Jago, ShoreditchWhat:A two-day game jam with a five pound entry price that will be donated toSpecialEffect,Child's PlayandEFF. Organiser Roberta Saliani says, "Microsoft will give prizes such as a Windows 8 phone, a Kinect dev kit and a Windows 8 OS to the best Kinect/Windows 8/Windows mobile app or game. GiftHub will give out five free accounts and Insert Coin has already sent T-shirts!"RezzedWhen:22-23 JuneWhere:The NEC, BirminghamWhat:Organised by RockPaperShotgun and Eurogamer, this showcase of PC gaming has grown considerably since its modest – yet unmissable – introduction in Brighton last year. We're promised hands-on time with the biggest mainstream releases of the year, plus the chance to discover plenty of interesting indie titles. Introversion will be there showing off Prison Architect and there's a live Total War: Rome II demo among many other sessions.Eurogamer ExpoWhen:26-29 SeptemberWhere:Earls Court LondonWhat:The biggest UK video game event of the year returns with its usual mix of Triple A hands-on demos, tournaments, developer sessions and retro gaming. Expect to see most of the big Christmas releases on the showfloor, but don't miss the packed programme of talks and discussions – a unique opportunity to see key game makers revealing the secrets of their craft.Norfolk Game ExpoWhen:11-12 OctoberWhere:Epic Studios, NorwichWhat:A new event featuring 50 developers from the region as well as national and international studios. From the website, "The Norwich Game Expo will showcase the latest videogames created by developers in the East of England and beyond, giving members of the public a chance to play games in development for consoles, PC, and mobile phones before they are released, and talking directly to the developers making those games."• If you're running a video game event, tweet or email me the details and I'll add it to the list!
Google's rivals have indicated they will reject its offer to label its services in search listings, as it tries to settle a long-running antitrust investigation by the European Commission over its market dominance.The US search company's offer was publicised on Thursday by EC competition commissioner Joaquín Almunia, who has given rivals and outside organisations a month to comment on the proposals, which aim to settle an ongoing antitrust tussle with the EC.If organisations broadly accept the ideas, then Google will be bound over to obey them and display the results in a set format in countries within the EC for five years and three months.But if Google's suggestions to settle are turned down – as looks likely – Almunia could be obliged to issue a formal "Statement of Objections" to Google's conduct in search and force it to follow a legally binding code of conduct, or face swingeing fines of up to 10% of its global revenues.Google has been under investigation since November 2010, when Almunia's office opened an investigation into Google's dominance of search following complaints by the UK "vertical search" company Foundem, Microsoft-owned Ciao, and the French legal search engine ejustice.fr.A similar investigation into Google's search dominance in the US fizzled out earlier this year, when the Federal Trade Commission made nomove to enforce any changeson Google's search results layout.The independent European consumer organisation BEUC, whose members include Which? in the UK, said in a statement it was disappointed with the proposals, which it said would not achieve the aim of "eradicating the current anti-competitive behaviour in what is essentially a monopoly market". Google has over 90% of search share in Europe, compared to about 65% in the US.Google's suggestionswere set out after more than nine months' negotiation with the EC. In 2011 Almunia's team had raised a series of concerns over how Google labels its search results, "scrapes" pages on other sites to display in search listings, requires exclusivity deals on its adverts on web pages, and prevents easy portability of advertising campaigns to other search engines.The biggest concern is over what is perceived as Google's promotion of its own services, such as Maps, YouTube, Shopping and Local. The company's proposals, unveiled by Almunia, suggest that it would label listings where it is promoting products on its own behalf. In some cases, it would also offers links to up to three other "vertical" rival sites, decided by a test of how many page views those sites have received in the European economic area.But BEUC said the "labelling" proposal "may even shepherd consumes towards clicking on Google services [that would be] highlighted in a frame … Labelling an infringement of competition law doesn't prevent it being an infringement."Instead, opponents say, Google should be forced to compete in the same way that they are – on the basis of their content and Google's indexing system.Shivaun Raff, co-founder of the UK vertical search company Foundem – one of the original complainants to the EC in spring 2010, after alleging that the US company was artificially demoting it in search results – said: "The only foolproof way to tackle abusive practices is to end them. Ultimately, the only way to end Google's search manipulation practices and restore a level-playing field is to ensure that Google holds all services, including its own, to exactly the same standards, using exactly the same crawling, indexing, ranking, display, and penalty algorithms."A Google spokesman said: "We continue to work co-operatively with the European Commission."
Nadim Chebli remembers well the first of his customers who decided to pay for the records they bought with virtual currency rather than cash or credit cards."I'd only just agreed to accept Bitcoins," said the 36-year-old owner of the Long Player record shop, "and the first sales I made in it came pretty quickly, from a guy about my age who bought Tom Waits's The Big Time and a young woman who bought a Beatles compilation from 1967."In the few months since Chebli signed up to the peer-to-peer electronic cash system, he finds it hard to come up with definitive characteristics for the "typical" Bitcoin user who walks off the street into what he describes as his "vinyl living room". "There's no typical age group, or sex, just, well, regular folk," he said.Florentina Martens has had the same experience since opening her Parisian-style cafe Floor's two months ago just a couple of streets away. "There is not a prototype Bitcoin payer," she said. "It's random people. Not only nerds, let me put it that way."Like Chebli, Martens, whose Kersenvlaai (cherry cake) from her native Maastricht is rated as one of the best culinary offerings of the area, says she decided to accept Bitcoins because of the ease, cheapness and transparency of its payment system."It's an easier way of digital payment than credit cards, which cost me a lot of money as a business and to which I'm forced to sign up for years," she says.These two tradespeople are among around a dozen in the Graefekiez, a cosy neighbourhood established in the 19th century in the southern Berlin district of Kreuzberg, which currently boasts the highest density of businesses accepting the currency in the world. Its growing list ofBitcoin establishmentsincludes a restaurant, a printing shop, a bar and boutique.Community leaders believe that Bitcoin's ethos is embedded in a similar political consciousness to that of Kreuzberg. The payments system, which has been viewed with scepticism elsewhere, arguably fits in well with the district's rebellious, critical, leftwing history, not least its residents' willingness to protest against the rising influence of capitalism, in particular the creeping gentrification that is threatening to envelop the district as Berlin undergoes a property boom."Kreuzberg is traditionally an area in which people are very politically aware, critical towards existing systems and are constantly discussing and looking for alternatives to them, which makes it the perfect breeding ground for Bitcoin," says Joerg Patzer, a staunch Bitcoin advocate who roams the neighbourhood with a missionary zeal in search of new recruits.Patzer, 47, who typically trades by night and sleeps by day, is also the owner of Room 77, a popular bar in the Graefekiez, which has become a magnet for Bitcoin enthusiasts in the German capital. On a recent Tuesday evening with a jazz trio providing the music, law student Jeff Gallas, the owner of a few thousand euros' worth of Bitcoins, was tucking into a beefburger."Bitcoin is the first global money we have," he says, when asked to explain his enthusiasm for a currency that has been criticised for the ease with which drug and child porn dealers can use it and which many economists have called nothing but a craze, comparable to the Dutch tulip bubble of the 1600s."It could be from a science fiction novel, but the fact is we have it in the here and the now," Gallas said, listing the items he has bought with Bitcoins, including "honey from Thailand, historic flags from the United States, gold and silver, concert tickets", and of course, his beer and burgers.He taps the amount he owes Room 77 into the virtual Bitcoin wallet on his Android phone and, aligning it with a code on the bar's device, presses a button to process the payment. A theatrical "kerching" sound follows and Gallas is grinning from ear to ear. "It could hardly be easier," he insisted.Heidi Leyton, aBritish tour guidewho takes business people around Berlin, said she was first drawn to the currency when two Spanish friends demonstrated their trust in it by deciding to use their entire inheritance to purchase Bitcoins. "They were very worried about the way the economy was going in Spain and so decided to invest their €30,000 inheritance in Bitcoins. I was really shocked, thinking what a gamble it was," Leyton admits. "But that was about three and a half years ago and their 30,000 has grown to 600,000, so they did very well. On the back of her friends' experience, she too decided to buy into the currency and to accept fees for her tours in Bitcoins."Looking at the way the economy is going and the way we're dealing with it, particularly after what's just happened in Cyprus, I don't really trust having my money in the banks," she said.As with any currency, trust and the willingness of users to accept it is vital to Bitcoin's success or failure, and that mechanism is arguably clearer to see in a small community like the Graefekiez than anywhere else.Patzer buys the beer for Room 77 from the nearbyRollberg brewery,owned and run by qualified brew and malt meister Wilko Bereit. He pays for the barrels with Bitcoins and, while Bereit says he doesn't fully understand the workings of the payment system, he is willing to trust it. "There is no middle man involved," he said, talking in his hop-scented brewing parlour with its gleaming copper kettles, and casually dropping into the conversation that the German president is among his customers."It's just a deal between Joerg and me and after I've opened my Easy Wallet, which is easier than sending an email, we have a beer together."Bereit recently followed events as Bitcoin's value halved in less than six hours as a result of recent panic buying. But he remains unperturbed. "As my grandmother would say, it's only money, and it won't kill me if it doesn't work," he said. "The truth is, I really want to believe in it. And I like the fact that Bitcoin scares people in suits, because if this thing were to really take off, it would bankrupt a lot of bankers."Crypto-currency experts meeting Patzer at a recent Bitcoin soiree in the back of Floor's cafe prefer to talk of the recent dip as a correction rather than a crash, which has brought Bitcoin back to a realistic price while it has retained its underlying value."I would look at these spikes and corrections as the birth pangs of an entirely new system," said Mike Gogulski, a Bitcoin developer. "It represents an opportunity to transform the way we deal with the flows of wealth and human energy."
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.PlayStation DUALSHOCK4 Controller | YouTubePlayStation developers explain some of the key elements of the new Dualshock controller.I like the idea of the speaker on the controller handling close-by sounds, like bullets whizzing past you.Here Comes the Next Xbox | Paul Thurrotts WinInfo content from Windows IT ProSome interesting speculation on the next Xbox:The next Xbox is based on the "Core" (base) version of Windows 8. This suggests a common apps platform or at least one that is similar to that used by Windows 8. It also suggests that Microsoft could open up this platform to enthusiast developers. (That last bit is supposition on my part.)Later Paul suggests, "The next Xbox must be Internet-connected to use. This is the source of the 'always on'/'always online' rumors and isn't as Draconian as many seem to believe." So... you can connect it to the internet, then unconnect it? Maybe it just needs to touch base with the net and then it's happy?EA Partners Rumoured To Be Breaking Up | Rock, Paper, ShotgunEA Partners is to close down, it seems. Which seems fairly huge news if it proves to be accurate. The publisher, a portion of EA that was designed to publish games with a more hands-off approach than the mothercorp from developers not owned by themselves, is reported by some American magazine to be done.This was the label that brought us Crysis, The Secret World, and Valve's games in boxes, and also the rather calamitous failure of Kingdoms Of Amalur, despite the game being really brilliant. That, and other recent issues with disappointing performances, alongside EA's own recent poor performance, seem to have put that all-too familiar writing on the wall for the publisher.Ambient Studios to close, Death Inc backers to be refunded | GamesIndustryAmbient Studios, the developer behind Monster Meltdown and the in-development Death Inc. has announced that it will be shutting down as a result of financial issues.The studio announced the closure via its website, expressing sadness and thanking fans for support."Hi all," reads the statement. "It's time for a sad announcement: Ambient is shutting its doors. It's been an amazing ride and we've produced some amazing products like Monster Meltdown and Death Inc. We're super proud of what we achieved, but ultimately we didn't manage to make enough money to keep the wolves from the door. And so we had to make the difficult decision that it is no longer feasible for Ambient to continue operating."Thank you so much for all your support and encouragement along the way, we've got no regrets and have loved every minute of it."GAME launches UK retail's first free-to-play platform | Games industry news | MCVGAME's announcement of a new free-to-play platform is further evidence that retail might just find a role to play in this brave new world of digital gaming.The service launches with three EA titles including Need for Speed World, Command&amp; Conquer Tiberium Alliances and Lord of Ultima. Battlefield Play4Free and Battlefield Heroes are 'coming soon'.An interesting development for the retail chain.Cloned at Birth: The Story of Ridiculous Fishing | PolygonPolygon's in-depth look at the development of this ingenious smartphone game:It is the story of Ridiculous Fishing, and how two men from the Netherlands rallied the worldwide community of independent game developers to take on the practice of game cloning and reclaim their invention to launch what will become (for a time) the best-reviewed iOS game of 2013.Only when the tale is told, all at once, in a rush, do the men themselves fully realize the weight of it.Polygon doesn't do understatement.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Hey, it's Friday!
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamChip shortage looms as Samsung courts rival for orders &gt;&gt; Bloomberg"Not only DRAM chips, but all memory chips for mobile devices show signs of shortages," said Kim Sung In, an analyst at Kiwoom Securities Co. in Seoul, who recommends buying both Samsung and Hynix shares. "Samsung's biggest chip customer is itself and things will only get out of hand with the approach of the third quarter, typically the strongest time of year."The second half of the year is when Samsung expects to release a new smartphone using its own Tizen operating system and an updated version of the Galaxy Note device. It's also when Apple usually releases details of a new handset.Tizen, eh? (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Credit card data can be stolen with a wave and an app &gt;&gt; Technology &amp; Science - CBC NewsCBC News used a Samsung Galaxy SIII and a free app downloaded from the Google Play store to read information such as a card number, expiry date and cardholder name simply holding the smartphone over a debit or credit card.The Samsung Galaxy SIII is one of the most popular smartphones available in Canada.A thief can simply walk by, pause and read the information through an unwitting person's coat and wallet.Then the information can be sent to another phone.CBC News used it to buy a Coke.But it could be just as easily used to buy a tank of gas or a new computer.And any NFC-enabled phone, of course. Maybe NFC = Nice For Criminals? The program says this method is being used by organised crime in Europe. The credit card companies say not to worry, they've not had any reports of cards being used in this way. Which raises the question:how would they know if they were?And if you think credit card companies wouldn't deny something that is going on - in the 1990s they used to allow people to top up mobile phones using any credit card. Any receipts used to include the full credit card number. Guess what happened for years - without being acknowledged?Get up Close and Personal with Piers Morgan on the Set of CNN's Piers Morgan Live in NYC &gt;&gt; CharityBuzzConsiderably cheaper than Tim Cook.Considerably.Review: Samsung Galaxy S4 Android Phone &gt;&gt; WiredMichael Calore:When I booted up the Galaxy S4 Samsung loaned me for testing, I dutifully sat through the phone's set-up wizard, which walked me through these features. I spent five minutes being amazed, and I left all of the features on.Then, over the next five days, I never used them again.I did normal phone stuff — texting, listening to music, browsing the web, checking Twitter, taking pictures and sharing them on Instagram. I used Google Now to find a restaurant. I paired my Jambox and sat in the sun.But all that business of waving your hand or moving your eyes to scroll while reading — it only works in the crummy Android browser. It does not work in Chrome, where I do all of my browsing. It doesn't work in Google Reader or Flipboard or Instapaper or the Kindle app, where so much reading happens. Looking away from the screen doesn't pause a video in YouTube, only in the Samsung video player. The trick where you wave your hand to advance songs only works in the default music player, not in Rdio or Sonos, where I do most of my listening. The camera extras — the HDR feature, the photo filters, and the tool for making animated GIFs — all yield results that look cartoonish. I just took regular photos.Google predicts stock-market crashes, study suggests &gt;&gt; LiveScienceUsing publicly available data on search terms from Google Trends, the researchers tracked 98 terms, many of them finance- or economics-related, such as "debt," "crisis" and "derivatives" from 2004 to 2011. They then compared the searches to the closing prices of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, a major stock-market index.To test whether the terms searched in the week prior to any given closing day could predict the Dow Jones, the researchers invented a pretend investing game. If searches for financial terms went down, they opted to buy stocks and take a "long" position, holding on to the stocks and waiting for their value to go up.If searches for financial terms went up, the researchers instead chose to "short" the market — a strategy that allows buyers to sell stocks they don't own, with the understanding that they will buy the stocks later at a lower price — in essence, gambling that the stocks are going to fall in value.Team at the University of Warwick. That's quite a weird result.When Twitter rogues move markets: a timeline &gt;&gt; BusinessweekFour occasions in the past couple of years:The AP hack highlights the potential pitfalls of relying on social networks for tradable information, but false tweets have been affecting markets and companies for the past few years. In some cases the impact of false tweets can be immediate.Mac malware found in malformed Word documents – is China to blame? &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityVulnerabilities, exploited in malformed Word documents, install malicious code onto the recipients' computer and a legitimate-seeming Word file with content relevant to the victim is displayed as a smoke screen.It's clear that the attack is targeted against Uyghur Mac users, and we have seensimilar attacksin the past.Sophos products detect the malware as OSX/Agent-AADL and Troj/DocOSXDr-B.The obvious question people are likely to ask is... are China to blame for this attack? After all, we have seen several attacks in the past which have targeted minority groups in the country.There's no 100% proof connecting this attack with the-powers-that-be in Beijing, but you would be a brave man to bet against it.Jesus Christ, Silicon Valley &gt;&gt; A nice piece of GlassSome 'edgy' tech bloggers have used the term "glasshole" to describe these early-adopting dongle-schlobbers, because it allows them theoretical judgmental distance while remaining just cutesy enough to not sacrifice their intense bloodlust for actually being able to unbox a pair.I prefer: "embarrassing overcompensated retards who need something to flaunt while their Tesla is charging."Charlie Brooker has competition.Microsoft has a new Android app called Switch to Windows Phone &gt;&gt; CITEworldMicrosoft figures customers will be more likely to switch from Android smartphones to Windows 8 phones if it makes it easier to find the same or similar apps for their new phone as were on their old phones.Microsoft is introducing "Switch to Windows Phone", an Android app that finds identical or replacement applications for Windows Phone 8 to replace their old Android apps.The new application, which is being released today, is not available for iPhone."Switch to Windows Phone" inventories all the applications on the Android phone and sends that inventory to the Microsoft SkyDrive cloud. When customers log in to the same SkyDrive account from the Switch to Windows Phone app loaded on their Windows Phone 8, the app finds the same set of applications. If there are no exact replacements, the app recommends similar ones, according to Guru Gowrappan, executive vice president for products at application search firm Quixey.A very smart idea. Howcome no iPhone version?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Since the arrival of touchscreen tablets, our opposable thumbs have evolved to a whole new level of refinement. It has become second nature to pinch and swipe, slide and scroll: without knowing it, we have developed an intricate vocabulary of manual flourishes, a delicate finger ballet to conjure images and text across our screens.And yet the process of typing words on a touchscreen still remains unbearably clumsy. Whether you put the thing down and pretend it's a normal keyboard, or go for the handheld thumbs-only option, it is never a particularly elegant or satisfactory pursuit, like having a game of thumb war with your imaginary digital friend.But now help may be at hand for those tired of getting their thumbs in a twist.Researchers at the University of St Andrewshave developed a split-screen keyboard, specifically optimised for thumbs, which they claim can increase typing speeds by more than a third.They call their new keyboard Kalq (those are the letters at the bottom right of the keyboard), and its layout is a radical departure from theqwertysystem, which has been with us unchanged for 140 years. Designed to save your thumbs stretching across the screen and making repeated taps, Kalq splits the keys into two blocks, 16 to the left, 12 to the right. Commonly used letters are clustered together and frequent pairs of letters placed on alternate sides, so each hand does the same amount of work.Until now, we have been "trapped" with a legacy of "suboptimal text entry interfaces," according toDr Per Ola Kristenssonof the University of St Andrews' School of Computer Science. To break free of the typing tyranny of Qwerty, the research team studied in detail how users move their thumbs in order to develop the optimised layout. With the Kalq system, the left thumb takes care of the most common first letters of words, while the right thumb looks after the vowels – an arrangement that can be reversed for left-handed users."The key to optimising a keyboard for two thumbs is to minimise long typing sequences that only involve a single thumb," saidDr Antti Oulasvirtaof theMax Planck Institute for Informaticsin Germany, who collaborated on the research. "Experienced typists move their thumbs simultaneously: while one is typing, the other is approaching its next target. We derived a predictive model of this behaviour for the optimisation method."So what difference does it actually make? Their tests show that after only 10 hours of training, users were able to reach 37 words a minute, compared with the average of 20 words a minute on a qwerty device.A keyboard with the qwerty layout, which was first developed in the 1870s.  Photograph: Artstock/AlamyIt is something of a miracle that the qwerty layout has persisted for so long, given that it was invented for a mechanical device with the specific intention of slowing typing speeds down. First developed in the 1870s by Milwaukee newspaper editorChristopher Sholes, it was designed to prevent the metal arms of typewriter letters from clashing and jamming the machine as they flew at ferocious speed towards the page. Sholes placed the most frequently used letters as far apart as possible to avoid such jams, making the typist's fingers do the hard work instead.The typewriter's mechanism of levers beneath each key also dictated that the letters be staggered diagonally across the keyboard, rather than arranged in a rectilinear grid, to prevent the levers from running into one another.Qwerty was the product of a series of purely mechanical considerations, yet it has endured until today and been unquestioningly translated into the touchscreen realm – where there is little chance of hidden digital levers bumping into each other beneath the display.It is perhaps the ultimate triumph of accidental skeuomorphic design – when new objects or graphics ape the original functional image of what they are replicating. Electric kettles continue to look like the stove-top variety long after they have needed to go anywhere near a flame, while we are increasingly surrounded by digital skeuomorphs. From the stitched leather borders and ruled yellow legal paper of the iPad's Notes app, to the retro Braun-inspired design of most phone calculators, there is an ease and friendliness that comes with familiarity. There is also a reluctance to relearn tasks that have become programed into our muscle-memory: once touch-typing on a qwerty keyboard has become second nature, why change?Many have tried, and mostly failed, to challenge the qwerty supremacy in the past – fromDr Dvorakin the 1930s, with his claims of reducing finger distance, to the more recentColemaksystem. Will Kalq finally have what it takes to revolutionise typing in our increasingly thumbs-only world?• This article was amended on 25 April 2013. In the original, "Kalq" was misspelt in the final paragraph. This has been corrected
The global release of Samsung's blockbuster Galaxy S4 phone on Saturday is being hampered by supply shortages so severe that customers will not be able to take home a device from most Carphone Warehouse and Phones4U stores during the launch weekend."Due to overwhelming global demand for Galaxy S4, the initial supply may be limited. We expect to fulfil inventory to meet demands in the coming weeks," Samsung said.Pre-orders online are understood to have outstripped availability in many shops and networks. Shipment delays could lead to a slow start for the device in the UK and the US, where Samsung hopes to overtake Apple as the leading mobile phone brand.Three US networks have delayed their on-sale dates for the S4, while UK retailers Carphone Warehouse and Phones4U have both warned of shortages. Phones4U will have no devices until next week, its call centre staff are warning customers."All available stock will be used to fulfil pre-orders before going into our stores and we are working with Samsung to ensure that all pre-orders and sales across our other channels are fulfilled as quickly as possible," the company said. "We anticipate that handsets will be in store next week but cannot confirm an exact date."Stock will be limited to a select number of Carphone Warehouse stores."We have seen huge customer interest in the Samsung Galaxy S4," a Carphone Warehouse spokesman said. "Our number one priority is our customers, and we are working hard to ensure that we fulfil as many pre-orders for the handset as possible. We will ensure that every customer impacted by any supply issues is contacted and informed of the likely delivery of their new handset."America's largest network, Verizon Wireless, will not stock the S4 available until 30 May; T-Mobile will begin taking online orders only from 29 April. Sprint will take online orders starting Saturday as planned, but the phone will be sold at retail outlets only as it becomes available."The smartphone industry is growing so quickly that the component industry hasn't been able to keep pace with that growth," said Neil Mawston at Strategy Analytics. He said sourcing  memory chips seemed to be the main challenge.A lukewarm reception for the S4 from reviewers does not appear to have dampened demand for the latest edition in Samsung's best-selling Galaxy range. The device is forecast to ship 25m units globally in its first two months, according to Mawston, almost exactly on a par with the iPhone 5."Ideally you want to get everything into that launch window at the same time – and at the same exact hour – to get maximum impact," said Avi Greengart at New Jersey based Current Analysis.
Governments made a record number of requests for Google to remove political content in the last half of 2012, the search giant said on Thursday.The number of official requests for content to be removed jumped 26% in the final six months of 2012compared to the start of the year, according to the latest Google Transparency Report. Google received 2,285 government requests to remove 24,179 pieces of content – an increase from 1,811 requests to remove 18,070 pieces of content that the company received during the first half of 2012.Requests were made to pull videos from YouTube, delete blog posts onGoogle's Blogger serviceand to remove items from Google search, making them harder to find.There were sharp increases in requests from countries including Russia and in Brazil, where requests more than trebled during municipal elections.The controversial Innocence of Muslims video, which sparked deadly protests in Egypt and other countries, triggered inquiries from 20 countries worldwide, 17 of which requested removal. Google concluded the video was within its community guidelines but did restrict the video in several countries, temporarily in Egypt and Libya after violence broke out and in eight other countries due to local law.In a blog post, Google said: "As we've gathered and released more data over time, it's become increasingly clear that the scope of government attempts to censor content on Google services has grown. In more places than ever, we've been asked by governments to remove political content that people post on our services. In this particular time period, we received court orders in several countries to remove blog posts criticizing government officials or their associates."Photograph: GoogleIn Russia, requests to remove content leapt from six in the first half of 2012 to 114 in the second half, after a law was introduced that allows authorities to blacklist a site without trial. Officials said the legislation was designed to protect children from harmful content but the law has been criticised by human rights groups wary of censorship. Google said it restricted content from local view in response to about one-third of the 107 requests made under the new law, and removed content globally in response to more than half of the requests.In Argentina, Google received a request to remove from YouTube a video by the band Rockadictos that allegedly defamed president Cristina Kirchner by depicting her "in a compromising position". The video shows Kirchner stripping in front of president Barack Obama as a crowd riots outside. Google age-restricted the video, in accordance with YouTube's community guidelines.In Brazil, Google is fighting a number of legal battles over the removal of allegedly defamatory blog posts about local officials. The company received 316 requests for the removal of content related that allegedly violated the Brazilian electoral code. In one case, Google is fighting a court order to remove a blog post that was signed by the judge criticised in the article. Google removed content in response to 35 final court decisions. Google is appealing other cases, on the grounds that the content is protected by freedom of expression under the Brazilian constitution.
In a week when Apple reported a rare profits drop, we meet two former Apple high-flyers to get a glimpse into this most enigmatic of tech companies.  Guardian technology editor Charles Arthur meetsPeter Tamtefounder and CEO of theory.io to discuss his rival to Evernote,Projectbook.ioand his crucial year at Apple in 1998 when he was hired by the late Steve Jobs.And Guardian digital correspondent Jemima Kiss meets the newly appointedCEO of Good Technology CorporationChristy Wyattto discuss the importance of mobile technologies to all industries and the lessons she learned when working forApple.Also we learn about a new European focused tech start-up fund, theTwilio Fundwhich is open for applications.  Jemima meetsco-founder and CEO Jeff Lawsonto find out more. If you want to apply to the fund, go to their website,twiliofund.com.
Which version of Microsoft Office should I use on Windows 8? I am buying a new laptop and need to use Outlook.ML GomesMicrosoft usually brings out new versions of Office to match new versions of Windows, and Windows 8 is no exception. The new Office 2013 is designed to work with Windows 8, and both have a similar modern styling that puts the emphasis on your content rather than Microsoft's software. Also, both are designed to work with cloud (online) services, particularly Microsoft's SkyDrive.However, other things have changed now that Microsoft is not a software company but a cloud-based "devices and services company". As chief executive Steve Ballmer said last year, this "impacts how we run the company, how we develop new experiences, and how we take products to market for both consumers and businesses."Under the old system, you could buy a copy of Microsoft Office on DVD, and use it without an internet connection. Under the new system, you buy a Product Key, which is 25 alphanumeric characters long. Entering the code online enables you to download your copy of Office, or activate a free trial version pre-installed on your new PC.Free Office web appsThe good news is that under the new system, most home users don't need to pay anything for Microsoft Office: they can use the free, cloud-based service in the form of Microsoft Office web apps. Sign up for an email address at Outlook.com, and you get free web-based email, a contacts book (People), a calendar, and 7GB of online storage in SkyDrive. (Outlook.com has replaced Hotmail, so you can use a Hotmail address, if you already have one.)Log on, click SkyDrive, and you can create and edit files in the four main Office programs: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote. Office files are now saved to SkyDrive by default, but you can download them to a local PC, or to multiple devices, or share them with other people.The Office web apps do not have all the features of the full Office programs, but unless you're running a business, they have enough features for most purposes. They are better than Google's offerings, and — probably more important — they don't mangle complex Office files.If you want to run the full Office programs offline, on your own PC, the cheapest option is Microsoft Office Home &amp; Student 2013 (£109.99 or $139.99). This provides the four core programs — Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote — for non-commercial use, but not Outlook, which is a business program.You don't need Outlook for email because you can use Outlook.com online and/or the free email program from the Windows Essentials suite, which Microsoft has designed for home users. If you need Outlook for its contacts, calendar, task lists and other features, you will have to pay much more for Microsoft Office Home &amp; Business 2013 (£219.99 or $219.99). Above that comes Office Professional 2013, which adds Microsoft Publisher and the Access database (£389.99 or $399.99).Office 365 serviceAll of these versions will last forever. However, Microsoft would much rather you didn't buy them, but rented its Office service. It will therefore offer you a free trial ofOffice 365, which comes in different versions for home users (one to five devices), small businesses (one to 10 employees), mid-sized businesses (10-250 employees) and enterprises. Business versions use SharePoint Server instead of SkyDrive, but it's still called SkyDrive.Steve Ballmer unveils the latest version of Microsoft Office 365 in 2013. Photograph: MicrosoftOffice 365 works with Windows 7, Windows 8, and Mac OS X 10.6 or later, but not with Windows XP or Vista, which are on death row. It is compatible with Internet Explorer 9 and 10, and uses DirectX 10 for fast graphics.Office 365 Home Premium provides all the programs in Microsoft Office Professional 2013, but has a few other advantages as well. First, you can use it on five separate devices, so you can register it on a desktop, a couple of laptops, a tablet and even a Mac (except for OneNote). Second, it includes an extra 20GB of SkyDrive storage.Third, if you are away from your PC, you can use Office on Demand, which "streams" the program online, without installing it. You can thus use your Office and your files on, for example, a cybercafé or library PC (though this doesn't work on Macs). Fourth, all the Office files are automatically kept up to date, so you never have to buy another copy of Office.Office 365 also includes 60 minutes of Skype calls each month to phones in more than 40 countries, as well as unlimited Skype-to-Skype calls. (Microsoft now owns Skype.)The catch is that Office 365 is a subscription service with an annual fee of £79.99 or $99.99. If you happen to want all the programs in Microsoft Office Professional 2013 and you have a spouse/child/housemate/au pair who also wants to use them, it's terrific value. You're getting $2,000 worth of software for $100 per year. If you only want to run a couple of programs on a single PC, then it's not such a good deal, but it's still only £1.54/$2 a week.Office 2010 is still goodIf you don't think there is enough value in Office 365, then you could buy a copy of Microsoft Office Home &amp; Business 2010 on DVD (£243.00 or $279.99). This is good for one user on two PCs, so you can use the same disc to install Office on your desktop and your laptop. Avoid the keycard versions, which are only good for one user on one PC. (Again, the Home &amp; Student 2010 DVD version is much cheaper but doesn't include Outlook.)For reference, the download versions are usually called PKC for Product Key Card while the DVD versions are called FPP for Full Package Product.Office 2010 is not much different from Office 2013, except for SkyDrive integration and changes to cater for touch screens, such as spacing out icons. You can still use SkyDrive and Outlook.com with Office 2010, so there are no major drawbacks unless you're buying a Windows 8 tablet or convertible.Incidentally, don't pay too much attention to online hostility to Office 2013, which has tended to be misguided if not deranged. Office 2013 came in for a lot of stick when Microsoft said it was locked to a single PC. This mightily offended people who hadn't been offended by the same problem on PKC versions of Office 2010, because they could buy it on DVD.Either way, Microsoft capitulated and thenew rulesays: "You may transfer the software to another computer that belongs to you, but not more than one time every 90 days (except due to hardware failure, in which case you may transfer sooner). If you transfer the software to another computer, that other computer becomes the "licensed computer." You may also transfer the software (together with the license) to a computer owned by someone else if a) you are the first licensed user of the software and b) the new user agrees to the terms of this agreement before the transfer. Any time you transfer the software to a new computer, you must remove the software from the prior computer and you may not retain any copies."With Office 365, you have a control panel that lets you activate and de-activate your five devices at will.
Why are we encouraging kids to waste their time on apps? They should be reading books!Arguments on these lines often crop up in the comments section when I write about children's apps for The Guardian. The concern being that digital fun is cannibalising real-world learning and physical play.It's tempting to brush these suggestions aside: these two worlds are not mutually exclusive, and in many cases, app usage may be eating into passive TV viewing rather than active pursuits.Yet when it comes to reading, there's an important debate to be had about book-apps and interactive storytelling, and the extent to which animation and interactivity is a support for children's literacy development, rather than a distraction."Never mind the text, here's the whizzy physics engine" may not be the best model to follow, and concerns about exactly this issue arethe reason why there aren't any Gruffalo apps, for example.Yet it's also true that the best children's book-apps can help children develop not just the mechanics of reading, but reading comprehension too: following and understanding a story and empathising with its characters for example.Which is a slightly long-winded introduction to my suggestion that British publisherNosy Crow's new appLittle Red Riding Hoodis one of the best examples yet of how to do it right, and one that may win over many of those doubters.It's a retelling of the familiar fairy tale, with beautifully-crafted scenes and characters, and careful use of interactivity and even non-linear storytelling to encourage early reading skills, rather than hamper them.The tale is told over a series of scenes, which in Read and Play mode see the text displayed on-screen, with words highlighted in red as they're read out loud. The voice narration comes from child actors rather than adults.This has become a signature feature for Nosy Crow, with the company believing that children's attention is held more by other children's voices. Judging by an (admittedly-limited) focus group of my two sons, they're onto something.The mini-games are simple, and serve the storyInteractivity takes two forms. Some scenes ask children to perform an activity – packing a basket with food through drag'n'drop gestures is the first example.Other scenes in Little Red Riding Hood's forest walk present her with a fork in the road, with each choice uncovering a different item for the heroine: feathers, dandelions, bees and so on.Sometimes a light mini-game is involved, such as the musical monkey who asks you to copy his tunes to win his whistle, or the spider who you help out of a web-shaped maze.The twist is that the specific items collected each time are used to beat the Big Bad Wolf at the end of the story: tickle him with the feathers or blowing dandelion seeds in his eyes for example. Each time a child uses the app, they can choose different items as they play/read.Each mini-game or activity thus ties closely into the story, encouraging children to read through to the ending rather than waylaying them en route.They also make good use of the device's features, from tilting it to guide the spider through to use of the front-facing camera so your child can see their own face reflected in a pond. Simple, but genuinely thrilling for the average child.In short, Little Red Riding Hood is rather marvellous: a children's book-app that impresses with its technical chops, but more importantly with its firm focus on storytelling and reading skills.It shows there is substance, not just hype, around what apps can bring to children, and like Nosy Crow's previous Three Little Pigs and Cinderella apps, shows how new technology can make a fine foil for familiar fairytales.For now, Little Red Riding Hood is iOS-only, costing £2.99 as auniversal download for iPhone and iPad.Nosy Crow has beenbuilding up its Android resources, so hopefully the app will make its way to Google-powered devices sooner rather than later.
It might be the most expensive cup of coffee ever. If you want to meet Apple's chief executive Tim Cook over a hot brew at the company's headquarters in Cupertino, California, you'll need to stump up more than $180,000 – the current going price for anauction on the website Charitybuzzthat will give you some real face time with the man now running the business.Proceeds from the auction, which will run until 14 May, are going to the Robert F Kennedy Center for Justice and Human Rights, a charity, making Cook the latest participant in an ongoing series of "time auctions" to bring benefits from celebrity.The chat – expected to be about an hour – might give people time to quiz him about whether the company has lost its mojo, or how important China is, or get a little help with their new iPhone or iPad. Or just to discuss coffee.The auction kicked off on Wednesday at 4pm BST with a $6,000 bid; within four hours it had hit $16,000, and then burst through the $100,000 level after eight hours as news of the auction spread on Twitter and Facebook.With Cook's time seen as so precious – and interaction with him so potentiaily valuable – bids on the auction have ramped up rapidly. Though the bidders don't have to give real names, they seem already to include executives from rival companies such as BlackBerry, as well as Clearcrate, which makes cases for the iPad mini tablet, which was briefly the leader with a $160,000 bid.One British photographer who bid $130,000 before being trumped said he wanted to talk to Cook about human rights in Asia, where he is travelling. Jason Denning, a photographer, works for a charity which he says has similar aims to those to the one Cook is fundraising for: "I thought it would be a good way to bring light onto my project and other charities here in Asia which I could discuss with Tim during the coffee," he told the Guardian. "However sadly the bidding has gone too high now for me to even consider bidding again. My money would be better spent on the project itself."Cook's auction has the chance to rival or even beat the current record on Charitybuzz, where someone paid $255,000 to shadow former president Bill Clinton for a day.But it will be hard to match the $3.46m paid by a group of investors in 2012 for lunch with the financier Warren Buffett, who has been auctioning the chance to lunch with him since 2000. The money is raised for the Glide Foundation, which provides for the homeless in San Francisco. Then again, Buffett's auction allows the winner to bring along seven friends – meaning that on a per-person basis each had in effect paid $430,000.Charitybuzz says it has raised more than $60m for charity since setting up in 2005, by offering experiences such as going backstage with Paul McCartney ($70,000), climbing Mt Kilimanjaro and getting business advice from Richard Branson.It says bids have to be made with a valid credit card, which is checked for sufficient funds before bids are accepted.CharityBuzz said: "The highest bid we've had in our history was the winning $610,000 bid for a 2013 Lamborghini Aventador roadster this past March 2013 to benefit One Drop. The highest bid for an experience at Charitybuzz was a $255,000 winning bid to spend a day shadowing President Bill Clinton to benefit the Clinton Foundation."
The live Q&amp;A is now over. Read Jared's answers belowJared Cohen used to work at the US state department, where he was the official who sent an email to Twitter asking it to keep its service online while protests over the result of the 2009 Iranian election were breaking out. In his time there, he worked for both Condoleezza Rice and Hillary Clinton – one of the few people kept on during the change from Republican to Democrat control in 2008.In September 2010 he left the state department and a month later joined Google, where he is the director of Google Ideas, the company's own thinktank. As part of that role, he visited North Korea with Eric Schmidt, Google's executive chairman, earlier this year.Now he and Schmidt have written a book,The New Digital Age: Reshaping the Future of People, Nations and Businesses, which looks at how technologies are changing the way we live and the way we are ruled. Are you ready for a time withno alarm clock (instead, the scent of brewing coffee), automatically opening curtains, and a back massageby 2033?Or, alternatively, do you agree with their statement that "the impact of this data revolution will be to strip citizens of much of their control over their personal information in virtual space, and that will have significant consequences in the physical world"?Or how about the problem some point to – as the book acknowledges – that "You cannot storm an interior ministry by mobile phone." If people want change, they aren't going to effect it by text message.And what about the disruptive effects of many people – or just a few people – getting access to the internet, and instant updates about what's happening? The effects of technology don't have to be positive; technology is neutral, and can be used for good or bad ends, and can have unintended consequences of great severity as well.You asked, Jared answeredleehazelwood asked:You wrote in November 2010 that: "Governments will be caught off-guard when large numbers of their citizens, armed with virtually nothing but cellphones, take part in mini-rebellions that challenge their authority. " After the Arab spring and Syria, how else do you think technology will transform political change?Jared Cohen responded:The lesson learned from the Arab spring is that in the future revolutions will be easier to start, but they will be harder to finish. The accelerated pace of movement making will create flash in a pan leaders, get lots of people into the streets, and even lead to more dictators being toppled. But when a dictator falls and the dust settles, technology can't replace the need for real leaders and functioning institutions, both of which take many years to emerge and evolve.Knowles2 asked:Do you think the actions of Google and Twitter in working around governments internet control have increase the risk that we will see the balkanisation of the internet?Would you support aiding citizens access to the internet, twitter and other social, if those groups were working against American or Western interests?In the book you talk about automated curtains opening, do you use any of the current home automation kits that are around, such as robotic lawn mowers/hoovers, Nest Thermostats in your home?Jared Cohen responded:Most of the automated gadgets we discuss are technologically possible today and some even exist in peoples' homes. Our argument is that in the future, all of this gets more accessible and cheaper. While not everyone will have what we describe in the book, people all around the world will get a taste of what automation can do to improve efficiencyhrwaldram asked:Hi Jared, thanks for taking part in this Q&amp;A. I read an extract from the book in Guardian weekend and the picture of the digital future projected is rather like an utopian image of self-service and gadgets to enhance daily tasks for those who can afford it rather than solve larger scale societal problems. However the image is quite similar to Jaron Lanier's dystopian projection where he discusses similar themes about the loss of control over one's personal data and privacy. Do you think there's any possibility that a free internet and freely distributed information won't lead to a technology-controlled state (utopia or dystopia depending on how you look at it) where we are poorer physically but rich in technology? How do you square up your vision for the future with worries about the consequences of what you describe - what kind of consequences do you think these will be?Jared Cohen responded:There is no country in the world that is worse off because of the arrival of the internet. Add 5 billion people to the online world and this only becomes more true. Technology helps address a lot of problems, but it is not a panacea. In the world's autocracies, which we write about extensively, there will continue to be a cat and mouse game that plays out between connected citizens and connected regimes.BoLiting asked:At the moment, Google Ideas seems to be very focused on collaborating with the state on issues such as illicit network tracking. Given your focus on things previously only combatted by the state, what role do you think other corporations, particularly corporations with a heavy internet presence, will occupy in the future? Is the role of the state being co-opted by corporate power?Jared Cohen responded:Google Ideas works with governments, NGOs, academics, local experts, and other companies. With 5 billion new people coming online, every challenge in the world is relevant to the tech sector. And there are many challenges -- particularly those that relate to conflict, instability, and repression -- that don't fall perfectly in pre-existing boxes of core business, philanthropy, or public policy. That is why we created Google Ideas, to address these challenges that will confront our future users. You can learn more at google.com/ideasrevrob asked:With regard to the EU ePrivacy Directive (implemented in UK law by Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 as amended May 2011 by the Monetary Penalty Regulations), how do Google in Europe go about obtaining the prior explicit informed consent of both the sender AND recipient of an email, before you intercept the email in transmission, scan the content, and use the results for delivering targeted advertising as part of the gmail service? I receive lots of emails from gmail users, and no one has EVER sought my consent to the content being scanned for purely commercial advertising purposes by Google. Thanks.Jared Cohen responded:I won't speak for Google specifically, but in our book we talk about the future of privacy and security in depth. When we set out to write The New Digital Age, we wanted to look at the issue of privacy and security everywhere, including places like Saudi Arabia, China, Venezuela, etc. In doing so, it led us to a few specific conclusions about this important issue:1) Privacy and security are the ultimate shared responsibility and everyone, including governments, companies, and citizens have an important role to play2) The importance of human judgment does not evaporate in the future and as connected individuals, we will have to exercise sound judgment about what we choose to share or not share about ourselves3) Like all things, addressing privacy and security is also relevant to the future of education. Think about how early and fast young kids are coming online. Whether you are a parent in London or a parent in Islamabad, talking to your children early about the importance of online privacy and security will be one of the most important actions one can take. We write in the book that in many societies, parents will talk to their kids about these issues years before they talk to them about the birds and the bees.jasper13 asked:Rates of murder and violent crime have fallen more rapidly in the UK in the past decade than many other countries in western Europe, researchers say. The UK Peace Index, from the Institute for Economics and Peace, found UK homicides per 100,000 people had fallen from 1.99 in 2003, to one in 2012. What role has the internet, and possibly the gaming industry, had to play in these statistics?Jared Cohen responded:Very interesting question and interesting observation. I can't speak to the specific crime trends in Europe because I am not an expert. But I have thought about this in other contexts. For people involved in pre-meditated crimes, whether it is terrorism or robbery or something else, their use of technology means that they leave a digital trail and the room for error goes up dramatically. In the future it will be easier for violent people to make mistakes and get caught before they commit their crimes.Sahshank asked:Do you think - we can really reach to singularity where a chip can be inserted in human to manage/process memory and communicate to others ie replace smartphone, smart watch, Google Glass, smart health monitoring devices, iTablets, remote controls to one single chip inside body?Jared Cohen responded:It is difficult to predict technology more than 10 years out with any certitude, but what I observe is that change and innovation happens earlier and faster than we expect. We are constantly surprised at what technology can do. That being said, there is a limit to how much of our lives will be taken over by computers. In the future, human beings and computers will split duties according to what they are both good at (eg computers for needle in a haystack problems and humans for judgment)ghostinthemachine asked:Do you think its a strange co-incidence that the internet is now controlled by American monopolies like Google (search), Paypal/Visa/MasterCard (payments), Facebook (social media), in a free market monopolies are a bad thing, do you believe in a free market ?Jared Cohen responded:I don't accept the premise of your question. What I will say is that 57 percent of the world's population lives under autocratic regimes and most of the world's technological infrastructure has not yet been built. For the vast majority of states who are coming online, they will have two options: open or closed. Yes, there are only so many countries in the world who have companies that build the infrastructure, but ultimately we should all want a single Internet that is not balkanized, not restricted, and open to everyone.modelportfolio2003 asked:1. Do you believe the Chinese Communist Party is truly capable of embracing change in how much information its citizens are permitted and if not, what is the best way its citizens can change the type of emasculating censorship that stifles free thought and appears to create a state that conducts malicious cyber-spying both inside and outside China?2. I consider wearable computers to be the next big thing, whether they work in conjunction with the smartphone in your pocket or as a free standing device. We know that Google Glass alpha/beta product performs today many of the functions that can be done on your smartphone but in a heads-up display: voice activated activities such as directions/maps, video, photo, scrolling messages or search pages, etc. Where do you believe the best use cases will be for Glass and what do you hope developers will create in the next say 12 months prior to a wider consumer launch?Jared Cohen responded:The big challenge that China will have is the following: 600 million people in China are connected to the Internet. 700 million Chinese will connect in the next decade and they are mostly rural, ethnically and religiously diverse, and impoverished. This massive wave of virtual urbanization will create unprecedented tensions in the Chinese system that will challenge the government's current censorship tactics. 700 million new internet users in China means 700 million new voices, new opinions, new witnesses to take photos of corruption and human rights violations. Rural China has never before in history had this kind of capability placed into the hands of its people.Teresa Lau asked:Why 2033? Will it really take that long? In 10 years or even 5 years, alot can be changed?How do you think this time scale will change from country to country?Jared Cohen responded:We chose to look at the one decade horizon in part because we felt that 10 years is just about as far as one can predict what will technologically happen with any degree of real accuracy. So if we were drawing conclusions about technology's impact on geopolitics, we wanted to stay within the margin of error for what that technology would look like.siforcat asked:Is it true that if you type Google into Google you can break the internet?Jared Cohen responded:No, it is not.Igstar asked:What is the most bonkers idea anyone has suggested?Jared Cohen responded:I've learned to accept that no idea is too bonkers, but I think an elevator to space is pretty ambitious!undersinged asked:The very internet-savvy government of Estonia has created a model of online government in which a individuals' personal data belongs very much to themselves, and business and government agencies have to obtain permission to obtain access to subsets of that data. It puts the citizen in control, while allowing the efficiencies of connected data. It seems to work very well. If it catches on in other countries, what will this do to the forecast that "the impact of this data revolution will be to strip citizens of much of their control over their personal information in virtual space, and that will have significant consequences in the physical world"?Jared Cohen responded:Estonia is an extraordinary case study for how the notion of power will change in the future. Sweden, as well. In the future, there will be states like Estonia and Sweden who have small militaries, tiny populations, smaller economies, and no seat on the UN Security Council. So by all accounts they are not major powers in the physical world, although they are important members of the International system. But in cyberspace, they will punch way above their eight as cyberpowers.DJKM asked:In the Magic Faraway Tree (published in 1943), Moon-face (I think, perhaps it was the Saucepan Man) gave the children something called "google buns". A coincidence?Jared Cohen responded:A funny coincidence and a great find. Given this was written in 1943, maybe you could tell me what "google buns" are?FerventPixel asked:How do you see the future in terms of personal data - it's collection, use, and who should control and regulate this on behalf of internet users?Jared Cohen responded:There are some nuanced differences between how European and the US government think about certain kinds of data, such as biometric. In Europe it is more regulated. But there is a bigger question here. The majority of the world's countries are described by Freedom House as autocratic. As their populations come online, it is unlikely that the citizens will find much protection from their governments. This means we have to fight hard to help safeguard their privacy and security.
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Call of Duty: Ghosts outed by Tesco - box art appears online | VideogamerOops:Call of Duty: Ghosts - expected to be this year's Call of Duty title - has been outed by UK retailer Tesco.The retailer listed the game for Xbox 360 and PS3 this afternoon, along with the alleged box art. It has since pulled both listings, however.Infinity Ward's logo is featured prominently on the box art, suggesting the Modern Warfare developer is back for Ghosts, and also appears to show a character putting on the mask worn by Ghost in Modern Warfare 2.Ah well, these things happen – retailers have often done this sort of thing in the past – as long as it's a one off it... wait, what's that?!'Upcoming Halo' appears on Tesco's site | VideogamerAn unannounced Halo title has also appeared on the retailer's website, suggesting that a new game in the sci-fi shooter series may be headed to Xbox 360 later in the year.'Upcoming Halo' has been listed on the site, along with a generic Xbox 360 box art and (presumably) placeholder December 31, 2013 date.Microsoft swiftly moved in to discredit the posting, stating, "This listing is not indicative of a Halo product launch. We have no news to share of future Halo titles."At this point I'm imagining a junior member of the Tesco Direct website team being dragged away from their keyboard – possibly seconds before they could upload a photo of the next Xbox and box art for The Last Guardian.Disney sees Infinity as game platform with "infinite" possibilities | GamesIndustry InternationalIn an interview with the games industry site, Disney exec Bill Roper talks about the forthcoming Infinity title and refuses to rule out appearances by Star Wars or Marvel characters:"I think the beauty of something like Infinity is that it's a platform that we're building. So we don't try to be coy about it - we've done a lot of work about identifying the properties that we felt would really make the platform sing at launch, but I never discount any possibilities with the vast array of characters and worlds that we can tap into across the company," Roper said.OPINION: Where now for Nintendo? | MCVBen Parfitt on yesterday's financial results from Nintendo:Yes, losses have been halved – but it's still yet another year of loss. Wii U's hardware sales are lower than even the most pessimistic had predicted and Europe is in freefall for the company. Wii u has yet to sell 1m units in Europe in the five months since release and is still being outsold globally by Wii.(Compare that to sales of 37.4m for iPhone and 19.5m for iPad in the last QUARTER alone).Make no mistake about it – this is not the financial performance one would expect from a platform holder with a new console on the market and certainly not one you'd expect from a company who just a few short years ago was redefining the market.And perhaps as a result of all that...Nintendo won't hold a large E3 press conference this year | The VergeThe pre-E3 press conferences by Sony, Microsoft, and Nintendo are often when the biggest gaming news of the year gets delivered, but one of the three console manufacturers is ducking out this time around. Nintendo has announced that, instead of a large-scale presentation in Los Angeles, it will hold smaller private events for media and distributors, and its E3 presence will be limited to showing off software.This is not a huge surprise, Nintendo's last two events have been disappointingly patchy. Pikmin 3 proved the only huge excitement last year, and the year before, the company managed to confuse everyone with its Wii U 'is it just a controller? What is going on?!' reveal.The Weblog Freeware Game Pick: An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge | IndieGames.comI do not want to start a debate or anything, but it's so much easier to simply describe An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge as a game. So, yes, it's a game. A freeware game, to be precise, and one that will run on your average Windows machine and provide you with a semi-interactive snapshot from the US Civil War rendered in chunky, parallax scrolling pixels.An interesting little game to try out for ten minutes in your lunch break today.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
It's Thursday.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamReview: Samsung Galaxy S4 is a worthy successor but not revolutionary &gt;&gt; TechHiveArmando Rodriguez:After spending a few days with the phone and running it through TechHive's suite of tests, I can confirm that the Galaxy S4 is an impressive Android phone. Samsung's latest offering tops its previous efforts in many respects, and Android fans are rightly excited by the Galaxy S4's imminent release (slated for the end of the month). That's not to say that the phone is perfect: For all of its innovations and cutting-edge specs, the Galaxy S4 has shortcomings that prevent it from being the ideal smartphone…he thin bezel surrounding the screen made using the phone one-handed more difficult because of the ever-present hazard of inadvertently hitting the Menu button or the Back button — a mistake that tended to happen as I was trying to type an email or text message.…Is it the best Android phone out there? No, but that shouldn't stop people from buying it if they find Samsung's additions to Android appealing.Seems to be the tenor of most of the coverage. "Kitchen sink" also gets used a lot. S-Health and the Universal Remote function are popular, though Smart Pause (you look away, video pauses) comes in for ridicule.Here comes Amazon's Kindle TV set-top xox &gt;&gt; BusinessweekGood scoop from Brad Stone:the box will plug into TVs and give users access to Amazon's expanding video offerings. Those include its à la carte Video on Demand store, which features newer films and TV shows, and its Instant Video service, which is free for subscribers to the Amazon Prime two-day shipping package. The Amazon set-top box will compete with similar products, such as the Roku, Apple TV, and the Boxee Cloud DVR, along with more versatile devices such as the Playstation 3 and the Xbox.This will have been in the works for a couple of years, so nothing to do with the recent hire of Charlie Kindel.BBC iPlayer Radio app on Android devices &gt;&gt; BBC Internet blogWhile we wanted to launch the app to all Android users as soon as possible there is currently an issue with some Samsung firmware. This means that some owners of the popular and powerful Galaxy S3 device may not be able to stream our new HLS audio in the short term.This applies specifically to some Galaxy S3 devices on EE, Vodafone and Three and we expect these networks to roll out a fix in the next month.For clarity, Galaxy S3 users who did not purchase their devices directly via one of these three mobile network operators should experience no problems with the app and the folks at O2 have already rolled out Samsung's patch so users on the O2 network should be all set.World's first smartphone for the blind, made in India &gt;&gt; Times Of IndiaHow it works• The smartphone uses Shape Memory Alloy technology, based on the concept that metals remember their original shapes, i.e. expand and contract to its original shape after use.• The phone's 'screen' has a grid of pins, which move up and down as per requirement. The grid has a Braille display, where pins come up to represent a character or letter.• This screen will be capable of elevating and depressing the contents to form patterns in Braille.• All other elements are like any other smartphone.Android, we presume. (Thanks @beardyweirdy666 for the link.)Mobile Opportunity: The Dell Buyout: Storm Warning for the Tech IndustryMichael Mace:If you haven't worked at a PC company, you'll have trouble understanding how profoundly disturbing the current sales situation is for Windows licensees. The PC companies married themselves to the Microsoft-Intel growth engine years ago. In exchange for riding the Wintel wave, they long ago gave up on independent innovation and market-building. In many ways, they outsourced their product development brains to Microsoft so they could focus on operations and cost control. They trusted Microsoft to grow the market. Microsoft is now failing to deliver on its side of the bargain. Unless there's a stunning turnaround in Windows 8 demand, I think it's now looking increasingly likely that we'll see a sustained year over year drop in PC sales for at least several more quarters.This is an existential shock for the PC companies. It's like discovering that your house was built over a vast, crumbling sinkhole.Prior to the PC sales decline, I think Michael Dell probably assumed that his PC business could continue to fund its growth in services for the foreseeable future. He has probably now reconsidered that assumption. If Lenovo continues to grow and the market continues to shrink, Dell's revenue will drop further, and the company could be in a world of financial trouble a year from now. It's the sort of trouble that can get a CEO fired even if he does own 15% of the company.Makes the very good point: if Microsoft is going to give Dell a $2bn loan to go private and compete with other PC makers, do the others get handouts too? (Thanks @slimbowski for the link.)Quarterly quiverings &gt;&gt; All this"Doctor Drang":I don't use a Mac or an iPhone because of Apple's balance sheet. I use them because they (usually) work for me, and I save my anger and frustration for when they don't. I'm far more affected by an iCloud screwup than by the iPhone's market share, by Lion's removal of Save As… than by Apple's stock price, and by Preview's lack of AppleScript support than by anything Rob Enderle says.Applescript for Preview would be awesome.BitTorrent Sync keeps your files in sync, skips the insecure cloud &gt;&gt; LifehackerAlthough BitTorrent Sync syncs your folders and files much like you'd expect from a service like Dropbox, you set it up a little differently. When you start for the first time, you choose where you want a folder to be and then BitTorrent Sync gives you a secret. When you install BitTorrent Sync on another computer, you can provide that secret and link the folders together. They'll synchronize with each other securely, peer-to peer. That means nothing goes to the cloud, but rather each computer syncs data with the other directly.Remember peer-to-peer? (Thanks @ClarkeViper for the link.)Market Report Q1 2013 - iOS App Store revenue 2.6x that of Google Play &gt;&gt; App Annie BlogIn Google Play, the top four countries [Japan, South Korea, US, UK] represented roughly 40% of store downloads in Q1 2013 as compared to about 50% for iOS. Russia has been rising steadily in downloads over the past year and moved up another slot to #4 this past quarter. Once again, the Games category was the key driver, as it grew to cover close to half of Google Play downloads in Russia in Q1 2013 (up from close to 40% in Q4 2012). This was nearly the highest percentage seen across the countries in the iOS App Store. South Korea and India maintained their second and third places behind the United States, representing how different the Google Play Store is compared to iOS in terms of global distribution.By download, the US is the top country by download for Android, followed by South Korea, India, Russia and Japan. By revenue, it's Japan, South Korea, UK, and Germany.South Korea really is the stronghold for "Google Android" - perhaps unsurprising given the presence there of Samsung and LG.For iOS, the top downloads are the US, China (China!), UK, Japan and France; by revenue, it's US, Japan, UK, China and Australia. The presence of China for iOS but not in Android is telling.The BlackBerry of BlackBerry users' dreams &gt;&gt; AllThingsDKatherine Boehret:The Q10's keyboard is smartly used for more than just typing emails. From the home screen, typing the first few letters for commands like "text message Katie" or "Facebook" pulls up related functions. This feature is called Instant Action. And some 200 keyboard shortcuts let users navigate around the Q10 more quickly. Onscreen menus subtly display what keys to press for shortcuts.As you type, common misspellings will be auto-corrected. You can even turn on keyboard predictions, saving you a few keystrokes by showing words on the screen that you might be typing next. A tap on a word adds the word to your sentence. I found I could type faster without using onscreen keyboard predictions, though in some cases I could select predictions for nearly an entire sentence.Battery lasts for days, rear-facing camera is good, browser is fast. Should be a hit at the very least in corporations that have been waiting to upgrade their BB7 devices.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Online fraudsters have been found offering access to credit card details, networks of hacked computers, and other fraud "services" through Facebook, according to security researchers.Posts on a Facebook group identified by cybersecurity firm RSA included a list of stolen identities that appear to have been obtained by one of the group's members.The group has now been removed by Facebook, which said it was a violation of its rules. It was launched on 28 February this year and at the time of its closure had 163 "likes" and 20 regular contributors.A Facebook spokesperson said: "Security issues, from malware to cybercrime, exist across the whole of the web. Although security consultants would have you believe otherwise, cybercrime isn't a big issue on Facebook. While the site has 30 million people using it in the UK, very few people ever encounter malware or cybercrime [on the site]."Buying and selling malware, identities and card details is widespread on the dark web, but this appears to be one of the most brazen cases to date.The Facebook group was completely public, meaning anyone – including those without a Facebook account – could access the sites it links to and the discussions taking place on its homepage."We've never seen this before", said Limor Kessem, RSA's Technical Lead on Knowledge Delivery. "It's very odd to see something like this sold openly via Facebook."The botnet being advertised appeared to be a customised tool programmed to work with Zeus, a commercial banking Trojan that steals personal credentials through logging keystrokes and form entries, and was first discovered in 2007."The individual [behind the Facebook group] is probably a mid-level developer. He's taken version one of Zeus, compiled it and created his own skin for the control panel. Even though this version is fairly old, we're still seeing it used", said Kessem."Although he is not selling the botnet directly from Facebook, he is providing detailed information about its functionality and links to a free demo. We know from our broader intelligence gathering that he is selling it from the domain he links to on the group."In one post on the group, a member asks the group's curator to send him a private message, and then proceeds to post six stolen identities, apparently examples of credit cards he has unsuccessfully tried to use."From the looks of it, he may have bought them from the individual running the group on Facebook, because the post looks like a complaint about cards bring invalid. The guy who bought the compromised cards further admitted to using them – this is fraud right there in the open", said Kessem.With the cybercrime economy booming, more and more non-experts are being drawn in, giving rise to the fraud-as-a-service market.Rather than compile their own code or fork out large sums of money for a complete malware "package", many aspiring cybercriminals are purchasing individual components, such as the botnet advertised in this case.The dark web is dotted with clandestine equivalents of the shopping websites and message boards commonplace on the mainstream internet, with credit card details offered in bulk and malware packages available for purchase from well designed sites complete with customer testimonies.This case is just the latest sign that online fraudsters see themselves as untraceable. The challenge facing judicial and law enforcement authorities across the world is that of ensuring that would-be criminals understand that cybercrime can be investigated, proven and punished in much the same way as physical crime.
Microsoft will reveal the successor to its Xbox 360 video game console on 21 May. After weeks of speculation, the company will hold a special event at its campus in Redmond, three months after Sony unveiled its forthcoming PlayStation 4 machine.Writing on his official blog on Wednesday, Xbox spokesperson Major Nelsonstated, "On Tuesday May 21st, we'll mark the beginning of a new generation of games, TV and entertainment. On that day, we'll be holding a special press event on the Xbox campus and we invite you to join us via the live global stream that will be available on Xbox.com, Xbox LIVE and broadcast on Spike TV if you are in the US or Canada."On that day, we'll share our vision for Xbox, and give you a real taste of the future. Then, 19-days later at the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) in Los Angeles, we'll continue the conversation and showcase our full lineup of blockbuster games."Little is know about the new console – not even its name. Gamers have been referring to it as Xbox 720, although a codename, Project Durango, also surfaced last year. Most game sites believe we can expect an eight-core processor, with 8GB of system memory, 800MHz graphics processor and a Blu-ray drive. But almost certainly, games will only be one of the functions of the new hardware; as Major Nelson's reference to TV and entertainment suggests, Microsoft is likely to push the new console as an all-in-one living room solution, offering streaming video, television and music services as well as social media.It's also probable that the device will support a range of payment methods for content, including in-game micro-transactions and subscription services offering access to a range of content for a monthly fee. In the US, Microsoft recentlyexperimentedwith offering a reduction on the cost of its hardware to new customers if they signed up for a Gold Xbox Live account. Also, BBC head of digital Robert Nashak recentlytold industry news site GamesIndustry.Biz, "I think they're going to have a system when you get into Xbox Live that's going to be very seamless; you'll see more frictionless billing". He is likely to have been talking to Microsoft about content deals.There has beenspeculationthat the machine will require a constant internet connection, which would protect it against pirated games and curtail the second-hand games market. However, Microsoft has refused to comment.The new Xbox could well be released this winter, putting it in direct competition with PlayStation 4, which is also set to offer a range of media services and applications as well as games – Sony has earmarked a late 2013 release. The two machines will doubtless dominate the giant E3 video game exhibition in Los Angeles this June. The face-off will be good news for the games industry which has seen retail software sales falling over the last year.
Samsung's Galaxy S4 – its new flagship smartphone – is in the hands of reviewers in the US, who have given their verdict. Here's a roundup.AllThingsD/Wall Street Journal:"Galaxy S4 is a good, but not a great, step up."Walt Mossberg has been testing the Galaxy S4 for four days but doesn't feel it's a game-changer:It's an evolution of the prior model and despite some improvements, it still is especially weak in the software Samsung adds to basic Android. I found Samsung's software often gimmicky, duplicative of standard Android apps, or, in some cases, only intermittently functional.He recommends readers "carefully consider" the HTC One as an alternative if they're in the market for an Android smartphone.Weight? Size? Compared to the iPhone 5, it's 30% larger and 17% heavier; the camera is 13MP against the iPhone 5's 8MP.What really seems to rile Mossberg is duplication:Nearly all Android phones already come with two email apps — one reserved for Google's Gmail. But on the Galaxy S4, there are also two online video and music stores, two music and video players, two calendars and two browsers.Yet out of the box, there's no camera icon on the lock screen so you can immediately take a picture. (You can add this feature, via the settings menu, in – you guessed it – two different ways.)He didn't have any particular success with "Smart Screen" (which pauses video if you look away). The plastic body felt "insubstantial" and the mono speaker on the back "only fair". But voice call quality was good. He also tried out the LTE functionality, and got only just under 7Mbps (on T-Mobile US), against nearly 21Mbps for an iPhone 5 (on Verizon). That could be due to network build differences.He seems to lean more towards HTC's One:The HTC has a handsome, sturdier, aluminum body, dual stereo speakers, an excellent camera, better screen resolution than the new Samsung and twice the base memory for the same price.His conclusion? The Galaxy S4 is "a good phone, just not a great one."GigaOM: "too many features or just right?"Kevin Tofel thinks it's the latter.I can't stress enough that while the hardware is nice, the Galaxy S4 is chock full of software features that push the experience in a positive direction. Android 4.2.2 is the base operating system that Samsung builds its TouchWiz user interface upon.Simply put, [Samsung's Android skin] TouchWiz has evolved as a powerful software environment that contains so much functionality that Samsung has had to put a tabbed interface in the Settings. In fact, if you enabled all of the buttons in the Notification panel — think one-touch buttons for Wi-Fi, Sound, Bluetooth, etc — you'd have 19 options to choose from. That's because of the Samsung-specific features.He highlights Air View and Air Gesture (the former produces a cursor or details from a calendar when you hover your finger over the screen; the latter lets you control the screen, say with swiping, without actually touching it).He's keen on the camera:"As an "all-rounder", most will be happy with the camera, which uses the same interface as Samsung's digital cameras."So to the question in his title: are there too many features?I've only briefly touched upon most of the major features. You'll likely find more if you take your own look at the phone. So is this a problem to the casual phone user? Perhaps, but Samsung has an improved Easy Mode for these folks.Easy Mode is what it sounds like: A simpler interface with larger buttons that show the most likely used apps and features. In fact, some of the advanced functions aren't even accessible in Easy Mode. At first, I didn't like that idea, but I've come around to appreciate it. Why? It gives new smartphone users a way to "graduate" to the full-featured Samsung experience without them having to buy a new Samsung phone.Tofel says he would recommend the S4 "without hesitation" and says that it's "Samsung's defining phone" – and given that Samsung pretty much defines what Android looks like these days, that means it's the Android phone too.ReadWrite: "Sometimes, more is less"Unlike GigaOM's Tofel, Dan Rowinski feels overwhelmed.Your smartphone should not be a source of stress. With its new Galaxy S4, it seems Samsung may not have gotten the memo.It seems that every feature Samsung could possibly dream up ended up in the Galaxy S4. The company pushes the envelope with technologies and features that keep the rest of the industry on its toes. Yet it packs the Galaxy S4 with so many of its own branded apps, so many features of questionable value that don't even work properly, that it detracts from the overall quality of the device.He suggests that Samsung has a touch of FOMO - Fear Of Missing Out. He cites the many (many many) features and camera functions available (noting that some of the camera functions - animated photo, sound+photo) are saved as Samsung-proprietary formats that "can be shared only with other Samsung devices".His conclusion?Really, the Galaxy S4 is a solid smartphone, in just about every way.You just have to put up with Samsung's insistence on loading you down with bloatware, pre-loaded apps and features that you will likely never use and just get in the way. Once you cut through all that, the Galaxy S4 is a first-rate smartphone.The Verge:"how do you update the best-selling Android phone of all time?"David Pierce notes that "Thanks to its high quality and wide availability, not to mention Samsung's sheer brute-forcing marketing effort, the Galaxy S3 became the face of the Android universe." But even after a week's use, he wasn't in love:I don't like holding this phone, and I can't overstate how much that informs the experience of using it. It makes an awful first impression, slippery and slimy and simply unpleasant in your hand. My white review unit is completely smooth and glossy, with a subtle checkered pattern that looks textured but is neither grippy nor textured anywhere on its body. Even the silver band around the sides, which is obviously supposed to look like metal, is plastic. Everyone I showed the Galaxy S4 to frowned and wrinkled their nose as if it smelled bad, before rubbing their fingers on the back of the phone and then handing it back to me – that's the opposite of the standard reaction to HTC's One, which everyone wants to ogle and hold.In fact he compares the Galaxy S4 to the HTC One – a metal-bodied device – repeatedly.The HTC One is a powerful, feature-rich device that is also beautiful and classy, while Samsung's handset feels like an overpowered children's toy.Still, the screen is, he says, "big, beautiful and seriously eye-catching." He suggests that some colours are overdone by the super AMOLED screen; but at least it catches the eye.He finds Air View and Air Gesture "useful – sometimes". Air Gesture was over-sensitive ("it also tended to jump just as I was pointing something out or showing someone a photo, which became a pain"). But he did like being able to wave at the phone to change the song playing. Even so he feltMuch of what Samsung offers seems to be just for show, designed to give sales clerks something to demo that makes the Galaxy S4 unique … I wound up using the Galaxy S4 like I would any other phone, with most of the additional features off, and as much as I'd be thrilled to watch people waving at their phones on the subway, I'm not betting it catches on.His conclusion:The Galaxy S4 is fast and impressive, but it's also noisy and complex. The One is refined, quiet, comfortable, beautiful, and above all simply pleasant. I love using that phone, in a way I haven't experienced with anything since the iPhone 5.Time:"Gimme one smartphone, with everything"Harry McCracken goes over what may now seem a familiar tale: bright screen, glowing hardware specifications, though he says the camera doesn't do so well in low-light conditions as rivals.With things like Air View, Air Gesture and Smart Screen (pausing the video if you look away), McCracken is the only reviewer to point out that:None of these features are transcendent breakthroughs. For the most part, they work only in Samsung's own apps — Air View also appears in the Flipboard reader, which comes preloaded — not in third-party apps. In fact, they don't even work in all the apps that are standard with Jelly Bean, such as Gmail and Chrome browser.Smart Screen also won't work in a darkened room, he points out, because it uses the front camera, and has to get enough light there.In fact McCracken points to problems that others don't seem to, such as:Samsung may have barely mentioned Android at its Galaxy S4 launch event, but there's plenty of evidence of Google's handiwork in the S4, and at times, the handset's joint authorship results in competing features, overlapping functionality and a general sense of redundancy. For instance, when you set up the S4, you're asked to enter information for two accounts – a Google account and a Samsung account – rather than the one required by an iPhone.In fact make that three, he says – because you get 50GB of Dropbox storage too. If you didn't have an account, that would be a lot of logging in.His conclusion:If you want the most polished phone with the best selection of apps, the iPhone 5 still has no peer. If you crave Apple-like panache but love Android, HTC's One is a fine choice. And if what you want is the mainstream phone with the biggest screen and the most built-in stuff, the Galaxy S4 is your most logical option.And he also has what sounds like the plea of an exhausted reviewer: "the Galaxy S4 should mark the end of Samsung's strategy of more, more, more. When the Galaxy S5 shows up in a year or so, I hope it's not just a Galaxy S4 with an even bigger screen and even more new features crammed into a phone that's already bursting with them."
Chinese handset maker ZTE has signed a deal to pay Microsoft royalties on every device that uses Google's Android and Chrome OS software, a move that leaves only Motorola and China's Huawei unsigned of the major manufacturers - and sets the stage for a showdown with the Google subsidiary.Theannouncement by Microsoftbrings to 20 the number of companies that have signed deals after Microsoft claimed patent ownership over undisclosed functions within Android. Last week, the giant manufacturer Hon Hai - owner of the Foxconn factories which make huge numbers of phones and tablets for other companies - signed a similar deal to pay royalties on Android and ChromeOS devices.ZTE was the fifth-largest maker of smartphones during the fourth quarter of 2012,according to IDC, shipping 9.8m Android phones, just behind Sony's 9.8m and Huawei's 10.8m. Huawei and Microsoft are alsounderstood to have been in talks about a similar licencerelating to Android.Microsoft now claims that 80% of Android smartphones sold in the US, and "a majority of those sold worldwide" are covered by its patent licences. That statistic does not seem to cover phones sold inside China, where dozens of "white box" manufacturers build Android handsets at prices as low as $20. However, the software giant is reckoned to be earning hundreds of millions of dollars annually from the patent deals signed by Android manufacturers including Samsung, HTC, LG, Sony and Sharp.The deal means the stage is now set for a showdown with Google-owned Motorola, which has resisted efforts by Microsoft to assert its patents against its use of Android for years."The ZTE and Foxconn agreements show once more that technology companies around the world, including some of the world's largest and fastest growing manufacturers anchored in China, recognize licensing is an effective way to share technology and build on each other's work, accelerating the pace of innovation and delighting customers," said Horacio Gutierrez, Microsoft's deputy general counsel. The company claims along list of Android and other manufacturerswhich have licensed its patents.A number of the licences relate to Microsoft's exFAT (Extended File Allocation Table) technology, used for audiovisual files and which Microsoft says "greately expands the size of files that flash memory can handle". Flash memory is used in all smartphones and tablets, and in solid-state drives which are becoming more common in laptop computers.Motorola has been strongly resisting demands by Microsoft that it should license its use of Android. That has led to tit-for-tat court cases in Europe and the US in which Motorola has asserted a number of its patents, including some on the wireless networking standard Wi-Fi and the video encoding standard H.264 against Microsoft's Xbox, and sought import bans.Motorola has sought royalties from Microsoft for the use of those "standards-essential" patents (SEPs) which would run into hundreds of millions annually. It has also sought injunctions against Xbox imports in some regions.But the use of those SEPs - which are meant to be licensed on a "non-discriminatory" basis to any willing licencee - in court cases has attracted the attention of competition authorities in the US and Europe, and led to Google being chastised for the behaviour of its subsidiary in January during an FTC settlement. The FTC has in effect banned Motorola from seeking sales bans on devices that use its SEPs unless it can show that the company involved is refusing to licence it.Unlike Motorola's patents, Microsoft's relating to Android are not standards-essential - and so it is not obliged to license them, or can name its price. Among the handset companies that have signed agreements are SamsungGutierrez said in a statement: "Much of the current litigation in the so called 'smartphone patent wars" could be avoided if companies were willing to recognize the value of others' creations in a way that is fair. At Microsoft, experience has taught us that respect for intellectual property rights is a two-way street, and we have always been prepared to respect the rights of others just as we seek respect for our rights. This is why we have paid others more than $4bn over the last decade to secure intellectual property rights for the products we provide our customers."This balanced approach to intellectual property licensing explains why, while others continue to pursue litigation around the world as the primary means of addressing their differences, we have successfully entered into license agreements with nearly all companies on the list of the world's largest Android smartphone vendors and their manufacturers."In a remark clearly aimed at Motorola, Gutierrez said: "We have worked for multiple years to reach an amicable solution with the few global companies who have yet to take a license, but so far they have been unwilling to address these issues in a fair manner.  We'd prefer to consider these companies licensing partners and remain hopeful they can join the rest of the industry in the near future."
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Batman: Arkham Origins Will Have Multiplayer, Sources Say | KotakuKotaku has been told by that the forthcoming Batman title will have a multiplayer mode – unlike its two predecessors:As for the details, according to our tipster: during at least one section of multiplayer, you play as a member of Joker or Bane's gang while trying to take down Batman and Robin. The villains involved—who may be playable and customizable—include Killer Croc, Deadshot, Firefly, Black Mask, Deathstroke, and "some kind of Electroman character," our tipster said. (Maybe Electrocutioner?)Not sure about this. Unless its a brilliantly innovative addition, multiplayer can feel like a haphazardly tacked on addition to action adventure titles. But then, we're just at the rumour stage right now...BBC aspires to Defiance-like transmedia approach | GamesIndustry InternationalRobert Nashak, the BBC's digital tsar, talks to GI.biz about plans to turn the channel's 'content' into transmedia properties:Interactive properties used to be like a plush toy or a beach towel; a secondary product that takes advantage of the popularity of the primary creative property. The BBC is looking to make the interactive properties more of an equal partner. "It used to be that games were ancillary products," said Nashak. "Defiance is a good example from SyFy, where if you can think of them holistically from the get-go it's much more important. I'm a big believer in games and media properties really working together. I used to do Harry Potter games for EA, and you were always trying to hit the movie deadline. That rush never worked. You can only get so much of the creatives' time."So Dr Who, Top Gear, etc, may all one day work as shows and games at the same time. Hmmm. But what some people are picking up on from this interview is Nashtak's comment about the Xbox 720:"I'm very optimistic for this next generation of consoles," Nashak said. "It's been awhile. I think we're going to see Microsoft, for example, really get it right - not that they haven't in the past. You're going to see this next Xbox be a true home entertainment system. I think they're going to have a system when you get into Xbox Live that's going to be very seamless; you'll see more frictionless billing."Is that a tacit confirmation that the next-gen machine will offer free-to-play, subscriptions and other payment methods?Mind-blowing CryEngine 3 tech demo simulates real-life urban development plans| Eurogamer.netFrench company Enodo may not be a video game studio, but its use of CryEngine 3 to develop virtual reality interactive 3D models for industrial proposals is nothing short of breathtaking and gives us a hint of what games will probably look like soon.This 2:37 minute eye-melting tech demo shows off Enodo's craft at realising hypothetical offices, buildings and tram lines, among other projects. While Enodo isn't a game company, it is a fan of the medium and it noted on its YouTube page that its "one purpose" is "to show that the mechanisms governing the world of video games are powerful and will revolutionise the way to understand urban or industrial projects, their development, and their communication."Lovely.IGF-nominated stealth indie Gunpoint coming to PC through Steam | PolygonGunpoint, a 2D stealth game requiring players to rewire hardware to solve puzzles, will be published for Windows PC through Steam, lead designer Tom Francis announced last night.In Gunpoint, players must direct electrical power through objects and switches in the surrounding environment in order to get through levels. A number of helpful gadgets are also at players' disposal, which will allow them to survive falls and other serious physical damage, make their way to difficult-to-reach areas and even manipulate how weapons work. Check out the video above for a tour of these gadgets, led by Francis.Very excited by Gunpoint!VIDEO: Oculus Rift + omnidirectional treadmill = the future of gaming? | Games industry news | MCVThe video below depicts users playing Valve's Team Fortress 2 using touted virtual reality headset Oculus Rift, a compatible gun controller and a prototype Virtuix Omni omnidirectional treadmill which, as the name suggests, allows users to walk or run in any direction and have this recreated in game.The cumulative effect is a level of gaming immersion that far exceeds anything we've ever seen before.The Virtuix Omni VR Treadmill is apparently hitting Kickstarter soon.Indie tutorial: Starting a project and forming a team | Spiffy GoatsThis is a nice little guide to starting an indie development project alone or with friends.If you're creating your first game ever and you don't know programming or you can't draw… don't look for someone that will help you with it. If you're more of an artist download GameMaker or Stencyl and with some English knowledge (if you are reading this I bet that you won't have any problems with that) along with your own willingness to spend time on it, you actually CAN handle it on your own. Same goes for programmers. To develop a prototype you do not need god knows how many top notch sprites. Placeholders such as squares, stars, circles, free sprites will do just fine to give you an overall feel of the gameplay.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
It's Wednesday.
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe Reason Stick: The Conspiracy Theory Flowchart "THEY" Don't Want You To SeeHad enough government rhetoric? Tired of following the sheeple? Fed up with believing what THEY want you to believe? Maybe it's time to branch out and discover THE TRUTH.If you're new to the exciting world of conspiracy theories and just can't decide which paranoid delusion best suits you, then why not use this handy flowchart to find your ideal conspiracy theory. Then you too can go and stick it to THE MAN.Rated as "comprehensive". Afraid I can't tell you who said that. There'd be trouble. (Thanks @johnrentoul on Twitter for the link.)Why Tim Cook Is Like Steve Ballmer &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comNick Bilton:For many investors, Steve Ballmer, the chief executive of Microsoft, has long been one of tech's favorite villains. His company's stock has lost 43 percent in value since he got Microsoft's top job on Jan. 13, 2000. Periodically, pundits, investors and even former executives call for Mr. Ballmer to get the boot.During the 13 years Mr. Ballmer has led Microsoft, though, annual revenue at the company has grown 221%, to $73.72bn, and profit has jumped 80%, to $16.98bn.Of course, the complaints about Ballmer come from the missed opportunities in search and mobile (and, so far, tablets). The complaints about Cook are far less coherent, but generally boil down to "not enough new products" and "we don't like the new products you've introduced".Apple belatedly makes push in India &gt;&gt; The National[Apple] has created deals in India to help make its smartphones more affordable, launching a scheme this month that offers at least 7,000 rupees (£85) for a buyer's existing smartphone if they purchase the iPhone 4, one of its older models. That has reportedly resulted its iPhone 4 sales outpacing sales of the newer iPhone 5 model in India. Apple's rival Samsung quickly fought back, bringing out a promotion for 15% cash back on its Galaxy products, splashing its adverts on the covers of newspapers, just as Apple had.(Thanks @Oisin75 for the link.)BYOD lawsuits loom as work gets personal &gt;&gt; CIO.comTom Kaneshige:the BYOD [Bring Your Own Device] romance has suddenly turned sour.Employees are questioning the intrusion of corporate eyes on their personal devices. Did IT turn their beloved smartphone into a spy that tracks their whereabouts? Employees are beginning to sense companies taking advantage of BYOD by intruding on personal time to get free work time.Now they're thinking about suing."I anticipate a bunch of little [lawsuits], then something big will happen that'll be a class action and become headline news," says CEO John Marshall at AirWatch, an enterprise mobile device management (MDM) vendor with 6,500 customers, including Lowe's, United Airlines and Best Buy.It has already started. Alawsuit currently winding its way in a federal court in Chicagoclaims that the city owes some 200 police officers millions of dollars in overtime back pay because officers were pressured into answering work-related calls and emails over department-issued BlackBerrys during off-hours.While this particular case doesn't involve BYOD, there's no question BYOD blurs the line even more between work life and personal life.There's no actual evidence presented that lawsuits are looming - only the suspicion that things are going to get more complicated than they at first appeared. (Thanks @JohnnieGoat for the link.)Google keeps losing: ITC finally tosses Motorola's complaint against Apple &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsThis week begins for Google like last week ended: with another failure to convert the $12.5bn purchase of Motorola Mobility into leverage against a major rival. On Friday a German courtdenied Google's Motorola an injunction against Microsoftover a push notification patent that is most likely invalid. Today the United States International Trade Commission (USITC, or just ITC)threw out the last patent-in-suitremaining in the investigation of Motorola's October&amp;nbsp;2010 complaint against Apple.U.S. Patent No. 6,246,862on a "sensor controlled user interface for portable communication device" was found invalid. The patent relates to the feature that a touch screen ignores touches if the user is on a phone call and holds the device close to his head. Google wanted the ITC to ban the importation of any iPhones with that feature into the US market.Motorola not prevailing in patent lawsuits is becoming a sort of background hum of the internet.Microsoft's Q3 results not really good news &gt;&gt; Tech-ThoughtsSameer Singh:given low consumer interest, Surface shipments should continue to decline until a new product is launched. This leaves Windows volume licensing, which was driven by enterprises continuing the upgrade path from Windows XP to Windows 7 (driven by the closing support "windows" for Windows XP and probably discount offers to enterprises). Therefore, this revenue spike is likely to be a one-time event as upgrade cycles tend to be concentrated around OS launch timelines. In any case, a 40% revenue spike in non-OEM revenue could hardly be considered sustainable.Microsoft also stated that Windows revenue from OEMs was in line with the drop in PC shipments. PC shipments should continue to decline throughout the year (a minimum 8-10% annual decline as per my most recent forecast), which should pressure Windows revenue over the next few quarters.(Note that Microsoft's fiscal third quarter is the calendar first quarter, ie January-March).iPhone 4 owners begin receiving their $15 'Antennagate' settlement checks from Apple &gt;&gt; 9to5MacPayday has come for some of the first responders to the iPhone 4 class action lawsuit. Last February a settlement was reached that granted iPhone 4 owners who had not previously received a free bumper for their "defective" iPhones a $15 payout.  Several of our readers are now reporting that they received their settlement checks today. The first checks were issued on April 17 2013 and are void after July 16th. Unfortunately the deadline for submitting a claim has passed so if you missed out the first time around it seems you are out of luck.Nice timing.Google Now for Google's homepage in testing &gt;&gt; Unofficial Google blogIt looks like Google Now won't be limited to Android, iOS and Chrome, it will also be added to Google's homepage. Some code from apagethat's tested by Google offers more information about this feature."Get started with Google Now. Just the right information at just the right time." That's how Google introduces the new feature. "Google Now uses your Home location to show relevant information like weather, traffic conditions, and nearby places," explains Google. You can edit the home location, work location and the current location. Another feature lets you track your favorite stocks.It could even be the replacement for iGoogle (due to be killed off later this year). We know some people who would be happy with the replacement..If it ain't broke, don't fix it: ancient computers in use today &gt;&gt; PCWorldSparkler Filters of Conroe, Texas, prides itself on being a leader in the world of chemical process filtration. If you buy an automatic nutsche filter from them, though, they'll enter your transaction on a "computer" that dates from 1948.Sparkler's IBM 402 is not a traditional computer, but an automated electromechanical tabulator that can be programmed (or more accurately, wired) to print out certain results based on values encoded into stacks of 80-column Hollerith-type punched cards.Companies traditionally used the 402 for accounting, since the machine could take a long list of numbers, add them up, and print a detailed written report. In a sense, you could consider it a 3000-pound spreadsheet machine. That's exactly how Sparkler Filters uses its IBM 402, which could very well be the last fully operational 402 on the planet. As it has for over half a century, the firm still runs all of its accounting work (payroll, sales, and inventory) through the IBM 402. The machine prints out reports on wide, tractor-fed paper.But wait! Before the data goes in, it has to be encoded into punch cards. Amazing. More examples welcomed.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It's been six months since Apple released a new product – the iPad mini in October – and judging by Tim Cook's comments on the earnings call, it might be a while before you see more. "Our teams are hard at work on some amazing new hardware and software and services for this fall [autumn] and throughout 2014," he said bluntly – and repeated it when asked if there wasn't anything coming sooner.Still, Peter Oppenheimer, Apple's chief financial officer, did say profit margins will fall in the next quarter due to "new product mix". Not that Apple is going to tell you what any new product might be (a cheaper iPhone?). As former Apple executive Peter Tamte told me earlier this week, "Apple knows that the best way to get people to pay attention to its product launches is to keep them secret and surprise everyone."So where's the Apple "iWatch"? What about the long-rumoured super-TV set? Not even a hint that they exist. How about an iPhone with a bigger screen, to match Samsung's 5in Note? "My view is that iPhone 5 has the best display in the industry," Cook said. "Some customers value large screen size … others value resolution, colour quality, white balance, longevity, power consumption … our competitors have made tradeoffs in order to ship a larger display. We would not ship a larger-display iPhone while these tradeoffs exist." The suggestion being that if display quality improves to the point where Apple likes it, a phablet is perfectly possible.For those who have watched Apple for any length of time, and remember when it barely had two iPods to rub together, such a hiatus between product releases seems incredible. Apple used to churn out new stuff as though its very existence depended on it – which, in a way, it did. Not so long ago, by this time of the year Apple would have released new laptops, new software, some new iPods and perhaps a phone at the Macworld conference in January.But it gave up that conference in 2009. Which means that these days, what do you get? This year, silence. That, in turn, means all the organisations and rich, easily agitated individuals holding huge amounts of Apple stock get rather nervous, and take flight at the slightest hint of bad news. Of that there's plenty, especially if you choose to interpret it that way; when Cirrus Logic said last week that its revenues were down because "a major customer" (Apple) was moving away, investors somehow heard that the major customer had made less products. Wrong, but understandable.Apple's problem is that the pace of competition is now frantic. Apple introduced the iPhone in January 2007; at that time Samsung was an unregarded maker of TVs and cheap phones, and Google was just launching Street View, while Google Maps was less than two years old.Now, Google has Google Now – a sort of "smart assistant" that watches your routine and suggests bus, train and even plane timetables – while Samsung is a colossus. And little projects such as Pebble, a smart watch that connects to your smartphone, are biting all their ankles.That's before you get onto the big innovations such as Google Glass, which extends what your smartphone can do by putting some of its output in front of your eyes, or self-driving cars. Where's Apple's equivalent to that? Cook acknowledged that Samsung and Google are Apple's prime competitors: "They're tough competitors, but we feel we have the best products by far and are continuing to invest in innovative products and feel good about our product pipeline in hardware, software and also services."So what's Apple doing with its time? Nothing much. Just selling more smartphones than anyone but Samsung, and more tablets (19.5m) than anyone, and keeping its PC sales flat in a market that slumped 11% for Windows PCs, and making profit hand over fist (even when it slumps). Even the ailing iPod (5.6m sold in the quarter, down 27% on the year) probably generated more money ($960m) than Microsoft's whizzy new Surface PC (estimated to have sold less than 2m and generated about $500m). As bad quarters go, it could have been worse.Cook and Oppenheimer made a big play of how much money is being paid to developers for app sales, and how many global companies are using iPads to develop in-house programs. In fact, they seemed to be going out of their way to make Apple sound boring – solid, reliable, money-generating. Boring.Maybe that's the thing that has spooked the investors. Maybe if Apple hasn't got that mad spark, it's just going to go into a decline.So has Apple given up? Is Cook not inspiring the troops in Cupertino to come up with the radical new ideas that Steve Jobs used to? It's impossible to tell. The product pipelines are years long; the first iPad prototypes appeared in 2003, and the iPhone got properly under way in 2005. Rewind two years, and Steve Jobs was still alive – so what we're seeing (or not seeing) now was all happening while he was alive. It's still too soon to say whether Cook can generate the hits as his predecessor did. But this waiting sure is enervating. Couldn't we at least have an iWatch?
Apple revealed its first profits fall in a decade Tuesday but still managed to beat analysts' expectations, making $9.5bn in the quarter and boosting its share buyback programme by $50bn.The tech giant's second-quarter results had been hotly anticipated and come after a precipitous drop in its share price. It posted quarterly revenue of $43.6bn and net profits of $9.5bn, compared to revenue of $39.2bn and net profit of $11.6bn in the same quarter a year ago, marginally higher than analysts had forecast.Tim Cook, Apple's CEO, announced the company was adding $50bn to its share buyback programme, taking the total to $100bn over two years, believed to be the largest in history. Apple also added $8bn to its cash pile, bringing it to $145bn. "We are pleased to report record March quarter revenue thanks to continued strong performance of iPhone and iPad," Cook said.On a call with analysts Cook acknowledged that the company had not "met everyone's expectations" and shareholders were worried about future growth. "The decline in share price has been frustrating to all of us," he said. "The most important aspect for Apple will be creating innovative products," he said.Last September Apple's shares hit a high of $700 and the company became the most valuable on the planet. Before Tuesday's results the shares were hovering around $400. The collapse has wiped out close to $290bn of value – more than the entire worth of Google. It has also led to speculation that Appleis secretly searchingfor a replacement for Cook, the hand-picked successor of its co-founder Steve Jobs, who died in 2011."There's no doubt this is a pivotal point," said Benedict Evans, analyst at Enders Analysis. In the last quarter of 2012, Apple accounted for 10% of all the phones sold around the world but it took home 65% of the profits. Its only money-making rival in the smartphones sector is Samsung, but Apple sold 48m units to Samsung's 15m top end S3s in the last three months of 2012."They have taken so much value out of the market that the really big question is how much more can they get," said Evans. In the last quarter of 2012, half of all phones sold around the world were smartphones. The concern for Apple is that everyone who wants or can afford a smartphone has one, and that the only growth will be in converting users from other brands or upgrading existing Apple customers with new models. "We are at the end of the first phase of the smartphone market," said Evans.Cook said: "We acknowledge that our growth rate has slowed and our margins have decreased." He said the company was developing new products. "We are very excited about the products in our pipeline," Cook said.Apple hopes that its phenomenally popular iPads will help dig it out of the smartphone problem. Tablet sales are eating into the sales of PCs ,and as yet Apple has no serious rival in the sector in terms of sales, and certainly not profits. Google's Nexus 7 tablet sold about 5m units in its first six months, while Apple sold 10m iPad Minis in two months.Darren Hayes, professor at Pace University's Seidenberg School of Computer Science and Information Systems in New York, said many of Apple's problems had been of its own making. In its determination to keep its prices and margins high, Apple has failed to capitalise on the troubles of  BlackBerry, he said.In 2010, smartphones powered by Google's Android operating system had virtually no market share in the corporate world but by 2012 they had a 34% adoption rate by businesses. According to Gartner, that rate will increase to 56% by 2014. According to Kleiner, Perkins, Caufield and Byers, the Android adoption rate in businesses is six times that of iPhones."I blame bad strategic planning. They felt like they didn't need to give price breaks because they had the superior product," said Hayes. But the competition has sharpened. While Apple's iPad still has a significant lead in tablets in smartphones they are now playing catch up to Samsung's Galaxy line. Perhaps more worryingly there's a lack of Apple "buzz", said Hayes.
The breathtaking expansion of the world's most successful technology company has skidded to a halt. Tonight Apple is expected to post its worst financial results for a decade, with profits falling for the first time since 2003, and revenues flat on last year.It's less than two years since Tim Cook took over from Steve Jobs, but Apple's creative juices appear to have dried up. For two decades the soft-spoken Alabaman has been very much part of the firm's success, but Wall Street is now rife with (albeit not very credible) rumours that the search for his replacement has begun.Cook's tenure has had its positives: appalling working conditions at Apple's Chinese factories have been tackled and a readiness to apologise for mistakes has helped the company appear less arrogant.But the things that made Apple great – the innovation, the ability to make software and hardware that "just work", and the faultless industrial design that created some of the best-looking consumer electronics ever made – appear to be slipping away.Here are five key ways Apple's lost its bite:1. Never making a television or getting Apple TV rightSteve Jobs talking about Apple TV in 2007. There is still no sign of a predicted 'iPanel'. Photograph: David Paul Morris/Getty ImagesHaving turned the music and telecoms industries on their heads, Apple was understood to have trained its sights on cable TV companies. But the move has been talked about since 2011 and yet there is still no sign of an Apple television set – or iPanel as some predict it will be called.Television is crying out for change. Cable and satellite companies still force their customers to buy lots of channels they don't want before giving them access to the best content.But Apple must work harder than it did shaking up a bloated and complacent music industry. Its phones are sold with a subscription and made affordable by a hefty subsidy from the network. An expensive TV set would need similar support from cable companies, which control the internet pipes, but giving Apple a leg up would potentially destroy their business models – they don't want their customers shopping at iTunes. And Cook's not found a way to crack this.2. iCloud being beset by syncing issues and instabilityApple's iCloud – more expensive than storage vaults run by rivals. Photograph: M4OS Photos/AlamyApple would like us to stash our box sets and photo albums in the attic and transform our music, video and even book collections into digital files stored on its solar-powered server farms, so they are accessible from any location on any device – so long as it's one made by Apple.But there are problems with the iCloud storage vault. It is more expensive than those run by rivals such as Google, and it doesn't work as well as it should. Audiobooks bought from iTunes, for example, cannot be re-downloaded from the store if accidentally erased from a phone or tablet. Now application developers are queuing up tocomplainthat they cannot integrate iCloud into their own software.3. Apple Maps being pretty rubbish, and not optionalApple Maps, which got a high-profile plug at the iPhone 5 launch. Photograph: APMapplegate, as Apple's badly designed mapping application fiasco is sometimes called, is arguably Cook's most damaging mistake to date. The app was not a minor software release, it was a key part of the chief executive's strategy of making Apple less dependent on Google. And it was given a very high-profile plug at the launch of the iPhone 5, with executives claiming crack design and superior "cartography".Thefaultswere so glaring – a Dublin park listed as an airport, a Norwegian city relocated to the sea – that one wonders how well the chief executive studied his own product before approving its release.4. Hiring a retail chief who didn't realise Apple stores are showroomsJohn Browett, who was recruited from Dixons but shown the door after seven months. Photograph: Rex FeaturesThe Dixons boss was Cook's one major recruit since taking office. John Browett was brought in to oversee the Apple stores, and soon set about reducing the staffing costs bycutting hours and freezing recruitment. The move was quickly reversed after causing outrage. Apple's minimalist steel-and-glass retail temples are essentially advertisements for its products, with customer service playing a crucial role in recruiting new disciples.Presumably Browett ran his plans past Cook before implementing them, if not during his job interview. No matter. Seven months after joining, Browett was shown the door.5. The iPhone 5 only really having a slightly bigger screenThe Apple iPhone 5 on sale in Hong Kong. Photograph: Kin Cheung/APIt may be one of the fastest phones in the world, loading video and spinning through web pages at record speeds, but reviewers complain that the screen is too small and the black aluminium casesscratchtoo easily.The iPhone 5 outsold all other smartphones before Christmas, but there are signs that demand is tailing off more rapidly than for its predecessor, the 4S. Others have caught up too, with Nokia and Samsung making cheaper machines that work just as well.
Independent mobile games developer Two Lives Left is sharing sales data from its iPad gameCrabitronin aspoof Kickstarter crowdfunding page.The Australian studio's "Crabstarter" project was started as a tongue-in-cheek marketing campaign for the game – "a giant space crab simulation" – which was commercially released on 18 April."After two years of development we ended up with a game that we loved. We had no idea how to market it. So we decided we would do a Kickstarter — only, we had already built the game," explains the developer."This led to the idea of a 'reverse Kickstarter', a kind of system where you could fund the game, see how well the game was doing, and get your reward immediately."So how well is it doing? Well, it's early days, but at the time of writing Crabitron has generated just over $3,800 of revenues, compared to development costs of $100k. It's currently being featured as a New and Noteworthy app in the US App Store.The figures may make disheartening reading for Two Lives Left's peers. Crabitron is a very fun, original and quirky game – the kind of title that's making smartphone and tablet gaming such an interesting space in 2013.It costs £2.99 on the App Store ($4.99 in the US), with Coin Doubler and Coin Tripler power-ups offered as £1.49 and £2.99 in-app purchases for really keen players. Sales are thus currently in the hundreds.Be wary of anyone holding the Crabstarter stats up as evidence that the App Store is a broken model for indie games developers, even if it seems a persuasive theory.Why? Without wishing to sound heartless, most apps fail commercially – something you could say just as accurately about albums or books. A decent number of those apps (and albums, books…) are really good. Them's the breaks for creators.That does sound heartless though: I hope Crabitron finds its audience and surpasses Two Lives Left's sales target, partly because it's a good game, and partly because the developer has outlined some inventive features it's planning to add as Kickstarter-esque "stretch goals" beyond the $100k mark.There may be scope for some tweaks to Crabitron's pricing model, more promotional opportunities (flash sales, perhaps?) and for the effects of word-of-mouth buzz to have an impact.Two Lives Left's marketing creativity won't hurt either: here I am writing about Crabitron for The Guardian, even though I'm still curious about how those $100k development costs break down for a game made by a two-man team, with help from a handful of collaborators.The studio's willingness to share Crabitron's sales data should be welcomed by its peers though. We hear a lot about the most lucrative mobile games – Clash of Clans, Puzzle &amp; Dragons, Candy Crush Saga and the rest – and those stories are important.But it's just as important to be seeing data from the sharp end of independent mobile games development. It's not necessarily about puncturing the hype bubble; more about getting a truly rounded picture on what's happening in mobile gaming in 2013.Anyway, back to giant space crabs: here's why you might like Crabitron:
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Gearbox Software has acquired the Homeworld franchise | GamasutraThe intergalactic real-time strategy sim is now in the company of Borderlands and Aliens: Colonial Marines thanks to the ongoing THQ fire sale:The pairing of Gearbox and Homeworld is an interesting one. The studio is best known for its expertise in action-heavy first-person shooters, not strategy games.There are no concrete announcements for new games in the series, but Gearbox said its first matter of business is to bring Homeworld and Homeworld 2 to "today's leading digital platforms."Homeworld was created by Company of Heroes studio Relic Entertainment. Publisher THQ owned the franchise, but had to sell it off in auction, following its bankruptcy late last year. Relic was sold to Sega, where it is working to complete Company of Heroes 2.Gearbox's acquisition was led by the studio's chief creative officer Brian Martel, a professed fan of the franchise.It will be interesting to see how the fans react.Nordic Games Licensing acquires Red Faction, Darksiders, and other THQ assets for $4.9M | GamesBeatAnd another one from THQ – the last remaining franchises from the defunct publisher have gone to Nordic Games:Nordic acquired  Darksiders, Red Faction, Homeworld, MX vs ATV, Destroy All Humans!, Summoner, Marvel Super Hero Squad, Supreme Commander, and other properties. The deal is subject to a bankruptcy court approval.The acquisition will give some an injection of brand power to Nordic Games, which has published games such as Painkiller HD, Singstar, and Book of Unwritten Tales. Nordic's upcoming games include The Raven and Deadfall Adventures.Good to see Darksiders saved – a hugely under-appreciated series. And THQ never really explored the full possibilities of environmental destruction in later Red Faction titles, so that could be interesting on next-gen machines.Xbox 720 reveal: all the rumours in one place | VG247Dave Cook:I'll start with the most recent rumours, working my way back and will add new updates as they happen, so be sure to bookmark this page to stay up-to-date. You can also click the headlines to go through to the full article if you want to know more.This is quite a useful resource for people who absolutely, positivelyhaveto keep up with all the Xbox speculation.Game Developers Famous for Getting Ripped Off Get Ripped Off Again | KotakuIndie studio Vlambeer was at the centre of a cloning controversy in 2011 when its game Radical Fishing was seemingly 'highly influential' on rival title Ninja Fishing. Now it seems to be happening again: its new title Luftrausers has a twin in the form of SkyFar from developer RubiqLab.Cloning video games isn't anything new but it's seemed to have ramped up in the last few years, especially in the indie game space. Still, you have to feel especially angry on behalf of the folks at Vlambeer. They seem to be irresistible to people looking to pull a fast one on unsuspecting consumers. Still, if Luftrausers is anything like Ridiculous Fishing, it'll be a far superior game than the one that attempts to lifts its design and appeal.Papo &amp; Yo dev: Sometimes exclusivity is the only way | GamesIndustry InternationalMinority Media's co-founder Vander Caballero has explained why an exclusive release can be the best way to get a game published, that it had an "amazing relationship" with Sony for its Papo &amp; Yo adventure game, and revealed the title is already paying back its investment.This is just an excuse to feature Papo &amp; Yo which is a beautiful game that you should play immediately.Silicon Spa star: Leamington's dev scene to be celebrated at 2 week exhibition | PocketGamer.bizDevelopers from across the UK town of Leamington Spa are being asked to come forward and help celebrate the area's rich gaming history as part of a two-week long gala.As part of the Leamington Looks Back festival – due to run between 18 May and 2 June – a games-focused exhibition called Backspace will look to explore the town's game creators.Organisers claim programming workshops, a careers evening and a 'games trail' across its hot spots will all form parts of the programme.A long, loooong time ago, I was a game developer in Leamington – well, a QA tester and manual writer, anyway. It's a town with a rich heritage in the industry: Codemasters is just down the road and Blitz is right in the town centre. There's also Supersonic Software and a bunch of new indies. This looks like an interesting way of celebrating that heritage.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
Finnish phone maker Nokia has won a court injunction banning HTC from using microphone parts made by STMicroelectronics in its flagship HTC One phones, in a move that will deepen the problems at the struggling Taiwanese handset company.The decision by the Amsterdam district court follows a claim by Nokia that it invented the parts, which it says are made exclusively for its own phones.The discovery follows a "teardown" of the HTC One by Nokia's engineers to discover what parts are used in it. "Nokia filed this action after it discovered these components in the HTC One," a spokesman for Nokia said in a statement. "In its marketing materials, HTC claims that its HDR microphone is a key feature for the HTC One. But it is Nokia HAAC technology, developed exclusively for use in Nokia products." Nokia claims STMicro has agreed exclusivity on the parts.The global injunction will last for a year and stops STMicro from selling the parts to HTC. "HTC has no licence or authorisation from Nokia to use these microphones or the Nokia technologies from which they have been developed," Nokia said in a statement.That will create fresh problems for HTC, which has already had to delay the launch of its HTC One flagship phone in a number of countries because of problems sourcing camera parts, after itslipped from the "Tier one" group of handset makers.The court case heightens the new fronts being opened in the smartphone patent wars, which are increasingly used by companies to jockey for position. Nokia has used its intellectual property in the mobile space aggressively against a number of rivals, beginning with Apple – against which itwon an ongoing royalty settlementin June 2011 - andin December 2012 from BlackBerry.STMicro will have to pay Nokia €50,000 (£43,000) for each microphone sold to others, up to a maximum of €1m. The company said it was considering alternative solutions.In a statement, HTC said: "HTC is disappointed in the decision. We are consulting with STM and will decide whether it is necessary to explore alternative solutions in due course. In the meanwhile, we do not expect this decision to have any immediate impact on our handset sales."The HTC One is intended to be a flagship device to revive the fortunes of HTC, which has been crushed in a number of markets by South Korea's Samsung using its broader distribution and carrier relationships. But the launch has already been slowed by problems sourcing camera parts.The latest case is one of a number being brought against HTC by Nokia, which is asserting more than 40 patents in Germany, the US and the UK. Nokia has already won an injunction against HTC in Germany, and filed another on 16 April.HTC is seeing revenues and profits come under increasing pressure as Samsung and Apple tighten their grip on the high-end and mid-range smartphone market. In the first quarter of 2013, its revenues were NT$42.7bn (£948m) and operating income just £950,000. Revenues have fallen to less than a quarter of their peak from the third quarter of 2011.By contrast, Nokia's first-quarter revenues in the mobile space were €2.89bn but it made an operating loss of €42m. It is struggling to overtake BlackBerry as the "third ecosystem" in the smartphone space, behind Apple's iOS and Google's Android.Microphone partsNokia Lumia.HTC One.
Cute characters, hundreds of millions of app downloads, a burgeoning merchandise business, and a digitally-distributed cartoon for kids. No, not Angry Birds…Cut the Rope is one of the other breakout games brands from the App Store era. Developed byZeptoLab, it has generated more than 300m downloads so far, and currently has 60m monthly active players according to CEO Misha Lyalin.For comparison,Angry Birds is now past 1.7bn downloadsand ended 2012 with 263m monthly active players, whileOutfit7's Talking Friends appshave reached 800m downloads and 170m monthly active users, although they're more virtual pets than games.Cut the Rope hasn't quite reached those levels, but it's on the way: since October 2012 whenLyalin spoke at the MIPCOM conference in Cannes, Cut the Rope has added 50m downloads and 10m active players.The latest game in the series should fuel more growth.Cut the Rope: Time Travelis available on iOS and Android, and offers a similar physics-puzzles formula to its predecessors as its hero Om Nom goes back in time to meet his ancestors.Tweaks include two monsters to feed on every level rather than one, while players can also watch animated Om Nom Stories cartoons, drawn fromZeptoLab's YouTube channel(70m views and counting)."We firmly believe that the new way to deliver brands that people recognise in the future will not necessarily be through big movies or TV series," says Lyalin."We've found the new way: on mobile devices, wait until you can capture people's attention in a big way, and then think about how you deliver content."That has meant a subtle shift towards creating more of a backstory for Om Nom, through the games, the YouTube videos and through a Cut the Rope comic, which is also available digitally."In Time Travel, the story is going to become a little bit more apparent, although we're not in a hurry to tell this," says Lyalin."For Om Nom Stories, we have tens of millions of people watching, together with the hundreds of millions of people who download our games. In this market, you can build a very big mobile game, but building a bigger brand requires enormous effort."Lyalin has been friendly both times I've met him, but he's also plain-speaking – unafraid to challenge the assumptions behind a poorly thought-out question, or criticise an industry trend he disagrees with.This approach may be suiting ZeptoLab well as the company continues building the Cut the Rope brand, with Lyalin admitting that "if we'd listened to everything we had been told by a lot of different people, we'd be a very different company by now".How? He describes a vision of the company as a "top-down" entity where senior management makes decisions on new games based on what seems most likely to be lucrative."It could be 'We need to make a farming game, and we need to put Om Nom in there, and by the way he has a girlfriend'," says Lyalin. "We just think about what would be interesting and cool from a gaming point of view and a story point of view."Misha Lyalin, talking at the London launch of Cut the Rope: Time TravelOne area where ZeptoLab surely can't avoid thinking about money is the pricing strategy for its games, though. As one of two new Cut the Rope games planned for release in 2013, Time Travel is notably a paid game – under 70p for Android and iPhone, and £1.99 on iPad.This, at a time when free-to-play is all the rage in the mobile games industry, and when a number of commentators are comparing Rovio's $199m of revenues for the whole of 2012 to freemium-focusedSupercell's $179m in just the first quarter of 2013, or Japanese F2P developerGungHo's $101m in February 2013 alone.Lyalin spots my question coming a mile off. "Why paid?" he smiles. "People always like to follow. 'There's gold? Let's run there!' With free-to-play, of course, the trend is there. It's going to zero, no doubt about that, and we're not stupid. 80% of everything we do we distribute for free, because we just want people to play."Some Cut the Rope games are free to play, but others are paid. Lyalin says the company prefers to chart its own course rather than be pressured into going freemium all the way."Not all games can be free-to-play, which people forget," he says. "The paid market might be very small compared to the free-to-play market – right now it's 30% – but that's still huge if we can take a big part of this market. That doesn't mean we're not going to do free-to-play games though."ZeptoLab is also doing non-Cut the Rope games. ItsPudding Monstersgame launched on iOS and Android in December 2012 as a £1.49 paid title for iOS, with a choice of free and paid versions on Android.As with Rovio's Amazing Alex, ZeptoLab's Pudding Monsters was watched eagerly by the mobile games industry to see if the company could repeat its core brand's success with brand new IP.And? "We launched it in December, and haven't spent any money buying traffic," says Lyalin. "It didn't become Cut the Rope, but still millions and millions of people bought it, and they liked it."That hints at healthy revenues, so how much money is ZeptoLab making from its games, merchandise and animations? With Rovio and Supercell's recently-publicised revenues in mind, it's a logical question.Lyalin politely declines to answer, in what sounds like a reference to Supercell. "We'll tell the story when we want to – we're not venture-funded and we don't need an exit tomorrow, so we don't need extra attention on what we do," he says."If we can make people happy, we'll find ways to make money. Not that we're struggling by any means…"
it's Tuesday.
A burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamIt wasn't Sunil Tripathi: the anatomy of a misinformation disaster &gt;&gt; The AtlanticAlexis Madrigal:In the middle of the last night's nearly unbelievable turn of events, for a few hours, hundreds of thousands of people received a message about the identity of the alleged Boston Marathon bombers that was painfully false. Word got out that the Boston Police Department scanner had declared the names of the two suspects.But the names that went out over first social networks and then news blogs and websites were not Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, which the Federal Bureau of Investigation released early this morning. Instead, two other people wholly unconnected to the case, became, for a while, two of America's most notorious alleged criminals.Excellent recounting of a terrible, confused night.Apple tipping points - up or down? &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansMoore's Law is at work, driving down prices; you can now get a 4.5" dual core Android phone from Huawei for just $200, and one from a generic Chinese manufacturer for $120-$150.This is clearly a challenge for any handset OEM, but especially for one at the high end. There are fewer and fewer new high-end buyers coming into the market and the ones you sold to in the past may increasingly be tempted by ever improving cheaper phones. So a high-end phone maker risks losing sales if it stays at the high-end, or losing margin if it makes cheaper phones, or both.In case it isn' t obvious, this is the essence of the bear story for Apple. There's lots of froth and nonsense swirling around as well, but this is a perfectly coherent and intelligent story. It isn't that Apple is losing sales to Android (it isn't, at least not yet) - it's that the high-end market itself may be close to tapped out.This is the point where you have to figure out how the phone market is going to split.My local supermarket currently has a special where you can… &gt;&gt; Chris LacyMy local supermarket currently has a special where you can buy a prepaid ICS phone for $40 (currently 50% off).Up until today I had no idea devices running such a recent version of Android were available for so cheap.Get used to it.How Google Now was built (and a bit on Siri too) &gt;&gt; PhonearenaThe information side of Google Now is pretty strange to follow, but the learning side of the platform is actually pretty easy, because it uses two things that Google has been cultivating for a long time now: web history and location services. Web history encompasses both your search history, and any visited pages from those search results, where location services is obviously looking at where you spend your time and where you travel. If you have an Android phone with location services enabled, Google probably already knows where you live and where you work, and all of that data can easily be found on your Latitude dashboard (note: this is all private data that only you can see, Google doesn't share it.)(Thanks @Sputnikkers for the link.)Expunging Google &gt;&gt; Duncan BayneDuncan Bayne:As I explained over onHacker News:I don't think that Google is acting in opposition to open standards in general, because for the most part they benefit by them.What's clear is that:Google is seeking to increase the monetary value of its usersthe way to do that is with social media (see Facebook, who are winning this battle hands down)they will push open standards under the bus where necessary, in order to drive users to Google+.Making it rain to make the rivers fill up and get more fish to go through the mouth of the delta. (Thanks @vassal for the link.)ACLU files FTC complaint over Android smartphone security &gt;&gt; American Civil Liberties UnionChris Soghoian:Yesterday, we filed a complaint with the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) asking the agency to investigate the major wireless carriers for failing to warn their customers about unpatched security flaws in the software running on their phones. These companies—AT&amp;T, Verizon, Sprint and T-Mobile—have sold millions of smartphones to consumers running versions of Google's Android operating system. Unfortunately, the vast majority of these phones never receive critical software security updates, exposing consumers and their private data to significant cybersecurity-related risks.In a16-page complaintfiled with the FTC, we argue that the major wireless carriers have engaged in "unfair and deceptive business practices" by failing to warn their customers about known, unpatched security flaws in the mobile devices sold by the companies.Interview with Chosun Daily of Korea about Apple &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu, here on products:People outside of engineering organizations, especially large ones, don't appreciate the time scales involved. Products you see today were designed, planned and developed many years ago. We see plenty of evidence of this but we tend to ignore it. Consider that some prototypes end up on ebay showing they were built years before launch. It is the same with evidence presented in trials proving work on the product 4 to 5 years before it was launched. This is not the case just for Apple but all other technology companies.For this reason, what is happening in the market and what is happening inside the company are two completely different universes. The tendency is to assume a direct relationship between market momentum and current management decisions. These are connected but with many years in-between.For example, globally accurate Maps require a minimum of five years of development. Decisions on what ended up being Apple Maps had to have been made by Jobs himself. Namely, he must have decided whether to buy or build Maps. Contrast with Nokia's decision in 2007 to buy maps for a cost of $8bn; instead Apple licensed and then decided to build later. In 2007 Jobs decided that it was more important to work on the product itself, meaning the iPhone (while Nokia didn't prioritize product innovation.) The results are visible today: Apple is behind and needs to accelerate with Maps and Nokia with its great maps must find a way of staying in business.The rest of the interview is good too, especially his suggestion for "what I'd do if I were in Tim Cook's place."Presales of the Galaxy S4 kick off in South KoreaSamsung Electronics' mobile shops began presales of the Galaxy S4 a step ahead of telecom operators, a departure from normal practice of allowing telecom operators to initiate presales of a new model or launching presales simultaneously with telecom operators.Such a move seems to stem from Samsung's efforts to drift away from the existing distribution system that solely depends on telecom operators towards bolstering its own distribution capability.Besides, as telecom operators switched from competition for subsidies to service-based competition (e.g. free voice call payment plans), the number of people wishing to trade in their old phones slumped.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
"Market share" remains one of the most misunderstood measures in business - and the hardest to comprehend, especially in fast-growing markets.There's a terrific instance of this in the latest YouGov figures about tablet ownership. It compares tablet ownership in the UK in the first quarter of 2012 with that in the first quarter of 2013.Unsurprisingly, given that at the start of 2012 you couldn't buy a Google Nexus 7, nor (in the UK) an Amazon Kindle Fire, it finds that ownership of those tablets has shot up.So here's the raw chart. It shows that iPadshare of ownershiphas dropped from 73% to 63%, and that Amazon and Google both have gone from 0% to 5%. And Samsung (which has had "buy a phone, get a free tablet" schemes with some carriers) goes from 4% to 10%.YouGov: UK tablet ownership share, 1Q12 to 1Q 13Only one message to take from that: Apple isdooooomed. Amirite?Here's the same chart, rendered slightly differently, but normalised again to the 100% mark. Look! Apple's number is down! Doomed!YouGov UK tablet ownership share, 1Q 12 - 1Q 13. Normalised to 100%YouGov certainly seems to think Apple is doooomed. In itspress release about the findings, it comments that"This decline in market share comes despite the recent releases of its 4th generation iPad and iPad Mini."We'll come to that "despite".YouGov continues:The main reason for this slump in share is the emergence of quality competitors. Samsung has more than doubled its share of the UK tablet market in the past year, improving from 4% in Q1 2012 to 10% in Q1 2013.OK, it's improved itsshare.. can you see where we're heading yet?There's also some useful qualitative data:Consumers rate the Korean company's Galaxy product equal to iPads in terms of quality (except in relation to the iPad Mini).It turns out the qualitative data favours the latter:The good news for Apple is that three months after its UK launch, the iPad Mini enjoyed a 4% market share and generates the highest satisfaction score overall and across eight of the nine quality attributes.So Samsung owners rate their tablets as equal to the big iPad, but it scores less well than the mini. Fair enough.Now it might seem like this is all sewn up, except for one other - and very important - detail.Ownership of tablets rose dramatically over the period under discussion.In fact it nearly quadrupled. That does strange things to "market share" commentaries.In the first quarter of 2012, 5% of UK adults owned (or laid claim to) a tablet. By the first quarter of 2013, that had gone up to just under 18% - which translates into more than 8 million adults.When you're talking about a population of 47m adults aged over 18 (as YouGov is; data from the Office for National Statistics) that makes a very substantial difference. It turns out that 63% of 18% of 47m (the number of iPads) is very much bigger than 73% of 5% of 47m.In fact, the number of iPads owned by adults in the UK actually went up from 1.96m to 5.3m. That'san increase of 3.34m.(In that, iPad minis were 4% of the entire market; so a product which a number of people feel is too pricey, when marketed against the substantially cheaper Amazon Kindle Fire and Google Nexus 7, managed to be 2 out of every 7 sales - because the iPad mini is 4%, Nexus 7 is 5%, and Kindle Fire is 5%. That's pretty remarkable, and gives the iPad mini 336,000 UK users.)Meanwhilethe rest of the market went up by a total of 2.48m. Here's how that looks:YouGov UK tablet installed base change from 1Q 2012 to 1Q 2013In other words, in losing 10% of share, Apple actuallyincreasedits lead in the market. It has more than 5m tablets in use in the UK, while its nearest competitor, Samsung, has about 840,000.The biggest real success - apart from the iPad - in this is "other", which grew by 890,000, though it's surely made up of lots of very cheap tablets. (It's not clear whether YouGov or its sample class Microsoft's Surface RT as a tablet, but it probably won't make too much of a dent in the figures even if it does.)The numbers are below in case you want to check the calculation.Yougov tablet share and ownership1Q 2012 share1Q 2013 share1Q 2012 absolute1Q 2013 absolutechange 1Q 2012to 1Q 2013Apple73631.975.33.34Samsung4100.090.840.75Amazon Kindle Fire0500.420.42Google Nexus0500.420.42others23170.541.430.89% owning5.7317.91total2.68.4247m UK adultsSource: YouGovAnd what is YouGov's conclusion? John Gilbert, Consulting Director of YouGov Technology &amp; Telecoms, says: "With a growing market, greater competition and falling prices, Apple was bound to lose some share. However, it is not simply a matter of inexpensive products flooding the market. It seems that Apple no longer has a monopoly on the 'premium' share as other brands emerge with near-equal satisfaction scores. Given the market's current expectations and considerations in purchasing tablets, we anticipate Apple to lose additional share throughout the coming year to Samsung, Google and Amazon."One has to say that if the market continues to grow at that pace, then Apple can probably bear to "lose share" in this way - as long as it means that it's increasing its installed base faster than all of its rivals put together.
A year is a long time in the life of a technology firm – and so it has proved for Apple. Last April, the iPhone maker's shares had broken through $600 (£393) and tipsters were predicting they would rise to $1,000. Apple had overtaken ExxonMobil as the world's most valuable listed company and was still expanding. Having lit fires under the music and telecoms industries, rumour had it that Apple was about to do the same to cable companies with an internet-enabled television.Time magazine named Apple's chief executive one of its most influential people. "Tim Cook, a soft-spoken, genuinely humble and quietly intense son of an Alabama shipyard worker and a homemaker, hasn't missed a single beat," wrote the Apple board member and former vice-president Al Gore in a eulogy to mark the occasion.Apple's share priceApple's shares are now worth just a few dollars more than the $376 they closed at on 24 August 2011, the day Cook took the helm, and they could fall below that as Apple announces financial results that are expected to show it has become what company watchers call "ex-growth".Net profits for the March quarter are predicted to have fallen, compared with the same period last year, for the first time in a decade. This is no small dip – Wall Street consensus is for an 18% drop to $9.5bn. Revenues, according to Apple's guidance, could be just a few percentage points higher than a year ago. And there is no sign of an iTV joining the iPads and iPhones on its Chinese production lines.The Apple growth story began to turn sour with the arrival of the iPhone 5.Apple chief executive Tim Cook. The company's shares have stagnated since he took the helm in 2011. Photograph: ReutersFirst there were reports that the cases scratched so easily they were having trouble leaving the factory floor without damage. Then came "Mapplegate". The error-ridden mapping application was seen as a sign that Cook did not have his predecessor's attention to detail. Heads rolled in his first bloodletting since taking charge, with the guillotine falling the software chief. Scott Forstall.Now there are signs that sales of the iPhone 5 – billed as the biggest consumer electronics launch in history, reaching 100 countries in three months – are falling more quickly than for its predecessor, the 4S, according to analyst Peter Misek at Jefferies bank.He describes as disappointing the fact that in the first three months of this year it accounted for only half of Apple phones sold through America's largest mobile network, Verizon Wireless – particularly as cheaper, older iPhones do not run on the souped-up 4G networks now live across the US.Wall Street predicts Apple will have sold 37m handsets worldwide in the March quarter but, based on Verizon's sales, Misek has revised down his estimate to 31m-35m, although this will not stop the latest iteration of Apple's most profitable product becoming its best-selling machine."Nobody seriously thinks there is going to be some collapse in Apple's business; the concern is how much bigger it will get," says Benedict Evans at the Enders Analysis research firm. "The company grew at over 50% a year for almost three years and, on a purely mathematical basis, the growth rate was going to slow."Apple charges top dollar. While the brand accounts for just 11% of handsets bought, its premium prices mean it takes 60% of all profit in the industry, with the rest going to Samsung, says Evans. With many of the high spenders in western markets already Apple customers, the company may have to discount to reach a wider audience.And the cheaper machines produced by Samsung and Nokia are increasingly just as good at taking high-resolution photographs, flicking through web pages at top speed or guiding drivers through traffic.The Samsung Galaxy has gained a loyal army of fans. Photograph: ReutersInevitably, investors such as the hedge fund managerDavid Einhornhave been agitating for Apple to share some of its $137bn cash pile through dividends. The firm has consulted investors widely on how to do this. The difficulty is that most of its savings are held overseas and would incur a 30% tax charge if repatriated. Rather than pay that, Apple could fund a dividend from its $44bn a year in free cash flow from domestic sales.According to analyst Toni Sacconaghi at Sanford C Bernstein, investors want to get their hands on at least half the cash flow – $22bn a year, up from the $13bn Apple announced last March it would spend on dividends and buying back its shares to help boost the price. He said: "We think a cash-return programme that is smaller is likely to disappoint investors, while a higher number would likely be viewed favourably."Apple founder Steve Jobs had a healthy disdain for Wall Street. Photograph: APCook revealed in a TV interview last year that Apple co-founder Steve Jobs advised him to never wonder "what would Steve do?" and just do what was right. Jobs had a healthy disdain for Wall Street and never agreed to a dividend.In his relations with investors, Cook has beaten his own path. But it is a sign of how much Apple has changed in the past year that financial engineering could do more than the next phone or tablet to push up the value of the 1m shares Cook was granted on becoming chief executive after Jobs died.
Ebay has begun lobbying millions of its users against a bill it claims will impose an unfair tax burden on small businesses.The US Senate is expected to vote early this week on the Marketplace Fairness Act, a bill that will give states the power to collect online sales tax on goods bought outside their borders. Currently, only merchants with a physical presence within the state have the right to collect the sales tax.In emails that started going out over the weekend, eBay chief executive John Donahoe argues the bill unfairly burdens small online merchants and asks users to email members of Congress, asking for change. "This legislation treats you and big multi-billion dollar online retailers – such as Amazon – exactly the same," Donahoe wrote. "Those fighting for this change refuse to acknowledge that the burden on businesses like yours is far greater than for a big national retailer."The legislation has the backing of big retailers including WalMart and Sears and even Amazon, the largest online retailer. Amazon is rolling out fulfillment centers across the US as it seeks to speed up delivery times. Its physical presence and the use of associates to fulfill orders means its sales are often already subject to the state sales tax. In 2011, Amazon clashed with California legislators over plans to impose a sales tax on the online giant. That dispute was ended after the company announced it was planning to build two fulfillment centers in the state.Merchants that generate less than $1m in annual out-of-state revenue would be excluded from the Marketplace Fairness Act. In his email, Donahoe argued that merchants with less than $10m in annual out-of-state sales should be exempt.Brian Bieron, eBay's senior director of global public policy, said: "This is a bad bill. It will make it harder for small businesses to compete." He accused Amazon of trying to stifle competition. "Every small retailer out there is a potential competitor for them," he said.The bill's author, Republican senator Mike Enzi, last week spoke to constituents in Wyoming who had expressed concerns about the tax. "This is not a tax on the internet," he said. "It's not a new tax. No one should tax the internet. I oppose government policies that favor some businesses over another and that's what we're doing right now. This is a states' rights bill and it would require the states to act before anything could happen. It also exempts businesses until they have $1m in online sales."Sales tax is the main source of revenue for cities, towns and counties and even the state. It provides the money for roads, police, fire protection. If we don't collect that revenue, they'll have to find a new source."The legislation has the backing of the senate majority leader, Democrat Harry Reid, but is being opposed by others including the Democrat Ron Wyden. Wyden argued in the senate last week that the bill would stifle innovation, impose an unfair burden on small business and give foreign businesses an unfair advantage over American companies."Maybe the sponsors of the bill should want to rename it the 'shop Canada' or 'shop Mexico' [bill], because that's what it will be," he said.
Google's chairman, Eric Schmidt, has defended the search engine's tax avoidance policies, saying "we fully comply with the law" after paying just £6m in corporation tax in the UK.Schmidt's comments drew an angry response from a member of the parliamentary public accounts committee (PAC), who accused the company of treating tax payments as a "voluntary act".In an interview with the BBC, Schmidt defended the fact that Google paid corporation tax of £6m in 2011 despite recording annual revenues of £2.5bn in Britain. He said: "You're describing the way taxes work globally. And the fact of the matter is these are the way taxes are done globally. The same is true for British firms operating in the US, for example."Schmidt defended Google's tax affairs by pointing to the support that the company gives to startup businesses. He said: "We empower literally billions of pounds of startups through our advertising network and so forth. And we're a key part of the electronic commerce expansion of Britain, which is driving a lot of economic growth for the country. So from our perspective you have to look at it in totality."He added that if the tax system were to change to force Google to pay more tax, "we will comply". He said too that Google employs more than 2,000 people in the UK and is "investing heavily in Britain".But Fiona Mactaggart, a Labour member of the PAC, which issued ascathing report on the tax policies of Google, the bookseller Amazon and the coffee chain Starbucks, told the Guardian: "It is clear from these words that Google regards payment of taxes as to some extent voluntary."All the companies which the PAC have criticised, because they pay less corporation tax than an independent observer would expect, remind us that they pay payroll tax or contribute to the economy in other ways."She added: "In Britain, with our stagnant economy, we are glad of that, but we do expect a level playing field between UK-based companies and multinationals; they should pay their proper share of corporation tax. It is clear that multinational companies like Google have established profitable legal ways to opt out of tax liabilities. This is wrong, and we cannot wait till this issue is fixed through the protracted process of international negotiation."Starbucks said that it would voluntarily pay more tax after the UK furore, pledging to pay £20m to HM Revenue and Customs. But neither Amazon,which uses a Luxembourg location to substantially reduce its tax obligations, nor Google, which has its European headquarters in Ireland and ultimately remits its non-US revenues through the Cayman Islands, has offered to make any changes.Schmidt insisted that "Google is very strongly committed to Britain", adding: "We're hiring lots of people. It's a very, very good business environment for us. People are very creative, there's a lot of startups, we enable a lot of creativity."The PAC said in its report: "We aren't convinced that [Google's] action in using the letter of tax laws both nationally and internationally to immorally minimise their tax obligations is defensible."Bill Dodwell, head of tax policy at Deloitte, said: "In principle he [Schmidt] is absolutely right. Obviously there isn't a direct UK equivalent to Google, but the idea that a British company could be based in the UK and sell to the US without incurring tax is perfectly possible."For example, there are UK companies that sell their goods and services via eBay and Amazon Marketplace that are bought by Americans. They don't incur any tax in the US."It will take the world a while to work out a better way to tax firms like Google."The problem you have is some of the western European countries and America do not want to give away a huge chunk of money [in lost tax revenues] to countries like China and India who might benefit, so it will take a while for politicians to come to any agreement."Meanwhile, German data protection authorities fined the company €150,000 (£128,000) for breaching privacy regulations by collecting and storing Wi-Fi data – including the content of emails and web addresses – from homes and offices while it was compiling its Street View photographic guide between 2008 and 2010.Hamburg's data regulator, Johannes Caspar, said: "In my view, this is one of the biggest data protection rules violations known." He added in an interview with Bloomberg that Google's "internal control mechanisms must have severely failed".Schmidt insisted that "those are the actions of a single individual that were not authorised by the executives".However, evidence released to the US Federal Communications Commission – which also investigated the case – showed that the collection code was signed off by the leaders of the team."Google of course is not perfect," Schmidt said. "In that particular case we actually disclosed it immediately and there were in fact no privacy violations. But it shows how seriously we take privacy and how important privacy is to everybody."Google is also under investigation by six data protection authorities in Europe over its unified privacy policy, which they say doesn't provide enough data for users to understand its implications.
UBC Media is in talks with a number of US-based venture capital companies about investing in AudioBoo, in a funding round that could potentially value the audio social network at more than £10m.UBC, which is thelargest shareholder in AudioBoowith a 37% stake, has appointed Pagemill Partners of Palo Alto, California to lead the fundraising round.In a statement UBC said that the latest round of fundraising – which if it successful will mean AudioBoo will be worth significantly more than the £2m it was valued at following the last round of investment – will involve bringing on board a new lead investor.This means UBC Media will reduce its stake, although it is understood the company has no intention of selling up entirely, but it is not clear if it will remain the largest shareholder following the conclusion of the fundraising round.In a statement to the stockmarket, UBC Media said AudioBoo is going through a period of "rapid growth" with active users quadrupling to 4.4 million year on year in the six months to the end of March, with "listens" per month more than doubling to 8.2m.In addition, Imagination, the British technology company that counts Apple and Intel as shareholders, has upped its stake in UBC Media from 10% to potentially 15%.To reach the 15% control mark, Imagination, which owns the Pure radio brand and also holds a stake in music service 7Digital, has to fulfill certain "commercial conditions" this year in relation to projects it is working on with UBC.UBC, which supplies multimedia content to the BBC and 250 commercial radio stations, said its interactive division has also signed the first overseas deal for internet radio service RadioPlayer.The service, which in the UK is backed by the BBC and the commercial radio industry, has been licensed to Digitalradio Norge, the body representing radio broadcasters in Norway.UBC said in that it expects turnover to by up 17% year on year to £3.8m in the 12 months to the end of March. However, operating losses are expected to be about £600,000, a 20% increase year on year."The progress in our domestic and international business with Radioplayer and the growth at AudioBoo are exciting developments and put us at the heart of the way the radio industry is creating its digital future," said Simon Cole, chief executive of UBC. "I'm pleased that our progress in these areas, and our commercial partnerships with Imagination, have led to them becoming more significant shareholders. There is much we can achieve together".The AIM-listed UBC has a market capitalisation of about £5m.Earlier this month, AudioBoo founder Mark Rock announced that he isto leave the company on 1 Mayafter "internal tensions", but that he will remain a significant shareholder with a seat on the board.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email media@guardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook.
According to Twitter, its newTwitter #musiciPhone app"will change the way people find music".Quite a claim, for an app based around two familiar ways of discovering artists and songs – one traditional (browsing charts) and one that's been well mined in recent times (finding music based on your social networking contacts).Still, there's potential in Twitter #music, in the same way that Twitter's Vine app is becoming something more creative and interesting than the hipster animated-GIF creator it seemed when it launched in January.That's partly because the new app is based on the technology of one of the genuinely-interesting music startups of recent years, We Are Hunted, which Twitter stealthily acquired several months ago.That company first made its name back in 2009 by aggregating data from streaming music services like Last.fm, iLike and MySpace Music – the names certainly capture a point in time – as well as Twitter, BitTorrent and music blogs, and turning it into a daily chart of songs that were causing a stir online.In the years since, We Are Hunted added new sources like Spotify, launched a series of mobile apps –Pocket Hipster,SuperSonicandMusic Huntercan still be found on the iOS App Store, whileWe Are Hunted lives on for Android– and most recentlymade its own Spotify app.The point is that Twitter hasn't just knocked up a nice-looking music discovery app in a couple of months. It went out and bought a team who've been doing this longer than most.The difference with Twitter #music, though, is that the focus has been narrowed. The charts here aren't drawing from anywhere other than Twitter: separate lists for Popular and Emerging tracks; a #NowPlaying chart of songs tweeted by people you follow on Twitter; and suggestions for artists you may like.Preview clips come from iTunes – Twitter and Apple have had a friendly working relationship for some time now – but if you're a paying subscriber for streaming services Spotify or Rdio, you can sign in to those within the app to play full-length tracks.When playing songs, you can tap to pop up a virtual turntable with spinning artwork – skeuomorphism ahoy! – from which you can tweet your thoughts on the track, complete with a #NowPlaying hashtag and a link for followers to hear it.Rumours prior to Twitter #music's release suggested thatSoundCloud, YouTube and Vevo would also be integrated, although they're not present at launch. The speculation about the latter two, based on developers digging into Twitter's registration webpage for the new service, suggests scope for music videos to be added in the future.It's an impressive app: easy to use, with the emphasis on artists' profile thumbnails giving it a busy, modern look. A look that'll be familiar if you've ever used We Are Hunted's website or Spotify app, incidentally.Twitter #music also lends itself to exploration, particularly when you click through to artists' profiles, where you can follow them on Twitter, but also browse which other musicians they're following.Twitter #music is also available as a websiteAs a source of personalised recommendations, the app's usefulness may depend on how you use Twitter already. I love music, but my tastes are better identified from my iTunes collection, my Spotify play-data and my Last.fm scrobbles than from my Twitter habits.Personally, I use Twitter more as a work tool. My own profile page in Twitter #music shows that I'm only following six artists (Primal Scream, Yacht, Jagwar Ma, Disclosure, Ben Folds and Chemical Brothers, since you ask). That translates into a Suggestions chart – Iggy Pop, Paul Weller, Thin Lizzy, Keith Richards etc – that isn't really hitting the spot.In time, there's no reason why Twitter #music can't take in data from other sources to make more relevant recommendations, although I'm not holding my breath for Facebook Likes to be part of the picture.Twitter #music is currently only available for iPhone in selected countries – the US, Canada, UK, Ireland, Australia and New Zealand – with plans to launch elsewhere in the world, and on Android devices "over time".The service also has a website –music.twitter.com– which works much like the mobile version, with a drop-down menu to switch between charts, and playable artist thumbnails representing each song. I tried accessing it from a Nexus 7 Android tablet, but no luck – just a "Coming Soon" message.For iPhone owners, Twitter #music is a polished app, though. The Emerging chart, in particular, holds promise as a way to spot up and coming songs, although you could say the same thing about apps like Hype Machine and Shuffler.fm that aggregate music blogs.Is Twitter #music going to "change the way people find music" though? I'm not convinced. Why not? Because if there's a big trend in the world of digital music in 2013, it's every service redoubling its efforts to be better at music discovery.Spotify devoted an entire press launch to its plansin December 2012, for example, and has just rolled out a Twitter-like "follow" model to help people get more recommendations from friends, musicians and tastemakers alike.Deezer, Rdio, Rhapsody and others are all working hard on discovery, while Apple's long-anticipated personal radio service – dubbed "iRadio" by the media – is expected to be pitched as an intuitive way to discover new music, then (possibly) buy it on iTunes.The point is that better music discovery features are coming to pretty much every digital music service this year, including their mobile apps.Unified apps for people to play their own music (whether that's files stored on the device or playlists saved in the cloud) as well as discover new stuff. Twitter #music has focused on the latter, but it's missing the former, which I suspect will limit the amount of time music fans spend using the app.How about adding a fully-fledged player mode capable of drawing on people's iTunes/iCloud music collections, or accessing their Spotify and Rdio playlists, and then using those data sources to beef up the relevance of the Suggestions section?Then Twitter #music could make a real impact. As things stand, it's significant more for showing that Twitter has ambitions to do even more in music, than for actually changing the way its 200m users find and listen to songs.
There was a fascinating moment during theQ+A part of Google's first-quarter earningsat the end of last week. Here's how it came about, as the chief executive Larry Page was being asked about this and that.Scott Devitt - Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. LLCQ:...for Larry, could you just discuss the transition in Android management and what exactly Andy Rubin is going to be doing now that he has a new role? Thank you.And here's what Page replied. Emphasis added.Larry Page - Chief Executive Officer[On] the management change question, I think, as we've already said, we've really exceeded crazy ambitious goals we dreamed of for Android. It's the most used mobile operating system in the world and a very big thanks to Andy for that.He really decided it was time to hand over the reins and start a new chapter at Google. And we actually have an outside – we haven't said what that is and I'm not going to make news today on that.And actually going forward, Sundar [Pichai] is going to lead Android in addition to his existing work on Chrome and apps. He has a great talent for creating products that are really technically excellent yet easy to use and he loves a big bet too. So, we said how that performed I think we had very smooth transition and of course excited about the future.Note that bit in the middle: Rubin is going to start a new chapter at Google. And Google has an outsidesomething(or someone?) lined up to get involved. An outside company? Executive? Interest? It's something that will "make news".What's more, it's something that's already quite close to happening, because there's this outside interest (executive? company?).Where do we look for clues? His Google+ page isn't that busy - though perhaps you'd expect that a top executive wouldn't spend much time updating a social networking page. Themost recent entryat the time of writing is from the Acer/Alibaba row, which dates back to September 2012. So no clues there.But there's his letter to Android partners on leaving his position in charge of that, where he said:I am an entrepreneur at heart and now is the right time for me to start a new chapter within Google. I am amazed by what we have accomplished from those early days (not so long ago!), and remain passionate about the power of a simple idea and a shared goal -- an open source platform freely available to everyone -- to transform computing for people everywhere.Two things we could probably expect from a Rubin-led project: it will be open-source, and it will be focussed around the early stages of something that could grow very big. Plus it's likely he'll focus on something he's interested in.Don't forget, Rubin has an amazing record in entrepreneurship. Android was a company he co-founded before selling it to Google in 2005. Before that, he was at Danger - which made the Hiptop, a hugely successful sort-of smartphone. Before that, WebTV Networks, an interactive TV-based online service - acquired in 1995 by Microsoft. And before that he worked at General Magic, one of the proto-companies that has shaped how many of today's smartphones work.But in his spare time, Rubin is a tinkerer - specifically with robots. Some of creations can, apparently, be found at the Tech Museum of Innovation in San Jose, California.So what could it be that's coming up from Rubin? Given Rubin's past, and his interest in robots, could Google be about to do something fascinating with robots? Perhaps drones? Bear in mind that he's good at spotting the rising tide. Drones are a bit corporate; not many people have the need for their own. But a robot? It's like the natural follow-on from the self-driving car.With luck, perhaps we'll know soon enough.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 20 April 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Injustice: Gods Among Us(16+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (41)12 (1)Bioshock Infinite(18+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (32)PC (6)43 (–)Fire Emblem: Awakening(12+)3DS (101)14 (2)Tomb Raider(18+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (42)PC (4)75 (4)Defiance(18+)Xbox 360 (71)PS3 (24)PC (5)36 (3)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (31)VITA (6)Wii (3)307 (6)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II(18+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (33)PC (2)Wii U (1)238 (5)Luigi's Mansion 2(7+)3DS (100)49 (12)Tiger Woods PGA Tour 14(3+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)410 (10)Far Cry 3(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (40)PC (9)2111 (14)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (25)PC (16)6812 (9)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (33)Wii (18)PS3 (16)DS (15)4113 (7)Assassin's Creed III(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (42)Wii U (6)2514 (15)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (46)Xbox 360 (27)PS3 (15)3DS (5)2715 (8)Gears Of War: Judgment(18+)Xbox 360 (100)516 (20)Sniper: Ghost Warrior 2(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (42)PC (7)617 (11)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)PS3 (44)Xbox 360 (43)VITA (10)Wii U (2)2518 (–)God Of War: Ascension(18+)PS3 (100)419 (17)Sonic & All Stars Racing Transformed(7+)Xbox 360 (36)3DS (21)PS3 (21)Wii U (13)1720 (–)Sleeping Dogs(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (46)12UKIE Games Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A selection of links, hand-picked by the Guardian games writers.Modern Warfare 4 could reveal early May | The Official Xbox MagazineIn utter defiance of all known precedent, Activision may release another Call of Duty title this year. Also in utter defiance of all known precedent, said Call of Duty title may go public at or shortly before E3 in June.So what will Infinity Ward do with the series this time? Can we expect anything fundamentally new? What will John Price be up to now? So many questions.Nintendo: our digital sales are soaring | GamesIndustry.biz UKGIbiz has been talking to Nintendo of America boss Reggie Fils-Aime tells:"When the NPD numbers come out later this week, you're going to see life-to-date 3DS game sales surpass 20 million units in the US," says Fils-Aime. "And that's just physical. It doesn't include digital sales. ... So far in 2013 - through April 15 - 3DS game sales are up 55 percent versus last year, counting both physical and digital."67 percent of all Nintendo 3DS owners have connected their 3DS to the Internet so far. And most of those have found something of interest in the eShop."Through that connected experience, consumers have downloaded more than 41 million items from the eShop - everything from full games to applications like Nintendo video, DLC, demos, free items, and more," says Fils-Aime.He also promised that Nintendo will ramp up Wii U game releases as the next-gen consoles begin their pre-launch marketing. Too little, too late?One of those rumored Sega Pluto systems is up for auction | JoystiqLast week we linked to a story on the Sega Pluto, a never released prototype that combined a Sega Saturn with a Netlink modem. Now, another one has turned up on an auction site:The owner, username kidvid666, has a unit up for auction on Game Gavel, with bids starting at $1 and set in $100 increments. Three people have thrown in so far, with the top bid at $7,600. Remember, kidvid666 says he bought this thing for $1 at a garage sale five years ago.Kidvid666 says he's done his research on this thing's potential value and he has a hidden high reserve, but he started at $1 to get a feel for demand. At $7,600, the reserve price has not been met. Bidding closes at midnight the morning of April 26.Tempting...Live Free, Play Hard: The Week's Finest Free Indie Games | Rock, Paper, ShotgunGame developer Porpentine has put together another intriguing selection of free indie games for Rock Paper Shotgun. The opener isDo Not Touch:Do Not Touch is a video game.It is a game that is a video.It is powered by time travel.It is made of hundreds of strangers choices traveling like sperm.I had another paragraph typed but I deleted it because doing anything but playing this spectacular example of pure play is bullshit.LA girl scouts can get video game design badge | Wired UKThe Girl Scouts of Greater Los Angeles have partnered with Women in Games International to launch a badge for designing videogames.Young female game designers need to use E-line's Gamestar Mechanic software to earn the badge, which is compatible with the Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths (STEM) initiative."Our ultimate goal is to create a STEM-aligned video game badge for the Girl Scouts of the United States of America," said Amy Allison, Women in Games International's vice president. "Creating this badge will get young girls excited in technology and science and let them know that they, too, can have a career in the video game industry."A Journey to Monaco: Andy Schatz Looks Back | GamasutraA very thorough and fascinating look at the making of this brilliant heist game. Writer Mike Rose and developer Andy Schatz really get to the heart of the process and passion behind independent games:"We had been working on another project that got cancelled," Schatz tells me. "We were working on a game for that movie Sahara, the one with Matthew McConaughey, and it was a trainwreck."To be honest, the whole company was a bit of a trainwreck. But while the biz dev people were scrambling to find us more work, I was thinking, 'We've got a bunch of people just sitting around doing nothing.' So I went into my boss and said 'If I bring in some game concepts of mine, would you mind if we prototyped them?'"Finding the end of the map in ShootMania | ImgurI love this – it's just a series of captioned screenshots, showing the author attempting to walk to the very edge of a map in Shootmania, Ubisofts design-it-yourself shooter.Ah shit. Now it's getting trippy.I'll leave it at that, but go and have a look.Why I'll Never Work on First-Person Shooters Again | GameDev.netThe amount of cash up for grabs in the business of Shooting People in the Face is simply staggering.I understand. It's not just the money. There's a magnetic, almost shamanic aura that pervades our favorite shoot-em-up games. We'll wait in line at 2AM to buy the new consoles that feel like they were built for these games. We'll eagerly plunk down hundreds of dollars for deluxe editions with extra digital uniforms, special guns, or plastic tchotkes that bring the game closer to an idyllic reflection of ourselves - truly, our own lives, own hopes and dreams are wound up in these experiences - the fact that thirty million other people believe and contribute to this shared vision only adds to the intoxication we feel.You can followPress Start at Pinboard.
