Ilovethis topic, and it's great when more data comes in to confirm my suspicions that most female characters you meet in online games are actually played by men. In fact, according to Nick Yee'slatest additionto his MMOG-demographic site, theDaedalus Project,Given a hypothetical pool of 1000 players [in World of Warcraft]:840 would be male players 160 would be female playersOf the 840 male players:193 would be playing a female character 647 would be playing a male characterOf the 160 female players:5 would be playing a male character 155 would be playing a female character...In other words:about 1 out of every 2 female characters is played by a man about 1 out of every 100 male characters is played by a womanThe RL gender distribution is 84% male vs. 16% female. The in-game gender distribution is 65% male vs. 35% female.The most fantastic thing about these numbers are the responses they get over the interweb.From comments on Nick's site:I'm a female who plays mostly female characters. Whether or not you get attention from male players who want to shower you with "gifts" depends, like rl, on if you act like a tramp or not. The sexier, flirtier, more helpless you act, the more you will attract that sort of organ-driven male player to give you things...So before you assume that every female character gets more stuff because of the sex of the character, know that it has nothing to do with the sexual representation of the toon, but on the flirty, slutty way males play those females.I will also tell you that most women can tell which females are being played by males after hanging out with them even a short time because they play women the way their little pubescent little dreams WANT their women to act. Most women, women of any quality at all, do not act in RL the way most males play their female characters.And another:My husband plays female characters in WoW because he thinks all the male models are ugly and strangely proportioned. Playing an attractive character is more important to him than matching his gender.FromWonderland:Erk. The M-F ratio is very scary, I thought WoW had got it more right than that, but I guess MMOs still fall into the OMG THAT'S SO NERDY bracket. Cute night elves are clearly not enough of a draw for the mainstream - or, they haven't been marketed right.For other thoughts, check out Dr. K's classicinvestigationonWomenGamersabout why men gender bend.
A friend of mine, who is normal in every way, confided to me last year that she maintains a blog. It is essentially a daily diary into which she pours observations about love, life and whatever else is on her mind.When she first revealed her online activities, I naturally dismissed her as just another hopelessly narcissistic individual with too much time and technology. She might be all those things, but she is not the only one: a new blog, I discover, is created every second, with the number doubling every five months. The current tally of blogs apparently stands at 14.2 million.I can see the purpose of blogs that have a journalistic or political function, and even those where bloggers add their comments to articles published in the press. The purpose of the blog as online diary, however, baffles me. I kept a diary when I was younger and the idea that anyone might see it would have horrified me - although, as it turned out, my sister was reading all along. With blogs, the whole point is that strangers read them.So if there are going to be blog diaries I think we need a new etiquette: is it, for instance, appropriate to read someone's blog if you suspect that you are being mentioned? My friend has told me that she has written about me, but to read the blog would, I feel, be violating something private. Am I being too 20th century? Bloggers, over to you.
The mobile phone could overtake the internet as the most popular medium for music downloads before the year is out, the global record industry lobby group has predicted.In its 12th annual global report released yesterday, the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry said 3G technology would drive the growth of digital music downloads to mobiles. UK mobile phone companies are predicting 3G sales to boom this Christmas, as handsets become more affordable. "Many more specialist phones are expected to compete with portable digital devices like the iPod," the IFPI said.The $500m (&pound;280m) the record industry derived from worldwide downloads last year was split evenly between mobiles and the internet. As 90% of the population in markets like the UK have a mobile, compared with 10% who own a digital music player, the IFPI expects phone downloads to soon outstrip the internet."Everyone has a phone. Anytime from this year mobile &#91;music downloads&#93; could be bigger than online," the IFPI's market research director Keith Jopling said.Digital download sales, which now account for 5% of record company turnover, are expected to double every six months for the next few years.Universal remains the world's biggest record company, with a 25.5% share of the &pound;33.6bn market, thanks to its large North American presence and artists such as Eminem, Black Eyed Peas and U2. Sony BMG was second, with a 21.5% share, followed by EMI at 13.4% and Warner at 11.3%. Independent labels maintained their share at 28.4%.CD albums accounted for 85% of total music sales in 2004, boosted by better marketing and reduced prices.The internet remains the fastest growing retail channel for CD sales, accounting for 10% of CD sales in the UK last year. The IFPI said illegal file sharing had peaked, and there was now an equal number of pirates and people legally downloading tracks.For the first time the IFPI's report included revenues from the public performance of music and music videos. Royalties from webcasts, radio and TV broadcasts, and music played in bars and nightclubs, have risen 20% in the last five years to $493m in 2004. This is 2% of record company revenue.
Great to see today that indie developer, PomPom, is creating an updated version ofMutant Stormfor the Xbox 360 Live Arcade. The thrilling psychedelic shoot-'em-up - a blistering tribute to Robotron and the days of the relentless 2D shooter - originally appeared as a downloadable PC title, where it quickly gained renown. Microsoft then commissioned PomPom to produce a fresh version for the Xbox Live Arcade. The 360 outing, currently codenamed Mutant Storm Reloaded will be a launch title, while a full sequel is promised for the second half of 2006.So, Mutant Storm andAlien Hominidhitting the consoles,Darwiniaamong the nominees in this year'sEdge Awards- is the indie gaming scene turning into a videogame equivalent of the live music circuit, with A&amp;R men hanging around in the shadows, waving contracts and promising to turn programmers into superstars? Well, we'll see. Some of us thought Yaroze represented a new dawn for the bedroom coder, but look what happened to that. Actually, whatdidhappen to that?Clearly, the 'gulf' between indie and mainstream production values is narrowing, and there seems to be a general realisation in the industry that ideas, style and taut gameplay may drive the next generation, rather than visuals. Either that or I've been out in the sun too long again today.
If you saw a button labelled "Sport" on the dashboard of an unfamiliar car, you'd push it, wouldn't you? Let's say you were 10 years old and sitting in the passenger seat. You'd think: "Sport. What the hell does that do?" And then you'd push it.Here's what it does: it temporarily transforms a trim but otherwise sensible-looking three-door Astra into a rapacious, road-eating beast. More specifically, it changes the throttle response to give "crisper initial acceleration". This comes as a bit of a shock when you've just put your foot down in the hopes of traversing a busy junction before the lights change. The purring of the engine rose an octave, and the minivan in front of me was suddenly rendered in extreme close-up. "Don't do that again," I said.But curiosity got the better of me and, a few hundred yards later, I was telling him to do it again. "This time wait till we hit the bend, then engage." The Sport button, it transpires, also makes the steering more responsive, but it's hard to judge the precise difference unless you're veering about maniacally as you switch it on, and it's difficult to find roads where this sort of thing is tolerated. While it provided us with a fair few minutes of entertainment, I must confess I do not see the point of this facility. Looked at another way, this is a button that gives you a burst of sluggishness and muddy steering whenever you turn it off. If one mode is demonstrably better than the other, why have a button in the first place?The idea, it seems, is to give people the option of driving according to one's mood. To my mind, mood ought to be less of a consideration when choosing a driving style than, say, weather conditions. Allowing people to select a distinct automotive "feel" without switching vehicles ("Here, just press the dune buggy button! Or try this one: sledge!") simply contributes to the dangerous and already pervasive delusion that driving is some kind of virtual experience unconnected with a large hunk of metal moving at speed. If nothing else, they should put the button in the boot, so you can't keep changing your mind.In many ways, the Astra Sport Hatch is neither fish nor fowl, but this is not necessarily the result of compromise. This is not the basic, one-up-from-the-house-white vehicle it still resembles from certain angles. Nor is it simply a compacted, low-slung version of its dowdier cousins, the Astra Life, the Astra Design and the Astra, erm, Expression. It's got plenty of power and the ability to control it. It is a car that exudes a quiet confidence, or when in Sport mode, a slightly louder confidence. It is difficult to summon up an image of the typical Astra Sport Hatch owner - perhaps neither quite fish nor fowl himself - but if this car could hold its own on a test track, it also wouldn't look out of place stopped in a lay-by for a nice cup of tea and a few sandwiches. The interior is very comfortable. You wouldn't even need to stretch your legs.In this sense, it may be the perfect car for me. Although I frequent neither test tracks nor lay-bys, these days I sometimes find myself fantasising about both. If the phrase "Sport Hatch" puts one in mind of an overgrown boy racer, the words "Vauxhall" and "Astra" remain firmly associated with the sort of old-fashioned pragmatism I'm beginning to find deeply attractive. Even as I zipped through traffic listening to the stern voice of the satellite navigation woman (she was constantly attempting to direct me to the home of the car's previous driver; I couldn't figure out how to shut her up), my chief thought was: "I'm in a Vauxhall! If I crash think how inexpensive the repairs will be!" I was thrilled by the news that the company has introduced a cheaper way to replace windscreens and that parts of the headlamp unit may be replaced individually. I imagined nipping down to the dealership to have the electric wing mirrors reattached for a wholly reasonable price, rather than having to stick them back on with packing tape, as I've done on my own car.In the end, I did not get to test the Astra's eminent reparability, nor did I have need of its comprehensive array of airbags. The local vandals left its wing mirrors alone. I barely got a chance to admire its comparative parsimony with petrol, or fill up its capacious boot. Instead, I put it into sport mode and gunned off to strange places - the sort of anonymous, leafy places I imagined Astra owners called home. Then I set the steering back to vanilla and let the SatNav woman guide me home (my son eventually mastered the system, but he couldn't work out how to make her sound less patronising). It seems you really can have it both ways with your Astra. Just not at the same time. Giles Smith is away.The lowdownVauxhall Astra Sport Hatch SRi 2.0 TurboPrice: &#163;17,875 (range from &#163;14,175)Top speed: 136mphAcceleration: 0-60mph in 7.9 secsConsumption: 31.4mpg (combined)At the wheel: A beatnik accountantOn the stereo: A woman telling you to turn left at the next roundaboutEn route for: A country gastropub with valet parking
Google has removed two adverts taken out by the Association of University Teachers (AUT) as part of its campaign against Brunel University.The adverts condemning Brunel's employment policies were launched last week and popped up every time keywords including Brunel, university and Steven Schwartz, the name of the university's vice-chancellor, were keyed into the search engine.One said: "Brunel - AUT's prospectus. Staff are treated with contempt! Will students be treated better?"A second, under the title Contemplating Brunel? said: "Brunel Uni axes teaching staff! Support the AUT greylist today". Both link to a section on the AUT's website dedicated to the union's "greylisting" of the university, which calls on other academics to boycott the university.Staff at the union have now received an email from Google informing them that their "Ad text" adverts have been suspended as they do not meet the website's guidelines and are ruled to contain "unacceptable content".Google would not comment on the specifics of the case but pointed towards its policy which reads: "Ad text advocating against any organisation or person (public, private, or protected) is not permitted. Stating disagreement with or campaigning against a candidate for public office, a political party or public administration is generally permissible."Matt Waddup, the assistant general-secretary of the AUT said: "We are disappointed that Google has chosen to take our adverts down. We have no information about who asked for them to do that.""We've got a few more tricks up our sleeve," he added.A spokeswoman for Brunel said that no one from the university had approached Google over the adverts.The online adverts are the latest in the battle between the university and the union since 60 redundancies were announced last September by the vice-chancellor, who insists the changes are necessary to boost the university's research profile.The AUT has held an online vote of no confidence in the university's management, called on other academics to boycott working with the university and even nominated Prof Schwartz as the country's worst boss as part of a Channel 4 series.The 10-month-old dispute has also seen both the union and the university take out adverts stating their case in newspapers.
And following on from the post below - I have been reviewing the Charlie and the Chocolate game for theOnline sectionthis coming Thursday. I should have known it would be bad when the review copy turned up after the game was already out. But I didn't think it would be this appalling. Think terrible camera, wonky AI and a horribly unfinished feel and you're a quarter way there. Apologies to any parents or readers who have already bought a copy.
I saw Charlie and the Chocolate Factory on Sunday night and, among other subtle 21st century additions included in the update by director Tim "Film God" Burton, Mike TeeVee, the original gun-totin'-cowboy-lovin-TV-obsessed little kid, was armed with a computer game controller. Well, you can just imagine what kind of young tyke he was: surly, violent and generally embittered.While midly embarassed and irritated by this choice, it struck me that, apart from the game controller, the Mike TeeVee character was essentially the same as that whichRoald Dahlwrote in 1964 and Paris Themmen brought to the silver screen in theGene Wilder-helmed 1971 version. This addition/omission (depending on which way you look at it) gives fuel to my fire that computer games are simply the latest social pariah, as television was only three decades ago. Either that or maybe Bart Simpson was right when he wisely said, "If I don't look at the violence, how will I become desensitized to it?"I also found it rather ironic that a film which made such a social comment about comptuer games has a very successful computer game tied into it.
With just a month to go until Sony PlayStation Portable finally gets its official release in Europe, we thought it would be a good time to talk to Carl Christopher, head of events at Sony PSP. And so we did.Read more...
Interesting? People leaving a closing beach. Photograph:Veerle VercauterenSome new features have been rolled out onFlickr, the photo-sharing website which recently celebrated its millionth user. Those features include "Interestingness", which searches for what it deems the most intriguing photos.Just taking a look at the fantastic stream of pictures from the lasttwenty-four hours, it seems to be working well.
The record industry yesterday stepped up its battle against those who illegally share music over the internet, issuing formal court proceedings for the first time against five people with whom it has failed to negotiate financial settlements.The British Phonographic Industry trade body said the five had refused to pay up after being identified as making a total of 8,906 pirated tracks available to other web users.It has agreed settlements of up to &pound;6,500 each with 60 other UK internet users. They were targeted as part of a drive against a problem that the industry says has contributed to a 25% decline in global record sales in six years. Several settled on behalf of their children.While record labels believe they are beginning to turn the tide, convincing internet users to shift to legal services such as Apple's iTunes Music Store, the BPI's chairman, Peter Jamieson, said it would not shy away from further legal action."We cannot let illegal file sharers off the hook," he said. "They are undermining the legal services, they are damaging music, and they are breaking the law."The five people, who live in King's Lynn, Crawley, Port Talbot, Brighton and South Glamorgan, were first contacted by the BPI in April. They are expected to appear in court within weeks to face civil proceedings.
Empire Online, the poker web portal group that floated on Aim last month, said the number of new punters registering on its websites has grown strongly after slowing down in the three months to July. Noam Lanir, the chief executive of Empire, which has a market value of about &pound;700m, said the number of gamblers coming through its portals slowed in part because the World Series of Poker started later than it had in 2004.Mr Lanir said the group had substantially increased business in Scandinavia, where seasonal swings in daylight hours affected the amount of poker played.Empire owns and promotes its own web domain names, such as onlinepoker.com, where customers are connected to online poker providers such as PartyGaming and Cassava. Its figures are seen as something of a weathervane for growth in the industry.New punters registering through Empire doubled in the first six months of the year but slowed from 49,400 in the first quarter to 42,800 in the second quarter. Since then, however, Empire said trading had been "strong". Empire shares closed up 5.5p at 236.5p.
Newly released screenshots of forthcoming book-to-movie-to-game conversion The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe remain among the most popular assets on industry siteGamespressthis week. Based on the forthcoming Disney adaptation of CS Lewis' childrens classic, developerTraveller's Talesis, predictably, promising a third-person action adventure, featuring "remarkable characters, heart pumping combat and rich environments". The press release goes on:"These four heroes must battle the evil forces of the White Witch by waging war against a vast variety of creatures, including, Minotaurs, Minoboars, Cyclops, Werewolves, Wraiths, Ankleslicers, Wolves, Boggles and more."Funny, there's no mention of the book's overt Christian symbolism here - just as EA's Lord of the Rings conversions rarely seem to ponder over Tolkien's insistence that the trilogy was, "fundamentally a religious and Catholic work".The thing is, a film maker will usually in some way attempt to communicate the thematic or symbolic undertones of a novel he is converting- if only to prove he's not some dumb hack. But do videogame developers share the same concerns? I mean, I'm not expecting them to put a little pointer above Aslan saying 'Look, it's Jesus!', but surely some kind of spiritual angle is quite important here isn't it? It's sort of quite vital to the book.Nah, I'm being daft. I suspect the novel was combed for exciting set-pieces and interesting creatures - but underlying themes? I very much doubt it. Strange isn't it, that an industry which is increasingly desperate to buddy up to movies and get itself perceived as a legitimate artform, can only look at source material - whether we're talking books or films - in terms of strings of images? Maybe it's down to the essential primitivism of games. Perhaps when interaction gets involved, stories just have to be flattened out.I'm not just talking about religion. When the forthcoming adaptations of Reservoir Dogs, Taxi Driver and Scar Face splutter into life, will they consciously explore themes of machismo, madness, guilt and sexuality like the source material? Or will we just get a few scenes ripped from the movies where we shoot people, and then shoot some more people with, like, cool music in the background?Finer academic minds than mine have sought - and felt that they have discovered - depth in the videogame canon. True, I think there is a spirituality running through the Final Fantasy series; I think the makers of Resident Evil understand the satircal elements of George Romero's zombie nightmares; I get the environmentalism of Metal Gear Solid. But this is fundamentally an artform of surface meaning. I don't care much for Christian symbolism, but, come on, if Christianity was a cool set-piece or a weird monster, you can bet it would be in that press release - there for fans to tick off knowingly.
Microsoft's high-profile campaign against software piracy has fallen foul of hackers only days after its launch.Under the Windows Genuine Advantage (WGA) scheme, users of Microsoft products are supposed to face online checks of the authenticity of their software each time they download updates over the internet.WGA, which was announced last week, was designed to counter what Microsoft sees as one of the greatest threats against its dominance of the software industry: pirated versions of its own products.However, hackers have discovered that just a single line of code turns off the programme that initiates the check. The code means that users can bypass having to verify the serial number of their Windows software before they download updates.Microsoft confirmed to Guardian Unlimited that it was investigating reports of the hack, but stressed that the security of Windows users had not been compromised.The authentication process was designed to be mandatory for all software updates except security patches. The news that it is not will come as a blow to Microsoft, which is finding its sheer size is limiting its scope for growth and is trying to improve its image in terms of the security of its applications.Despite challenges from rivals such as Linux, the open source operating platform, Microsoft still accounts for more than 90% of the desktop software market. However, it has been estimated that as many as a third of all Windows products being used are pirate copies, from which Microsoft receives no revenue.According to the Business Software Alliance, the cost of pirated software in the UK to national and international software publishers in the UK alone is worth over &#163;1bn a year.The company last week launched a test version of the next version of Windows, Windows Vista, to a limited number of computer experts who will check it for bugs. Mr Gates has made it clear that the new product will concentrate on countering hackers.Online criminals have focused on breaking into Windows software and applications such as Microsoft's Internet Explorer because they account for such a large part of the market. Vista was developed under the code name Longhorn and is due to be released to the general public in the second half of next year.Under WGA, users who are revealed to be running counterfeit copies of Windows should face one of two options.Customers who fill out a piracy report, provide proof of purchase and send in the counterfeit CDs will get a free copy of Windows. Those who simply submit a piracy report, giving details of when, where and from whom the operating system was purchased, and send in the counterfeit copy, will get Windows at half price.
Now, I'm no hacker, but there's obvious interest in the story ofMichael Lynn, who blew the whistle on a security loophole in Cisco routers (which are pretty important to the structure and strength of the net).Back story: Lynn - a reseacher for Internet Security Systems - resigned from his job, and then gave a public talk about the vulnerabilities he'd found in Cisco's router software. Cisco and ISS, which say Lynn was breaching the terms of his contract, have had as much of his materialremoved from the public domain, and started legal action against Lynn.He says the information is better public, but came to a settlement on Friday which effectively gags him from saying anything more.Yet another freedom of speech case, yet another attempt to get the security cat back in the big bag marked "for our eyes only". The law can protect whistleblowers in some circumstances. It doesn't look much like Lynn felt the law could save him, though.They might not have the courts on their side, but are whistleblowers like Lynn justified?
It's not quiteMonkey Islandon DS, or indeed, anywhere near, butBroken Sword: The Shadow of the Templarsis to be released on Palm PDAs. This is good news. So many developers/publishers are trying to replicate the home console experience on handhelds that they forget that, for example, 3D on the small screen often causes motion sickness. Or is that just me? Point n' click adventures would work fantastically well on handhelds -Another Codeis a good example. And with PSP likely to bring in an older audience, narrative-driven games like point and clickers would be even more appealing.
"It began with an argument. When he first met Larry Page in the summer of 1995, Sergey Brin was a second-year grad student in the computer science department at Stanford University. Gregarious by nature, Brin had volunteered as a guide of sorts for potential first-years - students who had been admitted, but were still deciding whether to attend. His duties included showing recruits the campus and leading a tour of nearby San Francisco. Page, an engineering major from the University of Michigan, ended up in Brin's group."Continue atWired...
I've lost all interest in games. MaybeKeith's right. Is it that it's the low season and there's jack diddly squat to get jazzed up about? Is it that I don't want to lock myself in a darkened room with nothing but high-energy cola and empty pizza boxes, plugging away at some sequel-or-other while there's sunshine to be had and kite surfing to learn and fresh air to be breathed...deeply?Perhaps that's why the summer seasonisn'tthe time to be promoting a product that is such a, well, indoor sport. I echo Keith's contention: bring on the autumn! Bring on XBox 360 and the PSP and Christmas releases! Bring on the darkness and the rain and the three hours of light per day! Give me a reason to plug myself back in!Is that why some of Europe's best pro gamers come from countries where night is plenty and daytime is cold?
The following correction was printed in the Observer's For the record column, Sunday August 7The comment piece below said the BBC took three hours to cover the Shepherd's Bush bombing attempt; the scene was covered live within minutes. The piece was also wrong when it said that the BBC News and CNN websites crashed on 7 July; the BBC recorded 115 million page impressions that day - a record. Apologies.Once upon a time, on 7 July, when London came under terrorist attack, Britain went into a frenzy, with hundreds of thousands of people trying to reach loved ones and find out just what was going on. Mobile phone networks crashed, unable to handle the traffic.Online news sites such as CNN, Sky and the BBC all went down that morning, overloaded with people desperately trying to check out the latest information. Yet hundreds of thousands of media-savvy web users turned to the message board on celebrity gossip site Popbitch to get news and information before anyone else.Why should a celebrity and pop culture site be the best place to go for up-to-date current affairs news? Well, back on 9/11, when the planes crashed into the Twin Towers, Popbitch was one of the few websites to remain accessible when all news sites crashed and phone lines went dead.The editor of a tabloid newspaper even confessed that Popbitch was a better resource for them on that day than the BBC. There is hardly a newsroom, magazine office or TV studio in the country that doesn't have an employee who reads or posts on Popbitch. Famously, it's the place to find out which celebrity is shagging their PA, or who is about to be dropped from their record label.But it's also just as essential for any big news story. Popbitch's community has sources from every media outlet. Serious news journalists share space with gossip columnists; online bloggers converse secretly with broadcasters; British writers swap tips with their counterparts in Sydney, New York and LA. It's become a one-stop shop to get a flavour of any news or gossip being posted on the net or the newswires.As terrorist bombs first exploded across London, we saw a rerun of the 9/11 phenomenon. What occurred back in 2001 wasn't a one-off but the birth of a new trend showcasing new media's superiority over the lumbering old media behemoth in times of national and international crisis, when events unfold so fast traditional methods of reporting just can't keep up.When Shepherd's Bush tube was targeted by a bomber, it apparently took the BBC three hours to get a reporter on to the scene, even though BBC TV Centre is less than a mile away. Online news sites can react much faster. And in terms of speed, Popbitch is to online news sites what online news sites are to newspapers.Popbitch's traffic skyrocketed. On 7 July, we saw a 300 per cent rise in users logging on during the first hours after the attacks. In the first hour, we had more than 10 times the usual hourly traffic. By the end of the day, we'd seen the second busiest day in our five-year history. The busiest since 9/11.So even if you couldn't contact anyone by phone, you could post that you were safe and well, and know that this would mean something to thousands of readers. And for the hours when virtually no one could access the global news sites for information, we had media insiders helping to break much of what was happening around the capital on Popbitch.This trend continued on 21 July, when the attempted bombings hit the tube and bus networks. Traffic shot up again, and has remained high every day. True, the speed and ease with which one can post on the messageboard means that there will always be some speculation and rumour that turns out not to be true. But if you want to find out all the news, this community of media insiders is where you need to be.And because of the nature of the speculation buzzing around the news networks and through the web about the bombings, old media has proved no more reliable than new media gossip sites. 'One down ... three to go,' shouted the headline on the Sun last week. Yet hours later we found the suspect was an innocent Brazilian. Tune into Sky News and you'll see those in charge don't know exactly what's going on either - Tony Blair and Ian Blair seem to contradict each other daily.In some ways, Popbitch has evolved to become an online version of an old Fleet Street pub, back when the newspapers were all located cheek by jowl. It's the place where rumours, insider news and 'the stuff we can't print' can be shared in a rowdy, undisciplined atmosphere by newshounds and their friends. Therefore it's not just the insider information that makes Popbitch such a popular port of call at these times. We offer something that big news sites can't - a sense of community.What started out as a place for people in the entertainment industries to share gossip is now a place for like-minded people to share their hopes and fears, day-to-day lives and views of the world.On 7 July, and every day since, people have tuned in to experience these momentous events with the rest of the community. It stops you feeling so alone. Most of us, certainly in London, live overworked lives in fractured communities away from our families, so for many people stuck at a desk every day, logging on to Popbitch is a way of experiencing these occasions with a new kind of family. If you want to make a bad-taste joke about the bombs, ask anyone else if they are as scared as you, or just feel that other people care whether you are OK, Popbitch is the place to go.And amid the news of bombings and police sieges, there'll be just as many odd tales of goats having sex, who's likely to be a new Bond girl (Natasha Bedingfield, apparently), and discussions about Big BrotherAnd because it is brought to you from a super-secure old nuclear bunker somewhere in the south-east, no matter what kind of attack Al-Qaeda next comes up with, it's likely that Popbitch will still be operational, and bringing you the latest news - and some random photos of otters, of course.&#183;Camilla Wright is founder and editor of Popbitch
"Brice Mellen is a whiz at video games such as Mortal Kombat. In that regard, the 17-year-old isn't much different from so many others his age. Except for one thing: He's blind," reportsAP.Blind since birth when his optic nerve didn't connect because of Leber's disease, Mellen honed his video game skills over the years through patient and not-so-patient playing, memorizing key joystick operations and moves in certain games, asking lots of questions and paying particular attention to audio cues. He worked his way up from games such as "Space Invaders" and "Asteroid," onto the modern combat games."I guess I don't know how I do it, really," Mellen said, as he continued playing while facing away from the screen. "It's beyond me."
With Hillary Clinton jumping on the GTA bandwagon and "calling for a $90-million study on the effects of video games on children," Steven Johnson has a reply inThe LA Times. It includes, for example:Consider this one fascinating trend among teenagers: They're spending less time watching professional sports and more time simulating those sports on Xbox or PlayStation. Now, which activity challenges the mind more — sitting around rooting for the Packers, or managing an entire football franchise through a season of "Madden 2005": calling plays, setting lineups, trading players and negotiating contracts? Which challenges the mind more — zoning out to the lives of fictional characters on a televised soap opera, or actively managing the lives of dozens of virtual characters in a game such as "The Sims"?It is also, of course, a good plug for Johnson's book, Everything Bad Is Good For You: How Today's Popular Culture Is Actually Making Us Smarter.
Trident Gaming is gearing up for a float in the next 12 months that will value the firm at &pound;100 million.The company, which offers online gambling in America and Europe, has recently acquired two businesses that could see it become the leading online gambling business in eastern Europe, as well as the only legal operator in the United States.Trident claims it has circumvented tough US anti-gambling laws by using file-sharing technology - similar to that pioneered by Napster, the music download site - developed by the first of its recent acquisitions, peer-to-peer betting exchange BetBug. It is now selling this technology to other businesses. Two weeks ago, it also bought Gamebookers, a European sports betting site, for &pound;20m.John O'Malia, Trident's chief executive, said: 'We're considering our options with respect to coming to market. We want to bed down our acquisitions and generate enough success so the market understands and appreciates what we're doing.'Online gambling is booming, and success will shortly drive a wave of consolidation, say analysts. PartyGaming, the world's biggest online poker site, which floated last month with a valuation of &pound;5 billion, is tipped to start acquiring rivals soon.In September, Cassava Enterprises, the Gibraltar-based owner of the 888.com portal, is expected to come to market with a valuation of &pound;800m. And Betfair, the online betting exchange, is also gearing up to float. However, institutions are concerned that a Treasury investigation into the exchange's tax status has to be resolved before it raises money.
The process by which a technology goes from being an arcane technicality to a consumer product is always fascinating. The recent appearance of 'podcasting' on the radar of mainstream media is a delicious case in point.The term is an amalgam of 'broadcasting' and 'iPod'. Podcasting differs from other types of online media delivery because of its subscription model. It has been possible for aeons to publish audio files on a website, but that's not what podcasting does. Instead it uses the RSS syndication infrastructure of the blogging world to deliver an enclosed file to a computer, whence it is then downloaded onto an MP3 player (often, but not necessarily, an Apple iPod). Podcasting enables anyone to create what are effectively self-published syndicated 'radio programmes' (and incidentally, also gives radio broadcasters a new distribution method). Anyone wishing to receive these programmes subscribes to the author's syndication feed.The technology has been around for ages, but initially required geeky skills. For example, you had to download special 'podcasting' software, which would periodically check for, and download, new content automatically. Most people set it up so that the checking and downloading happened in the early hours of the morning, so that the process didn't hog network bandwidth during the day. Any computer with audio-playing software could then play the downloaded podcasts, but generally some more geekery was required to ensure that the collected files were downloaded into one's portable MP3 player.Creating a podcast was, by contrast, relatively simple. Most computers have in-built microphones these days, so effectively all one had to do was to speak into the mike and run the audio through a program that compressed the file into MP3 format.At the beginning podcasting had that aura of leading-edge uselessness that often characterises new technologies. 'Look, we can do this cool stuff!' was the general mantra, to which the obvious rejoinder might have been: 'So what?' The problem was that although podcasting was technically possible, most of the initial content - the actual 'programmes' - was dire. Creating compelling audio content requires some arcane skills (which is why we have a radio industry), and most geeks didn't have them (though the prime mover in the early days, Adam Curry, had actually been a professional disc jockey in commercial radio).So how did this exotic computery metamorphose into the consumer technology that media analysts now drool over? Two factors seem to have been critical. The first is that Evan Williams, the guy who founded Blogger.com and thus transformed blogging from a geek speciality into something that anyone could do, co-founded a new company (oreo.com) to do the same for podcasting. The second was that Apple decided to take it on board. A few months ago, Steve Jobs announced that the company would build podcasts into a new release of Apple's iTunes software, and about a month ago version 4.9 of the program delivered on that promise. If you click on the iTunes Store link within iTunes, you will find that in addition to all the tracks and albums on sale there is a new section that enables you to download podcasts, which are subsequently transferred to your iPod.The commercial world has viewed this development with incredulity because the podcasts - unlike the music tracks on sale in the store - are free, and Jobs has promised that they will remain so. So Apple is making no money from podcasts. Correction: Apple is making no money directly from podcasts. But Jobs is, as usual, playing a more sophisticated game. He's gambling - astutely, in my opinion - that the supply of podcasts will mushroom, and that customers will want to download them - to their iPods. The strategy is thus to facilitate the supply of compelling audio content which encourages people to purchase - and upgrade - their iPods.In a way, it's a brilliant inversion of the old Gillette marketing trick - which was to give away the razors and charge for the blades.Apple is continuing its tradition of taking sophisticated computing technologies and turning them into consumer products. It's already done this with WiFi (AirPort), digital music (iTunes), digital photography (iPhoto), home movie editing (iMovie) and DVD authoring (iDVD).Harnessing all of these technologies once required serious technical skills, together with a heavy dose of masochism. What Apple's engineers and designers did was to turn them into tools that anyone - even newspaper columnists - could use. So if you're wondering whether podcasting has a future, just ask Steve Jobs.
There is a new player in the media business. Staffed by millions of people all over the world, it creates mountains of content, is trusted by its readership, is growing exponentially and has zero overheads.It's called citizens' media, or consumer-generated media, and is the result of cheap, accessible digital publishing tools being available to a mass market.Or, as respected US commentator Jeff Jarvis puts it: 'People now own the printing press and the broadcast tower and the barrier to entry to media has been blown away.'Blogs are the highest-profile type of citizens' media. To date, they have been seen as a niche activity pursued by navel-gazers and geeks. But blog monitor Technorati.com tracks more than 14 million blogs and says the blogosphere is doubling in size every five months.Media professionals have tended to write off citizens' media as amateur and poor quality, and a lot of it is. Enthusiasm for these new media tools is infectious, however, and many amateurs are striking chords among their audiences in ways that the traditional media struggle to do. Hard as it might be to believe, this grassroots medium has its own experts, celebrities and authoritative voices.A key element of this new type of medium is the trust people place in it. If someone's blog raves about a new product, people take notice because they know the publisher has no vested interest. And dissatisfied customers can immediately tell the world and hook up with their disgruntled brethren. The resulting energy and passion can make traditional media look quite pallid in comparison.In this way, citizens' media has gradually created a group of independent-minded critics, who constantly publish their views to faithful audiences. They can be thought of as the Fifth Estate. And if there is a story to tell, they will publish and be damned.Last year, when a customer of the US cycle lock manufacturer Kryptonite, found that his super-tough lock could be opened with a ballpoint pen, he immediately published his findings on San Francisco's bikeforums.net. The post was read by more than 400,000 people, and a video, showing a ballpoint in action, was downloaded more than 3 million times in just a few days. Within a week, Kryptonite retailers were clearing their shelves, thousands of products were being returned and the New York Times had picked up the story. The company has since replaced 350,000 products at their own expense.Jonathan Miller, head of AOL in the US, testifies to the popularity of citizens' media. He says over 60 per cent of the time people spend on AOL is devoted to 'audience-generated content'.But it's not all about blogs. Podcasting is the new audio cousin of weblogs. It allows individuals to publish (podcast) DIY radio shows on whatever subject they choose. It uses a combination of audio files and RSS (an internet format that allows easy access to web content) to create an audience. Consumers can download shows directly to their MP3 players and time-shift their listening. And guess what ? There's no advertising.Citizens' media is one element of the way individuals are taking control of marketing channels. The first step was for digital consumers to use technology, such as PVRs (personal video recorders), to avoid mass marketing. The next step was for consumers to use the same technology to create their own media.For executives who already feel they are living in a goldfish bowl, the idea of consumers owning media and becoming influential watchdogs can be alarming. But this trend is not going away. Corporates need to engage, and in some cases collaborate with citizens' media as they do with any other influential group.Google and eBay spent nothing on above-the-line advertising when building their brands, but they did consult with customers at every step. Meg Whitman, eBay's CEO, has likened her job to that of 'a mayor running a town-hall meeting'.In some ways, citizens' media is just a new version of consumer lobbying groups. However, they are much more accessible, spark more passion and have instant global reach. It will be interesting to see which sector of marketing corporates turn to to manage their relationships with these newly empowered consumers. The PR industry would seem to be the natural partner, as it is very familiar in dealing with stakeholders and lobbying groups on behalf of its clients. But is it ready to deal with citizens' media and the Fifth Estate?&#183;James Cherkoff is director of new media agency Collaborate Marketing
Last week Eidos emailed me an early version of Champ Man 5 Solo, a mobile phone version of the reasonably well-known PC footie management sim. I've only just got round to looking at it, spurred on by the recentELSPA Java download chartwhich showed Jamdat's LMA Manager at number one. I was pretty surprised by this considering the fact it's a very, very basic sim (actually more a random number generator than a game), and because the chart is usually dominated by quiz titles and juddery conversions of 20 year old arcade classics.So is there going to be a huge new market for 125K management titles? There may well be if this well-designed little newcomer has anything to do with it.Okay, so the modern football simulation is meant to be about jaw-dropping realism and eye-watering depth, throwing billions of stats and menu screens at you and giving you minute control over every aspect of your squad. But there's something strangely appealing about CM Solo as it cuts away huge swathes of the contemporary genre's key elements and leaves the basics – putting together a squad, selecting the tactics and then watching the commentary as all your players ruin everything in the matches.It's simple, but still a huge leap over LMA. There's a very decent range of tactical options for a start - you can choose from an array of classic styles including the total football of Holland 1974, the flowing grace of the 1954 Mighty Magyars, the open hostility of Argentina's 1986 word cup squad (you can even go for the long ball nightmare of the Wimbledon crazy gang, lord forgive you) – for each one you get a little description which is nicely informative and pretty accurate.The transfer market is cut-down to a list of available Premiership and foreign players, which you scroll through, hitting Approach to make an offer. Unlike LMA, you can send a scout out with a set of criteria including age, ability, position and value, etc, and he'll return with a list of viable options, an important addition. I was a little worried about the realism here though – when playing as Manchester City coach I managed to sell Steve McManaman to Arsenal for 1.4 million. I suppose Arsenehasbeen getting pretty desperate lately, but the £600,000 offer United put in for Trevor Sinclair defies all logic.Anyway, the menus are thoughtfully presented considering the size of the screen, and they manage to pack in loads of information, even providing you with fan and media opinions on your squad. Daily news reports are included too, with succinct dispatches on transfer activity elsewhere in the league and the odd missive on your performance as a manager.So, yes, it works strangely well and seeing the management sim stripped back to its basics like this raises some interesting questions about the appeal of the genre and how much it – uniquely – feeds off the real world game, and the player's imagination, to flesh out the experience. If Eidos is clever it'll offer gamers the chance to regularly download new statistics, or it'll set up a texting service to feed the player real-life footie information which could be of use in the game. Even as it is, Champ Man Solo has kept me entertained for hours today (look, it's raining and there's no real football on…).It's due for release next month.
Martin Amis's novel London Fields, published in 1989, was set a decade in the future. While catching successfully what proved to be the millennial mood, the book depicted mobile phones as rare and expensive possessions.This was an easy mistake at a time when phone calls on the go required a brick-like device. And only the best or luckiest sci-fi specialist could have predicted that mobiles would become so commonplace as a means to conversation that manufacturers would compete fiercely to make the handsets do things other than let A speak to B.This week Vodafone announced its intention to transmit live TV to handsets by Christmas, and T-Mobile revealed an 18-month deal with Robbie Williams, who will make some songs and concert footage exclusively available to the dog-and-bone market. With these two moves the mobile-phone networks make a declaration of intention to compete with manufacturers of televisions, computers and MP3 players.Today a novelist writing a book set in 2015 would be tempted to give his characters a sort of omega-phone: a wallet-sized handset on which citizens would conduct conversations by voice and email, read downloaded novels and online editions of the global press, and watch live television and DVD-quality movies, while the machine simultaneously directs their feet to their next destination through a sat-nav chip, checks their pulse and blood pressure and keeps in touch with the national donor organ scheme for possible upgrades to their body.Yet this vision might turn out to be as guilty as over-projecting from present reality as Martin Amis was of under-projecting. How practical and attractive is this promise of every possible entertainment in your pocket? The demand is certain to be there - we seem, since July 7, to have entered a period in which it is unwise to be away for long from either information or contact - but the supply seems suspect.The obvious obstacle to cellphone telly is size. All recent developments in the television home entertainment market have involved extending the length and breadth of the screen, reducing the distance between cinema and television. Mobile-phone programming, at least at the moment, puts the medium back at least 70 years: to an indistinct image the size of a postage stamp. Every move that improves the picture as television will weaken the receiver's appeal as a phone.As for the possibility of phones rivalling iPods as providers of personal soundtracks the difficulty is in re-educating the expectations of consumers.So far, all breakthroughs in music technology have come from machines specially invented for the hearing of songs: gramophones, cassette players, the Walkman, the MP3 player. Each of these became a statement about a certain type of person and/or a certain type of music.The gamble of the Robbie Williams contract is that an appliance popularised for talking can become equally associated with listening.My instinct - perhaps the Luddite reflex of someone who grew up when phones were something you went on a list to have installed - is that the single universal pocket entertainment device may not be the obvious outcome of developments in cultural technology.Whether or not the omega-phone becomes financially accessible on a widespread scale, there are still artistic arguments against it. While there were obvious practical reasons for the fact that, in the past, cinema, TV, newspapers, books, music and   phone conversations all had different "delivery systems", there was also aesthetic pleasure in these separations.A cinema was built for big-screen images, a TV set for a different kind of visuals, and a book and newspaper had been designed over time as a means of pushing thousands of words into the brain without pain. There was a sense and enjoyment in the fact that The Italian Job was a different category of experience from The Brothers, which in turn was distinct from The Guardian as War and Peace was from the Guardian and Jailhouse Rock was from both.To the old-fashioned consumer, this proliferation of different systems did not feel like technological poverty but an exhilarating range of information available in varied and tailored shapes. Going to a cinema, buying a record, taking a bookfrom a shelf and handling a newspaper were all specific and even sensual experiences. It seems hard to believe that they may eventually survive only in the memories of the old.So the possibility that all of the above may soon be available through a single piece of plastic invented to permit you let home know that the train would be late may be technically exciting, but it also feels claustrophobic and limiting. If this is the cultural future, don't call me.comment@guardian.co.uk
At The Register,a piece by Andrew Orlowskiabout the Internet Explorer 7 beta says: (1) "Users with search toolbars from Yahoo! and arch-rival Google have discovered that these vanish"; and (2) "The default search engine is MSN Search". Both these statements are wrong, though apparentlysomeunfortunate Reg readers have seen their toolbars vanish.The piece has led to a spat between Orlowski and prominent Microsoft bloggerRobert Scoble, with Orlowski laterquoting an emailto a third party that Scoble denies sending.Meanwhile theIE team blogis investigating the issues.Whichever way it turns out, Orlowski is now getting a slagging from bloggers such as Thomas Hawk (Andrew Orlowski, Sloppy Journalist or Bold Faced Liar?) and ZD Net'sDavid Berlind, who concludes that Orlowski "has, for as long as I've been familiar with his writing, taken liberties instead — liberties becoming of a buffoon. Not of someone who is interested in the truth."Comment:This is all getting far nastier than is necessary. I like Andrew, and in the days when I could still be bothered to visit The Register, his was often the only stuff worth reading. However, the idea that Microsoft would ship an IE7 betaknowingit would disable the Google and Yahoo toolbars, without warning about this in advance, is frankly insane. And running such a story without getting a comment from the IE team doesn't look like good journalism, even by Register standards.
"We do remain committed to our digital-entertainment strategy," HP spokesman Ross Camp said Friday. "We decided that reselling the iPod does not fit within that strategy," reportsCNet, following up a Wall Street Journal story."Although HP plans to stop selling Apple's players, it will take some time for that to happen. The computer maker recently announced a new lineup of HP-branded iPods. Camp said HP plans to continue reselling the music players through the end of September, when it expects to have sold through its inventory of iPods, iPod Minis and iPod Shuffles."Comment:HP selling iPods never made sense, but presumably it was Carly's baby. During her reign at HP, the company always looked a bit like Apple Manqué (just look at the style of HP's advertising and promotions). HP could have done a video- and music-playing iPaq five years ago, enhanced its own brand image, and actually lived up to its "invent" slogan.
Fantastic 4Gamecube, PC, PS2, XBoxHere we have another example of a film-based game whose sales rely heavily on the hope that viewers of the film (and, in this case, lovers of the comic) will rush out to buy it without first referring to reviews or friends who may have made the same mistake. Fantastic 4's entire gameplay can be summed-up as follows: walk into a room, kill some dudes, a door opens; in the next room some henchmen appear who need killing; there's another room ... This repetitive process leads to a massive haemorrhaging of will to continue, and quickly, should you actually carry on, to live. The number of wasted opportunities alone would fill a Thomson Local directory.&#183;Activision, &pound;30-&pound;40Worms 4: MayhemPC, PS2, XBoxYou command a team of four cartoon fighting-worms, using them in turn to damage other similarly armed vermicular forces. Turns are timed and you are powerless to defend at the same time your enemies are moving, adding dramatic tension to the miniature warfare. Originally a 2D game, its jump to the third dimension has never sat well, and this version still comes with myriad camera and aiming problems. Looking lovely, in a chunky, primary-coloured, Fisher-Price sort of way, Worms 4 features an interesting if flawed set of solo challenges as well as the usual plethora of multiplayer options. Interesting and unusual but marred by twitchy controls and an obstructive camera.&#183;Codemasters, &pound;20-&pound;30Game to watchWe Love Katamari(Namco) PS2Darling of critics worldwide and never released in the UK, Katamari Damacy was a game with unique and unutterably bizarre play mechanics. Controlling a small, round object by rolling it in any direction, you had to trundle over anything you could find, sticking the various objects to your growing mass of increasingly precarious clutter, including everything from pens to giraffes to fire hydrants. Intuitive and almost Gandhi-esque in its lack of gunfire or any variety of death dealing, its sequel, We Love Katamari, looks very similar to its stupefying forebear and is tentatively scheduled for an autumn release in the UK. Although unlikely to knock this year's Fifa release off No 1 spot, this is one for the cognoscenti.
With the mainstream media struggling to cope with the explosion in  new British indie rock, some of the best coverage can be found online.Musichurts.comis a wonderfully designed magazine that couples band interviews with streams of their music. The first issue also includes a rather fine piece on female drummers and Brazilian ghetto punk. It's all rather lovely.For a bit of studious chin stroking,stylusmagazine.comgives as much intense thought to Charlotte Church as it does to the slightly more credible  Art Brut.Elsewhere,Joyzine.co.ukmajors in rants and downloads,Planbmag.comloves weird rock and blurred photography, and Blank Stares And Cricket Claps (Bsacc.co.uk) has nice interviews with bands like Editors while also imagining a world where Tony Blair and Lionel Blair swap jobs.
MondayHave a Coke and a (Level 5) smileOrder OnlineTuesdayFrag Doll-ingPerplexedWelcome to the annual lowpointWednesdayEA warningThursdayPSP TVMachinima compThis weekMissing the ZFridayNo point in publishing a non-branded game?Content or community
Saturday July 23brazilians used Orkut as drug distribution networkNaming VistaSunday July 24MSN unveils Virtual EarthMonday July 25Digital rights in the UK: you can helpSony chief warns PS3 will be 'expensive'Observer casts an eye over technologyTuesday July 26Talk time: Dianne ThompsonPhone essential for a life of grimeQ's better: who's best?Wednesday July 27Tiny, Time stores close downReader, I dated himWatch out for that Wi-FiFeedback: BT's broadband botherThursday July 28RSVP: fresh delivery for mobile textHoax email: satellite 999 calls from TubeAjaxing at Microsoft's Start.comAOL unveils My AOL betaFriday July 29To BlackBerry or not to BlackBerryMS versus Google: let's get it over with
In the red corner: ready for a techno rumble in the jungle? Photograph: APCNet's Charles Cooper has agood columnspinning off the wrangling between Google and Microsoft over the hiring of former MS executive Kai-Fu Lee. Redmond claims he's under a non-compete contract, and so can't head up Google's Chinese operation. Honestly, the way these two are going on...Considering the horseradish each side is slinging, that's no inconsiderable effort. The outraged hurt voiced by Microsoft and Google alike would lead one to assume that the other is the most heinous no-goodnik. Of course it's all balderdash. This is just part of the escalating rivalry between these two Internet giants. Fact is that Microsoft is just as paranoid about Google as Google is paranoid about Microsoft.It's really, says Cooper, about how Microsoft sees Google as a huge long-term threat (almost certainly the biggest threat out there), and he gives the run-down on why that's the case - and why these two megacorps should stop grizzling like children and start scrapping like Ali and Foreman.Weehee, them's fightin' words!
I had a discussion recently with a well-respected member of the computer games industry who claimed that content is passé: community is the current buzzword amongst the top brass. Not only is this interesting from a man who's been a valuable contributor to the concept of story-style engagement in interactive entertainment, but it certainly reflects manufacturers' current drive away from announcements about their next-generation software and towards info releases that proclaim convergence, multimedia and, well, community spirit.But is this what gamers want? Would they rather have a great group of people talking about, chatting during and gaming together through mediocre products or solitary - but amazing - gaming experiences?Iscommunity key?
There's a letter in today's Economist that worries me. We hear a lot about how people are "too connected", always-on and always available - usually for their jobs. I fear I'm one of a dying breed of those who find it easy not to communicate: I'm quite happy to refuse answering the phone if I don't want to, I don't take my mobile everywhere, and I certainly don't panic when I'm uncontactable.But this Economist letter-writer takes issue with the received wisdom (put forward in a recent article) that the humble BlackBerry has taken over people's lives.Sir, I'm not sure I wholly agree with your portrayal of BlackBerry users as "addicts" - strung-out slaves to their devices, lives in tatters, praying for the 12-step programme that will break their cycle of dependence.Could it be that we actually enjoy our work and corresponding with colleagues and clients more than we care to admit? Perhaps the stolen BlackBerry moment at home, at the weekend or on holiday is actually a temporary respite from screaming children or nagging spouses - a moment of calm in the chaos of our personal lives. My BlackBerry listens well, never talks back, respects my authority, goes to sleep when I want and nags me only when I ask it to. And you wonder why we are addicted!So, we've either got a world of communications junkies, or one where people toke a BlackBerry to get away from their home life. I'm not sure which option saddens me more, to be honest.
Industry veteran Greg Costikyan just loves to make polemical attacks on the industry status quo, and thisPowerPoint Presentationoriginally given at an independent games conference in Melbourne, is an accessible and thought-provoking round-up of his arguments. Basically, the way the industry is going - narrowing its output to licensed products, expensive to produce and market but 'safer' to bet on than interesting new ideas - is going to eventually kill it. It's compelling (if familiar) stuff with lots of interesting facts, figures and anecdotes. Of course, most people agree with him, it's doing something about it that matters and - like global warming - you really feel that nothing will really change until it's just a little bit too late...*A quote included in Greg's talk, attributed to Edmond Sanctis, former COO of Acclaim
If you've got a small or medium-sized business, you might already read our monthlyBusiness Solutionssupplement.But now there's more juicy goodness for you: the latest addition to the Guardian's stable of weblogs isBusiness Insight, a look through the issues of the day.
Vivendi Universal, the once-stricken French media group, yesterday underlined its sustained recovery, posting a 9% increase in first-half sales.The group reported strong increases in sales at its games division, boosted by the global success of World of Warcraft, and its SFR mobile phones business - but pointed to flat turnover in its music division in the second quarter.Global sales rose in the first half from &euro;8.4bn (&pound;5.8bn) to &euro;9.1bn, with an 8% increase in the second quarter.The World of Warcraft, an online gaming community with two million customers in North America, Europe and Korea, and 1.5 million in China, helped raise first-half sales in the games division by 61% to &euro;238m, with a 76% jump in the second quarter.SFR, France's second-biggest mobile operator behind Orange, saw revenues jump 22% in the first half to &euro;4.2bn. Its market share, with 16.2 million customers, is 35.8%.The music division, UMG, reported a 9% increase in first-half sales to &euro;2bn, driven by strong sales in the US, where overall album sales fell 7.6% but Vivendi achieved a 9.3% rise.The company said revenues at Canal+, its TV and films unit, were flat at &euro;1.7bn in the first half, despite winning 250,000 customers for its pay-TV channel, which now has about eight million subscribers.
Nintendo is holding its own in the console wars with Sony but its reliance on sales of low-margin game machines has hit operating profits, the company said yesterday.The company reported a 78.5% decline in operating profit during the April to June quarter but said its forecast for full-year profit to increase by 3.1% still held. Its consolidated operating profit fell to 3.75bn yen (&pound;19m) from &yen;17.47bn a year earlier.Nintendo, the creator of several popular software titles, including Donkey Kong and Pokemon, has made an encouraging start in its quest to stave off a challenge in the handheld console market from Sony's debut machine, the PlayStation Portable.Although Nintendo has sold more than 5m GameBoy DS handheld consoles since their launch last November, sales of its GameCube consoles, which are for home use, fell by 60% during the quarter compared with the same period last year.In addition, new software titles, including the eagerly awaited Legend of Zelda, are not due for release until later this year.Sony, buoyed up by the successful launch of its PlayStation 2 home console, still dominates the gaming market and expects shipments to increase by a million to 13m next year.By contrast, sales of Nintendo's GameCube, its rival to the PS2, fell 14% to &yen;70.7bn over the quarter and are expected to fall by 33.8% over the coming year to just over 10m units.Nintendo executives said it would take time for the handheld DS console to make an impact. "The difference in profitability from a year earlier is due to the fact that it hasn't been long since the DS entered markets, so costs are still high," said Nintendo's senior managing director, Yoshihiro Mori.Still, the firm, which controls about 94% of the market in portable game consoles, said it had sold 1.38m DS games in the April to June quarter.The already fierce rivalry between the two firms is likely to intensify over the next 12 to 18 months, when they release next-generation game consoles featuring faster chips and better graphics.
Sony lowered its earnings outlook for the full year by 90% as the company reported its second successive quarter of losses.The consumer electronics and entertainment giant reported a second-quarter loss of 7.3bn yen (&pound;37m), down from a 23.3bn yen profit a year ago.The disappointing performance increases the pressure on Sir Howard Stringer, who was born in Wales and is Sony's first foreign chief executive. His appointment in April was part of a management shake-up aimed at re-establishing Sony as a market leader. He is expected to unveil a business strategy in September that could include axing several failing businesses.But, overseeing his first results announcement, he was obliged to lower expectations of full-year net income down to 10bn yen from the 80bn yen anticipated in April.It is the first time in four years that Sony, facing an onslaught of cheap, high-quality products from rivals at home and abroad, has recorded losses in two consecutive quarters. Sony's operating loss was 15.3bn yen, compared with a profit of 9.8bn yen last year. Group sales were down 3.3% to 1.56 trillion yen.The losses were also attributed to restructuring costs amounting to almost 16bn yen, almost all of which was spent on reviving the firm's struggling electronics division. Yet sales in the sector, which Sony once dominated, continued to fall during the quarter, by 1.4% to 1.1trillion yen.The faltering performance has exposed Sony's struggle to make an impact in the rapidly growing market in flat-screen televisions and other consumer goods, faced by competition from Asian rivals such as South Korea's Samsung."Price falls for liquid-crystal display TVs in Europe were much sharper than we expected," Sony's corporate executive officer, Nobuyuki Oneda, told reporters in Tokyo. "The LCD TV market has expanded two or three times but we were not able to keep up."Once the market leader in portable music players with its Walkman range, Sony's range of digital music players has also failed to mount a significant challenge to Apple's iPod.Yesterday's results came as little surprise to investors, who were not expecting a miraculous recovery just two years after the infamous "Sony shock", when massive quarterly losses sent the firm's shares tumbling."Sony's numbers are bad, there is no question about it," Ken Masuda, a senior dealer at Shinko Securities, told Reuters. "The stock will probably fall on this. But the market was expecting a weak result. I don't think we are looking at another Sony shock."
Future Publishingare launching a new videogame magazine for 7-13 boys called Zap! Sacrilege anyone? Of course the target audience will barely remember the Dreamcast, let alone the C64, butZzap! 64was the greatest magazine in the world when I was 12. Even better than Smash Hits. You can almost picture a bemulletedJulian Rignallgiving this new mag the thumbs down - "too derivative, not a proper shmup" - while thatscorelordbloke gets even angrier.
"My AOL is designed to give people the ability to customize the AOL portal based on specific needs and interests, including the addition of news feeds via Really Simple Syndication, or RSS," reportsCNet."AOL is working with RSS search engine Feedster for the new service. Feedster has a searchable index of more than 11 million RSS feeds and millions of XML documents, AOL said."
Quoting from Microsoft bloggerRobert Scoble:Visitwww.start.com/3and open the sidebar. Click on "Start" if it's not yet open. If it's open, open up the "Popular Feeds" menu. Then open the "Staff Picks" menu. Love that AJAX!You there yet? OK, now click the "MSN Blog Map." And there you go, blogs on top of Virtual Earth.Comment: For more info on cool stuff at Start.com, see theblogat MSN Spaces.
In the moneyWeblogs might be heading for the mainstream, but in fact the concept is getting a little long in the tooth: it's now eight years since American Jorn Barger coined the term with his site, Robot Wisdom. In internet terms, that's a lifetime. Barger has been no stranger to controversy, but things took a bizarre twist recently thanks to an article in technology bible Wired magazine. Writer Paul Boutin claimed he had met Barger, who was penniless, homeless and panhandling for cash with a sign saying "coined the term 'weblog', never made a dime". Barger has since publicly stated that the article doesn't accurately describe either his financial or housing situation.www.robotwisdom.orgwww.wired.comhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jorn_BargerTrusted favouritesIf traditional blogging's old news, then plenty of people are trying to take it to new places. Some have turned to trusted favourites such as the pen and the pencil to bring a dash of colour to their sites through drawings and cartoons. One of the biggest pictorial blogs is Loobylu, the diary of Melbourne-based illustrator and toymaker Claire Robertson. Her light, child-friendly illustrations bring a magical touch to the customary blogging style. Guild of Ghostwriters, a popular hand-drawn weblog from Liverpool, is currently delving back through its archives for moments of greatness, and Vitriolica Webb's site, meanwhile, is capably illustrated through sketchy, spiky images from the pen of the author.www.loobylu.comhttp://guildofghostwriters.blogspot.comhttp://unkemptwomen.blogspot.comPhoto-led recoveryOthers are using their cameras, rather than their sketchpads, to breathe life into the blogging format. The proliferation of digital cameras and cameraphones is pumping up the use of photography on weblogs, assisted by the popularity of web-based photo-sharing services such as Flickr. Madame Shutterfly, aka Carolyn O'Neill, is one of the most interesting, using her beautiful black-and-white images to explore Hong Kong. For a wider selection, Photoblogs.org is a central resource and directory for more than 10,000 weblogs across almost 100 countries.http://madameshutterfly.typepad.com/www.photoblogs.orgwww.flickr.comLabour of loveThe word "vlog" might sound like the noise of your cat choking on a furball, but in fact it is the now-accepted shorthand for video blogging. Rocketboom, a daily three-minute vlog from New York, is produced by Amanda Congdon, who presents in the manner of a TV bulletin. It is one of the best of a very mixed bunch - the technical demands of video mean that most vloggers struggle to come up with good content on a regular basis. You could also check out British teenager Ian Mills, who is posting a clip every day of this year as part of his "05 Project": not always interesting, but a labour of love.www.rocketboom.com/vlogwww.noservicecharge.com/videoblog/Readers' voiceThe BBC website is running a feature called "Digital Citizens", which focuses on weblogs, digital photos and podcasts submitted by readers. On the downside, it is rather prissy - the page is headed by a disclaimer for easily offended Auntie surfers asking readers to "please note that some blogs can contain strongly worded language and highly personal views". On a positive note, it gives publicity to good work from the likes of Mridula Dwivedi, who writes an Indian travel weblog, and author, campaigner and BoingBoing blogger Cory Doctorow.http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainmenthttp://traveltalesfromindia.blogspot.com/www.boingboing.netGuardian Unlimited Travelhttp://travel.guardian.co.ukAndy the Hobo Travellerwww.hobotraveller.com/blogger.htmlTravelblogwww.travelblog.orgFodor'swww.fodors.comLonely Planetwww.lonelyplanet.comThis is Travelwww.thisistravel.com&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk
There's a spam email doing the rounds at the moment which is probably being spread by kind-hearted but ill-informed Londoners worried about travelling on the Tube.It suggests that "if your mobile phone has no signal (so even if you were in a tunnel) if you dial 112 it diverts to a satellite signal and puts you through to the 999 call centre. ALL phone companies have signed up and as it is a satellite service it also gives them a trace to you if you don't know where you are."It is, though, total nonsense. While 112 is the pan-European emergency number (and so dialling 112 above ground will connect you to 999), in the deep sections of the underground there is no phone signal at all. Satellite signals don't penetrate hundreds of feet of earth, and even the police's special Airwave radios don't yet function on the Tube.Transport for London hassome more:"This e-mail is incorrect. The 112 number does link people through to 999, but it only works if you have a signal on your mobile phone. If you have no signal bars on your phone, it will not work."It will not divert to a satellite signal. Even with a satellite mobile phone (which very few people have), you would need to have a clear line-of-sight to the satellite. You would have to be outside, not in a building or a tube tunnel."If this comes your way, ignore it - or let your friends know that they've been had.(thanks Simon)
TheMachinimatecompetition run by theEIEFand Channel 4'sIDEASFACTORYhas extended its deadline from Monday 1 August to next Friday 5 August. If you're a budding film director with a genius idea but don't think you have the cash to make a Hollywood-style blockbuster, you still have time to enter thecompetitionand you could have the chance to develop your own cinematic experience with the help of Quake 3,Machinima.com's founder Hugh Hancock and Machinimation software fromFountainhead Entertainment.For inspiration, head tomachinima.com, theAcademy of Machinima Arts and Sciences,Red vs. Blue,The Strangerhood,La-Interactiva,Ill Clan, the home of theCantina Crawlsand, of course,Leeeeeroy Jenkins.
Summer gaming drought you say? To a certain extent yes, but recently we've seen the release of quality titles like God of War and killer7. The latest addition to this top-notch list is Sid Meier's Pirates (Xbox). Ireviewed itthis week and thoroughly enjoyed the open-ended action. Forget Halo Splinter Motorsport and try something different on your Xbox. Talking ofSam Fisher, his latest adventure, Chaos Theory on DS, was alsoreviewed. Sadly for Splinter Cell fans the game has, "dodgy frame-rate and blocky graphics, mixed with cumbersome controls". Tempted? Thought not. Last and least is the finalreview, Worms 4: Mayhem. While the 3D problems that bedevilled the previous game have been solved, this is surely a release too far.Team 17, please ditch thewormeryand get to work on a newAlien Breedgame. Mayhem? Flogging a dead horse more like.
On Tuesday Gamespotreportedthat Sony would be launching a movie download service for PSP owners in Japan and sure enough the'Portable TV'site went live yesterday offering what seems to be a range of movie and TV trailers. It is expected that the site will later offer full TV shows, music videos and cartoons.So, it seems Sony reallyisserious about pushing PSP as an all-round entertainment platform - a personal media player as well as a games machine. Although the Portable TV service is yet to be released or even announced in the West, we know that Sony Computer Entertainment Europe is lining up a music download service in the style ofConnect, and this will surely expand to include video content. And of course, the company has lined up 19 UMD movie releases for the launch day...Meanwhile, I was talking to Andy Beveridge ofSN Systems, the company that designs middleware for all the PlayStation iterations, about PSP and he told me about how he records programmes on Tivo, downloads them to PC, converts the files to MPEG-4 and then finally downloads them to PSP. It's a bit of a faff apparently, requiring a couple of Tivo software downloads, but it hints at how users will find their own ways to get TV content onto PSP.For those looking to explore the possibilities of transferring TV recordings to PSP, Andy has a little advice:"For digital video newcomers that don't want to seek out an old Tivo on Ebay (since they are no longer availbale at retail) and modify it... An interesting new Tivo alternative is the latestKISS 558 DVR(I spotted it advertised in last month'sT3). I don't have one but it looks nice and I believe it records direct to standard mpeg file format. It already has a network interface and PC support software so it ought to be a breeze."So there you go.
Regular readers may know that one of the things I find most fascinating is people who are trying to change interfaces: switching around the way we input information and the way it is pumped out to us.So it was with great interest that I read BoingBoing'sMark Frauenfelder, who has an article inMobile Magazineabout a way of reading on small screens called RSVP ("rapid serial visual presentation"), which works by displaying the words of an article, on their own, in sequence.You can try reading text RSVP-style by going to theRSVP demoon our website. Adjust the speed by moving the slider bar to the left or right.B.J. Fogg would be happy to hear this. He runs research and design at Stanford's Persuasive Technology Lab. Fogg's been using RSVP for four years and has launched a research project calledBuddyBuzz, which lets mobile users read articles from the internet using RSVP. Using BuddyBuzz, Fogg claims he can read 700 words a minute. At that rate, you could read a novel in about an hour and a half, if your phone battery doesn't give out. (I can handle up to about 300 words a minute before I go into a fugue state.)Take a look at the demo mentioned above - I found the reading fairly easy, if a little disjointed. I don't know what it would be like for reading novels, but it certainly would make it possible to read short news articles very simply indeed.Since looking at the demo, I've tried setting up an account with Buddybuzz - but at the moment it's telling me it can't connect my phone to the server (or "Beehive"). Is that because I'm in the UK? I'm not sure, but I'll try and find out some more.
Modern medicine: combining health with high technology. Illustration: Bill ButcherIt's Thursday morning, and another edition of the Guardian's technology supplement has hit the newsstands.This week we lead you on a tour aroundtour around Oklahoma Heart Hospital- a fascinating place that has dispensed with paper completely and claims its place as the world's first "digital hospital". We complement this with a look at the NHS plans toditch film x-rays.Our other features include a look atdevelopments in amateur computer animation, some new research on whetherhands-free mobile is safe for drivingand we examine DVB-H, the rising standard forTV over your mobile.In comment, Danny O'Brien makes the case fora new digital freedoms organisation in the UK, Michael Cross looks atthe government's home computing initiativeand Jack Schofield pondersWindows Vista.And there's an awful lot more besides.Click herefor the full contents.
