Time for bed. Just before sliding under the duvet, you press a couple of buttons on your home controller. Powered security blinds slide over the windows. All the lights in the house are turned off, along with any specified electrical devices - the cooker and washing machine, for example, not the freezer. You nod off, knowing that if you get up in the night, the bathroom lights will automatically switch themselves on at one-third power, while your handheld computer updates its list of "incident reports" from motion detectors placed around the house and garden. Yes, that suburban fox has been trying to raid the dustbins again...Science fiction writers and journalists have been trotting out home automation stories for decades, of course. However, last week, the reality came a step closer. Two small British companies, Cyan Technology and nSine, announced chips that will enable consumer electronics products and white goods such as washing machines to be networked over the mains. The cost to manufacturers could be as low as $3 to $5 per network node. And at that price, the market could be huge: 10 to 15 billion nodes.David Griffiths, Cyan's chief executive officer, says: "the point about consumer electronics is that it is very price-point driven. The kinds of thing we are doing with our chips have been do-able for   about 20 years: the fundamental principles have been around for a long time. But the average consumer will not pay &#163;100 a room to switch a light bulb off!"Consumers might, however, be prepared to pay a little extra for "smart goods" that can be operated, monitored and perhaps metered remotely, if the facilities are built in. "Technology that would have been &#163;100, 20 years ago, we can now do for a couple of pounds," Griffiths says, "and that makes it a viable product."Peter Norman, nSine's president and chief executive officer, agrees. "We feel the technology is not the interesting part," he says. "It is the second wave, and it is coming at a consumer price point. It is a breakthrough in cost as much as in making it work reliably. It will have a big economic effect on the consumer appliance industry."The impact could be visible fairly soon. NSine launched its nPlug in Japan with Softbank Networks and is now talking to far eastern consumer goods manufacturers. Cyan's e-Cog microcontroller is used in a "home gateway", which is being rolled out byOlameterin California. The gateway uses Amino Communications' inter-process communications standard, IntAct, which Cyan has licensed.These systems stand some chance of reaching a mass consumer market because no one needs to install any extra wiring to use them. The network signals are sent over the existing electricity cables, and   can therefore reach any device that is plugged into the mains. Norman says: "the long term game plan is to put this technology in every plug in the world."So far it has been slow going. Some thought the future had arrived back in 1978, when BSR announced the X10 home automation system. This was the first mains-based home control system to be sold on the high street - in Tandy Radio Shack stores in the US - though it appealed mainly to computer buffs and electronics hobbyists.X10 was also a British invention (seewww.hometoys.com/htinews/oct99/articles/rye/rye.htmfor Dave Rye's potted history) and while it did well enough to be still on sale, it hardly swept the world. Acorn co-founder Chris Curry also had a go at the home control market with his Red Box company in the 1980s, with less success. More recently, the market has also been targeted by an alliance of two US giants, Sun and Cisco.Apart from the cost, mains-borne signalling has proved more difficult to implement than many people suspected. Norman describes the mains as "a very hostile environment". For a start, "it is not a network, it's a Christmas tree", he says, and this leads to all kinds of problems with reflected signals. As with mobile phone networks, you can get deep fades where reflected signals cancel one another out."Another problem is impulse noise," he says. "Every motor, every switch on the network is providing impulses that can destroy data."The nSine system works as a sort of modem. All it does is move a packet of data from one place to another, but it neither knows nor cares what the data does. In other words, it is not the sort of thing consumers need to know about - an idea that Martyn Gilbert, chief executive officer of Amino Communications, takes to its logical conclusion. He thinks the technology must be so transparent that it becomes invisible, like the e-commerce involved in taking money from a cash machine.Amino's technology is aimed at the networked appliance market including television set top boxes and "application specific video devices" such as seat-back entertainment systems. However, Gilbert says he is not surprised that internet appliances have, so far, failed in the market, because they have no value. They should be given away as part of a service,   which is what people want."What is the value of being able to turn on a kettle from nowhere," Gilbert says, "and who is going to put the water in? Even in the days of the BBC Micro, we realised that just being able to do communications within the home was a speculative business at best and na&iuml;ve at worst. The value of the network is that it allows you to connect to a service. The definition of the service has to come first; the appliances come after."The difference nowadays, Gilbert says, is that the internet allows data to be delivered to the home. "The infrastructure is here, so now let's start putting powerline &#91;networks&#93; into the context of remotely managed services."This exposes the flaw in the home automation story, and it is where Amino, Cyan and nSine are taking a different approach.Consumers who would never be interested in automating their homes might still pay a small monthly fee for, say, a networked fridge that was monitored from outside. The service company would make sure it operated constantly at the correct temperature, and call you if someone left the door open. It would have a repairman on the doorstep with a replacement part if remote diagnostics suggested it was about to go wrong.So don't think about buying a new washing machine. Think about "the washing machine experience" that service companies will soon be trying to sell you.Amino Communicationswww.aminocom.comA three year old technology licensing company, based in Cambridge. It designs but does not manufacture products. Founder and chief executive officer Martyn Gilbert was the principal engineer on the Acorn BBC Master computer.Cyan Technologywww.cyantechnology.comA chip design company spun out of Cambridge Consultants last year to commercialise 10 years' research, it has just announced the e-Cog 16-bit microcontroller. David Griffiths is the chief executive officer. Cyan has licensed IntAct communications technology from Amino.nSinewww.nsine.comYoung company based in Reading, which has developed the nPlug for powerline networking. Run by chief executive Peter Norman, who spent a decade at Psion. Peter Strong, co-founder and chief technology officer, was responsible for design of the Apricot microcomputer, which dominated the UK market in the early 80s.
It's not often that a conference's guest of honour shouts down a speaker and storms out of proceedings just hours before the gala dinner is due to be held in his name.But that is exactly what happened during a three-day conference on the free software movement and software patents in Cambridge last week, when Free Software Foundation founder Richard Stallman took issue with one of the speakers.Justin Watts, a solicitor who specialises in intellectual property, incurred the wrath of Stallman by suggesting the free software movement begin to take up patents of their own in their work.Stallman, who was in the audience, repeatedly interrupted Watts' talk to insist that the free software movement could never do anything of the sort without abandoning its ideals.He then dramatically left the conference hall shouting: "I am not part of any open source community; I am part of the free software movement." He was placated enough, however, to turn up at the dinner later.The Code (Collaboration and Ownership in the Digital Economy) conference at Queen's College, Cambridge was not short of passion. It was mulling over some of the most contentious issues in computing today: intellectual property and patent rights versus free software.Stallman was not the only attendee delivering barbed comments during proceedings. Florian Cramer of the Berlin Linux User Group pointed out that many of the panellists preached free software, but still used proprietary software such as Microsoft Windows and Apple's Mac OS to demonstrate their ideas.Meanwhile, many of the cultural practitioners argued that much open source software was too difficult to use.But it was not all confrontation. In fact, the vast majority of the debates were good-natured and some continued long into the night.And many participants were willing to claim that their movement had an even deeper significance. They suggest the free software movement symbolises the only real opposition toprivatisation, not just of software and computer networks, but of society as a whole.Organisers were keen to stress the practical applications of free software, and to show how software patents could affect liberty.Speakers at Code included Tim Hubbard, the head of the human sequence analysis at the Sanger Centre, the astronomer Roger Malina, who spoke of Nasa's widespread use of open source, and Rishab Aiyer Ghosh, of the London School of Economics. And to show how free software can be put into prac tice, digital artworks were on show in nearby galleries.It was the issue of patents on software that proved most contentious, for Stallman at least. Why did he react so strongly to the lawyer's comments? "Software patents are a disaster for everyone except multinational corporations and a few parasites," he told Online. "There is now a political issue in Europe whether to have software patents at all. To lull people into thinking that software patents were not that bad is just a way of making them inactive just at the moment when they have a chance to avoid the problem."Software patents are bad for almost all software developers, and imply business procedure patents, which are bad for almost all businesses. It is a new kind of bureaucracy interfering with areas of life that bureaucracy never interfered with before."The conference also tried to put the free software movement in context. Martha Woodmansee, an anthropologist, showed how the idea of individual authorship was a construct of the romantic age, while Marilyn Strathern demonstrated how notions of shared ownership exist in non-western cultures.For some, it went even further. Some hinted that Code was also an attempt to pull the various different interest groups - scientists, artists, hackers and academics - into a wider social movement: a sort of environmentalism for the digital world.Bob Young, the chairman of Red Hat, which distributes a well-known version of Linux, said: "What we all have   in common is this desire to protect the interests of the public domain of knowledge."I think most non-technical people assume that companies like Microsoft or IBM are being reasonable when they say they should be granted patents over their software. This is because most people look at software as if it was a mechanical object like levers built into a typewriter.   But it is not. Software is a form of expression in the same way that Albanian is."James Boyle, a professor of Law at the Duke Law School, South Carolina, went even further. He likened the privatisation of computer code to "a second enclosure movement, but not of the grassy commons of the 17th and 18th centuries, but on the commons of the mind."What is free software/open source?Today, most computer software is written, owned and sold under licence by commercial software houses. They pay programmers to write source code, which is used to create the programs that are delivered to users. However, without the source code, it is usually impossible for users to change the way programs work, or fix bugs. The free software movement wants source code to be openly available, hence the term "open source".Open source, they say, promotes collaboration and efficiency.Programmers can still charge for implementing the software they write, or for customising it for those who can afford it.The history of open source can be traced back more than 30 years. In 1969, AT&amp;T Bell Labs developed an operating system that became known as Unix, which was not dependent on the hardware it was written on. AT&amp;T licensed the source code to other companies, and made it available free to universities.But Unix was not free enough for a computer programmer called Richard Stallman. In 1984, he quit his job at MIT to write a free Unix-like operating system called GNU (a recursive acronym for GNU's Not Unix). Stallman founded the Free Software Foundation to help create the system, and devised a "copyleft" system, the General Public Licence, or GPL, to govern its use.GNU is the archetypal free software system. As Stallman says: "everyone is free to copy it as well as make changes". They can also charge for it. Stallman says you have to think of free as in free speech rather than free beer.The GNU operating system remained of limited practical use while the Free Software Foundation struggled to complete its small core or "kernel". However, in 1991, a Finnish student, Linus Torvalds, accelerated the system's acceptance by developing a kernel independently of the FSF, and releasing it under the GPL. Today, the number of GNU/ Linux users is estimated to be 20 million.While GNU and Linux may be identical in practice, free software and open source advocates may have different agendas. Stallman's free software has social and political aims, with the emphasis on freedom, whereas open source has practical and commercial aims in creating better software. Code was an attempt to present the two movements to a wider audience.
While it is tempting to argue that the internet and kids go together like sharks and custard, in truth there's no keeping them away from it.With Easter upon us, parents are entitled to feel more than the usual concern at the average three hours per week a child spends online. However, recent press coverage has probably exaggerated the extent of an admittedly serious problem. The internet can be as safe as you want, it's just a question of how draconian you want to be and how much you trust your kids.According to theInternet Watch Foundationthe organisation that investigates and monitors offensive websites, there are three areas of potential danger to children: Content, Contact and Commerce. Only the first two are perceived as serious problems, but all can be overcome by a combination of using the technology available and following the basic rules of childcare."It's a good parenting issue," says David Kerr of the IWF, "and it can be approached in any number of ways. At the younger ages it's no more than looking over their shoulder or keeping them out of certain areas. As they get older they face the same dangers they face on the streets. It's a matter of training and trusting them."And trust is fundamental. Yes, it is perfectly possible to filter internet content heavily and snoop on what your kids are up to, but both are blunt instruments and can backfire in spectacular ways. Kids are not only protective of their privacy but there are good reasons why this should be respected. TheNSPCC websiteincludes instructions on how to delete temporary folders and History files to prevent genuine pleas for help becoming known to abusers. Just as any child would resent you recording their personal phone calls, so unnecessary snooping on email or browsing habits could have very counterproductive effects.As a rule, then, protecting your children from online dangers falls into four stages, briefly outlined on these pages. Finding the right combination depends on how much you are prepared to entrust to technology, and what you prefer to deal with yourself.Keeping tabs on your children's activities just through Internet Explorer is easier than you might think. Be warned, however, that older kids have a habit of rising to the challenge of such obstacles.Controls1)Setting up home:The homepage, above, is where most online journeys begin, and choosing a safe one will eliminate most problems in a stroke. In Explorer select Tools|Internet Options and type in your preferred address. Some suggestions for safe homepages are listed.2)Monitoring activity:The History folder keeps a record of the most recently visited sites. You can inspect this log by opening Explorer and clicking the arrows to the right of the address window.3)Double checking:You can also take a quick look at the Temp and Temporary Internet Files folders, which keep a record of applets and cookies that often betray Spam advertisers and unwelcome transactions.4)Content controls:Internet Explorer can block access to any website that has not signed up for an RSACi rating. There are four levels of control, the first only blocking the most offensive (and honest) culprits, the last excluding almost everything. These settings can be tweaked and are password protected.5) Spotting the birdie:While little can be done to track or filter adult chatrooms, follow-up material is easier to spot. Offensive images, for instance, are usually stored as .jpg or .gif files, and videos tend to be in an .mpg or .avi format. You can search for them by clicking Start|Search for Files or Folders and then typing in the file extension. You can view them all at once by right clicking in the search window and selecting View|Thumbnails.
The post-Napster world of digital music is shaping up to be a complex web of rival companies, rival music software and rival subscription systems. Last week, as the music industry and its affiliates rushed to announce ventures to capitalise on the opportunity, one thing was clear: without a unified strategy, the future of online music will come to look much like the hardware and software wars of old - cassette vs 8-track, VHS vs Betamax, Netscape vs Microsoft.First out of the gate last week was MusicNet, a division of RealNetworks, which won the right to distribute music from AOL Time Warner's vast Warner Music Group, EMI, and Bertelsmann's BMG.MusicNet is supposed to speed up the rollout of digital music by serving as a copyright clearinghouse for any company that wants to offer internet users the ability to download songs or subscribe to an online music service.However, it is likely to be several months before the service is active. RealNetworks, the maker of the dominant streaming media software RealPlayer, says it is still working on the technology that will allow music companies to trust the internet with copyrighted material. Initially, the service will be offered through AOL and the RealNetworks site.MusicNet will also give Napster the opportunity to license the service if Napster, like any other interested company, can satisfy legal, copyright and security concerns. Last year, Bertelsmann incurred the wrath of rivals by investing $100m in the service, which is now under court order to shut down copyright-infringing traffic.Although MusicNet hopes to line up similar agreements with the two other major firms, Sony Music Entertainment and Vivendi's Universal Music Group, they have set up their own, rival system, Duet, using the troubled portal Yahoo! as the platform. However, critical details still need to be resolved, such as how much consumers will be charged and which software technologies will deliver the music to their computers.Universal, the world's   largest music company, has also reached agreement to acquire online service EMusic, and plans to incoporate it into Duet.The service is due to be available this summer for a monthly fee but initially will only offer access to streaming music. Eventually, consumers will be able to download specific songs and create personalised playlists and sharing privileges with other Duet members.Duet and MusicNet are not alone: The digital arm of MTV, MTVi, is also launching a service that allows people to download songs - for a price - from all five major record companies. MTVi is launching its service in partnership with RioPort.com Inc, which has created software to keep track of the parties that need to be compensated when a song is sold.Performers and songwriters are also entitled to royalties. The elaborate system of publishing and mechanic royalties that exists in the real-world music business model has yet to developed for the internet, though RioPort claims to have the technology. "Each label takes a different approach to copyrights, but RioPort has made that invisible to consumers," says MTVi's Nicholas Butterworth.Also setting up shop is Microsoft. MSN says it will offer a free web-based service that resembles a custom- tailored radio channel. The service allows users to specify a sound or mood of music and then listen to a stream of comparable songs. But users   cannot listen to a particular song on demand, nor can they download and keep the songs - an important distinction, as it relieves Microsoft of the need to negotiate individually with record labels for copyright licences.But the range of services that will be on offer are unlikely to make life easy for a consumer who cares little about specific record companies.Duet can potentially offer almost 50% of the world's music versus MusicNet's roughly 40%. A more probable solution is a service, such as MTVi, that offers everything at one bazaar. MTVi says its system, which will use Microsoft's media player, will post about 10,000 songs by the end of April and make the entire catalog from all five labels downloadable by the end of 2002.Moreover, the competing systems do not offer a standard for music downloads. The rules of whether downloads can be placed on portable devices or burned to a CD-R have not been set, nor have the file protocols been established. MP3s, for all their flexibility, are sonically inferior as the files are electronically compressed.Both Universal and Sony have developed much of their technology in-house. Universal built Bluematter, a proprietary downloading format, and operates eLabs and Global-e, which deploys the label's technology solutions. Sony, with its large consumer   electronics arm, has developed a digital music player as well as its own codec for digital music, ATRAC3; AOL Time Warner has its own research labs along with RealNetworks, and EMI has ties with Microsoft.The record industry's new    online music plans need to become less confusing to be successful, says Ashish Singh, media analyst at Bain &amp; Co, a consulting firm. But the industry traditionally moves slowly and may take as long as 18 months to offer the online music services that con sumers want, he says. "People are looking for something simple, but this is adding to the clutter," Singh adds. "Napster was exactly what consumers wanted."What is certain is that the music companies see the internet - with Napster defanged - as a new and highly attractive source of revenue. Executives at Vivendi Universal have suggested digital delivery could help the music industry go from a $40bn-a-year business to a $90bn business over the next five years.Jupiter Media Metrix is a little more conservative, suggesting that US online music spending could rise to $1.47bn this year, increasing to $5.36bn by 2005.
According to The Times, internet fraud is growing so fast that the EC fears for the future of the electronic commerce
   industry. In Germany, Die Welt questions whether the European dot.com slump can be blamed on consumer fears about
   security. Meanwhile, in Madrid, El Pais reports that European consumers are being ripped off to the tune of £400m a year.From all corners of Europe comes the cry for tighter security measures to instill consumer confidence and stimulate
   e-commerce. Let's get one thing straight - credit card fraud is not out of control. Visa USA announced record low fraud
   losses in 1999, partly attributable to the fact that almost all transactions in the US are now authorised online: that is,
   when you use your credit card to pay for something in a US store, the retailers' point-of-sale (POS) terminal connects to
   a bank computer to check the card is OK. This is very effective in blocking bad cards. In Europe, high telecommunications
   charges have historically led to a situation where many transactions are not authorised online. Nor is card fraud anywhere
   near the top of the banking industry's agenda.Chargeoffs (when banks write off credit card debt) run at about 10 times
   chargebacks (when banks charge fraudulent transactions back to merchants) and are therefore far more worrisome.
   Internet credit card fraud is in a different category. It is considered one type of Card Not Present (CNP) fraud. Most of it
   is related to "adult sites" (a euphemism for pornography).According to Europay, if you remove the portion of fraud
   committed on adult sites, then internet fraud just about equals the amount of overall fraud at 0.1% of all transactions by
   value. Nevertheless, the European Commission is pushing a raft of counter-measures, including better police training, the
   establishment of an experts group on fraud prevention, and closer co-operation between credit card companies and the
   retail sector. But it's still too easy to get hold of someone's card details and use them over the internet or to make a
   bogus card.So what should be done, and who should do it? The banking sector has the power to solve the problem, but not
   the incentive. The payment industry's first attempt, the Secure Electronic Transaction protocol (SET), failed miserably. It
   was just too complicated and too costly to roll out. Neither are European banks rushing for its successor, called 3D SET,
   not surprisingly, in that it transfers some of the fraud liability from retailers to banks.The situation might improve this
   summer when Visa changes its rules so that merchants using 3D SET to authenticate consumers - by accepting payment
   from bank-issued "server side wallets" - will not be liable for fraudulent transactions. Server side wallet is a secure
   software on a bank's computer that consumers can access from any PC, Wap phone, or TV set by typing in a user name
   and password. The wallet then sends the customer's card number and other details such as shipping address to the
   merchant. A number of alternative solutions also exist.Pseduo number systems create a unique 16-digit card number for
   each transaction which the online merchant processes in the usual way, and the consumer's real card number is never
   revealed. The arrival of pre-paid plastic cards shows promise. One example is Splash Plastic, launched last month and
   aimed at the seven million British teenagers that want to buy online but don't have credit cards or bank accounts. The
   card is credited with cash at one of the thousands of PayPoint terminals in retail stores. Stopping teens from buying
   things they shouldn't (eg, pornography or guns) may be a problem, which is why Splash Plastic is careful to vet online
   merchants.What would really benefit consumers and merchants would be a switch from magnetic stripe "dumb" cards that
   use signatures at the point of sale to computer chip smart cards with a PIN. French banks, which have used smart cards
   for years, suffer a fraction the fraud of British banks. If consumers became accustomed to putting their smart cards
   into their PCs when they wanted to buy something, the CNP fraud problem would be reduced at a stroke.So why don't
   they? So far, the case for banks converting to smart cards has been weak, since their losses to fraud have been less
   than the cost of the new cards, terminals and so on. But now that the transition to smart cards is accelerating, perhaps
   the opportunity to use them in new ways will provide real incentives to change.
New mediumSean Dodson's article on interactive TV (Online, April 5) was interesting and informative, but I have a few comments that might be useful to your readers.The article points out that there is much confusion on what interactive TV actually is. I totally agree that iTV would not be a compelling proposition if reduced to a cut-down version of the web. Reaching the masses with a purged and edited internet is definitely not what iTV is about, although you might be forgiven for thinking so in the current marketplace.The consideration that internet browsing from a couch is not easy is also valid: the TV medium is not ideal for hypertext (which is what the world wide web is delivering at the moment). What people want from TV is far more compelling and entertaining content that can be delivered through hypertext.I believe that iTV should be very different then a subset of the web or even an unlikely mirror of it, but rather a whole new way to access and experience rich-media content, services and information for a very wide audience.Content providers and platform operators will have to think of what viewers and users really want from this technology, rather then offering a poorly repackaged version of what exists on other media.For the user, the TV in iTV is far more important then the i. The company I work for - which was mentioned in the article as an indicator of the bad health of the industry - has been aware of this for some time, and has acquired and built specialist expertise in both TV and iTV. This, incidentally, is an area of growth and investment, not affected at all by the recent redundancies - in fact, quite the contrary.Finally, I do not believe that iTV will spell the end of an era where users can go where they want. On the   contrary, I see the future of interactive media, all platforms considered, as a place where diversity of purpose, interest and behaviour will be not only possible, but considerably more empowered then in the current media space.Federico Gaggiofederico.gaggio@razorfish.co.ukSold on iTVSean Dodson is right, I guess, to suggest that the verdict on interactive TV is still out.As someone who has relied on the net for more years than I care to admit, I have been pleasantly surprised by the Telewest active digital system. News, entertainment, shopping, etc, are all there, with new services seemingly added each time I have a look at the system.The thing that strikes me most is that many of the e-commerce/e-shopping services that I use regularly on the web are probably accessed more easily on interactive TV. While, for the moment at least, research-type web work will certainly remain the preserve of the computer/web axis, I can see myself using interactive TV to book holidays and travel and to buy electrical goods.Although only a few months old, the service is clearly reliable and useful.Andy Howellandy.howell@ecotrend.netNet needs"The best websites are constantly evolving, with new content being added to keep readers coming back for more."Why is this still held to be such a truism in the world of the web?I only want the websites I read to be constantly changing if that's the point of the site. I want websites to be appropriate to their purpose. So if that means nothing ever changes on the site from the day it first goes live then great! I like http://bahn. hafas.de because it does exactly what it has always done (deliver European train timetables) in the same way for the last five years. Fantastic!People come back to websites for more because they get something they want. I was once working as an account handler for what was a well-known web development company creating a website for a well-known   insurance company. Part of the proposal (which included online quotations that, at the time, could not be processed online and involved people, photocopying and the Royal Mail) was to provide some games to make people come back to the site. Eh? If I want an insurance quote, I want an insurance quote. If it's better than the competition I might use them again if they do other kinds of cover, otherwise I wouldn't go back to the site for another year. If I wanted to play a game then I'd probably just get out the PlayStation.Ruth Gatesruth@gates-ink.comNo alternativeRichard Hill (Feedback, April 5) proposed Napigator as the holy grail for those bereft of Napster. Alas it seems someone on high is aware of this, and whenever I try to connect with one of the Napigator servers, I get the message: "The server is full - 1000 connections". As for other palliatives to Napster withdrawal symptoms, winMX often does not connect at all , and Gnutella/ Bearshare is said to be virus-bound. Indeed, when I attempted to run it on my PC, I observed some very strange happenings.So it would seem Napster is irreplaceable ... unless, of course, you know better.Barry Shawbazzie_man@hotmail.comRefund rightsAlan Waters (Feedback, April 5) has found that Apple OS X doesn't give proper internet access, and he wants his money back, which is sensible.  But then he writes: "Strictly speaking, only unopened software can be returned and refunded", which is nonsense. If Mr Waters bought a program which doesn't work properly, he's entitled to his money back - and compensation for any quantifiable loss as a result. The vendor cannot impose arbitrary conditions (eg, that the pack must not have been opened). Software is no different from any other consumer product. If it doesn't do what it's supposed to do, you can demand a refund and compensation. And if the vendors refuse, sue them in the county court!Dermod Quirkedermod@dircon.co.uk
Young Irish farmer Noel Marshall could have given a masterclass in sales skills to any one of the hundreds of inventors in the hall. By his own admission he was a beginner at this business. But, having somehow secured one of the most prominent stands at the International Exhibition of Inventions in Geneva last week, the 25-year-old's sales patter for his invention - the Bricky - was flowing thick and fast.  In fact, with Noel's southern Irish accent it was probably a little too thick and a little too fast for much of his multinational audience, but his message was clear. My simple little device helps you lay bricks fast - really fast - the profit margins are gonna be huge, and I want to sell the idea to you.Noel was one of a record 725 exhibitors showing off inventions at this annual gathering in Geneva, which claims to be the biggest show devoted to brand-new inventions anywhere in the world. It is held at the Palexpo Convention Centre, near the border with France and less than 10 minutes' drive from Cern, the particle physics lab where scientists routinely create antimatter, and someone called Tim Berners-Lee invented the world wide web a few years ago.There was, of course, nothing at this show which could quite live up to that local heritage, but there was plenty to gawk at, from the highly specialised to the bizarre, from the beautiful to the strictly functional. To be allowed in, each exhibit had to have come   into the public domain in the past year, and be patented. And, you quickly learned from every stallholder you spoke to, each exhibit represented a dream."I'm here because I  know there's a lot of money to be made from this," says Marshall during a quiet moment at his booth, which has been transformed from dowdy cubicle to a little corner of the emerald isle, with flags, local newspaper cuttings, hurling sticks and a giant poster of his beloved Cork hurling team for which his brother plays.The idea he is out to promote is so beguilingly simple, you wonder why it has not been invented before. Indeed, part of Noel's patter is that "this should have been invented a hundred years ago".The Bricky is a mould which is placed on top of a row of bricks, into which the bricklayer puts the next layer of mortar. The mould gives a perfect depth and dimensions, and the next row of bricks can be quickly added.Noel says he got the idea on December 27 last year, when he was trying to build an outhouse on his farm, and was "making a right dog's dinner of it". Now, he claims, bricklaying chums are able to work twice as fast."I'm not sure what I want to do with the idea," he says. "I might sell the rights, but only with commission, mind - I want a cut." He has banded together with his neighbour, Donnie Dennine, who he says is the marketing man - although he looks like he barely has need for one. Have you had any offers yet, I ask? "Oh yes," he says, without hesitation. "A million."I don't believe him, although doubtless that's his target, and in pounds rather than lira.Things are rather quieter a couple of aisles away in the tiny British enclave, tucked away among vast sections populated by inventors from Taiwan and eastern Europe.Charles Brown is one of the handful of exhibitors to have crossed the Channel - he is here to show off his specialised metal grinder, which creates tiny metal shards from recycled metal useful for various industrial processes. He hopes to export his machine, made by a company in his native Sheffield, to continental customers."Why are there so few British exhibitors," I ask him. "Do they all go elsewhere to show their wares?" "No, no. It's just our amazing insularity," he says. "Something to do with the fall of the empire," he chuckles. Brown says it is a long-standing problem that he has noticed over his four decades doing the rounds. "That's what went wrong with the Sheffield steel industry in my view," he says. "They just didn't get overseas and visit their customers."Insularity is also a word used by the assistant director of the show, Ann Loertscher, explaining the absence of any   organised British presence. "For years I have been trying to get the department of trade and industry involved," she says, apparently mystified by the British intransigence. "We have been trying to tell them it is going to bring in foreign currency. And if they came they would be able to meet the French, the Germans, the Russians, and exchange ideas."Today, she says, the Russians - celebrating their fifth year here - are the model delegation for every one of the 40 countries exhibiting. "They are supported by the ministry of technology and science, and   the ministry of emergency situations, and they select who travels here according to their budget. The first year things were not so good, but since then they have made enormous progress," she says.The inventions in the Russian section are certainly varied. There are new lubricants and welding processes, as well as inventions we might expect from the country, such as improvements to the process of drilling through perma-frost rocks and new ways to construct sturdier buildings on frozen ground. There is   also the eccentric, including a double-strap device that holds an umbrella in place without the use of hands.Indeed, that's the kind of eccentricity which many might expect from such a show, especially those weaned on the Great Egg Race. In the 80s TV programme, Lesley Judd and Professor Heinz Wolff presided over teams with inventions such as Flymos converted into remote-control hovercraft using only equipment found in a "typical" garage.Mere mention of inventors' wild-haired, bad-jumpered reputations raises assistant director Loertscher's heckles.   "Please don't say that," she says, firmly, before launching into what is clearly a well-rehearsed statement for the media on Why Inventors Might Be Eccentric, But Deserve Our Respect."Most of these inventors have day jobs and create in their free time," she says. "They might be developing a new cup for use in transport, or the highest technology thing imaginable, but they all deserve our respect."It is just that some spend all their time working on their inventions - the apples of their eyes - and struggle to explain their creations."Some might, but not all.   Back in the British enclave, another inventor is hard- selling his dream. Alan McGowan, an irrepressible Yorkshireman smartly dressed in a shirt which shows off his tatoos, has what he reckons is "the monster of the show": a 12-foot high hole-blasting device which uses compressed air and water rather than explosives for mining.McGowan says his device could slash mining costs and save lives - not just of miners unlucky with sticks of dynamite, but in third world countries where it could be used to re-open dried up wells. Oh, and   it could make him rich, too."ICI makes hundreds of millions a year from explosives, and there are 53 manufacturers of explosives in the world," he says. "This is cheaper - it cuts the cost of a 60ft hole from $44 to $4, and it's safer. They'll ban explosives when this goes on sale."That, like our slick Irishman's million, might be just another dream.But, even if their inventions failed to pass muster, that ambition alone makes the show an appropriate neighbour to the earth- shattering, atom-splitting laboratories of Cern.From brilliant to the bizarreSuch was the sales pitch of Noel Marshall, inventor of the Bricky, that he managed to pick up the popular vote for best invention.Jean-Pierre Sigrist, a director of the exhibition, presented Noel with his prize at the the show's annual awards ceremony on Friday night.The evening was a celebration of the best of the show's offerings, all of which have to be brand new and patented to gain entry.Winner of the Grand Prix prize - voted for by a 68-member jury and regarded as the most prestigious prize, even without a cash reward - was a Spanish plant pot. Its inventor claims it can cut up to three months off regular growth times for plant cuttings.Jose-Luis Lleo Faura  has already sold 23,000 Rooter Pots ahead of its official launch.Also given an award was Swiss inventor Hanspeter Steffen who had created a new packaging for keeping food fresh, and Russian exhibitor Marina Bludyan who had developed a sophisticated protective mask.Water Gate, a flexible water-filled barrier for containing floods and toxic spills developed by a Canadian team, also picked up several awards.But not all inventions met with such acclaim. Professor Giuseppe Cirillo, founder of a Rome-based school of courtship and seduction, was still struggling to sell the concept of Chastity Pants. The pants, first reported in the Guardian last August, would record the length of time people removed their underwear, thus detecting infidelity.
How did you get into computers?  I was a founder member of the computer club at school, when I was 11 or 12. We got this Olivetti that looked like a glorified cash register, with paper printer output. When you took the back off, it was stuffed full of transistors on racks and racks of PCBs (printed circuit boards). The other machine that really stuck in my mind was when the school took delivery of aResearch Machines 380Z. Remember writing programs in Tiny Basic? I've always been interested in the use of computers and in the 90s, designing Formula 1 cars, I pushed very hard on using them for vehicle simulation.Did you work with Schumacher at Benetton?I became chief designer after Schumi had left: I worked with Gerhard Berger and Jean Alesi, then Fisichella and Wurz. Before Benetton, I'd set up my own F1 team, Simtec, in 1993-94. I was the youngest F1 team owner. There weren't enough places on the grid so it always ended up in a shoot-out, but we never missed. Some of the key people from Simtec have worked on the RoboDog team at RoboScience.Why go from wheels to legs?The simple fact is that we're not going to adapt our environment to robots: they're going to have to adapt to us. The most suitable design for working in our environment is a legged robot. The RoboDog is just a technology demonstrator. We said: "Let's show the world what we've done by building a large robot dog." We figured we didn't want anything too scary, like a giant crab. But my interest in robotics stemmed from my childhood. I remember, like many of my contemporaries, staring in wonder at the robots in Star Wars.When did you start using the internet?I've been using it a long time, but in an academic sort of way. But the internet has been absolutely key to this project. The development has been done by a virtual team: we are dotted all over the place, and we have communicated over the internet. In the old days, you had to be all together to share the technical library. Now I have the biggest reference library in the world, and it is the world at the end of a modem. I've got a two-channel ISDN line at home and a trillion Acrobat files. It's just fantastic. You still have to have the team and talent, but the resources are amazing.What are your favourite sites?I use the web really just for technology news, except when I'm in full design mode. I useABCandCNN. I'm a big movie fan, so I look atIGN Film Forcewhich has a really nice format, andwww.avscience.com. I like to keep up with motor racing so I go toAutosportandF1 Live. The other great technical resource that I love isMoreover, because it's so bloody useful.Seewww.roboscience.com&#149;  Interviewed by Jack Schofield
Newsgroups are the internet's talking shop. Whatever you like to talk about, there is probably a group for it, somewhere between alt.abortion and zipnews.gov.world.politics. If not, you can start one.Although they are called "newsgroups", there is rarely any news in them. Content is made up of email messages or "postings" from anyone who can be bothered to send them. The stream of messages is passed from server to server as a "newsfeed". New postings replace old ones, which eventually disappear.To participate, you need a program called a newsreader. One of the best known is Agent, which is also available in a free version,Free Agent. However, a serviceable newsreader is included free with browsers   such as Microsoft's Internet Explorer and Netscape Navigator, so these are what most people use.Outlook Express - which is part of Internet Explorer - treats news exactly the same as email. If you can send and receive email, then you can handle Usenet newsgroups, too.The first job is to establish a connection to a news server. This will probably be the one run by your ISP (internet service provider), though there are also public (free) and paid-for alternatives. The only thing you need to know is the address, which will be something like news.btclick.comTo set up news in Outlook Express, go to Tools and select Accounts from the pull-down menu. When the tabbed dialogue box appears, click on Add in the top right hand corner, and select News. This will start a wizard to take you through the process. Just fill in your name and email address (or accept the ones offered) and type in the address of the news server.It is a good idea to set up a separate mailbox on Yahoo or Hotmail for newsgroup use only, in case you are deluged with spam (junk email). If you want to do this later, go   back to the dialogue box and click on the News tab, then click the button on the right for Properties.When you close the dialogue box, you will be asked if you want to download newsgroups. Say yes. There are tens of thousands, so this may take some time. When the list appears, you can choose which you want to subscribe to. This is done by highlighting each group and clicking the Subscribe button on the right. Press OK to finish, and the names will be added to the Folders section below your mailboxes.If you want to add groups later, select Tools|Newsgroups or press Ctrl-W. This will bring up the list of groups that has already been downloaded and saved on your hard drive.To control each newsgroup, right-click on its name and select Properties.Click on the Synchronize tab to select what you want fetching, and click on the Local File tab to delete messages you no longer want.The Synchronize tab lets you download just the headers of messages, or whole messages (headers and bodies). With low volume newsgroups, you may as well download the whole lot.   With high volume and binary newsgroups, it is best to download only the headers. You can then scan them offline, and decide which ones to mark for downloading later."Binary" newsgroups are the ones where large files are posted, often in multiple messages. Examples include alt.binaries.doom and comp.binaries.ibm. The large files may be computer programs, MP3s, pictures or video clips. Not all of them are pirate software or pornography, but many are.Next, select the newsgroup folder (eg news.   btclick.com) in Folders, and Internet Explorer's right hand pane will show your list of newsgroups and three buttons. Click the left button, Synchronize, and Outlook Express will download the new messages (and any bodies) that you have asked for. Again, this may take some time.Once your account as been synchronized, you can read and respond to messages in the normal way. However, if you are new to newsgroups, wait a few days before posting any messages. Newsgroups vary in tone and style, and other   users may not take kindly to "newbies" who don't take the trouble to fit in.Most newsgroups also have a FAQ or file of Frequently Asked Questions. The idea is to avoid repeating stuff over and over. If you can't find the FAQ, look for it on the web atwww.faqs.org/faqs.When you have finished scanning messages, you can mark them all as read: go to Edit|Mark All Read. If you want to do anything with a particular message, right-click on it and select from the list of options.Newsgroups can quickly fill up even the biggest hard drive. You will therefore need to go back to each group's Properties sheet and select the Local File tab. This lets you Remove Messages (which deletes the bodies but keeps the headers) and Delete (which removes both). After deleting, click on the Compact button to remove the deleted messages.As with email, Outlook Express lets you set up rules to help avoid spam: go to Tools|Message Rules|News. However, since most of Usenet is junk, it is hardly worth the effort.
Conkers Bad Fur DayNintendo	&#163;59.99 Rare/THQ	***Heard the one about the N64 game that was so rude that Nintendo UK didn't dare publish? Well, Conkers Bad Fur Day is finally available, complete with an 18 certificate and a lot of swearing.But anyone expecting a flurry of expletives needn't worry. "Fart" is about as bad as it gets. Much in the mould of Mario 64 and Banjo Kazooie, Conkers is a 3D platformer.However, unlike the aforementioned classics, Conkers is a distinctly adult take on the genre. Rated mature in the US, it would seem the censors missed out the prefix "im" - this is pure toilet humour.Of course there's no denying the sheer novelty of biting a caveman's backside or bouncing off a sunflower's ample bosoms. And there is some genuinely humorous dialogue here, especially with the Scouse scarab beetles and camp machinery pieces. But the game itself is sadly disappointing, with flaws spoiling what would otherwise be an enjoyable platform romp.The biggest problem is the camera - an essential component of any 3D game. One minute you're trying hard to position the angle, the next your view is blocked by a brick wall. No matter how well-scripted the set piece, it matters little when you can't see where you are going.A difficulty level that starts at 10 and soon rises further compounds this frustration. However, there is also much to admire. The visuals are impressive, with Conker himself - all big eyes and big mouth - particularly well   animated, while there are some cracking film pastiches.The opening beach landing scene in Saving Private Ryan, complete with squirrel carnage, is followed by a cuddlier version of the slow-mo lobby shoot out in The Matrix. But while there are undoubtedly some great ideas here, the dreadful camera, slippery controls and high difficulty level count against it. It may not be "poo" but Conkers Bad Fur Day offers more style than substance.  (GH)London Thames RacerPC CD-rom	&#163;19.99 Davilex/ Koch Distribution	**Ah, the dramatic London skyline, the wind in your hair, the sewage-rich water in your eyes... OK, so speedboat racing on the Thames doesn't quite have the thrill of Formula 1 at Silverstone, but it is a picturesque way of fulfilling your need for speed.Let me qualify that. The boats look all right, and the water effects are rather fetching, especially at night. Sadly, the backgrounds are several leagues behind. Everyone in London, Venice and Amster dam (where you progress after the opening stages) seems to drive the same car, and the buildings are straight out of Mr Benn.Still, the racing is exhilarating enough to take your mind off the scenery. You start with a choice of boats, each with its own peculiar handling characteristics, and you can unlock further models by winning stages. (Except for the stage where you win and a boat is taken away from you. Now there's an incentive.)There are plenty of power-ups scattered over the course -   torpedoes, homing missiles, turbo boosts and mines -   although none seems to do more than briefly inconvenience the opposition. And while there are no shortcuts as such, there are a few alternative routes that offer different race strategies.But while the bare bones of    the game are solid enough, there's hardly any flesh on it at all. There's no race commentary, no sound effects beyond the odd splosh and boom, the final animation is about three seconds long and there's no intro movie. No vehicle modifications, no secret areas, no multiplayer, no petting, no bombing, no pets. You don't even appear to be able to input your name which is a shame since the results go up on such  glorious scoreboards.London Thames Racer is fun while it lasts. But the astonishing lack of depth, and the fact that there are only around 20 courses to complete, means it doesn't last very long. I finished it in two hours, and I'm crap at racing games. And I've never been in a speedboat in my life. And I was hung over.  (AB)C12: Final ResistanceSony PlayStation	&#163;29.99 Sony	**Third-person viewpoints and dodgy cameras in videogames go together like first-person goggle displays and rasterised green hues. Chugging along at an impressively smooth frame rate for the pensionable hardware, C12 nevertheless has appalling problems with the camera.It lags indolently behind your actions, and when you get into a confined space it   swings around infuriatingly to show you the front of your character - an ugly grunt with a glowing red bionic eye who is no Lara Croft.It's not like this is an insoluble challenge: both Metal Gear Solid and Sony's own Syphon Filter had far more intelligent camerawork.C12, coincidentally, is heavily "inspired" by the action-stealth milieu of those games, while never attaining their fluidity of action or thematic focus.Set on a tediously futuristic earth, it requires the player to assume the role of Lieutenant Vaughan, a cybernetically enhanced soldier, and, er, kill all the alien robots. Oh, I don't know. Can't we just negotiate with   them for once? Don't they have feelings too?Broken camera dynamics    aside, C12 is technically - and occasionally aesthetically - impressive. Lighting and    weapon effects are done with a respectable flair, the post-apocalyptic cities have a rad dled scorched-brick charm, and there are fun toys to play with such as chaingun turrets and the aliens' own ion cannon. But there's something fatally uninspired about the repetitive robot-killing and the bog-standard button-pushing "problems".C12 seems to have been stitched cynically together from the corpses of other games in order to provide PSone with a massively overhyped Easter "blockbuster". But it just has no personality of its own. The game's attempts at scene-setting atmosphere, meanwhile, are torpedoed by the risible British-accented voice acting. The Terminator meets Dad's Army: nice.  (SP)
Creatures on the looseNorns, the "artificial life" from the Creatures series, can now make their own way across the internet. On May 4, Creature Labs in Cambridge is holding the worldwide    launch of theCreatures Docking Station, which has just been "soft launched" on the web. The next step is a Creatures Internet Edition that will have the docking station built-in.Once connected, the docking station opens "portals" between games, and individual norns can decide for themselves if they want to "warp" between them.Now norns can walk, talk and travel through cyberspace, it is tempting to wonder what they will do next.Drive aheadIn Tokyo, Sony has finally announced an upgraded    version of the PlayStation2 games console that allows users to plug in a "broadband ready" hard drive. American and European users don't    need to worry about the upgrade as their PS2s already include the expansion bay required. There is still no news about when the drives   might arrive here, or what they might cost, but an announcement is expected next month. Also, it is not known if the capacity will be similar to the drive mooted for Japan: 40 gigabytes.One on oneNetworkleague says it can now give you a fair fight in an online game. It logs players' performances and matches you against opponents with similar network speeds. But if you want to take on the world, you can do that too. Networkleague has launched a &#163;20,000 global Quake 3 competition. But it won't be easy. You have to play at least 20 games before tackling the    regional and global finals. Seewww.networkleague.com.Cheap thrillsAnyone who remembers Virgin Interactive's White Label range of budget games, launched in 1995, will be pleased to see the label's return. The first four PC titles, priced at &#163;9.99, include Baldur's Gate and Messiah. The White Label range will compete with Sold Out's ranges. New &#163;4.99 titles include Micro Machines V3 and Mortal Kombat 4. However, the company has just launched a Sold Out Extreme range at &#163;9.99, featuring Resident Evil 2.
Keep off!How can I keep other people out of my computer? The Windows password can easily be got round by hitting Esc. Are there any other ways of ensuring that only I can get in? I'm using Windows 98.Rob Walshrobis@discemail.fsnet.co.ukJack Schofield replies:The Windows log-on provides useful personalisation but, as you say, nothing in the way of security. For that, you could try a combination of a boot (start up) password and a password-protected screen saver.To set a boot password you need to access your PC's BIOS set-up screen, possibly by pressing the Del key during the start up process. (Instruc tions are shown on screen when your PC is turned on.) The computer will not run unless the password is typed in.However, if you forget a BIOS password, it could be difficult to regain access to your PC. Also, a BIOS password provides no protection once your PC is running. For that, you need to use a password-protected screen-saver as well.If you just want to protect certain files or folders, there are dozens of programs that will do that:www.davecentral.com/encrypt.htmllists shareware or free examples. You could look atEncrypted Magic Folders,Folder Guard,Kremlinand Ixis Software's Security Administrator www.softheap.com/secagent.html )Desktop abuseJust why is it "best not to save files on the desktop" (Ask Jack, March 29)?Robin Usherrobin.usher@btinternet.com.JS:Why is it best not to keep groceries on the kitchen table? It is better to store things where they belong, rather than cluttering up your workspace with them. It is just as easy to save files in a directory called My Downloads as it is in Desktop. It is also quicker than saving them to the desktop then moving them later.Here's how to make things magically appear on and dis appear from the Windows desktop. Open Windows Explorer and go to the C:\Windows\Desktop directory.Try using the mouse to move one or two files into this directory, and out again.FrustrationI have been reading the Irish Times online. The front page and leading articles download correctly, but recently, readers' letters have appeared from previous issues. Despite clearing the history file, maverick items keep coming back. Can you explain?Albert Moorearmoore@welwyn28.freeserve.co.ukJS:When asked for a page, web browsers look to see if they already have it in their cache memory (from the French cacher, to hide). In Internet Explorer's case, this is the Temporary Internet Files folder in the Windows directory. It is cleared in IE5 by selecting Tools|Options and clicking the button, Delete Files.If this folder is empty, you might assume fresh data would be fetched from the server. However, your ISP (internet service provider) is almost certainly caching pages as well. This saves fetching the same page repeatedly, for different users. Unfortunately not all these "proxy caches" are refreshed often enough, and some continue to ship pages long after they should have   expired. In theory, the browser can check whether a page has been updated. In IE5, go to Tools|Internet Options and click the Settings button. This is where you can tell IE to check for new pages. You should also be able to force a fresh page by holding down the Control key and clicking Refresh, or by pressing Ctrl-F5. But often, this does not work either.One trick to force the server to revisit the site you want is to add ?123 or something similar (the numbers don't matter) to the end of the address (egwww.guardianunlimited.co.uk/?123). If there is a more recent version of a page, this will usually get it.Alternatively, try reading the page via Safeweb (www.safeweb.com). This is slower but normally gets the very latest content. It also means your ISP can no longer see what you are reading.Address saverHow can I transfer my Outlook Express address book on my PC to OE on a new laptop?Amanda Parkynparkyn@clara.co.ukJS:Outlook Express normally uses the Windows Address Book (Wab.exe) program. Click the Addresses icon in OE and it should appear. Select File|Export| Address Book (WAB) and save your addresses with memorable name, such as Amanda01 (the .wab will be added automatically).Copy this file from My Documents (or wherever you   saved it) to My Documents on your laptop and do the reverse. That is, open the Address Book, select File|Import| Address Book (WAB), and import the file called Amanda01.wab (which will probably be the only file visible).You might also get away with copying your current .wab addressbook file from the desktop to the same directory on the laptop. You can find where it is stored by looking under Help|About Address Book. It will probably be in the C:\Windows\ Application Data\ Microsoft\Address Book directory.You can also run Windows Address Book separately from OE. Go to Start|Run, type wab in the Open box, and click OK.CrosswordsIn my more youthful days with an Atari, I picked up a piece of freeware which constructed a crossword given a collection of words for insertion.Where does one find something shareware or free?Geoff Saulgeoff@gmsaul.freeserve.co.ukJS:Try the About guide to puzzles hosted by Dave Fisher. He reviews several crossword compilers starting at http://puzzles.about. com/ games/puzzles/cs/ puzzlesoftware/ There are also useful selections athttp://thinks.com/software/crosswords.htmand theOpen Directory.Quick keyI'm using IE 5.5 and I'm pretty sure that in some earlier versions you could just type something basic in the Address Bar and it would add the requisite www and com. Please help my typing fingers.Mark Patersonm.paterson@bristol.ac.ukJS:The trick is easily forgotten. Type in the name of the site, such as Google, then hold down the Control key while pressing Enter. Result:www.google.comMail deliveryIn the last Start Here column, I described how to set up Outlook Express to collect email from a POP3 mailbox. However, Iain Noble points out that one leading online service, CompuServe, uses the IMAP mail protocol instead. "This has caused considerable problems for CompuServe 2000 users," writes Iain, "and has led to my writing a set of instructions." They can be found atwww.forumscentral.com/email/imap.htm
"This is disgraceful," fumed  San Francisco judge Marilyn Hall Patel yesterday, when faced with evidence of how business continues as usual on the court injunction-bound Napster song-swapping service.Business, of course, is not quite the word to use, given that Napster makes no money and that most of the songs swapped through it are pirated duplicates of copyright music.But, regardless, Napster's popularity remains strong and filtering procedures put in place are failing to put the brakes on the violations the website makes so simple to carry out.Logging on this morning, it was easy to find any tune from this week's chart. Even brand-new singles from well-known artists were there: the soundtrack album for Bridget Jones' Diary is all there for free, as is Janet Jackson's new single, All for You. The latter is on rotation at MTV and is pretty popular on Napster as well; I quickly found dozens of fellow users ready to share the file.How are they getting round Napster's filtering efforts? Quite easily. The song-swapping service is asking copyright holders to verify they own rights to songs before it puts a simple block on the name of the track. So, look up that Janet Jackson song as "All For You" and nothing will appear. But search for "Janet Jackson" and you'll find hundreds of available files, including lots called "all4you" or "alll4u", or some similar arrangement of characters which makes it quite clear to the human searcher what the file contains, but which foxes Napster's filter.As you might have guessed by now, Napster has hardly pulled out the technological stops to stop the illegal file-swaps. As Cary Sherman of the Recording Industry Association of America pointed out yesterday, "There are so many things that they aren't doing right now that they could be doing tomorrow." Like applying blocks by artist name, rather than song title."Maybe the system needs to be shut down," said Judge Patel in conclusion, but that is essentially already what she is demanding Napster do to itself by blocking all those copyright songs. Of course this turkey is reluctant to vote for Christmas and surely now it is only a question of how - rather than if - Napster as we know it now will simply have the plug pulled on it.Will that be the end of Napster, or online music piracy? The answer to both questions is most likely: no. Napster's core song-swapping technology has done a great favour for the neanderthal record companies by showing what would work best for them online. Napster has already signed a deal with Bertellsman, the German media conglomerate, to launch a legal version of its service to paying customers. If it works as well as Napster does now (even under injunction), it will be very successful indeed, as the otherwise law-abiding majority of Napster users migrate to doing the honest thing, and others , put off by the moral conundrums of using Napster today, sign up too.And what of online music piracy? The record companies would be stupid to think that, by stopping Napster, they will stop the music pirates. There are several alternatives to Napster (none, it must be said, with quite the same functionality or ease of use - so far) and we can comfortably predict that songs will continue to be copied and distributed illegally just like, for instance, expensive bits of software like Word and PhotoShop are in various "warez" newsgroups.But the pirates will eventually return to being, once again, the minority, because most people accept that paying to be allowed to listen to music is a fair way of rewarding artists for their creativity. The only doubt is over exactly when the record companies will get round to allowing us to pay for digital music. Many online music fans will be wishing they would hurry things up by ending the pointless legal wranglings with Napster, and working instead to develop an effective, legal song swapping system.Emailneil.mcintosh@guardian.co.ukRelated stories08.03.2001: Napster faces two new lawsuits03.03.2001: Hopes of Napster deal fade23.02.2001: Napster stymied by Sony venture21.02.2001: Napster offers billions to record companiesUseful linkNapster
The twin baby girls adopted by Judith and Alan Kilshaw last night faced the prospect of a fifth home in just nine months of life, following the high court ruling that they should be returned to America.Whether or not the Kilshaws appeal against the decision, the turmoil that Kimberley and Belinda have experienced throughout their brief lives is unlikely to end just yet.They will be taken from their home with foster parents in north Wales and placed with carers in America while a court in Missouri makes a final decision on who should be granted custody.Their estranged natural parents, Tranda and Aaron   Wecker, are separately seeking residence rights.It is the latest twist in a remarkable saga that only became public because the Kilshaws approached The Sun newspaper to describe the difficulties they had adopting the girls, who were born in St Louis in July last year.The Weckers had just split up and their mother was eager to have the twins adopted. She approached internet baby broker Tina Johnson, who placed the girls with a Californian couple, Richard and Vickie Allen, for a fee.But two months later the Kilshaws offered her &#163;8,200 - double the original fee - and she arranged to give the babies to them instead.With the help of Ms Wecker   she took the girls from the unwitting Allens and handed them over to the Kilshaws, who drove across the US so that they could carry out a speedy adoption in Arkansas, which has laxer adoption laws. A court in Little Rock subsequently annulled the arrangement.News of the deal caused outrage in Britain and two days after the story broke in the Sun, in January this year, Flintshire social services served an emergency protection order on the Kilshaws. The authority put the two girls into the care of foster parents and applied to the family division of the high court to make the twins wards of court.It is not yet know when the sisters will return to the US, although it is likely to take weeks as carers attempt to minimise the further disruption to their lives. The legal wrangles there could last much longer.The Allens have withdrawn from the custody battle following claims - denied by the   couple - that Mr Allen had molested two teenage babysitters. But the twins' natural parents are still fighting each other for custody.Mr Wecker's counsel, Jeremy Rosenblatt, said yesterday: "He is thrilled and delighted with the decision of the English court. He will fight for the residence of his girls."In his statement yesterday, Mr Justice Kirkwood commented: "The arrangements for the move of the twins are, and will remain, confidential. They will be carefully planned so as to avoid, so far as possible, any further distress."But attempts to calm the furore have not been entirely successful.Despite promising that they would stop commenting on the case, the Kilshaws continued to talk to the media and protest that the children should never have been removed from them.At one point, court security staff had to search all those at tending the private hearing for recording equipment.Yesterday Mrs Kilshaw repeatedly stormed out of court to scream at waiting reporters. She was restrained by friends, court staff and her eldest daughter Kaley as she yelled: "There is no justice. They said I lied." She added: "You want everything don't you? My life and my kids."The Kilshaws were silent when the hearing ended, refusing to comment as they left the court by a back door usually reserved for judges.The public relations agent Max Clifford is acting as their unpaid media adviser.Related articles&lt;A 
HREF="http://www.guardian.co.uk/twins/story/0,7369,470929,00.html"&gt;09.04.2001: 
Judge's statement&lt;A 
HREF="http://www.guardian.co.uk/twins/story/0,7369,470895,00.html"&gt;09.04.2001: 
Kilshaws lose court bid for internet twins&lt;A 
HREF="http://www.guardian.co.uk/twins/story/0,7369,467652,00.html"&gt;03.04.2001: 
Abduction claim by internet twins' parents&lt;A 
HREF="http://www.guardian.co.uk/twins/story/0,7369,459481,00.html"&gt;  20.03.2001: 
British couple fight on for internet twins&lt;A 
HREF="http://www.guardian.co.uk/twins/story/0,7369,459299,00.html"&gt;19.03.2001: 
Custody battle adjourned&lt;A 
HREF="http://www.guardian.co.uk/twins/story/0,7369,458742,00.html"&gt;18.03.2001: 
Net baby mother lashes out at 'official smear campaign'&lt;A 
HREF="http://www.guardian.co.uk/twins/story/0,7369,447790,00.html"&gt;07.03.2001: 
US judge rejects twins' adoptionThe issue explained&lt;A 
HREF="http://www.guardian.co.uk/theissues/article/0,6512,425023,00.html"&gt;19.01.2
001: Adopting babies on the internetAudio&lt;A 
HREF="http://www.pixunlimited.co.uk:7080/ramgen/news/politics/0123hcarter.ra"&gt;  
24.01.2001: 'Members of the public were shouting abuse'TalkWhat do 
you think?Useful links&lt;A HREF="http://www.adoption.org.uk/" 
TARGET="_new"&gt;Adoption Information Line&lt;A HREF="http://www.adoption-
net.co.uk/faq/faqindex.htm" TARGET="_new"&gt;ABC Adoptions: online adoption 
resourcesBritish 
Agencies for Adoption and Fostering
The American twin girls at the centre of an internet adoption row must be returned to their birthplace in St Louis, Missouri, a judge at the high court in London ruled yesterday.A baby broker was paid &#163;8,200 by Judith and Alan Kil shaw to arrange the adoption. But the transaction was the subject of dispute and the children were removed in January by Flintshire social services.In the high court case, the Kilshaws, from Buckley, north Wales, had hoped to regain custody of the nine-month-old sisters. They may appeal.Mrs Kilshaw stormed repeatedly from the court where Mr Justice Kirkwood was giving his ruling in private. She had to be restrained by friends, court staff and her 18-year-old daughter Kaley as she screamed: "There is no justice. They said I lied." Wrestling with a court official she said, "You want everything, don't you, my life and my kids."After more than five days of legal arguments and evidence from social workers, childcare experts, the babies' natural parents, and the Kilshaws, the judge had decided that the girls, known as Kimberley and Belinda, should be returned to   the United States. They will be cared for by a foster family while a court in Missouri decides where they should make their permanent home. Their natural parents are estranged and are separately seeking custody of their children.In a statement to the press, Mr Justice Kirkwood said: "The court held that it would not be in the welfare interests of the twins for them to be returned to Mr and Mrs Kilshaw. Mr and Mrs Kilshaw's application for a residence order was dismissed."The court, he said, "rejected robustly an allegation by Mr and Mrs Kilshaw that the ac tions in the case of Flintshire county council were driven by a local or central government agenda. The county council has acted properly and in accordance with its statutory obligations throughout."The Kilshaws refused to comment after the hearing and were driven away in a black cab waiting for them at the back of the court.Michael Charles, their solicitor, said: "They are very disappointed with the decision. They are going to consider very carefully their legal position with regard to an appeal."The proceedings had been "a great strain for Mr and Mrs Kilshaw who want only what is best for these children".Karen Reilly, the head of children's services at Flintshire county council, clearly felt the ruling vindicated her department's actions: "&#91;It&#93; confirms our view that the intervention of the court was necessary to secure and promote the safety and welfare of these two children," she said."Their welfare has always been our highest priority and it will remain so whilst arrangements are made for their safe return to their native country."Related articles09.04.2001:   Judge's statement09.04.2001:   Kilshaws lose court bid for internet twins03.04.2001:   Abduction claim by internet twins' parents20.03.2001:   British couple fight on for internet twins19.03.2001:   Custody battle adjourned18.03.2001:   Net baby mother lashes out at 'official smear campaign'07.03.2001:   US judge rejects twins' adoptionThe issue explained19.01.2  001: Adopting babies on the internetAudio24.01.2001: 'Members of the public were shouting abuse'TalkWhat do   you think?Useful linksAdoption Information LineABC Adoptions: online adoption   resourcesBritish   Agencies for Adoption and Fostering
Online retailer Amazon, the world's largest e-commerce company, yesterday offered internet stocks investors a little relief following the recent wave of profit warnings from its rivals by revealing that sales were ahead of expectations and losses lower.Traders took heart from the news, marking Amazon shares up by as much as 40% at one stage and helping a wider stock market rally.In a statement the dot.com bellwether described the reporting period as the "best quarter in our history", and said losses per share were likely to be around 15% less than predicted due to increased international sales and lower costs.The company is still making heavy losses but its chief executive, Jeff Bezos, said his pledge that Amazon would turn a profit at an operating level this year was unchanged. "For the fifth quarter we saw substantial improvement in our operations and bottom line performance," he said.Amazon shares have fallen around 40% this year in the wake of a series of profit warnings from on- and off-line retailers and concerns about the US economic slowdown.But its confident statement helped shares in other former dot.com favourites such as eBay and Yahoo! stage slight rallies of their own.The National Retail Federation recently reported that sales of books, videos and music - Amazon's three staple products - were down 25% in the first two months of this year. But the e-tailer said it had bucked the trend and recorded a "very, very slight rise in sales" in the three categories. "In the light of that we're very pleased with our performance, and with the fact that our gross profit rose," chief financial officer Warren Jenson said.Net sales for the quarter, due on April 24, are expected to exceed $695m (&#163;480m), a 20% increase on the same period last year. Analysts' expectations had put the figure at around $670m. Operating losses are forecast to narrow from $308m to $150m year on year, leaving it with cash and assets worth $640m.The figures helped to dispel rumours circulating over recent weeks that Amazon was facing a cash crisis. Some analysts had claimed that it could run out of cash before the summer but the company has dismissed such an eventuality.However, it has taken steps to reduce its cost base by firing around 1,300 staff - many of them workers at its head office in Seattle, Washington."Amazon's cash position appears to be healthy, above what we expected and in line with management's outlook," said Henry Blodget, an analyst at Merrill Lynch.Shares in the company were trading up at around $11 yesterday afternoon but remain a long way from their $68 year's high.At that stage Amazon was seen as the dot.com sector leader but the last 12 months have been troubled, leading to questions about its cash levels, reporting standards and ability to reach profitability without raising further funds.Mr Bezos has also come under fire for telling private investors he would not invest in the company because its share price was so volatile.
Conspiracy theories about US servicemen missing since the Vietnam war still abound, and there are numerous websites devoted to exchanging details about alleged sightings.Global Spy magazine says on its website that an Arizona teacher was told by Vietnamese officials that missing US soldiers were being held and would be released only if the embargo then in force against the war-ravaged country was lifted.The site advertises a video,   A Nation Betrayed, featuring Colonel James "Bo" Gritz, described as a decorated Vietnam war hero.He claimed to have returned from Indochina with evidence of up to 47 missing Americans being held at one camp, though little information in is given in support of the claim.Some of the conspiracy theories suggest dark political machinations.A 1991 copy of a little known fringe magazine called Spotlight said: "Because of a   desire to exploit the oil reserves of Indochina, the United States is trying to cover up the issue of live PoWs until they are all killed next January or February, the Senate was told November 7."This charge was made before the Senate select committee on PoW/MIA affairs by Hamilton Gayden, a circuit court judge in Tennessee, who has written a book on the subject."Gayden has long been active in efforts to bring home   hundreds of the 2,000 missing men who, extensive evidence shows, are still alive."Government bureaucrats fear 'the ever-present threat that the Vietnamese and Laotian leaders will disclose to the American people the existence of live Americans who still want to be repatriated', Gayden said."'The government is determined to declare all missing men dead because of the intense outrage that would result if the American public   learned of their abandonment,' Gayden said.Those Americans nurtured on Rambo films  who believe their government is lying to them took further heart when the former US presidential candidate Ross Perot claimed that information about PoWs who might still be alive was suppressed.The Vietnamese themselves are not immune to rumour and conjecture. An organisation in Hanoi snappily known as the Science Technology Union for    Informatics Application coordinates the services of psychics who claim that they can help bereaved relatives communicate with some of the country's missing 300,000 soldiers.Related storyVietnam crash kills 16 as the forlorn search goes on for America's missing
The race to rival the controversial online music site Napster took another step forward yesterday when internet concern Yahoo! joined Duet, the online music service created by Vivendi Universal and Sony Music Entertainment, two of the world's largest recording groups.The move comes days after AOL Time Warner, Bertelsmann, EMI and RealNetworks announced the formation of a digital music venture, MusicNet.Napster is attempting to comply with a court order designed to stop the swapping of copyright music. It has set up filters to block access to disputed material . But the music industry claims the filter is not effective enough and is threatening further legal action.Shares in Yahoo!, which have lost more than 90% of their value over the past year, rose 23% to $15 yesterday as analysts welcomed evidence that it would earn more revenue from regular subscribers. More than 80% of the company's revenues are derived from the cyclical advertising market.Under the non-exclusive pact announced yesterday, Yahoo! will market Duet's online subscription service to its 185m monthly users. French-based Vivendi and Japan's Sony corporation represent two of the biggest music companies in the world with artists such as Jennifer Lopez and Elton John.Music analysts believe that all five recording companies owned by the big media groups will eventually license their music to several subscriptionservices, allowing those services compete for users.Eric Scheirer, an analyst at Forrester Research, said: "These announcement - all coming as a flurry on top of each other - legitimate the thought that the digital music market is taking shape in a fairly healthy way versus a single label service."The prospect that we see, in a year or two, is that of many different music services innovating and outcompeting each other, and that's a great music opportunity."Jean-Marie Messier, chairman and chief executive of Vivendi, said: "The number of consumers seeking music online is large and growing, and we want consumers to have legitimate access to all their favourite artists and songs. We hope that other major music companies and independent music companies will join Duet."The flurry of deals comes as Napster has struggled to block copyrighted work from its system following its defeat in a landmark legal ruling earlier this year. The company has also announced plans for a new subscription service with Bertelsmann this summer, infuriating many of its 50m-plus members who had downloaded songs free under the old service.Both Duet and MusicNet hope to have introduced their new fee-paying services by this summer.Duet's subscription service will let users compile personal playlists and share them with other Duet members. The service is expected to start with streaming music and plans downloads later.Shares in the California-based group have plummeted amid concerns over the future of the internet in general and a management vacuum in particular. Yahoo! shook the market last month when it warned that its first-quarter results would fall well short of already lowered Wall Street estimates.
The Industry Standard Europe, favourite newsletter of the dot.com community, has put itself up for sale six months after it opened.Neil Thackray, chief executive of the European magazine and website, said negotiations were taking place with a number of potential investors or buyers. It is owned by Standard Media International, the Silicon Valley-based company that publishes the US version.Mr Thackray said it would make more sense to have a European able to offer strategic help as well as cash."My judgment was that we could increase our rate of growth if we worked with someone who had infrastruc ture in place such as distribution which would help our route to market."The decision had not been forced by the US parent, which has shed large numbers of staff since the start of the year.Chroniclers of the internet economy have not been immune from the downturn. Red Herring has also made job cuts while Business 2.0, the new economy magazine owned by Future Network, is up for sale.Pearson, owner of the Financial Times, has a 2.5% stake in Standard Media International but is understood to have ruled out making a bid for the European version.Mr Thackray said he was confident Industry Standard Europe would reach break even at the end of next year.Useful linkIndustry Standard Europe
The Massachusetts Institute of Technology, one of the world's foremost universities, is pushing back the boundaries of education by making nearly all its courses freely available through the internet.Over the next 10 years it will offer assignments, reading lists, outlines and notes on 2,000 courses on its website.The venture is intended to counter what it calls the "privatisation of knowledge".It will not give degrees to those using using the material on the MIT OpenCourseWare site. But the innovation could revolutionise e-learning and threaten the plans of universities which have seen internet courses as a source of revenue.The MIT president, Charles Vest, said: "It will provide an extraordinary resource, free of charge, which others can adapt to their own needs."About 500 courses are likely to be made available within two years at a cost of $7.5m-10m. The ultimate cost is expected to be about $100m.William Jennings, vice-provost for professional and distance education at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, New York, said MIT's decision "may make all of us rethink the way we do things and encourage us all to be more open".
1953:A children's television   programme called Winky Dink and You, begins the move towards interactive TV. Kids in the US buy a special transparent sheet to place over the screen and, using ordinary crayons, help the show's characters draw things like pathways or tools. The series is discontinued because children begin drawing directly on the TV screen. See www.toonarific. com/w/WinkyDink.html1959:First use of telephone call-ins during NBC's Today Show.1964:At&amp;T demonstrates the first video telephone at the New York World's Fair.1970:BBC technicians use the vertical blanking interval - the space between television frames - to send messages between transmitter sites around the UK. This technology was later developed into teletext. The technicians remain anonymous.1972:BBC announces Ceefax. ITV announces   Oracle.1974:Ceefax launches.December 1977:The world's first commercial interactive TV service opens in Ohio. Qube offers 30 channels divided between broadcast TV, pay-per-view and interactive programming. Despite its popularity, it is not a commercial success.1979:Prestel is launched in the UK. Although designed to be used on TV sets using a special adaptor (with a modem), many users access the service via home computers. First commercially available technology to link the TV with the telephone. See www.prestel.co.ukNovember 1988:The BBC broadcasts What's your Story?, a children's TV   programme presented by Sylvester McCoy. The show asks viewers to phone in with suggestions of what happens next. The best ideas are then used.1993:Oracle changes its name to Teletext and uses the Fastext buttons for its quiz, Bamboozle. The   buttons enable users to navigate pages more quickly.1994:Channel Four programme Gamesmaster takes messages from an internet chat room and puts them on to TV via Teletext subtitles. There are delays in the messages appearing on screen so although popular, it only runs for one season.  Videotron pilots interactive TV in the south-east. The analogue system allows viewers to choose content and make sports bets. Kellogg's Frosties broadcast an interactive ad.April 1996:BT runs an interactive TV trial in Ipswich and Colchester. Interactive ads for Walkers Crisps allow viewers to play a quiz, watch the 10 greatest goals or play a spot-the-bag game.June 1996:Television Par Satellite becomes the first broadcaster to launch digital interactive services fully. Rival Canal+ follows suit.October 1998:Sky Digital launches its 140-channel service via satellite. The handset gives access to TV guides on screen, though customers wait a year before the interactive shopping   service Open is available.March 1999:NTL launches a trial interactive TV service.July 1999:Cable &amp; Wireless signs 10,000 subscribers. The interactive   services allow access to a range of websites. C&amp;W is now part of NTL. Two-Way TV launches its games and quiz service.August 1999:Interactive football makes its debut on Sky Digital. Viewers of the Arsenal v Manchester United game can view highlights during the game, access statistics and select different camera angles.September 2000:ONdigital launches ONnet, a system that it says allows full internet access via a set-top box.Sky's first interactive ad, for Domino's Pizza.Autumn 2000:Telewest's Active Digital shopping platform finally goes live after being launched nearly a year before. Services to be rolled out in 2001 include video on demand. NTL rolls out its internet TV service.March 2001:The   Advertising Standards Authority rules that an ONdigital ad "misleadingly exaggerated" its claim that its interactive TV service offered "full internet access".April 2001:Newham   Council in east London announces plans to issue set top boxes to council   tenants to report faults.
Online music company MTVi has signed a deal with the top five record labels to sell digital singles and albums over the internet, a move that will give users a legal way to download digital music in the wake of the Napster lawsuit.MTVi says that users will be able to pay to download 10,000 songs from the MTV and VH1 sites by the end of this month.The labels - BMG Entertainment, EMI Group, Sony Music Entertainment, Universal Music Group and Warner Music Group - have been trying to find a way to sell music online rather than having services like Napster and Gnutella simply give it away. The popular online song-swap service, Napster, has been shut down by litigation from the same record companies over copyright disputes.It remains to be seen if users will warm to the idea of paying for music online rather than swapping tracks for free. MTVi will charge between about $1 (60p) and $3 for each song downloaded and $10 to $18 for an entire album.MTVi's download service will be available through its online radio stations, Radio MTV and VHIatWorkRadio, and the company says that 100% of the music heard on these sites should be available for download by next year.The MTVi deal is the first to involve all five major record labels, although earlier this week RealNetworks struck a deal with BMG, EMI and Warner for fee-based music downloads.Useful linksMTV.comVH1.comRealNetworksNapster
Panasonic hopes that the next time you deliver a PowerPoint presentation you'll leave your PC at home.It has just begun to ship the &#163;4,250 PT-L701SDE, a portable (3.9Kg) XGA projector which is the first model in its range to feature a slot for an SD (Secure Digital) memory card. Using the projector's accompanying software and adapter, presenters can convert TIFF images and   Microsoft PowerPoint slides into JPEG images which are then archived on to an SD card. Once the card is slotted into the projector it can then replay the images.The projector also features a capture function that saves images from a PC or a VCR on to an SD card. Another key feature is Image Window which freezes an image from the card on the left of the screen while the presentation continues on the right hand side. It's on sale now.Sharp shootersSharp is targeting budding movie-makers with its new flagship digital video camcorder - the &#163;1,300 VL-ME100H. Due in the stores next month, it rates as one of the most highly specified consumer camcorders on sale. Similar to last year's Sharp models, the VL-ME100H boasts a detachable 3.5inch LCD monitor with touch-screen facilities. This enables wannabe Spielbergs to con trol the camera at a distance, or even shoot images round a corner or over the top of a wall.Other key facilities that are back for another year include an innovative zoom microphone and an option called Super Cats Eye that enables users to shoot black and white images in total darkness.Potentially the most useful of the new facilities for PC owners is a DV-in socket. When used in conjunction with its DV-output, this enables PC users to download footage from the camera to their computer, edit it and then transfer it back to the camcorder. The VL-ME100H is also the first Sharp camcorder that can store still images on either a Multimedia or an SD (Secure Digital) storage card. Video image quality has also been enhanced with the introduction of a new 1.3 megapixel CCD.A second Digital Video   model, the VL-ME10H, boasts the SD/Multimedia card slot and the zoom microphone, but takes lower resolution still images and has a fixed LCD monitor, is set to reach the stores in June. No news on prices for that model.Card cameraA digital camera so tiny that it can hide behind your credit card is likely to be on sale in the UK by the end of the year. The wallet-friendly SMaL Ultra-pocket is 865x54mm long and tall and just 6mm   wide, yet somehow manages to find room for a supplied Multimedia card slot and a rechargeable Lithium Ion battery. Resolution is limited to VGAsmall at 640x480. It is fine for sending images as emails and posting them on the web but not much else. There's no flash either, although the maker believes that the camera's Autobrite technology (which lightens the dark details of a shot), would make it superfluous anyway. The camera is accompanied by a USB connector and is compatible with Windows. It comes with an 8MB Multimedia card, which can store around 40 images.The camera goes on sale in the US in late summer for $129. According to the manufacturer, a European version will go on sale at the same time.
Surfcontrol, the Cheshire internet software firm which relocated across the Atlantic in Silicon Valley with its products that monitor workplace web surfing, yesterday said it would hit sales targets of $36.5m (&#163;25.4m) for the year.While more than 80% of American hi-tech companies have given profits warnings in the last few months, Surfcontrol was able to report better than expected third quarter results and said it had yet to be hit by the US economic slowdown.Turnover for the third quarter rose 200% to $11.1m, but the group's losses also widened as a result of its continued expansion programme.The firm made a pretax loss of $60m in the nine months to the end of February, up from $16m last year."Since the period end, trading has progressed well and we believe that we will have a successful outcome to the full year", said Steve Purdham, the chief executive.Surfcontrol's shares, which dropped 112.5p on Tuesday, jumped 22.5p to 345p.Analysts were upbeat about the results; one described the figures as a "cracking set of numbers" and said investors should take advantage of the company's present weak share price.
This week Britain managed second from bottom place in a worldwide survey of broadband internet access. According to Netvalue, an IT research house, the UK lags far behind South Korea, the US, Hong Kong and the leading European economies, with only China faring worse out of the 11 countries profiled.It is news that should embarrass the government, which says it wants the UK to have the "most competitive and extensive broadband market" of the G7 countries by 2005. But the survey simply confirms what those of us who have attempted to sign up to broadband internet access have known for some   time. The situation is desperate, and shows no sign of improving fast.My quest for broadband began one spring afternoon last year. It was a day of hope, almost a year ago now. It seems much longer.That morning I swallowed my scepticism and, through BT's website, "registered my interest" in ADSL, the technology which takes an ordinary phone line and turbo charges it for internet access.I, and thousands like me, hoped to wave bye bye to the dull old world wide wait, an au revoir to jerky streaming video and tinny sound. Even if we had to rely on lumbering old BT to deliver it.Right on cue, an evangelistic book by technology vision ary George Gilder came out, giving us an even clearer idea of why broadband would really matter. In Telecosm - How Infinite Bandwidth will Revolutionise our World, Gilder looked beyond the go-faster stripes of broadband and saw a world transformed by a surplus of bandwidth - that invisible commodity that allows computers to talk to each other.To paraphrase Gilder   (badly), abundant bandwidth - through the air, over wires, or from the heavens - is the Next Big Thing.It is not just something that makes the internet go faster. It makes the internet go so much faster it changes the online world's very nature: it is the electronic penicillin, capable of curing all manner of ills in commerce, bringing new knowledge to millions and changing the way we entertain ourselves.This is not to say Gilder has bought into the broadband we are being urged to aspire to in Britain today. In fact, despite the advertising millions being devoted to the various "broadband" offerings of BT, NTL and Telewest, what's on offer would not meet Gilder's   definition of the word.The 0.5Mbps (megabits per second) links of ADSL or cable modems might run at around 10 times the speed of the best dial-up modems, but they are just the forerunners of what Gilder reckons is needed for the Telecosm to come about. In Gilder's broadband world we will have bandwidth to squander, in bringing about the great changes he foresees.If Gilder's previous predictions are anything to go by, his technological dream becomes reality far more quickly than you might expect. A decade ago he described the Microcosm, where many components of the physical world would be transferred to a digital state, and much of what he   predicted has since happened, right on cue.The problem is, while Silicon Valley could deliver the Microcosm to the world, the Telecosm relies on local players like BT and NTL. And that is where things begin to go wrong.Here at Online, we hear tales every week of readers being frustrated in their attempts to get ADSL or a cable modem. My experiences are no different: all BT has done with my details since that optimistic day last year is lose them to hackers, thanks to a website security glitch.By the end of last year, my mind was beginning to turn to my local cable company, NTL. It took a few days to find someone at their call   centres who knew what a cable modem was but, eventually, they were persuaded to start the installation process just before Christmas.There were all the fruitless waits in endless call queues, and countless broken promises to call back, visit - do anything at all, in fact. But, to its slight credit, it did finally get round to installing a cable modem three weeks ago. Soon I even hope to get the new kit working. Are there many &#163;300m+ a year consumer services blighted by such appaling service?Worse, the government - with its ambitious plans for a "broadband Britain" by 2005 - seems blissfully unaware of the calamity befalling its vision. Writing in the Finan cial Times in March, e-minister Patricia Hewitt claimed "puzzlement" over the debate about the broadband roll-out in the UK, and claimed that things were on the right track.Yet, at a House of Commons culture, media and sport committee hearing only a month earlier, Hewitt floundered when asked to define broadband, before saying that "current generation broadband" was actually 2Mbps -   four times faster than what was on offer to consumers today. What we have now - 0.5Mbps - is only "higher bandwidth." By that definition broadband is not on offer to consumers in the UK.Thus a yawning reality gap opens up. The government sees ADSL as the key to broadband Britain, yet what is on offer now does not qualify as broadband.Ministers claim the UK is at an advanced stage in introducing broadband, yet in South Korea first time net users are getting fast connections installed as standard while the UK's masses dabble with dial-up.Competition is supposed to speed up the arrival of broadband to our homes, yet in   those cabled areas where there is competition, no company has proved itself capable of delivering satisfactorily to the mass market.Meanwhile the biggest European telecoms companies are saddled with vast debts after buying mobile phone licences. They, and the struggling UK cable companies, are not going to be able to invest their way out of this mess. They will likely want to cherry-pick lucrative business users rather than dabble with low margin consumers.Those who have endured the Kafkaesque trials of obtaining higher speed net access know things are in a bad way. At the start of March, BT had only connected 20,000 users to its   ADSL services, and even by BT's figures more than one in five of that paltry number were not satisfied with the service they were being given.Such figures are not available for the cable companies, but my experiences - and those of others - suggest their reputation for inept service follows them into the broadband internet era.If they can't even answer their phones, or chase up sales leads off their website, how can they hope to even match what is happening in Asia, Europe and the US now - let alone deliver that bold vision of the broadband future, the Telecosm?&#149;  Telecosm, by George Gilder, published by Free Press, $26
Until a couple of months ago, many cellular experts were making nirvana-like claims for third-generation (3G) mobile commun- ications that would - if true - have seen 3G having a more revolutionary effect on society than the internet.Now, those same experts have been predicting doom and gloom, as major telcos have shelled out vast amounts on 3G licences from those governments savvy enough to cash on on the mini-boom.The net result is that carriers with 3G licence debts on their books have seen their share price fall through the floor. And now, we hear,Vodafonein the UK has fallen out with with its major US partner,Verizon, over different 3G wireless standards.Vodafone, in common with    most European GSM carriers, remains wedded to the concept of "pure" 3G technology - leap-frogging ahead of GSM networks to offer wireless multimedia and wireless data at speeds that equal those of the 25,000-plus lucky subscribers to theBT Openworldbroadband hard-wired service.In the US, Verizon, like many US carriers, is heading down the path of CDMA2000 - an advanced version of the code division multiplex architecture cellular network system that is in widespread use across North America.CDMA is as different from Europe's GSM TDMA (time division multiplex architecture) as VHF/FM is from medium wave/AM radio.But, just as a single portable radio can pick up both FM and AM radio signals, so it will be possible for a 3G handset (or device) to   access both pure 3G and CDMA2000 networks. Cellular users are already getting familiar with multi-band handsets supporting GSM 900 (BT Cellnet &amp; Vodafone), GSM 1800 (Orange and One2One) and GSM 1900 (North American PCS networks).Multi-standard will be a necessary evolution, as it is unlikely that the early 3G networks will have anything like the 98%-plus coverage that the UK cellular networks already offer.Users will be able to enjoy 3G's advanced features when within range of a 3G network (ie in city areas), and roam on to a network supporting GSM (among many other standards) in most other places.This multi-standard approach will also allow the mobiles of a few years hence to access satellite networks when out of range of a terrestrial network.Such satellite access won't be as cheap as terrestrial cellular, of course, but when your vehicle has broken down in the middle of nowhere, you will be grateful. Very grateful.In the US,Sprint PCShas committed to launching the first North American 3G network before the year is out.This ambitious plan, which will see 3G arriving six to nine months before many experts believed possible, is thanks to forward thinking when the Sprint PCS network was designed in the mid-1990s."The design of our digital network, which was planned   with 3G in mind, meant we only had to spend $280 million in the FCC wireless auctions for digital spectrum," explained Dan Wilinsky, a spokesperson for the carrier.The sum (&#163;195 million) may sound a lot, but it is peanuts compared to the billions that European carriers, such as BT, Orange and Vodafone, will have to spend on deploying their 3G networks.The reason why Sprint PCS seems to be sitting pretty with its 3G plans is that CDMA2000 is evolutionary, rather than revolutionary, as Europe's 3G network plans are. This pragmatic approach will see Sprint PCS users having access to a relatively modest 144 kilobits per second (kbps) - 10 times the speed US cellular users already have access to - in "selected markets" across the US by the end of year.Wilinsky says that, by the summer of 2002, his firm's network will have 144 kbps available in all US markets and, by the end of 2002, 3G users will be migrated up to 307kbps wireless data services."By the end of 2003, users will have access to 2.14 Megabits per second (Mbps) on a wireless basis, rising to 3.5Mbps in   the years after that."This open approach contrasts with the MI6-style cloak of secrecy surrounding mobile networks' plans for 3G on this side of the Atlantic.Once again, our American cousins have taken Europe's technology, tweaked it, and turned it to a real-world service for real people.But all is not lost for Europe's 3G wannabes, as it is almost certain that they will be forced - either by economic factors or EU mandate - to sublet their 3G networks to third party carriers.This isn't as strange as it sounds, asVirgin Mobilealready rents airtime on the One2One network in the UK, and other virtual network operators are popping up on networks around the world.Which network a handset uses is largely irrelevant to Joe Public. All s/he will be concerned about is whether his/her whizzy new handset will make and receive calls across the length and breadth of the UK, and elsewhere in the world when on holiday or business travel.And it will - whether they are accessing via a regular 3G cellular service or an apparently electrified piece of damp string in Timbuktu.
Goggle!Google, the web's best search engine, now lets you choose which language to use for theGoogle interface. And if the language you want is not available, you can do some of thetranslation. The beta program still needs help with Pig Latin and Klingon, for example, though you can always opt for BorkBorkBork instead.As everyone knows, BorkBorkBork is a language based on the speech patterns of the Swedish chef from the Muppets. For more details, check    Steven Carr'sChef page. This has a link to an encheferizer program that will convert any plain text into mock Swedish. There's also a Usenet news group, alt.swedish.chef.bork.bork.bork .Incidentally, the announcement that Excite UK planned to offer regional dialect versions in scouse and cockney was, of course, an April Fool joke. Seewww.excite.co.uk/brummieand so on.Amazon timeMike Daisy is an actor and playwright who spent two years working for Amazon.com. He has turned his experience into a popular    one-man show in Seattle - 21 Dog Years: Doing Time@Amazon.com. The show and his websitewww.mikedaisey.comexplain "how he learned to slavishly love idealistic mouthbreathers, 60-hour weeks, and the cult of personality that is Jeff Bezos". The site includes a webcast of the show, video clips to download (which I could not download) and much else besides.Pay offwww.nochex.comis, despite its name and internet domain, a UK-based rival to theAmerican PayPal), and also lets users send and receive money by email. "The transactions are secure, instant and guaranteed," the company says. However, you do need to have a debit card to use the service, and it costs 99p to transfer money between a debit card and a Nochex account.Nochex has been on trial since February and about 1,800 users have already signed up.DeadlyAsbestos kills more than 4,000 people a year, and the toll could be reduced by the first non-profit web-basednational asbestos register. Property developers, surveyors, planners, builders, and even fire fighters will be able to access the register from a personal computer or Wap (wireless application protocol) phone to find out if there is an entry before they start work on a build ing. Presumably mobile phone users will not be lumbered with the bizarre and pointless animated intro.OffsideLawyers acting for the world's richest football club may have started putting the boot in. Dave Woods, the fan responsible forUnited Onlinesays he has had a letter claiming that he is in breach of copyright. Apparently the lawyers want the words "Man Utd" and "Manchester United" removed immediately. That should be easy. A simple search and replace could be used to change them to Morons United.The pay offWeb design companyBluewavehas launched a free system that could help companies clear their unpaid invoices. The idea is simply to publish duplicate invoices on the web.    "Debtors' breaches of contract are aired in public until invoice payment is received, and the creditor removes their details from the web," says Bluewave. The site that creates the HTML invoices is atwww.unpaidinvoices.com.Top classThe latest ThinkQuest competition winners have been announced (www.thinkquest.org/library/ic_2000_winners.htmlfollowing a judging session held late last month at Cern in Switzerland, where the world wide web originated.The annual competition for student web designers again produced an excellent set of finalists, and Sighting the First Sense: Seeing is Believing was selected as the best.It was produced by three teenagers: Brad in Connecticut, Morris in San Diego and Glavin in Singapore. Another site that should prove hugely popular is Hogwarts Onlinehttp://library.t hinkquest.org/C006090/, a Potter fan site produced by Saskia and Sarah Preissner, sisters aged 14 and 10 respectively. They live in Berlin and have done the whole site in English and German, and some parts in other languages.ManyThinkQuestsites  compare favourably with the supposedly professional ones shown in the Third Annual International Web Page Awards. Thehome pageis spectacularly awful. The awards will be presented at a black tie dinner in San Jose on April 26.New &amp; noted&#149;  Free firewall to compete with Zone Alarm:www.tinysoftware.com.&#149; Delia Smith is cooking atwww.deliaonline.com.&#149; Do androids dream ofwww.geocities.com/siennaj/Esheep2/ ?&#149; Resources for record collectors and music-obsessives:www.staxotrax.com&#149;Tickets of Russiaprovides news and links in English.&#149;ClaimNethas won a DTI Smart Award for developing a secure system for putting the insurance claims process online.&#149; Share and compare opinions atwww.moneywhispers.com.
Hurrah! I have found another reason to stay on the net and forego any attempt to get a life. Online comping - the e-equivalent of filling the coupon and sending it off, only this time you can sit down with a beer and bag of Cheesy Puffs and enter five or five hundred competitions in one go.Of course, if you win one of the biggies you may be forced to get a life. There is something about aPorsche Boxsteror a trip toSt Luciathat makes life worth living. Drooling over these potential perks can drag you down into a mire of hopeful expectation. Don't fight it! I didn't, and although I have so far won zilch, the fun is enormous.Two of the best competition portals arewww.loquax.co.ukandwww.theprizefinder.com. Both are independent sites with excellent links to where the competitions are. They also categorise prizes by type and by closing date, which is handy if you want to win anMGand want to win it NOW.Through these sites, you can slobber    over the pick of the prizes, or if you are organised, get down to the grind of daily entry competitions. Of the latter,www.tombola.comhas a couple of jolly games with OK prizes, andLycos' fetchhas the wee Labrador digging prizes up for you. Blartly.co.uk's instant wins may satisfy those who have no powers of waiting although it seems that the same prizes have been hanging around too long to be winnable.If you are far too intellectual for games that involve no skill whatsoever, there are plenty of competitions that can take your brain cells for a jog. Some competitions, such as those atwww.holiday.beeb.com, throw 25 questions at you and the prizes are generally worth having.If you are feeling tired and emotional, then Loquax and The Prizefinder will probably give you the answers in their weekly newsletters. And you can play for prizes atwww.uk.quizpeople.comall day every day if you wish.Some sites, such aswww.myoffers.co.uk, ask you to fill in surveys or give your details to enter a particular   prize draw competition. I thought initially that it would lead to Domeloads of Spam, but it hasn't. Of about 150 competitions that I have so far entered, I have received about 10 unwanted emails, and no junk snailmail.Slogans, captions and tiebreaker competitions are less popular because of the effort involved. You might be in with a bigger chance of winning. Visitwww.win-with-lynne.co.ukorwww.winspiration.freeuk.comto brush up your wordsmithery.If you would like to benefit from your own opinion then try reviewing a film or computer game onwww.filmaday.co.ukorwww.gameaday.co.uk. These sites seem to me to favour new reviewers, although I may be wrong!How can you be sure of winning a prize? Steve Higson of Theprizefinder.com advises: "The best way is to enter as many competitions as possible. I know a few people who enter every single competition on our site, and they win three or four prizes a week.If your time is limited, then to increase your chances of winning, try to enter the competitions which give away multiple prizes. In the past,   websites have given away as many as 1,000 prizes in a single competition."Winning a T-shirt or a CD may keep you going through a fallow period, but keep the big prizes in your sights. Someone has to win, and it may as well be you. But be careful out there - you may be in danger of falling prey to a dodgy site.Jason Dale of Loquax.co.uk says "Our philosophy for competitions is the same as for online shopping - if you don't like the look of the site, don't give your details. A lot of sites are not Data Protection registered, or do not indicate they are, and ask for all sorts of information. Also some sites do not provide opt in/out boxes for mailing lists or selling on your details when they should."Steve agrees. He says: "Compers should be very wary of any competitions which ask for credit card details or other information which they would not be happy to disclose. You should always read the terms and conditions to make sure that there are no hidden catches to entering."So far, for me the ups outweigh the downs. My tips? If the terms of the competition are silent on "one entry per household", then enter your partner, your mum, and your guinea pig.Enter competitions nearing their closing date so you don't have long to wait for the results. And don't let the local paper photograph you outside your house if you have won a holiday; you will be burgled while you're away.
To its evangelists it offers an internet for the masses, already representing 1.5 million email registrations in the UK alone. To the money men it offers the holy grail of electronic commerce that will outstrip the web within five years. But to its critics it is little more than a dumbed-down, stripped-out web. So who is right? Just what is interactive TV?The prospect of multi-channel television with limited interactivity has been the goal of satellite broadcasters, telecommunications giants and hardware manufacturers for nearly 50 years. And although interactive TV is now, finally, finding a place in our living rooms, there is confusion over what it actually is and does. Even people in the industry usually hedge with a swift "can I get back to you?"In a nutshell, interactive TV comprises four different kinds of service converging through the set top box. First, there are enhanced TV services such as Sky Sports Active, or ITN's interactive news channel. Then there is limited web browsing, followed by restricted interactive shopping spaces and, finally, teletext. In the UK these services are available through five major operators; BSkyB, NTL, ONdigital, Telewest and Homechoice.For many, combining the once separate technologies of television, telephone and internet means reaching the kind of mass audience that the PC alone might never achieve. According to NetValue, PCs are now in 30.8% of UK homes (mostly with modems). That means almost 70% of UK homes are with out them. Even in the US, where PC penetration has reached more than 50%, that still leaves a lot of people offline. So can we yet call the net a truly mass medium?Many of the makers of interactive TV say not. And what's more, they claim that only they have the means to reach the mass market and turn every UK home online. It is worth remembering, they say, that the government plans to switch off analogue television some time between 2006 and 2010. Therefore, interactive TV is likely to end up in almost every home in the UK.And it is not just in the UK where there are bullish predictions for this medium. IT research company Jupiter Media Metrix says interactive television will now grow faster than the PC internet in the US. In a report published last month, Jupiter predicts adoption will grow by 83% per year, serving 46 million homes by 2005.And the UK (along with Germany and Sweden) will not be far behind, says Jupiter.Similarly, another research company, Forrester Research, predicts that interactive television will reach 80 million households worldwide by 2005.Such optimism is leading forecasters to believe that the   value of goods and services bought through interactive television (t-commerce) will exceed the value of internet consumer shopping (e-commerce) within five years.If correct, there is lots of money to made out there. But with the UK's dot.com revolution currently in turmoil, are we ready to believe that another revolutionary brand of shopping is about to change consumer habits?BSkyB - by far the leading player in the UK - says it can make money through a mix of subscription revenues, betting and coaxing viewers to buy other goods and services through their TV. It anticipates that by 2005 it will be able to squeeze an average of &#163;400 a viewer a year through each set top box. Its interactive movie service, Sky Movies Active, to be launched in June, will earn a commission from each cinema ticket and a slice of the revenue from each phone call.Jim Rutter, BSkyB's director of interactive broadcasting, says: "What we are trying to do with interactive TV is to bring in some of the web's best qualities and put them into the set top box. But we are being quite selective about what we put up there. It is not open internet access."To do this, BSkyB has developed its own mini-browser that allows you to watch TV and search a limited number of websites at the same time. The graphics are basic, but for simple information, such as UK phone numbers, the new service is fairly fast and reliable.So does that make interactive TV the internet? Well, you cannot access news groups, or upload content to the net through the set top box. Also, a PC screen has   many more pixels per inch than a television and the images are much better defined. Unless you have eyes like a hawk, surfing the web from the comfort of the settee is very difficult. Only a few websites - among them the Guardian - offer specially configured web pages for the TV.But interactive TV is more than just a stripped-out web. Interactive spaces with a different look have also been created. These so-called walled gardens are more a blend of teletext with accompanying TV pictures and music than websites. Navigation is basic via a remote control. But you can still access your bank details, arrange   insurance and - crucially - send email.Paul Cackett works for EC1 Media, a young company which specialises in interactive TV. He says there are similarities between walled gardens and the big portals on the web and ISPs (internet service providers) such as AOL, MSN and Freeserve."Surfers are becoming used to selected content," he says. "This means that advertisers are finding new ways of getting their message across. If nobody is watching conventional TV and conventional adverts, brands are having to look at new ways of doing things."What this means is lots of retailer-supported television   channels - "brandcasting". Carlton has already joined forces with Sainsbury to create Taste, an interactive food channel. Last month, Granada and Boots launched the Wellbeing Network - a health channel with a programming budget of &#163;10m a year. But if this is the future of the internet and television combined, isn't it a bit mundane?"At the moment in the UK marketplace, the majority of interactive content isn't related to TV content," says Joe Parkinson of NTL. "We are still trying to keep things simple for the viewer and work out what they like and don't like."Still, there is a lot of confu sion in the market. Despite all the bold predictions, the interactive television industry is looking shaky. Two of its major players, Razorfish and Two Way TV, recently laid off staff. And consumers are not yet taking to interactive TV as quickly as many would like.But many of the operators insist that it is still a young medium. With massive space and the versatility of the different media, the potential is bound to take years to assess.For some, the coming of interactive TV might spell the end of an era when the internet meant being able to go wherever you wanted. But to others, what really counts is reaching out to the millions who remain offline.
When was the last time you sent yourself shopping on the internet? It sounds bizarre but this new concept is set to become a reality this week when a free service will be launched allowing web surfers to clone their own heads.New internet start up Digimask, backed by the media-owning brothers, Sir David and Sir Frederick Barclay, is providing technology so consumers can create colour 3D animated models of their heads in a matter of minutes. Consumers are being encouraged to email their heads to friends and use them to try on products when shopping at web-based stores.Sitting in his sleek office in Richmond, surrounded by advertising posters that proclaim that "faceless e-commerce is dead", Digimask's business development director Tony Pearce says the innovative service will help bring internet shopping back to life. "We believe we are the missing link in e-commerce. The one missing link is you. Now you can take yourself into websites." He adds that people will also be able to take their virtual head into chat rooms, mobile phones and video games.So how does Digimask work? All that is required are two photos of yourself, one from the front and one from the side, transferred to your PC either by using a digital camera or by using a scanner if they are traditional photos. You go toDigimask's websiteand load them into a program called the launchpad, fill in a few questions about your height and weight and then email them off. Digimask sends you back a 3D model of your head in about 10 minutes. It is the equivalent of being cloned online.Retrieving and watching your own disembodied head floating on your computer screen is a fascinating and eerie experience. The heads speak too but not with your own voice and the conversation has been limited for this application. Mine greeted me with an American accent. "Hi, I'm a Digimask," it said. "Welcome to the future."So are virtual heads the future for e-commerce and do they actually herald a new phase in interactive entertainment? Sony appears to think so and has already signed up Digimask technology for PlayStation games including a wrestling title which is scheduled for release later this year. Gamers using web-enabled consoles will be able to dial up Digimask's database to transfer their own virtual faces on to one of the main wrestlers to personalise the matches.The company has also signed up an optician so you can try on a pair of specs on your virtual head, and a woman's portal is licensing the software so shoppers can give themselves a virtual makeover before buying any make up products. As the business develops, Pearce says they are planning to target clothes retailers,   wig-makers, online jewellers and job search sites, so you can theoretically send your face on your CV to potential employers.Once created, a copy of the virtual head is stored on a database hosted by Intel. Each user is given an individual PIN number to use when collecting it. "You can upload your head onto a website that has licensed our technology and try on their products," Pearce explains. She adds that it is difficult to create a head of someone else without them knowing because you need to provide two precisely different photos.The software that creates the heads is based on Microsoft e-business technologies. It has been developed for Digimask by Aris, a software systems development company with offices here and in the United States.When I visited the company they were still beta-testing and I was given expert help when I created my own virtual head. So it remains to be seen how people will cope on their own and whether it will deliver results quickly and reliably when it goes live. To accompany its launch this week, Digimask is unveiling a   major advertising campaign. Large heads will be appearing on posters and a close look shows the eyes have been slightly altered. In one the iris is square-shaped.This cutting edge technology cannot accurately reproduce your hair style (hair is traditionally extremely difficult to copy) so you have to choose a virtual wig instead and long hair must be tied back as the Digimask system needs to see your ears to create a model. My virtual head looked a tad alien-like but was immediately recognisable. You also get a brand new set of shiny virtual teeth which I didn't mind. But I was not too happy about being given a Disney-esque American accent for the initial greeting. But at least it is over with quickly.Pearce explains that the ability to talk has been restricted to users of the free consumer service. But the company has linked up with US-based technology company LIPSinc which will enable Digimask to create talking heads capable of longer speeches, so potentially they can act as online customer service reps.The company is also hoping to take online dating to a new level. Linking up with software publisher SCi, it is shortly to launch a mobile dating service, which will let lonelyhearts send their faces to one another over Wap and next generation 3G phones. There will also be a private area on the website to meet, and exchange virtual faces.Virtual creation of people is quickly becoming a highly-specialised and competitive technology market. Biovirtual, another small start-up based in Didsbury in Cheshire, was recently commissioned to create animated    representations of Anne Robinson to promote BBC2's Comedy Nights. Working from standard photographs, the company has created striking 3D talking models of the sharp-tongued presenter dressed,   among other things, as a punk."It's quite a strange pursuit," admits Mike Sherwood, creative director of Biovirtual, as he extends Anne Robinson's nose on his computer screen. The process involves creatively aligning 3D structures to 2D images. "You feel like a theatre direc tor working with an actor. You're trying to create the right emotional gestures."Biovirtualis already working with the police generating 3D models based on artist representations of eye-witness reports. At one stage, the company also considered working in the plastic surgery    market to see if it could, for example, create accurate 3D models of breast implants based on photographs. But the idea was scrapped as surgery does not deliver such precise results, Sherwood explains. "Even if a plastic surgeon has a hand as steady as a rock, you cannot predict exactly   how the body will heal and react."Whatever the future holds for this innovative emerging technology industry, no one can dispute the scale of their ambitions.Pearce predicts that the next step in early 2002 will be fully animated virtual bodies so surfers can, for example, go   to sites and try on wedding dresses or participate in interactive TV soaps alongside their favourite characters.Whether or not you do decide to go ahead and clone your head this week, it is probably wise to keep an eye out for strange objects arriving in your in-box.
The choice of venue was not an auspicious one, and sure enough, the largest Bluetooth demonstration yet attempted fell over on the very first day of CeBIT, the annual IT industry show in Germany. It was up and running the following day and it stayed up for the rest of the show, but by then the obituaries had already been written.Bluetooth uses short-range radio transmitters to replace the need for cables or infra-red. Companies supporting it were all over CeBIT, and the various devices shown individually seemed to work well. What went wrong was an ambitious plan to use some 130 base-stations to create a wireless network covering the whole of Hall 13 with overlapping 10 metre cells.Designed by German firm Lesswire, the network used location sensing to find visitors carrying Bluetooth-  equipped personal organisers or portable computers, and then allowed them to request directions to specific stands.Lesswire's communications manager, Maral Khatchadourian, says the project was let down by the failure of one of the other participants to provide the necessary software for its Bluetooth equipment. Lesswire's developers had to work through the night to provide alternative software, and, she says, by the end of the show they also had the next stage working, where a user who has registered an interest in a particular subject will automatically get a message when passing a relevant stand.The bad publicity has highlighted other problems with Bluetooth, in particular those that can arise when devices use different and incompatible versions of the still-evolving Bluetooth specification.This has all done little to dent the developers' enthusi asm. New software based on the latest version 1.1 of the Bluetooth specification is on its way and is supposed to fix many of the problems.3Com engineer Paul Keane said that his company was still using version 1.0b, but when 3Com begins selling its Bluetooth USB and PCMCIA adapters in May they will have version 1.1 software. He expects them to cost $129 and $119 respectively.The early software can cause trouble if you try to create a network that includes more than two devices. Bluetooth works well with just a PC and an organiser, say, or a headset and a mobile phone, but may have problems with anything more complex.One result of these hiccups is that members of the Bluetooth SIG - the special interest group which manages the technical specification - are now trying to cool the market's ardour and inject a dose of realism."We believe the expectation is higher than what we're going to achieve," says Simon Ellis, the communications marketing manager at Intel's mobile computing group, who also chairs the SIG's marketing group.Ellis warns that while we could be experimenting with point-to-point links very soon, it could be two or three years before there is a range of properly compatible Bluetooth products in the shops.While Bluetooth is late according to the initial promises, he says, it has evolved faster than some other technologies, and after three years it is at a stage of evolution which took USB five years to achieve.In any case, it seems unlikely that manufacturers will abandon Bluetooth in a hurry, not least because the promises are so seductive. The reality is not at all bad either, even allowing for the limited ability to combine multiple devices.For example, on the Bluetooth stand at CeBIT, a visitor from Palm Computing turned up with a Palm Vx inside a Galahad prototype. This is a hard plastic case for the organiser and it has a Bluetooth chip built into the lid. He opened a file on the Palm, set it to print, and a Hewlett Packard printer with built-in Bluetooth came to life.Nearby, AU-System managed to combine two hyped technologies in one demonstration. Its Bluetooth watch, built in co-operation with Seiko, has a mobile phone-sized screen and a Wap browser, and with a Wap server running on his laptop, AU-System account manager   Emil Dautovic was able to start up and control a DVD movie. "What we have here is a generic remote control," he said, adding it could eventually be used to control almost any electrical equipment.Khatchadourian admits that Lesswire was being ambitious in setting up the CeBIT demo in the first place. Larger companies were offered the project but turned it down as too risky, she says."I wouldn't say Bluetooth is not ready yet," she adds. "We might have to wait a bit for mass production, but no one ever did anything like this before. What we wanted to show was the second generation of Bluetooth. Not just the point-to-point connections that are working today but the ability to create point-to-multipoint networks. In the future, you will enter an exhibition, log in with your preferences and interests, and the system locates you and can send you messages."
The best websites are constantly evolving, with new content being added to keep readers coming back for more.The trouble is, keeping a website up to date can be a fiddle. At best you have to open up your web page authoring program and amend your pages there, before uploading them to your ISP. At worst you have to delve into the raw HTML code that makes up the page, and change it all by hand. You might get better with practice, but it is still a deterrent.One solution to this problem is the weblog, or "blog". A blog is a fairly simple web page which has short, diary-like entries added in at the top. This is fast to produce, makes it clear when you have updated the page, and keeps the older material below so infrequent visitors can catch up.Blogs are now hugely popular, for all sorts of subjects. Some review other websites, while others exist as a centrepoint to an online community of interest. Others are used to keep colleagues in touch with each other, or manage projects. There are also a huge number that contain vaguely confessional musings - a new web style which for many has come to define what a blog is. A good example of this form is the Daily Brad atwww.bradlands.com/dailybrad.Blogs are, in short, hugely versatile. And, to make things   even easier, there is a web service that makes setting up your own blog a 10-minute process. The blog can then be incorporated in your own website, or posted on a special server.Bloggeris the service used to create the Daily Brad and thousands of other blogs across the net. These are the 10 simple steps to setting up your own.1 Register with the site.Happily, Blogger does not demand too much information. Go towww.blogger.comand fill in the Sign Up! box in the bottom right hand corner of the screen. You'll arrive at another screen that asks for your name and email address. After you complete that screen, you'll be returned to the front page.2 Click on Create a BlogYou will then be asked to name your page, and provide a description. You will be able to amend these later, if you want. You will also be given the option to advertise your blog in public, although if you choose "no" it will not be completely secure - just unadvertised.3 Choose a location for your blogBlogger.com then asks if you want to have your blog put in its own home at the free, but advertising-supported, Blogspot.com. This is the easiest option for beginners; you can always move it later if you   want. If you choose this option, you will be asked to choose a "subdomain" for your website - this will form the unique part of the web address of your blog (Seewww.yoursite.blogspot.com) You might find popular words are already used, so this might take a few attempts. When you have chosen an acceptable name, you arrive at the template screen. Move straight to step 4.The alternative for the more experienced web master   is to have the blog incorporated in your own site. If you already have a website and know how it was set up, this is the neatest option. You will need to tell Blogger.com the FTP address of your site, the file path for the blogger page, as well as the file name and eventual URL of that page. You will need to enter further server details on the settings screen, off the editing screen (see panel).Note that Blogger will not be able to upload its pages to   your webspace if you use a webspace provider which only allows you to update your pages when connected to their dial-up service. Possibly for this reason, Blogger is known not to work with AOL's free web space.The simplest workaround, apart from getting new webspace that allows FTP access from anywhere, is to use Blogger's own servers to host your blog, and create a link to the blog from your site.More HTML-savvy readers   could, alternatively, create a framed page on their site which calls up the blog page held on Blogger's servers.4 Choose a template for your blogPick a basic layout for your page from four options. Click on Finish!5 The Blogger editing screenYou now arrive at the page from which most of the work is done for your blog. In the   top half of the screen is the input window, where you type what you want to appear on your page. In the bottom half of the screen is a preview window, which shows what your entries will look like when published.6 Type your first entriesTo get your blog started, type your first entry in to the editing window. See the panel on this page for an explanation of the various buttons on this screen.7 Creating web links and headlinesIt is possible to add HTML tags to your entries, which can do things like create links to other web pages and create larger text for headlines. For instance, to get larger text simply type "This is a headline ". To create a link, type: "Here is a link to my website ". The word "website" will be a clickable link.8 Preview entryClick on the post button to see how your new entry will look.9 Amending entriesClick on the &#91;edit&#93; link at the end of the entry you want to change.10 Finished entryWhen you are happy with your first weblog, click on the Post and Publish button. Your weblog will be available for the world to see!This, of course, is only the beginning. The beauty of Blogger is that it starts out easy, but allows you to get as complicated as you like. You can change the templates to create a more sophisticated look, for instance. Blogger has a useful help section - just click on the help button in the editing window.ButtonsThe editing window has several important buttonsPostsbrings up the main editing screenSettingsallows you to change the important information for your site, like where it is to be published. You can also enter and amend server details, including the username and password, if you are FTPing your pages.Templateallows users more expert in HTML to customise their own blog templates.Archiveallows you to archive, or republish, parts of your blog.Teamallows you to set who has access to edit your blog - useful if you want several people to be able to post to the blog.My blogsallows you to switch between blogs, if you have several.Posttakes the words you have typed in to the top box on the editing screen and puts them in the preview pane below, showing you how it would look when published.Post and Publishboth updates the Preview pane, and uploads your new words to the blog that can be seen by passing readers.
There to serveThere has been so much in the press recently regarding Napster and the whole P2P (peer2peer) issue, and of possible alternatives if Napster is fully shut down. What I don't understand is why no-one has mentioned Napigator? This is surely the Napster users' saviour.It is a while since I downloaded my version, but a search on Google would no doubt turn up the relevant website. Once downloaded, Napigator will list all Napster servers, including unofficial non-Napster run servers. These servers run openNap, MyNap or similar, and do exactly the same job as real official Napster servers, providing login facilities for the Napster client and a database of all other logged in users and their shared files. Napigator will show around 160 servers, 60 odd of which will be Napster servers. The rest are run by those wishing to help out the global online music sharing community. Clicking on a listed server will start the Napster client and connect it to that server. Thus even if all Napster servers are completely shut down, there is absolutely no reason why the Napster users community can't continue sharing their files exactly as before. The server software is also freely available.Richard HillRicky@mangamail.netPrimary linkPat Kane (Second sight, March 29) shares my affection for Finland. The first time I visited, nearly 30 years ago, I felt at home there, despite the alien language. I have read that the Finnish education system has a strong emphasis on music, with all children at primary level participating in choral singing and many in instrumental playing. This has demonstrably resulted in a very high level of musical creativity in that country. Given the close association between music and mathematics, could this   have anything to do with the burgeoning creativity we see in the IT world there? Perhaps David Blunkett, Chris Smith and Patricia Hewitt should get together.Tim Pearcecommonweal@co-op-party.org.ukPut in orderHarry Beck did not revolutionise the map of the London Underground by "fudging the actual locations of the stations" (Online, March 29). He realised that the key question was not "where is station X?", but "how does one get to station X?" Thus he was able to replace unwieldy topographical maps by a diagram which preserved information about the order and connectedness of the stations on the network. He changed the criteria of representation to what was appropriate for the needs of most passengers.Bernard Hrusa-Marlowbernard@hrumar.freeserve.co.ukHistory rewriteThanks for the edited version of my Mac OS history (OS X odyssey, Online, March 29), but something has gone a little wrong.The operating system project abandoned in May 1996 (1994-1996 section) was Copland, not Rhapsody. Rhapsody was the code name for the earliest version of what became OS X.In addition, the second and third screenshots have been printed the wrong way round. The second from the top shows Copland and the one at the bottom shows NexTStep.Cameron Patersoncameronp@lineone.netFree iconsIn the article X marks the spot, about the new Macintosh operating system, Craig McGill mentions that he would like new icons to improve the default set that comes with Mac OS X. There is a large collection of free new icons for Mac OS X athttp://xicons.macnn.comTony Swashtonyswash@blueyonder.co.ukOS overdoseRegarding your piece on the launch of OS X, I wish you'd sent somebody with half a clue to meet the fanatics. I've been using protected memory and quashing badly behaved applications under Windows   NT for years, and now do the same under Windows 2000. Your screen shot of the force quit dialogue looks similar to that found when you press Ctl-Alt-Del in Windows 95. "The first operating systems written from the ground up"?Excuse me, isn't this NextStep's take on Unix we're talking about? Not to mention the fact that Mac aficionados have been claiming for years that their machines never crash.Don't get me wrong, I have an extensive vocabulary of swearwords for when my Intel/Microsoft machine decides to mess me around. I just get irritated when the latest Mac is touted as a panacea to cure all computing ills.Steve JefferySteve.Jeffery@catalyst-uk.comNo internetWith reference to last week's article about the release of Apple OS X, I am currently experiencing Mac mania of the opposite kind. OS X contains great promise, but as delivered, it is basically dysfunctional, since, as hundreds of messages from disgruntled customers on Apple's own website testify, it is impossible to establish a reliable internet connection with it. I am seeking my money back.Strictly speaking, only unopened software can be returned and refunded, but how is one to know the software doesn't work without opening it?Is that because Apple knew something we didn't?!Alan WatersA.Waterts@lancaster.ac.ukMouse trapAccording to Ashley Norris, this year's CeBIT show included "the first cordless mouse from Logitech". I wonder what one would call this rodent-like thing, devoid of wires and made by Logitech, that I've been using for two years now?Roger Whiteheadrgw@office-futures.comIn searchVeggie Links: http://uk.search.yahoo.com/search/ukie?p= veggie&amp;y=y (March 29) Wow! If I go to a search engine, and enter a term, it might actually provide me with a list of web pages that mention it? What will they think of next?Owen McShaneowen@dub.org.uk
A family of souped-up answering machines, mechanical tomcats and servants wired to do our bidding is competing for a place in our homes.In Japan, some of these robots are even threatening to rival flesh-and-blood family and pets as the country's rapidly greying society looks to technology for a helping hand and companionship.At the forefront of robot technology since the 1970s, when manufacturers rushed to automate factory floors, Japan has no problems with machines taking over   the living rooms. Technologists brought up on a fare of cute and helpful robots in the media are striking up robo friendships as more practical robots such as Aibo make it into the nation's, and the world's, homes.Electronic pets are all very well, say the scientists, but we should develop more humanoid robots to help around the house.Better mobility is just one reason. Even more important, say researchers at America's leading robotics laboratory at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, it is easier to interact with and control something human-like.The robot would also find it easier to learn from us if we interacted with it on a normal level, says Professor Rodney Brooks of MIT's artificial intelligence laboratory."An important aspect of being human is interaction with other humans. For a human-level intelligent robot to gain experience in interacting with humans it needs a large number of   interactions. If the robot has humanoid form then it will be both easy and natural for humans to interact with it in a human-like way."Human-shaped androids have also proven in psychological tests in Japan that people are more likely to co-operate with a machine if they were, in a way, acquainted with it. We are more likely to warm to a human shape than other shapes.Cue the winsome little droid PaPeRo - short for "partner-type personal robot". With a robot that can recognise you, switch on the TV and engage in small talk, its maker, NEC, seems to have made the electronic Jeeves a reality. The doll-like appearance has the cute, friendly demure look that the Japanese favour.PaPeRo comes with a vocabulary of 3,000 phrases, recognises another 650, will respond when you call him, and can remember up to 10 different faces. Programmed to move around looking for human company, the little robot can also communicate expressively through its "eyes" - which also serve as cameras - and its mouth, which is made up of LEDs.NEC sees the robot as providing home help for the dramatically increasing number of elderly, in particular. Not yet fully commercialised, PaPeRo should be a common feature in Japanese homes within two years, says NEC.Meanwhile, if you can't   wait for a fully mobile electronic companion, toy maker Tomy has just the thing: a &#163;120 robot toy that can remember what you did last week and chat about it.This particular robot, however, stays put. Tomy, the company behind Pok&eacute;mon toys, has produced a mini cyber being with a vocabulary of the average Pok&eacute;mon fan.According to the company, Memoni is capable of memorising some 20,000 words, and is therefore theoretically able to form two billion sentences. What's more, it is able to respond to statements such as "I'm going for dinner tomorrow with so-and-so," with retorts such as: "Really, you took her to the same restaurant last time."And as the robot remembers words from past events, it is also able to continue the conversation with remarks such as, "You were late for your last date with her, weren't you, so watch yourself," and so forth, Tomy said.Memoni, who weighs in at 600 grams and stands 18 cm tall, "uses artificial intelligence to pick up relevant words within a conversation and can answer accordingly," says a Tomy spokesman. It homes in on two words in the conversation such as "date" and someone's name and makes an informed guess at   what might be an appropriate retort. However, for the time being, Memoni can only converse in Japanese.Initial training of the drone takes one week and it can also be used as a kind of secretary, as it keeps a diary and can remembers users' schedules.Programmed to remember birthdays and meetings, Memoni is capable of greeting its user with a rendition of Happy Birthday on the appropriate morning and ask how yesterday's meeting went.About to go on sale this   summer in Japan, Memoni joins a growing band of intelligent electronic companions, including its English-speaking stablemate Dog.com -the latest Aibo rival - to be launched in the UK this May by Tomy.Derided by scientists in the past as idle imagining, androids (or humanoids, to use the preferred robotics term) are now springing to life in labs across the world. From fiction to reality, the circle of the android/ humanoid tale, it seems, is nearing completion.
What was your earliest experience with computers?My dad was a systems analyst at the BBC way back when the term had just been coined. He took me to a computer exhibition where Commodore had just released itsPET computer, which I fell in love with. My school had one in what was laughingly called "the computer room"! None of the teachers knew how to work it so I ended up with the room virtually to myself.How did you become involved with computer animation?I'd always been interested in visual trickery - 3D holographic and Viewmaster stuff. I came across a program calledPovray, written as shareware. It was very basic, there was no user interface and you had to write a text file describing in mathematical terms where things were in the scene, but it blew me away! All you could really do was put a couple of spheres above a mirrored surface -no one had the patience to write anything else!What kind of technology are you employing at Nanomation?We haveIntergraph TDZ-2000 machinesfor the high-end animation as we use Soft- Image XSI and the programs are fussy about what hardware they run on. The days when you needed amazing Silicon Graphics machines to run animation software are gone now. Whether you love or loath Windows NT, or the Intel system architecture, it has brought that kind of thing into the mainstream. I also use a Dell Inspiron laptop round the world for email etc as it is the only one I can run SoftImage on.Does the net's infrastructure need an overhaul?The new technology could be in place tomorrow if we were starting from scratch but there's so much money invested in old-style IP and TCP networks. The exciting new thing, call it Internet.2, would be where links were updated and moved depending on where people click. That would give you the kind of content screening that you don't get at the moment.How do you feel about file-sharing software such as Napster?I'm blisteringly in favour. I challenge record companies to show me evidence of a single penny they've lost due to Napster. However, I think Napster are cowards now for selling out to the major labels. You can't stop people exchanging any digitisable media over the internet because whatever scheme you use to prevent it, people will circumvent it!Any favourite websites?I have been known to useTesco.combut my favourite site isZombo, which is a clunky animation with a voice-over telling you how great it is. I think that paraphrases the net. Promises you the earth but delivers a bit of animation with a scratchy soundtrack!Visit:www.nanomation.co.uk
Rugrats in Paris: The MovieSony PlayStation 	&#163;19.99 THQ	**This is the game of the film, which will be released tomorrow. Apparently the 3D world of RIP is based on the movie, and like the movie, the gamefeatures a new character: Kimi.Basically what you get is a series of mini-games such as golf, bumper cars and whack-a-ninja, loosely tied into an adventure. The games are fairly straightforward, as you would expect for a title aimed at children aged 5-12. But anything from 10 up is pushing it a bit. I doubt that the average 10 year old finds this kind of thing stimulating. It has neither the depth nor the pace of, say, a Spyro the Dragon game.The graphics are the best part of RIP on the PlayStation. You get a   real 3D world to toddle round, and it is well drawn. You also get real Rugrats voices, though, as usual, the comments quickly become repetitive.Unfortunately the 3D world that is Reptarland is strangely deserted; Disneyland Paris was never that bad.So what remains is a bunch of animated Rugrats. If you want to play at being Tommy, Angelica or whoever, this might be fun for while. If not, not.  (JS)Pok&eacute;mon Gold and SilverGame Boy	&#163;24.99 Nintendo	****Ignore the appalling TV-show and films and throw out the bags, pencil cases and other merchandise. Pok&eacute;mon is back where it belongs - on the Game Boy.Following on from last year's opportunistic Yellow   version, which offered only cosmetic changes, Gold and Silver are the true sequels to the multi-million selling Red and Blue games. Rather than casually exploiting its cash cow (in 2000 nearly 70% of its software sales in the UK were Pok&eacute;mon related) Nintendo has crammed numerous improvements into the two new cartridges.Some 150 new creatures have been added (bringing the total to 251) but perhaps the biggest innovation is an internal clock that you set at the start of the game. From then on, game time corre sponds to real-time so, if you play at 10pm, it will be night in the game.Grabbing a quick go over your cornflakes? Yep, it is morning. And, because some Pok&eacute;mon are nocturnal, you will be burning the midnight oil to collect the full set. There are also certain events that correspond to certain days so, for example, you can only cross a river on a Wednesday. The other big change is the introduction of gender, allowing you to breed new species.Many of the other improvements are more mundane. The menu system has been   spruced up, with information more readily accessible, while the use of in-game cellphones throws up interesting plot elements.There is even a tip-giving radio station, although the BBC needn't worry yet. Of course the problems that hindered the original are still present. The controls are fiddly, the Pok&eacute;mon storage system is a hassle, and, despite the graphics basic. But there is enough innovation in Pok&eacute;mon Gold and Silver to keep the fans happy this Easter.  (GH)Black and WhitePC	&#163;34.99 Lionhead/EA	*****As far as national treasures go, Peter Molyneux should be right up there with the Queen Mum and quilted toilet paper. Very few Brits can go toe to toe with Nintendo and iD for classic game designs but Molyneux has been pulling them out of hats for a decade now. Black and White is his biggest by far, and while it is not perfect, what deity is?Alas, 400 words barely scratches the surface of this game. Drawing on his previous hits Populus and Dungeon Keeper, B&amp;W is all about playing god. You start with a small community of villagers and a disembodied hand. With the hand you cast spells, move around a gorgeous 3D world, and encourage or bully your people into loving you more. An early reward for their piety is an avatar - a hybrid beast that evolves into a towering behe moth by following your commands. If you choose to be an angry god, your avatar will be equally sadistic in appearance and habit.All this makes the first part of the game a slow and somewhat repetitive process. Once you run into other deities, however, things start to hot up, with new villages to win over and rival avatars to fight. Combat is part role playing game and part beat-em-up, with battles turning on one successful combo as frightened villages scamper for cover.So far, so good - and for biblical sunsets and epic pyrotechnics B&amp;W takes some beating. However, the interface remains too clever for its own good. Drawing patterns on the screen with the mouse is a poor substitute for the familiar point-and-click controls. It is a bit like designing a car and replacing the pedals with buttons, even after hours of play you may find yourself struggling just to move around efficiently.Still, once you get used to the controls, this is a land mark title in so many ways. Artificial intelligence is a much over-used term in videogames, but B&amp;W takes AI to new extremes. Villagers respond directly and dynamically to your actions, they even get bored if you try to impress them with the same miracles. In one swirl of his mouse, Molyneux has moved the goalposts yet again. Black and White may not be his most instinctive game, but it will still influence many genres for years to come.  (MA)
If there is one company that desperately needs some good PR it is Psion, the British handheld PC maker. In February it suffered the double whammy of poor financial results and the cancellation of a key new product. And March didn't bring much cheer with the news that sales of PDAs (personal digital assistants) are slowing down in the world's largest market - the USA.While Psion bosses dream of a brighter future, its design staff have been busy conceptualising the products that can turn these into reality.At the Mobile Expo conference in Cannes recently Psion gave industry executives a preview of what to expect.The two new Psion models are billed by the company as prototypes, rather than real-  world models. They have been designed to illustrate what Psion products will look like in the third generation mobile phone era scheduled to begin in 2002-03.According to Psion, the one that is more likely to end up as a real-world product is the Ace multi-screen communicator.Targeted at executives on the move, and about the half the size of a PDA, the Ace flips open to reveal as many as three LCD screens.The user could make a video conferencing call on one screen while keeping the agenda and a database displayed on the other. Alternatively the screens could be used for a four-way video conference call.Perhaps its most useful application will be in enabling the next generation   Psion user to watch three football matches simultaneously. Other features include Bluetooth compatibility which keeps the unit wirelessly connected to the earpiece and a slot for a Secure Digital (SD) card for storing image and video files.Psion's second prototype, the Halo, offers the full range of functionality associated with 3G technology; namely a camera, video facilities, a web browser and PDA functions. But due to its size it has no screen; instead an integrated projector beams the information on to any available surface.Intriguingly, Psion claims that most of us will use it to view images on the palm of our hands. The device is also so small that it can be worn round the neck. Voice phone calls can be made via a Blue tooth-enabled throat microphone.As with all the 3G prototypes Online has seen (and we've seen a few) the products certainly look innovative. And as with most other 3G prototypes ,we wonder just how long the device's batteries will last before those high-tech screens go blank.Whether these snapshots of tomorrow's technology translate into actual products that help Psion grab a significant chunk of a crowded market (that includes not only Palm, Handspring and Microsoft, but also Nokia, Ericsson, Motorola and Sony) remains to be seen.
How i h8our souless f8,there's no sublime,we have not time,you are so near,yet never here,it is too much,i miss your touch,our lives complx,we talk by txt2001month of maywhen cows areburning in the hay.but woe befallsthe month of June-election time;who calls the tune?SHIPSs, she said, which was sort of true;we skirted around one another, never touching,but the ripples your movements caused shook me160 symbolssent through the ether.to bring you closer.numbers, letters, dirty jokes. the hi-tech haiku.cradled in the hand for a moment.then erasedRugby leagueflat pass, high kick,h-a-n-g-i-n-g,crunch tackle,dropped ball,darting run,try!!!old men leap up, bellowing - we only come for the shoutinI plucka flower,place it in waterand paint it as it dies.this is art,but is it still life?Can u c mecos i can c u lk lft lk rght im in sght im 1 of da crowd dat lies b4 yr eyes bt can u tel whch face is mine an bsides all dat wld u lik wot u'd find?Capitalist pigsin crowded bars with friends u despise,no need 4contrivd contradictry alibis,we al no wot were feelig,market forces,naked capitalism,weelr dlingModern affairmrs j is in her car,mr b's on the 8.23.the msg tone of her coolest fone fills her with illicit glee. the thrill is more cos she's 44, &amp; he is 33.Watch dogwatch me, or i'll be prowling my way round your house of a body: licking at windows, stealing through doors, trying beds out for sizePulling powerfilmstar looks&amp; reading books/by tv cooks/are a list of maybes/of how to impress the ladies/but it's so much easierwith a Mercedes.When i was 3i had a friend,who asked me,why bananas bend,i told him why,but now im 4,i am not terribly sure.Phone textbetter than sex,I last longer than some,but get a sore thumbOld bloodnew bloom-moira works the loom-nimble fingers knot reality-we all r slaves to textualityDeepest greenshady blue,silent depths i dive for you, immerse myselfin your silken grasp,relinquish breathfor life at lastI'm on the trainin the rainlistening 2the morningmobile brain drainWhat nextYou have seven days left to enter Online's competition!Text your poems to07753 828610April 13: Entries close, sifting beginsApril 19: Judges decide final sevenApril 23: Entrants to be texted a poem a day for seven days. Give each a mark out of 10 (numerals) and send it backMay 6: Results published 
in OnlineDetails:www.guardian.co.uk/mobilepoems
Larry King, as ever, was to the point: "One fifth of internet dot.coms have gone bust, investors are $3 trillion poorer and 40,000 more people are unemployed as a result of the dot.com crash. To borrow a line from the film, isn't it time to show me the money?"The talk show host was acting as a compere at Accenture's global communications forum in Miami Beach, Florida.The audience of executives from more than 160 of the world's biggest telecoms, media and technology companies, was looking a little red-faced - and not entirely because they had been spending too much time on the loungers by the pool. A year ago these executives from global organisations such as News Corp, Orange, EMI and Nortel Networks were detailing how they were going to make billions from the coming technology revolution.Twelve months on, all the talk is about tougher times ahead. As Ameet Shah, a partner at Accenture, says: "We've woken up and realised that the world wasn't quite what we dreamt it was."His colleague, Tom Pike, head of strategy, admits the future is pretty uncertain too: "The fundamental case for the way technology is transforming business remains unchanged, and we're bullish on a three- to five-year basis but it's impossible to predict how the next 12 months is going to pan out."The stakes are high. Chuck Phillips - managing director at Morgan Stanley - said that 70% of all money put into technology companies over the last 25 years was invested in 1999 and 2000.During that time almost 6m miles of fibre was laid underground, hundreds of billions of dollars was spent on wireless licences and price to earnings ratios for stocks reached 200-year highs.The vast majority of companies now have to show they can turn customers into hard cash, Mr Phillips said. "It's been brutal, and we cannot count on raw new internet users to generate growth," he said. "Users and usage may still be growing but the rate of that growth is slowing, and we need to find new uses for the net."Several new technologies have disappointed or been delayed. Duane Ackerman, chief executive of cable company Bell South, believes the roll-out of broadband and higher speed internet access will bring revenue opportunities but says companies must think carefully about how they exploit them and spend cautiously.Wireless operators, spending &#163;200bn on third generation licences and set-up costs in Europe, have the biggest mountain to climb, according to Jean Fran&ccedil;ois Cecillon, former head of Sega Europe."Mobile content has to get better," he said. "Weather reports and stock updates are all very nice but that doesn't hook me. There is no way that is going to pay back &#163;200bn."Ericsson director Ulf Bromster believes operators and manufacturers have learned their lesson from the under-whelming response to Wap, the wireless internet platform that was introduced to Europeans last year. "There's not going to be any big bang with 3G and it will take time to come through, but we'll see steady growth in wireless internet over the next few years."Ameet Shah believes only a few of the wireless companies will survive in their present   form, with most either being acquired or going bust.Morgan Stanley's Mr Phillips believes supply chain management and B2B exchanges will continue to show good growth despite the downturn.However, he is not expecting the investment bank to cash in in quite the same way it has over the last two years."We all had a great time, got our houses remodeled and bought new cars, but those days are over now," he said.
PSINet, the largest independent internet access provider in the US, yesterday warned that it was running out of cash and was likely to file for bankruptcy protection.The company, which was founded in 1985 and listed on the stock exchange 10 years later, is one of the largest corporate casualties from the meltdown in the valuation of internet-related shares.Trading inPSINetshares was halted on the Nasdaq exchange yesterday after the company outlined the extent of its financial travails. The shares were frozen at 18 cents, down from a year's high of $34. At yesterday's level the company, which operates in 27 countries on five continents as a result of its expansion over the past five years, was valued at less than $36m.PSINet also revealed that PricewaterhouseCoopers, its financial auditor, might officially question its ability to continue as a going concern. A statement issued before markets opened yesterday blamed "rapidly changing circumstances impacting the company".At the end of March the company held cash or equivalents of $254m, about $27m of which is being used as credit security. With more than 4,000 employees, the company is burning large amounts of cash each month. Like many internet companies struggling to reach the consumer market, PSINet has also spent heavily on advertising.In its statement yesterday, PSINet admitted that even a proposed sale of its assets might not cover debts. "Cash generated by the expected proceeds from asset sales are not expected to be sufficient to meet the company's anticipated cash needs" in the absence of "successful imple mentation of one or more financial or strategic alternatives currently under consideration."Even if one or more of such alternatives is successfully implemented by the company, there can be no assurance that the company will not run out of cash."Goldman Sachs, the investment bank, has already been appointed to look for a strategic alliance or sale of all or part of the company. Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein has been hired to look at ways of restructuring its debts.PSINet said yesterday that such reorganisation was "likely to involve the company's reorganisation under the federal bankruptcy code". Once a company files for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, prospective purchasers avoid responsibility for its debts.Authorities at Nasdaq requested more information from the company, which has 15 days to file a financial statement based on a new valuation of its "potentially impaired assets". The company went on to add that even if its attempt to restructure was successful "there can be no assurance that the company will not run out of cash".PSINet has already spun off its overseas consumer internet service operations and data networks business, and announced a large restructuring charge for last year.The company was founded by William Schrader and Martin Schoffstall, who installed a regional network that linked New York State academic institutions.In 1989, when the corporate potential of the internet was still in its infancy, PSINet was the first company to provide net access for businesses.
Cyber-terrorists have hacked into a third of the country's big companies and public sector organisations, including government offices, causing damage ranging from infiltrating corporate bank accounts to information theft, a survey reveals today.The study, thought to be the first of its kind, found that almost half of the institutions taking part considered that the security breaches, sometimes known as netspionage, posed a significant threat to their survival.The survey underlines growing fears about the threat of cyber-terrorism and concern that the UK's leading organisations are ill-prepared to cope with the problem.Last week, the foreign secretary, Robin Cook, warned that   hacking could cripple Britain faster than a military strike because computers are managing most of the country's infrastructure.The results of the study will be published by the Communications Management Association (CMA), which is at the forefront of the fight against cyber-terrorism. CMA members, who are strictly vetted, work in the UK's big institutions to help them develop systems to combat hacking.The CMA asked 172 of its senior personnel to report on incidences of cyber-terrorism in their organisations. Anonymity was guaranteed, though many of the companies involved are household names.Forty-eight per cent reported that the future of their organisation "could be put at risk by a major network-related security breach", and 60% admitted that hacking   posed either a "significant" or "very significant" threat to their survival. Thirty-two per cent admitted being the victim of cyber-terrorism.Hackers had raided corporate bank accounts, stolen information and been responsible for tax evasion, investment fraud, credit card fraud and sales fraud. Half of the CMA specialists thought their businesses were not prepared to cope with security assaults.To help tackle the problem, the CMA today launches a new body, the Institute for Communications Arbitration and Forensics, which will urge businesses to give computer security a greater priority."Our members are the ones in the frontline, and they represent organisations right across the spectrum," a CAM spokesman said. "These institutions have found they are at very serious risk."Related stories30.03.2001: Hackers could halt UK, says CookRelated special reportsNet newsUseful linksCommunications Management Association (CMA)CMA: Institute for Communications Arbitration and Forensics
Forget cyberaquariums, starry nights or pictures of Elvis. Oxford scientists are appealing for computer users to donate screensaver time in a search for potential cancer cures.Oxford University's department of chemistry hopes thousands of people who leave their computers on when not in use will install a different kind of screensaver that can do molecular research.To neutralise a virus or block a tumour, a molecule of a drug has to lock into a human protein.Scientists can test the drugs as 3-D shapes on a screen. The catch is that there are 250m molecules to sift."To test those crudely, even using supercomputers, would take more than a lifetime," said Professor Graham Richards of the centre for drug discovery at Oxford. "But if you string together a million personal computers you would have enormous computing power."Oxford scientists have developed a computer tool called Think, and will send anyone who volunteers for the scheme an initial cyberpackage of 100 molecules and a cyberprotein known to be involved in cancer.Office workers use only about 20% of the power in their computers. The rest could be harnessed for cancer research, with a self-organising programme which quietly sends back to Oxford those molecules that look promising.
Three of the world's five largest record companies agreed to license their music to a new online venture yesterday in a move heralded as a breakthrough for digital downloading.AOL Time Warner,BertelsmannandEMI Grouphave all agreed to invest in a new online subscription service, to be called MusicNet. The service, to be run as a separate company, will use technology provided byRealNetworks, the streaming media company.The new operation is expected to act as a rival to the subscription service to be launched by Napster, the song-swapping service, this year. MusicNet said yesterday that it would work with other online services, including Napster.Oliver Herrgesell, a spokesman for Bertelsmann, said the German company would continue to work with Napster on its legal, subscription service as well as MusicNet. "We want to have our content everywhere," he said.Online analysts believe that MusicNet is an important step in allowing consumers to legally download music online. Large record labels have previously been accused of failing to provide a viable online service, allowing Napster and other companies to take advantage of fast-growing demand.Although financial terms of the deal were not disclosed, company insiders said that RealNetworks would own 40% of MusicNet with the three media groups owning about 20% each.
Scoot, the struggling online directories business, has received a number approaches for Loot, the classified advertising newspaper it bought last year.The company's adviser, investment bank Merrill Lynch, is understood to have entered into discussions with potential buyers of various parts of the business, though Loot is viewed as the prime asset. Interested parties includeTrader, a French rival to Scoot which lost out in the bidding for the newspaper last summer.The approaches come after Merrill was given the mandate 10 days ago to "conduct a review of all strategic options" for Scoot, interpreted by many as hanging a "for sale" sign   over the business. The review was announced alongside a widening of the group's losses last year to &#163;71.5m. Scoot was worth &#163;2.5bn at its peak last year during the dot.com boom, but is now valued by the market at &#163;89m.There is some suggestion that there may have also been an approach for the entire group. Scoot disclosed at its recent results that it has only &#163;31m left in the bank, which would last for less than a year if losses are not stemmed.Scoot paid &#163;190m for Loot, which also has an online division, nine months ago. If a deal were struck with Trader.com it is understood Scoot would still have access to Loot content in Britain for its websites.The disposal of Loot would see the loss of the only part of the company making any   money - about &#163;100,000 since the acquisition. Reports yesterday said Loot would fetch &#163;75m.The acquisition of Loot last   June resulted in a &#163;40m windfall for the newspaper's founder David Landau. The takeover was funded by Vivendi Universal which increased its shareholding in Scoot to 22.4% as part of the deal.Scoot though has so far proved to be a poor investment for Vivendi which bought into the company at 230p a share.The shares are worth 12p and one of the few things to enliven the price over the past 12 months has been persistent rumours that Vivendi would snap up the rest of the company.Trader.com is listed on Nasdaq and owns a number of classified advertising titles including La Centrale in France and the Melbourne Trading Post.
In a few months' time Clifford Martin Stanford will walk across an area the size of a football pitch somewhere in the middle of what was once war-torn Bosnia.As he negotiates what would seem to be the most mundane of feats, Stanford, the founder of Demon Internet, the internet service provider, and one of Britain's richest self-made millionaires, will be egged on by employees of Redbus, his fledgling conglomerate, which builds everything from boats to pop careers.If Stanford completes his stroll successfully he will breathe a huge sigh of relief: the ground over which he is to walk is currently a minefield. But not for much longer if Stanford's latest company, Redbus Landmine Disposal Systems, does its job properly. The RLD system uses two devices: Bigfoot, a machine that stomps all over a minefield, detonating hidden explosives; and 'worm', a machine to chew through the soil, ploughing it up to detect booby traps.Great in theory - but is Stanford just a wee bit nervous about how it will work in practice? Apparently not.'I'd be very happy to walk out there. We want to send a team of footballers to play on the ground we're so confident the system works,' he says, stifling one of many yawns, the result of an early-morning commute to London from his home in Brussels.The blueprint that led to Redbus LDS was one of 2,500 Stanford's company has received since it started life two years ago with a &#163;15m cash pile - half of what Stanford earned from selling Demon to Scottish Telecom, now called Thus, for &#163;66m. All of Stanford's businesses are branded around the Redbus name. 'We wanted a name that implied London and the UK but was pronounceable all over the world. And, as I said to somebody once, I needed a "vehicle" for investment.'The Demon sell-off turned Stanford into an overnight celebrity. The walls of his office, just off Oxford Street, are plastered with news about himself, Demon and Redbus. Missing from the gallery, however, are the salacious details of Stanford's love life plastered over the  News of the World  last year. Predictably, the 1,200-word account of champagne-fueled romps with two table dancers in Claridges, in his Rolls-Royce and his private jet confirmed he had the 'demon touch'.'Cliff doesn't have any inhibitions,' nude dancer Natalie said, breathlessly. 'Let me tell you - his bank balance isn't the only impressive thing about him. That man certainly has breathtaking assets.'Larry Ellison, Oracle's flamboyant MIG-flying boss, could be in danger of losing the 'most interesting internet mogul' mantle at this rate.Among friends and colleagues Stanford shrugs off the article: 'All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.' And if things had turned out differently, Cliff could have been a very dull boy. An accountant by training, Stanford taught himself to write computer code in his spare time.He struck gold when he worked out that if he built an internet service provider he could charge others for providing access to the net to subsidise his own surfing. It was the first time anyone had attempted to bring internet access to Joe Public's desktop. 'I worked out that if we got 200 users we'd break even; with 400 we'd make a small profit.'Nobody predicted that by 1998, when Stanford sold the business, Demon would have 250,000 subscribers.Stanford, small and squat, with a smoker's voice, could have retired at 46. After the Demon sale he emigrated to Belgium, where he now lives as a tax exile - when he's not at his villa in southern Spain, that is. But he says the reason he founded Redbus was to 'put something back' by investing in innovative British businesses. 'What drives me is the fun of doing things and making people rich, helping ideas turn into businesses.'Stanford says he wouldn't   have been able to found Redbus if he hadn't left the UK to avoid capital gains tax: 'It's counter-productive. It's a bad tax. If they could stay here and keep that money, more people would do something with it back home.'The first venture Stanford invested in was Redbus Interhouse, which specialises in building and running internet 'hotels', the datarooms that take care of firms' online activities. The company listed on the stock market last year   via a reverse takeover. 'It was voted - and I have the certificate to prove it - the best-performing share of 2000 - which, considering the downturn in the tech market, is actually pretty impressive.'The share price has subsequently taken a hammering. Shortly after it floated in March the share hit the 300p mark. Last Thursday, however, it fell 19 per cent to 84p on the back of disappointing figures. The company lost &#163;6m last year - far greater   than the &#163;4.7m its house broker had predicted.Nevertheless, Stanford says the company will turn a profit - excluding charges for interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation - this year. The float raised around &#163;100m, which will be used to turn Redbus into the European market leader for web-hosting services.But Interhouse, so far the only publicly quoted part of the Redbus empire, is one of the more prosaic members of Stanford's stable. There's Redbus Film Distribution, for example. Stanford recently sold a 51 per cent stake in the business in a deal that valued the firm at around $40m. Unfortunately the buyer, a Scandinavian company, has yet to stump up the cash. Stanford, however, believes that this will be sorted out and that the future is rosy.Then there's Redbus WorkBoats, a company that builds   platformed boats for use by divers, police and photographers. Stanford admits business has been slow: 'It's a new concept and it's taking time for people to realise that. It has yet to convince the world.'He also has great hopes for Redbus Continuous Professional Training, currently in the business of helping dentists gen up on their knowledge, and Redbus Serraglaze, a firm that uses prisms to bounce light into rooms that don't see too much sun.This is not to forget Girls@Play, the pop group that Redbus's investment arm is now backing. The group's first single charted at number 18 recently. Stanford had held a board meeting with the band shortly before  The  Observer arrived. ('It's great fun doing a board meeting with five girls, you know.') He has great hopes for the album: 'In my opinion they're the best girl band around by a long way. We had a bloody good single. They know their fans and their fans know them. If they do what the Spice Girls did we could make millions.'Cliff Stanford, the demon king of pop. It has a certain ring about it. Perhaps Stanford will be featuring in the  News of the World again before too long. And next time he'll be able to put the cutting on his office wall.ProfileName:Cliff StanfordAge:46Job title:Founder, Demon Internet; founder, Redbus InvestmentsHobbies:Flying; playing online computer game Everquest (he recently attended a convention with 100 ardent fans in Blackpool); building his villa in Spain.
Our future is bracketed by two writers. George Orwell thought we would be destroyed by the things we hate. Aldous Huxley feared we would be undermined by the things we love. For much of the last century, Orwell seemed to have the upper hand. And although the forces of Big Brother (the UK Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act and the new EU Directive on cybercrime) are still alive and kicking the hell out of civil liberties, it's beginning to look as though Huxley's nightmare will dominate the twenty-first century.How come? Well, it's all to do with our lust for packaged entertainment, particularly films and recorded music.The advent of digital technology, and especially the rise of the internet as a mass medium, created a formidable problem for the huge companies that control the 'intellectual property' embodied in movies and music.Their initial responses to the challenge were clumsy and inept. Long after the MP3 horse had bolted, for example, the record companies tried to lock the stable door with their own - proprietary and controllable - file-compression software.The world yawned and gave its answer in the shape of Napster, an MP3-fuelled file-sharing service that signed up 60 million users in its first 18 months of life.Because Napster was a company seeking to make profits, it was easy to bring to heel. The existing laws of copyright proved sufficient for the purpose. What the furore over the case obscured, however, was the incredible lengths to which the copyright lobby is prepared to go to secure its intellectual property - and the implications of this for civil society.What has emerged is a formidable three-pronged strategy to secure these property   rights. The first - and most obvious - strand is aggressive use of existing copyright laws. The second involves the use of encryption and security technology to counter the technological challenge of MP3 and the like.The third involves the effective suborning of compliant and ignorant legislatures (notably the US Congress and the European Parliament) to create a new legal framework that gives unprecedented privileges to copyright owners over other groups in society.It's the combination of technology plus compliant legislatures that threatens to bring about Huxley's nightmare.We're already seeing the effects of this with DVD discs. DVD movies are encrypted using a system called CSS and can be played only on devices that are equipped with approved decryption software.The industry tries to use this to control who can see which version of each movie: DVD discs purchased in the US cannot be played on European DVD players. But the encryption system is relatively easy to crack. Now 'hacked' DVD players can be   obtained (if you know where to look) and a decryption program (called DeCSS) is available on the net, so owners of Linux-based computers are able to play DVDs on their machines.But here's where the double whammy strikes. The copyright lobby persuaded the US Congress to include a clause in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act that makes it illegal to write software like DeCSS. And not only are people being prosecuted for doing so, but a computer magazine is being sued in New York for publishing the DeCSS code.The program is relatively small. It is possible to print it on a T-shirt - and indeed such garments already exist. Under the DMCA, wearing one in public may be a crime.DeCSS has also been published as a haiku. Does this mean that certain kinds of poetry will eventually be outlawed simply to appease the holders of intellectual property? This stuff is no longer about technology, folks; it's about freedom.john.naughton@observer.co.ukThe Arts Council is sponsoring a conference in Cambridge on this and related issues.
One of the greatest attractions of the internet is that it provides a platform for anyone, big or small, articulate or inarticulate, to state their views free from censorship by government, corporations or institutions. It is a freedom that should not lightly be diluted and, should be defended to the hilt: nearly all of the time.But no one should pretend that the web is an ethics-free zone in which normal moral judgments can be suspended. The fact that it is difficult to draw the line between what is acceptable and what isn't, doesn't mean that there isn't a line to be drawn. The decision of a federal appeals court in San Francisco upholding the right of anti-abortion groups to publish what many people believe is a "hit list of doctors" performing abortions comes into this grey area.Of course, the court is right to start from the first amendment to the constitution guaranteeing free speech, but that doesn't mean you can say anything about anyone without reference to the consequences.In this case three of the seven doctors murdered in the past 10 years have been mentioned on the "hit list" and there have been a further 17 attempted murders. Many doctors terminating unwanted pregnancies are forced to wear disguises and bullet proof vests against an intimidating background that has led to a sharp drop in medical students studying the subject - with all that that entails for a revival of backstreet abortionists in the future.Anti-abortionist have every right to their views and every right to promulgate them as much as they like on the web and elsewhere. But they have no right - and especially not in the guise of being "pro-life" - to publish a list that could lead to the death of a fellow human being carrying out an operation that is supported by the majority of public opinion.Once again - as in the constitution's right to bear arms - there is too much emphasis on "freedom to" and not enough on "freedom from".victor.keegan@guardian.co.ukRelated story30.03.2001: US judges rule in favour of abortion 'hit list'
Hacking could cripple Britain faster than a military strike now that computers were managing most of the country's "national infrastructure", including water, power, and transport, Robin Cook warned yesterday.The foreign secretary issued the warning to MPs as he lauded the work of the security and intelligence agencies whose spending has doubled since the end of the cold war, according to a study published today.Though official figures put their total annual budget at &#163;803m, rising to &#163;941m by 2003, the Economist magazine said Sir Gerald Warner, a former deputy head of MI6, estimates the real cost is &#163;2.5bn a year.The parliamentary intelligence and security committee yesterday criticised the government for refusing to publish the individual budgets of MI5, MI6 and GCHQ. It also   chastised the Treasury for refusing to disclose - even privately to committee members - its estimate of the worth of Britain's three main intelligence and security agencies.But Mr Cook said the revolution in communications technology had created threats which the agencies had to combat. Security advisers to the British and American governments, whose computer systems have been penetrated by hackers, have warned of the threat of information warfare, or cyberwars.Whitehall belatedly warned departments last May about the "love letter" virus which infected a large number of government computers. Mr Cook told the Commons that when the Kournikova virus struck in February, a national alert was issued within one hour."That speed of response can make the difference in the modern world between stability and chaos," he said.
The internet is turning out to be something for the old rather than something for the young, according to research by Barclays Bank."Silver surfers" - people aged over 55 who use and surf the internet - are coming to the fore according to the survey, which says they have grown more confident about being online than Britain's young.The over-55s have increased their online activity over the past three months and are spending more time surfing.According to Barclays consumer internet confidence index, which charts internet activity and confidence every three months, national levels of confidence are up by 4.7 points from 100 in December. Silver surfers are responsible for driving the growth and for 3.1 of those points."Although there is often a lot of hype around the internet, we are seeing a general positive trend in the scale and nature of usage on the internet", said Simon Newman, Barclays retail banking e-commerce director.The research saw the confidence levels of 15- to 24-year olds drop by 1.6 points over the quarter and there was a decline of 9% in the use of email by this age group.Leisure and convenience activities over the web, such as online banking, entertainment and booking holidays have increased for the over-55 age group in the last three months.The survey also found the use of email and the internet for research dropped this quarter by about 5%, but in spite of the drop these two areas continue to dominate the bulk of British surfers' activities - 87% of internet users use email and 89% use the internet for research and information.Barclays, which created the index with NOP Solutions, surveyed 1,000 adults, aged 15-plus, including internet and non-internet users.
Europe's largest internet service provider, T-Online, yesterday underlined the difficulties for access providers by revealing that it had lost 390m euros (&#163;240m) last year.It blamed the shift towards flat-rate internet access and the write-off costs relating to a series of acquisitions.The takeovers of Club Internet andYa.comaccount for 203m euros of the write-offs, following the fall in value of ISPs since last year's technology stock boom.Last year it recorded pretax losses before write-offs of only 17.6m euros.Sales for 2000 almost doubled to 797.2m euros, largely off the back of acquisitions.T-Online, which is 81.7% owned by Deutsche Telekom, last month tried to reduce its losses by pulling an unlimited internet access package which was sold for $35 (&#163;24) per month. Customers now have to pay that amount to get 90 hours' access a month.Like many internet service providers T-Online has been able to grow fast and attract millions of users but it has had difficulty making money out of them. It currently has 8.5m customers.Chief executive Thomas Holtrop has said he aims to generate 30% of revenues from e-commerce and advertising. At the moment only 22% of income comes from sources other than the charges users are levied for logging on."After a period of growth, profitability and professionalism are now our focus," he said.Last year T-Online held takeover talks with Britain's leading ISP, Freeserve, which broke down after the two companies failed to agree on price. Freeserve has since been bought by Wanadoo of France.Shares in T-Online have suffered in line with the wider internet sector and last week touched an all-time low. Many analysts believe that European ISPs remain overvalued compared to their longer established US competitors.
