A group of graduate students hope to have made gaming history when their mobile game was played by 113 people simultaneously.Splat, designed by Phil Groman, Federico Zannier and Danne Woo of New York University's interactive telecommunications program, was the subject of a world record attempt on Friday, and the group is confident of success.Users play as birds perched on a power line, and the objective is to defecate on as many passing cars on the road below. The game is silly, but simple, and its designers may have uncovered a new format for mobile gaming that's both socially inclusive and commercially viable.Splat's developers started the companyBigPlaywith the objective of bringing huge crowds of people together to participate in interactive games on video walls and digital billboards. Its website reads: "With permanently connected devices in our pockets, BigPlay can turn every screen into a rich social playground for live audiences."According to BigPlay, Splat is the first mobile game that uses a url instead of an app to connect a group of users all to the same screen. The showcase on 1 March took place at the InterActiveCorp headquarters in New York, where more than 100 people plugged a single url into their smart phones to play together on a 122ft screen.At the end of the game, which took about five minutes, the participants'data was processed by BigPlay's server to asses how many gamers were playing at the same time. The number turned out to be 113, which, if confirmed by Guinness, would be a world record for the largest ever multi-player video game on a single screen. Bigplay should hear back from Guinness about whether Splat officially made it into the record books in about six weeks, but considering it was the only group attempting the record, its chances are high.Groman, in charge of business development and interaction design for BigPlay, says the group has big plans for its gaming model. For example, the url-to-smartphone method could be used at half-time during sporting events or for tourists visiting landmarks with large screens such as Times Square.Groman says BigPlay's approach is special because "interaction is felt directly" when games are not "limited by hardware."He added that BigPlay's "model allows the phone to become the game's hardware."
Paypal has long dominated the web transaction market, but the obligation to have an account with the provider means sellers can often miss out on the casual buyer who isn't determined enough to complete an online registration with the company.For this reason global crowdfunding websiteIndiegogohas announced it is forming a partnership with a second global payments company,Adyen, to enable transactions using local card payments including Maestro in the UK, Carte Bleu in France and Giropay in Germany.Indiegogo, which helps startups raise funds without having to resort to banks or venture capital firms, launched its sterling and euro service in December and has already seen a 20% increase in activity.The site was launched five years ago and has helped 100,000 new companies and services around the world raise money, ranging from restaurants to theatre companies and gadgets such as a current campaign for aninflatable solar light.Co-founder Danae Ringelmann, a former Wall Street banker, said:  "Anything we can do to make it easier for our customers to give and receive contributions in their native currencies and languages is a big priority," she said.Adyen processes online, mobile and point of sale payments for nearly 3,000 international customers including Vodafone and fashion chain Mango, and supports 218 local payment options.It says its customers see a 35% increase in conversion rates when they offer a local payment option.
"The soundbar sector is the only part of the home theatre market that is growing",according to Tom Cullen, co-founder of the wireless music company Sonos. Which is why, perfectly logically, Sonos's latest product is a soundbar – one of those things that sits like a very large draught excluder on the floor under your TV (or, sometimes, on your TV table; or if you're tricksy, above the TV).Like all technologies to do with the TV – generally the most-observed piece of technology in any home – the Playbar has to pass one key test, which we'll call "the Spouse Test", and is common to pretty much all technology used in a shared space.It goes like this: you install the device while your spouse is out of the house. When they come back, do they say "What the HELL is that?" or do they just accept it? The second part of the test: once you start using it, do they say "Oh, MUST we?" or do they generally accept it? (This isn't a gender-specific test. I'm sure you can think of examples.)Although I know that there have been other testers where the Playbar fell very foul of this test, in my own home it passed fine. And in general, the Playbar lives up to the Sonos promise: dead-simple setup, easy operation and integration, and really excellent sound. It also lives up to Sonos's other reputation, which is that you're not going to find it on sale in Poundland any time soon: the Playbar retails at £599 (€699). The question is, is it worth it?In the beginningThe good news for those who have to lug their own goods home: the Playbar weighs significantly less than the Sub, the subwoofer element (5.4kg against a back-crunching 16kg).As you'd expect, it's long and thin: 3.4in (8.5cm) high, 35.4in (90cm) wide, 5.5in deep" (14cm). This turned out to be quite a bit wider than my TV, and even wider than my TV table (I put it underneath).There are only two input choices: an Ethernet jack or an optical-in. It's the latter that you'll be expected to connect. And here comes our first pause for thought.According to Sonos, "PLAYBAR connects to your TV using a single optical cable and plays all sources connected to the TV, including cable boxes and game consoles."In my case, with a Sharp AQUOS TV, this isn't actually the case – and I know other testers had the same problem. Turns out our TVs simply aren't smart enough. Sonos apparently expects that lots of people will have integrated smart TVs which have optical out, to connect to a home theatre setup. Mine doesn't; it's got plain audio out, and accepts HDMI, S-video and SCART. (Remember SCART?)The solution, instead, is to take the optical out from your set-top box (Sky+, Virgin Media, Freeview or whatever) and connect it to the Playbar. This works fine, except you now have two problems. First, if you choose a different source (say, a DVD player) then you'll need to swap the optical connector around. Second, you're still sending sound from your set-top box (or whatever) into the TV; which means you need to mute the TV while controlling the Playbar's volume.Sonos does have a neat setting that lets you control the Playbar sound with your existing TV remote; once you've set that up, it tells you to "set your TV to mute in the menu." Well, I would have if there were such a setting. But there isn't. Which means you have to mute the TV (and Playbar) with one remote, and then turn up the Playbar with the (free) app or a Sonos remote.And you definitely have to mute the TV: I found that if I had an HDMI feed into the TV, and optical out from a Sky+ box into the Sonos, the sound wasn't quite synchronised – the TV seemed to sound marginally sooner, creating an odd echo effect. So, mute the TV.Not ideal – but this is the problem of home theatre writ large. There are so many alternative sources of sound (not to mention video) that what you really need is a single box to aggregate and pick between them all – rather like an amplifier in a hi-fi. That's what home theatre is meant to do, but somewhere along the way it got too confused. Sonos's bet is that things will get simpler, and that we'll all end up owning smart TVs which have optical-out for audio and act as the aggregator box in their own right.I'm not so sure, given how slowly TVs are replaced (about once every 10 years for most people).The Sonos Sub retails at £599. Photograph: SonosSetupGetting the Playbar to join an existing network (if you can't plug it directly into a router, you'll need a £39 Bridge device that can) is a doddle; press two buttons and wait. There are free official apps for Windows 7, Mac OS X, Android and iOS – though not yet for Windows Phone, Windows RT, Windows 8's "Metro" interface and BlackBerry. (There are some paid-for third-party ones for Windows Phone.)If you have a Sub (Sonos lent me one), you can easily add it; its position in the room doesn't matter. You can also set up a true 5.1 theatre system by adding two Play 3 devices, which can act as the rear speakers. (Note: Play 5s can't be used.)This approach quickly gets pricey, though. The Sub costs £599 (inc VAT). The Play 3 £259 each; so a true 5.1 Sonos system would cost a cool £1,716. Did someone say triple-dip economy?There's a cheaper way, though, which is to get a Sonos Connect:Amp (£399) or Connect (£279), either of which will handle stereo sound (the Connect:Amp is a power amp; the Connect would need either powered speakers or a separate power amp). Then, you can put all the kit in the same room (with the Connect at the back) and "group" the two sets, which Sonos enables. You can then control the stereo balance and individual volume of each pair, so you get an authentic 5.1-ish sound but still have money left over. (Playbar + Sub + Connect comes to £1,477; leave out the Sub – on the assumption you've got some great speakers already for the Connect system – and it's £878.)The big advantage that Sonos does have, if you go for the 5.1 setup, is that because it's wireless (using its own mesh network) you won't have miles of wires trailing around the room. And the speakers are nothing like as intrusive as so many home theatre setups, which seem to want to prove their value by being as large and annoyingly obvious as possible.In useThis is the crux, isn't it? Cullen's complaint is that TV sound is like modern TVs – flat and thin. When you contrast it with the Playbar's output, you realise he's right. There's no denying: putting nine speakers (six midrange, three high-frequency tweeters) into it gives you really great sound. Watching the TV series Nashville (or actually anything with some music) becomes a pleasure. You start to realise that lots of TV series have really good sound – you just haven't been able to hear it properly before.Add in a Sub, and a rear system, and things get even better. Watch a film with some big sound, or explosions, and you'll get all the low-frequency heft, and the surround you want.Clever additionsBut the Playbar isn't just a dumb amp. There are two extra settings: "speech enhancement", and "night mode".The "speech enhancement" is for all those times when you've been watching something and the dialogue has been buried in all the other noise going on. Despite sound engineers' best efforts, the frequency range covering the human voice (from about 85Hz to 255Hz) sometimes needs some help. The Playbar offers a simple setting which, the company told me, does "a combination of things, including lowering bass, adding some gain to the centre channel, lowering the gains of competing channels and boosting/cutting specific frequency ranges in the speech band. This combination increases speech intelligibility without sounding artificial or creating an overly unnatural spectral balance."Brave words. But yes, it really does do that. Turn the setting off, and the voices do seem to recede. (You might wonder why you'd ever turn it off. The answer: sometimes, you might not be watching TV.)The "night mode" setting is, basically, one to avoid upsetting the kids or neighbours: "Most movies are mixed with a large dynamic range [the difference between the loudest and softest sound] for a theatrical playback," Sonos explained. "Night Mode makes the soft sounds louder and the loud sounds softer depending on volume setting. The lower the volume setting, the more compression is applied."And again, that's what it does. One onscreen button, and you're sorted.Without TV?That's all very well, and of course playing TV sound is what the Playbar's about. But what about the rest of the time?In that case, it's yet another Sonos streaming speaker system. You have all the same access to your songs (if you keep them on a computer on your wireless network with the Sonos app installed) or a network drive. Alternatively, paid services like Spotify, Last.fm, Rdio, Deezer and others are available too, as well as free services including all the BBC's radio stations, and all other internet-broadcast radio stations. The usability is excellent; Sonos really does have user interfaces down pat.The sound is great – although being a single bar, it lacks the stereo separation that you'd get from having two speakers on opposite sides of the room. If that's really important to you, then you'll prefer to get one of the Sonos:Connect systems and just take the audio out from your TV or set-top box. It'll also save you a fair chunk of money, though you won't get the speech enhancement or Night Mode settings.The Playbar can be controlled from a wide variety of devices. Photograph: SonosConclusionThe Playbar is everything that Sonos promises: great sound, simple setup (although the vagaries of set-top boxes and games consoles mean you won't be free of the occasional scrabbling around on hands and knees). Combined with a Sub, it gives a huge sound. Combined with another system, it gives a giant sound. On its own, playing just music, it gives a terrific – though not big stereo – sound.Is it worth it? If you haven't bought into Sonos, this could be a good way to start, especially if you watch a lot of TV and don't have a 5.1 system, but want something better, or have been getting by with a home amp hooked into your TV. Sonos's ability to stream so much music (and radio) means that it quickly becomes invaluable.Then again, it's pricey – more so if you get a Sub too. Sonos's prices are coming down (the Bridge cost £89when introduced in February 2008; now the price has more than halved), but you can probably feel safe in assuming that the Playbar isn't going to suddenly drop £100 in price by Christmas. As Stella Artois's adverts used to say, it's reassuringly expensive. But that's because it's also reassuringly good.Pros:simple setup; great sound; speech enhancement and night mode; can be combined with other Sonos components to give terrific home theatre experience; less intrusive than five-speaker home theatre systems; functions as normal Sonos element for streaming music and radio.Cons:pricey; many TVs lack an optical-out jack, causing hassles if you use multiple sources; less stereo separation than a pair of speakers when playing music.http://www.sonos.com/shop/Note: this article was corrected: Play 5s can't be used to create a 5.1 setup.
It is 17 years since Lara Croft's first adventure, Tomb Raider, in which time she has starred in a dozen games, two films, and an incalculable number of adolescent fantasies. Yet her life of plunder and perilbegins anewthis week with a full franchise reboot, starring Lara as we've never seen her before: inexperienced, scared and wearing trousers. Like Bond and Batman before her, she has been born again in darker, grittier detail. And, again like Bond and  Batman, she sort of needed to be.There was not much to be said about the original Lara Croft. "She barely had a voice, let alone a character," admits Rhianna Pratchett, lead writer on the latest instalment. She was not even originally British. The character – a gender-flipped evolution of developers Core Design's original hero Rick Dangerous, himself little more than a carbon-copy of treasure-hunter Indiana Jones – was first conceived as Lara Cruz, before a trawl through a phonebook threw up the purposely bland British surname Croft.From there,a legend was spun: Croft became the orphaned daughter of architect and all-round swashbuckler Lord Richard Croft. She acquired a stately manor house, a boarding-school education and the received pronunciation of the aristocracy. Yet those who played the first game could be forgiven for forgetting all of that. A back-story appeared in the manual, but on screen we saw little more than a pistol-toting babe in skimpy clothes, with a waist about the same width as one of her thighs and an implausible pair of breasts.Over the sequels that followed, although sherarely ditched the hot-pants and crop-top, she developed more of a personality. Gamers came to recognise her as fearless, even arrogant, thrill-seeking and callous, bold and brave: in short, a badass. This characterisation helped counterbalance the brazen sexuality of the character design, even making it possible to argue she wassome kind of feminist icon. So it was a risky move on the part of the prequel's developers Crystal Dynamics to strip a character who has often been derided as sexist of the skills and attitude that once served as an emphatic riposte to the allegation.It is a risk that, in June last year, looked to have backfired whenexecutive producer Ron Rosenberg told an interviewerthat – in what was widely reported as a "rape scene" in the new game – we would see Lara "literally turned into a cornered animal" and would feel compelled to "protect her". The idea of Lara Croft being rapedkicked off a media storm.The producers have since stated emphatically that there is no rape scene in the game. In fact, the scene in question was in the public domain back in June, shown inthe trailer at industry showcase E3. And while there is certainly the threat of sexual violence in it, her would-be assailant makes it only as far as a hand on her stomach before Lara knees him in the groin, grapples for his gun and shoots him dead."It's the first time she has had to take a human life," explains Pratchett. "It's very in-your-face. It's gut-wrenching and it's uncomfortable and it should be uncomfortable. That's what we were aiming for. We didn't prolong it, we didn't do it for titillation. We wanted to show Lara's reactions and that gut-wrenching moment of having to take a human life. She doesn't get out of that thinking: 'Oh my God, I was almost sexually assaulted.' She's thinking: 'Oh my God, I've taken a human life.'"Lara Croft in 2002.Some fans don't want to see their hero struggling with such emotional dilemmas.In the Telegraph, deputy women's editor Louisa Peacock complained: "I don't want to be reminded that superhero Lara Croft is just a girl ... why do they need to show her human side? Why does she need to make mistakes, become vulnerable?"The writers were well aware some players would object. "I think some people are very attached to old Lara because she's very capable and she doesn't show any vulnerability and she knows she can get out of any situation," says Pratchett. "But that's not really interesting for a character."The decision to make her less indestructible was not, she says, about gender. "She's not vulnerable because she's female, she's vulnerable because she's human. She's shipwrecked on an island, she has no weapons and she ends up hanging upside-down in a cave. I think that's something that would unnerve most of us, really, male or female."So is the new Lara still a sex symbol? "I think so," says Pratchett, "but it's sort of in a different way and it's more than being just a pure visual. It's not over-sexualised. It's not the pneumatic breasts and the midriff-revealing top or the hotpants. But I'm not going to deny that she's a beautiful young lady."The physical makeover has been dramatic but also, arguably, necessary. In the hyper-real high-definition world of a modern console game, the old Lara Croft's proportions would simply have looked cartoonish."The technology demands this immersive cinematic interactive experience," explainsIan Livingstone, president of Tomb Raider's original publishers Eidos, and an ever-present figure in the life and evolution of Lara Croft. "That's where games have been going, the incessant drive towards total realism. If you look at any franchise that's 10 or 15 years old and look at their origins they're totally different to the iterations that are available today."Yet the new Lara Croft is not so different from the old. This younger heroine's curves are less impossible, but they are hardly less desirable. And while much has been made of the fact that those trademark hotpants are now cargo trousers, few reviewers have mentioned that the new Lara's tank top is cut lower than the combat vests she wore before. In a sense all that has happened is that the fantasy has been fleshed out.Could the new Lara Croft be a feminist icon? That, says Pratchett, is not for her to say. "I just hope she's seen as an interesting character, really."
Dale doesn't exactly look like an international crypto-criminal. He's soft-spoken, baby-faced, and a senior at an Ivy League college. But every couple of weeks the political science major logs onto the Silk Road,an online black market that has been described as an "amazon.com of drugs"to buy wholesale quantities of "molly" (also known as MDMA, a particularly "pure" form of ecstasy), LSD and magic mushrooms. Some of these will be for his personal use, and the rest he'll flog to less tech-savvy classmates at a mark-up of up to 300%. On a good weekend, he can net a profit of around $2,500. It's a more lucrative sideline than waiting tables.While Dale prices his party favours in dollars, he pays for them the only way you can pay for anything on the Silk Road: by using Bitcoins, an untraceable digital currency founded in 2008 by the pseudonymous "Satoshi Nakomoto". Despite persistent efforts to uncover his identity, little is known about Nakamoto: he's the Banksy of the internet. Or, rather, he was. Nakomoto disappeared without a trace in 2011, after telling a developer "he'd moved on to other things". Bitcoin itself, however, shows no signs of vanishing: in the past two months it more than doubled its value against the dollar andafter reaching an all-time high last Wednesday, it has been trading at above $32 a share.Unless you're a major tech geek or a regular patron of the shadowy computer underworld known as the dark web, you've probably never heard of – let alone used – Bitcoins. But below the "real" economy of legal tender and federal reserves, Bitcoins fuel a shadow economy that connects students, drug dealers, gamblers, dictators and anyone else who wants to pay for something without being traced. It has found a niche as the currency of internet vice, digital "pieces of eight" for modern-day pirates.Despite these unsavoury associations, Bitcoin is increasingly winning a place on the internet as a legitimate currency, albeit one that will probably never quite shake off its dodgy past. Bitcoin is part of a gradual, technological shift in the way we think about money. It poses a tangible threat to centralised banking and the guardians of fiat money. Bitcoin won't knock off the dollar any time soon; the euro can sleep easy. But it is clearly a force to be reckoned with. Bitcoin has become the world's best performing currency, with its value spiking 130% just this year.Bitcoins, unlike the cash you have in your pocket, are finite. There are currently 10.8m Bitcoins in the system, and this will cap out at 21m coins by the year 2140, according to market research firm ConvergEx. Limiting supply has been a major plus for Bitcoins, and a major reason why prices have gone up.If you want to buy Bitcoins you simply go to an online exchange service such as Bitinstant and convert your local currency into the virtual money. These are then stored in a "wallet", which functions as a sort of online bank account. You can then go and spend these anywhere that takes Bitcoins to buy anything from socks to drugs.The Bitcoin network is structured like a guerilla movement: it is decentralised, controlled by its users rather than governments. This means it is (theoretically, at least) anonymous, and that, unlike credit cards and PayPal, which block payments from a number of countries, it enables instant payments to anyone, from anywhere in the world. That's why criminals love it and why some online retailers do, too. It's money without any kind of safety net below it. There's no legislation to protect your investment and you can't protest fraud.It's worth bearing in mind that while Bitcoin operates outside the parameters of governmental control and is often used to dubious ends, so too is a lot of the money we see around us. The US Treasury printed 3bn $100 bills in the 2012 fiscal year and, 80% of them go overseas, according to Federal Reserve estimates. As Nicholas Colas, ConvergEx Group chief market strategist, notes, "many of them simply facilitate the global drug and arms trade, not to mention tax evasion and human trafficking".  Bitcoins fit into the world of real currency more than anyone would like to think.While governments and legislators have long been waging wars on traditional funny money, they are only just starting to wake up to the effects alternative currencies may have on the financial landscape. In 2011, two Democratic senators,alerted to the thrills of the Silk Road by a Gawker article,wrote to the US attorney general demanding that something be done about Bitcoin. And in October last year, the European Central Bank published a paper that recommended that developments in virtual currencies be regularly examined to reassess the risks.The association between Bitcoins and drugs is clearest on Silk Road, where the currency is the only method of payment that is accepted. But Dale, the Ivy League student, uses the currency with care – not least because of its volatility. "I try to purchase only as many as I will need for a specific transaction, because they have historically had pretty wild inflation and deflation."Dale sees Bitcoins as the glue that binds a certain type of digital trade: "It seems to me like Bitcoins are essential for the currently thriving digital underground economy, but they also represent the beginning of an extra-governmenta, international digital economy."Bitcoin isn't just for petty criminals, however: it has also made its debut in geopolitics. Last year, Iran was cut off from the European and US currency systems. High inflation caused the native currency, the rial, to plummet in value. With no dollars or euros available,Iranians used Bitcoinas a way to gain access to the international currency markets: they bought Bitcoins and later swapped them for dollars through an exchange site like Mt.Gox.While Bitcoin has so far operated at the margins of the economy, there is some evidence that it is slowly entering the mainstream. Wordpress, Reddit, and Megaupload have just started to accept Bitcoins and you can noweven buy pizza with them. In December, the currency took its biggest step towards legitimacy yet,after partnering with a payments service provider in France. They also had a booth at this year's Consumer Electronics Show (CES), which featured a picture of a wholesome looking woman holding an iPhone running a Bitcoin app.Edward Castronova, a professor of telecommunications at Indiana University Bloomington, who has who pioneered the economic study of virtual worlds, doubts that Bitcoins will ever become a mainstream currency, however. Castronova's scepticism stems from the way that Bitcoin is structured as a currency with a fixed size. "It just isn't very fun. We've learned from game currencies that people like a little inflation in their economies. But Bitcoin is built to deflate. And we've just seen, culturally, people don't like deflation."While it seems unlikely that Bitcoins will ever represent a full-scale challenge to regular money, they point to the rise of virtual currencies and changing definition of currency. Alternative currencies continue to slowly creep in around the edges of the economy: in February,Amazon announced that it is introducing its own custom currencycalled, rather imaginatively, Coins.Starting in May, US customers will be able to use Coins to buy apps, games and in-app items on the Kindle Fire, with Amazon giving out "tens of millions of dollars worth of Coins" as a preliminary stimulus package.And calculations by the Economist in January 2005 suggested that the total stock of unredeemed frequent flyer miles was worth more than all the dollar bills in circulation.Castronova notes that among young people, the mental accounting on different sorts of "money" is already very fuzzy. "Twenty-year-olds don't see any difference at all between dollars, gold coins, GPAs," said Castronova. "They're all just digital score sheets".The future of money may or may not include a Federal Reserve Bank of Amazon, but it probably does involve the gradual decentralisation and democratisation of currency. Virtual currencies aren't just a new-fangled sort of Monopoly money. Rather, they may just be the thing that ends the monopoly on money.
If Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag's preview embargo could be compared to a horse in a stable, then not only is said horse frolicking in a sun-dappled meadow long after the proverbial door has been slammed, but the stable itself has been dismantled and sold for kindling.Details about the latest instalment in Ubisoft's lucrative sandbox adventure series have been leaking for the past week like water from a shotgunned sieve. So, in light of the information already in circulation (that it's out on current-gen consoles and PC on 1 November), it's likely you're here to find out more about Ubisoft's new game beyond its release date and the fact that it is, itis, a glorious thing, to be the pirate king.Yes, it turned out the rumour mill cranked into motion by gaming site Kotaku was bang to rights when the flags were unfurled at Ubisoft's reveal event in London. Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag is to be set during the golden age of piracy in the 1700s. It almost seems as though the publisher and myriad development studios trundling away on the franchise took the fans' criticisms and praise concerning last year's Assassin's Creed III to heart; they didn't really care much for the game's protagonist, but they did like the parts involving naval battles. Whether or not that's actually the case, players are in for a lot more action on the open sea and the stoical half-Brit/half-Native American Connor Kenway is now firmly in the franchise's rearview.Ubisoft also revealed that Desmond Miles, the series' main protagonist who re-lives the past existences of his ancestral line with the use of a contraption called the Animus, won't feature in the new game. Details about his replacement are sketchy at this point, although some oblique reference was made to the hero being … "you". Apparently, the player will take on the role of a research drone working at Abstergo Entertainment, a division of the shady Abstergo Industries, which serves as a front for the Templar Order. You're one of many Abstergo employees who are using the Animus to explore past existences in order to seek out pieces of Eden for the Templars. The multiplayer, Ubisoft said, will also be wrapped in this fiction.On me Ed, sonThe single-player mode, however, will be dominated by the franchise's newest hero: Edward Kenway, grandfather of Connor Kenway and scourge of the high seas. A privateer who turns to buccaneering when he finds himself out of work in 1715, Kenway is described as a drunken, brash, rebellious fellow who just also happens to be highly intelligent and rather charismatic. While this certainly sounds like the sort of chap who'd happily buckle a swash after being chucked out of the Royal Navy, his character traits also sound cannily in line with those of one Ezio Auditore da Firenze, easily the most popular protagonist the series has had to date. The pitch for Ed Kenway's story also bears a passing resemblance to Ezio's as it follows his progression from devil-may-care brigand to committed participant in the war between the Assassins and the Templars.Ubisoft also unveiled the world and characters players could expect to surround them in Black Flag. The publisher was keen to highlight that the story for the new game would stick to real-world events within the historical timeline it is set, and that players shouldn't expect anything along the lines of sea-monsters, mermaids or entire crews of undead pirates in possession of cursed gold doubloons. This element of realism, however, appears somewhat flexible when it comes to character-models; the likes of nefarious seafarers such as Blackbeard, Calico Jack and Charles Vane looked suitably scurvy-ridden, yet female pirate captain Anne Bonny could easily have passed for a catwalk model in Milan.The game's sprawling environment, however, looks impressive in both its size and variety. Black Flag takes place at the fringes of the three great European empires of its age and, we are told, traversing it will be utterly seamless. This means that players will be able to sail Kenway's ship, The Jackdaw, though the length of it without having to watch any loading screens. The three main urban locations in Black Flag were Havanna in Cuba, Kingston in Jamaica, and the unofficial capital of the Republic of Pirates, Nassau. Presumably this means that free-running across rooftops, sword fights with the local authorities and leaps of faith from high buildings are still on the menu.However, all in all, we were told, Black Flag features around 50 unique locations. Along their travels through Ubisoft's beautiful new creation, players will visit fishing villages, hidden coves, jungles, forts, Mayan ruins, deserted islands, and secluded plantations. They can even take a diving bell to the ocean floor to explore sunken shipwrecks. Black Flag's in-game map sounds like a vibrant and colourful playground, simply groaning with quests, collectibles and activities for the player to get stuck into.All aboard The JackdawIt's in these sections that the feature Ubisoft describes as the game's second character comes heavily into play: Kenway's ship, The Jackdaw. From the sounds of things, she's a far more involved and impressive vessel than Connor's galleon from Assassin's Creed III. Players will be able to upgrade, customise and (if needs be) repair Kenway's ship, as well as use her to take part in naval battles – which many players considered one of the highlights of the previous game of the series.Combat on the open water sounds like a far more detailed affair in Black Flag, though. Not only will weather play more of a factor this time round, but The Jackdaw will encounter ships using varying types of attacks; some may try to outmanoeuvre her, while others will simply take the direct approach and ram into her broadside. Players can also lead boarding parties onto the decks of other vessels, or, if the opportunity presents itself, they can dive into the water, sneak aboard the enemy ship and assassinate its captain.Players will also be able to use Kenway's Spyglass in The Jackdaw's crow's nest to seek out activities and side-quests, such as ships to attack, whales to harpoon or islands that offer the promise of buried treasure. From the sounds of things, these events will occur on the fly, so as to encourage players to explore every inch of the world the developers have created for the game.On the surface, Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag contains some familiar beats, but the boatload of new content that Ubisoft has added to the mix looks genuinely exciting. Yes, the hero is still wearing a cowl and yes, it's likely the game's present-day storyline will probably remain impenetrably banal, but at its core, Black Flag seems to offer the prospect of high adventure on an epic scale. It's early days yet, but we have high hopes for Ubisoft's pirate yarn. At the very least, Ed Kenway promises to be better company then his grandson…• This preview is based on information revealed at a press event in London. All travel expenses were paid for by the writer, although he did help himself to some complimentary orange juice and cocktail sausages on the night
News of Apple refunding £1,700 to the parents of a boy who had spent that amount in iOS game Zombies vs Ninja spurred me to write an opinion piece suggesting thatit's time for a proper debate on free-to-play children's apps.A debate certainly ensued: 161 comments at the time of writing, ranging from stern criticism of parents who let their children loose on smartphones or tablets unattended, through to discussion of the responsibilities of app developers and platform owners like Apple.As a follow-up, I asked some children's app developers and industry figures for their views on the in-app purchases (IAP) issue. Their answers throw up some new slants on the topic.That includes distinguishing between different variants of IAP; a suggestion for a code of conduct and related trust-mark for ethical children's apps; an idea for pay-as-you-go subscriptions where parents are only charged if their child actually plays with an app that month; nuanced thoughts on parental duties; and some useful background on the business challenges that are making so many kid-app developers turn to IAP.Starting with the latter, and James Huggins: managing director of British firmMade In Me, whose Me Books apps use IAP to sell digital picture-books to parents, including branded versions for Peppa Pig and Ladybird books."If you have a major problem with IAP, don't download any free apps," he says. "It's that simple. The freemium model exists because the market is so reluctant to pay for apps. You can't have it both ways."That's a point I made in the original piece: that many parents I've talked to are angry about IAP in children's apps, yet say they only download free apps for their kids. Most developers are trying to negotiate this contradiction as best they can."99-cent pricing and, of course, free pricing is putting enormous pressure on kids' app developers to try to find a way to stay afloat and deliver quality content," says Nat Sims, chief executive of US children's apps publisherNight &amp; Day Studios."It is expensive enough to produce a playful app with good game design and nice animation. If you want it to be beautiful, meaningful, and have educational value, how much more does that cost the developer? I can give you some insider data on that: twice as much or more. And yet how much more are you willing to pay, as a parent, to see this app?"Sims notes that App Store discovery being what it is, many parents find new apps for their children by browsing the Education category charts, where the top apps are much more likely to be the cheapest ones.Developer dilemmaSims outlines the developer dilemma. "We need to find a way to get apps in the hands of parents – our true, buying customers, and the gatekeepers for our end users – children – and then, ideally, we want to also provide great, fun, educational experiences for the children," he says."We also need to pay our bills so we can make new apps that are even better than what we did before, and what every other well-funded company is also putting out. And we need people to find our apps, so there's additional pressure to keep our initial purchase price as low as possible."So, IAP makes for an appealing way for developers to make money while also lowering this bar to entry. Yet as Sims notes, IAP "competes directly with what I personally want as the parental experience".How so? "For my young child, I want to make as few purchase decisions as possible – without her involvement or access to my bank account – and then know that her use of the app is safe, fun, and won't unexpectedly cost me more money," he says."If she loves the app and wants more, I'd like to be able to provide that to her, but I obviously don't want her to be able to just grab whatever she wants, with my money. Ideally I'd either pay a bit more from the start and get the whole package – the hardest to pull off as a developer, and so not really an option much of the time – or when I wanted to expand or continue the experience for her, only I would be able to make it so."StoryToys debated how best to use IAP in its Farm 123 appFreemium flavoursIt's important to understand that there are several flavours of freemium, depending which app you use. Consumable virtual items – be they stars, coins or bones – are just one IAP option. Also available: monthly subscriptions; purchases of individual pieces of content (like digital storybooks); and single-unlocks where you pay a one-off fee to unlock the full features of an app, and/or remove its ads.Part of my anger in the original article focused on developers including £69.99 IAP in apps clearly intended for children. Some developers share that anger."Including high-tier 'consumable' IAPs in apps aimed at children, specifically the under-13s, is unconscionable conduct by developers and publishers," says Barry O'Neill, CEO of Irish children's publisherStoryToys, which he says internally debated a freemium strategy for its Farm 123 app for a long time before its release in 2012."We discussed this with parents, most of whom have become quite suspicious of 'free' content, before determining that single price-point freemium models were all that we were comfortable with in the current generation of our apps: no consumables, just a single feature-unlock."O'Neill says that StoryToys has had "negligible" feedback on accidental purchases of the unlock in Farm 123, and notes that while children are the intended users of his company's apps, the buyers are ultimately parents."It is critically important that we develop a relationship of trust with them, based on quality and transparency, as our future business depends on them," says O'Neill."Unscrupulous developers create a threat to the industry by undermining this trust. How can this be solved? My proposal would be a developer devised code of conduct and associated trust-mark."Code of conductO'Neill elaborates, suggesting that such a code of conduct should be compliant with the US Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA), and require developers to have no IAPs more expensive than Tier 5 in Apple's pricing matrix: £2.99 / $4.99.O'Neill also suggests that this code of conduct could guarantee to parents that the app "does not promote or encourage compulsive purchase behaviour"; includes a feature to disable IAPs completely with a separate password to the device owner's iTunes account; and carries no inappropriate advertising, with the ability to disable any advertising or promotion completely."Developers qualifying for such an initiative could use the trust-mark in their app description texts and as a badge on their screenshots and other promotional materials," says O'Neill."Parents would hopefully come to recognise the symbol as one of trust and perhaps quality, but this is a harder aspect to monitor and award. Ultimately a trust-mark could in time be acknowledged and endorsed by app stores themselves and perhaps bring about a children's app category, to which parents could restrict app store browsing. Wishful thinking perhaps."Subscription tweaksNight &amp; Day Studios' Sims has some more views on how developers could work towards more parent-friendly IAP in children's apps, citing three technical and business solutions to the problem.The first is subscriptions: the option for parents to pay a recurring subscription for a children's app that they were confident would continue to get better and provide more content every month, as long as the child stayed interested."Another similar model, that would also need some backend, OS-level support from Apple et al. would be a true pay-as-you-go model," he says. "Each month that my daughter played a game, I could be charged that month's rental fee, let's say a buck. If she puts it down for a couple of months, I don't get charged those months."The third option, according to Sims, would be for Apple to allow developers to force entry of an iTunes password for IAP, regardless of the master settings on the phone. So a parent could keep the 15-minute IAP window for their own use, but rest assured that any children's app would have a password prompt every time."This is not yet technically possible, as far as I know, but I think it would be a great change and something Apple could implement quite easily," he says.Apple's Guided Access feature is only a step towards an airplane-style Kids ModePlatform powersLike O'Neill's suggestions, this points back to the idea of a separate Kids category on app stores, rather than spreading them between Books, Games, Entertainment and Education as is currently the case.Apple has recentlysettled a class-action lawsuit in the USover IAP in children's apps, in a deal that could cost the company as much as £66m. Some industry experts think the settlement could be a good thing for parents beyond the short-term cash and iTunes-credit refunds."I want developers to be responsible but above all, I think that the platform holders need to tackle this issue head on," says industry consultant Nicholas Lovell, ofGamesbrief."Apple's recent settling of the class action law suit in the US is a very good thing in this regard: it sets out some clear guidelines for parental responsibility, it will have raised the profile of the issue at Apple and it is likely to lead to better communication and explanation of just how much IAPs can cost in a game."Lovell says he would like to see Apple introduce a Kid's Mode – "similar to Airplane mode" – that locks down IAP spending and other phone functions at the swipe of a virtual switch.There is a feature buried in iOS' accessibility settings calledGuided Accesswhich is a step in this direction, but there's no evidence that lots of parents know it exists, let alone how to use it.Parental rolesSomething that came through strongly in the comments to my original piece was criticism of parents who don't know what their kids are up to on their smartphones and tablets. A subject I possibly shied away from too much through not wishing to criticise the specific family in the Zombies vs Ninja case.This wasn't just about trollish comments calling parents "morons" for not reading their iPad manual and knowing how to change their IAP settings. Several people made the point that parents shouldn't see a smart device as a "babysitter", and certainly shouldn't forget that it's an internet-connected device with a simple-to-use digital store built in."In my opinion, your article is a wake up call, not to developers with questionable ethics who clearly don't care anyway, but to parents. Even at three or four, children understand when a particular button will trigger a purchase," says Huggins."When the kids were small we'd go to the shops, and I remember well explaining why you can't just take stuff or start eating sweets off the shelf. It's the same thing here: You regulate the apps they download and spend a little time helping them get accustomed to the mechanics, whether that's how to make the character jump, or how to avoid IAP traps."Not a babysitterBack to those "iPad isn't a babysitter" comments though. It's impossible to tell how many of them came from parents versus non-parents, but Lovell suspects that people who do blame parents in this way may have an idealised vision of the daily nuts'n'bolts of parenting."Parents often leave their kids reading a book, watching television or playing a game while they get on with other important tasks like cooking supper or dealing with a potty-training toddler's soiled underpants," he says."That is not abdicating responsibility: it might take place in the same room, at the same time, taking an interest in what the child is doing without supervising every last moment. It's an important part of learning for children and an invaluable tool for parents."Lovell adds that people who criticise the idea of stricter regulations on IAP – or at least features like automatic password-entry being switched on by default rather than the 15-minute window – because they see it as impinging on their own rights are blinkered."Apple initially marketed the iPhone for globe-trotting 20 somethings: hence the airplane mode being so accessible. It now has a huge market that consists of every demographic," says Lovell."To prioritise the protection of the most vulnerable in our society is not, in some strange way, damaging the rights of the non-parent or the non-child: it is good social responsibility and sound business sense."National Geographic sold virtual bones for up to £69.99 at a time in its Dino Land game, but not all IAP is consumableDefault settingsGames industry consultantWill Luton, whose previous article about IAPs and children I linked to in my original post, is writing a book about free-to-play games. He has his own views on how parental responsibility fits into the children's apps debate, relating to a point in the article comparing IAP to physical purchases in the real world."The first point you make about your children wandering Toys R Us with your credit card is a good one," he says. "Although whilst I don't agree that's quite what is happening on iOS devices, there are mistakes being made because of a lack of understanding from parents and problems with default device settings from Apple."Luton thinks this is something that could easily be solved by Apple tweaking its default settings for iOS devices, and adds that this is the reason he thinks anger over £69.99 IAPs versus lower amounts is a red herring."This is something that needs to be sorted with better education and the closing of the window from Apple, but the price is irrelevant," he says. "A child could hammer a 99p button as well as a £69.99 one – they'll still rack up huge amounts. That's not the bit that needs fixing: it's education and the IAP window."Luton also thinks my comparison of IAPs to sweets isn't quite on the mark, pointing out that while they are consumable, they can often be used to buy durable items in a game: hats, pet dragons and the like."In that sense a better comparison would be pocket money: A child may spend on sweets, which are consumable like boosts, or toys, which are durable like hats or dragons," he says. "In this sense, that can teach children about value, especially as our economies move ever more towards digital."Trusted developersThis is something I've written about before in a piece calledShould Kids Get Digital Pocket Money?wondering how the idea of pocket money could and should evolve as more children get more of their entertainment digitally.That's probably something that comes with older children though: those who are trusted with their own iTunes, Amazon and/or Google Play accounts – through vouchers, likely – rather than the younger kids who are often the unwitting villains/victims of stories involving huge IAP bills for their parents.Made In Me's Huggins boils it back down to traditional parenting values – and the trust and respect that hopefully exists between parents and their children – applied to new digital challenges."As a parent I agree that a £69.99 product in a kids' app is tasteless and inappropriate. But so be it: as long as my kids have the same opinion, I'm not worried," says Huggins, who says his four year-old son recently asked to get an app that wasn't free because "the free apps always try to make me buy things and are not as good as the apps that are expensive".But he brings it back to the opening point of this article: the idea that parents have the power to vote with their wallets, and ensure that higher ethical standards are good for developers' businesses, while poor ones hurt it."If you find a developer you like and trust, see what other apps they have and buy them. It's a tiny sum of money that makes a big difference to developers of great children's apps," he says."If parents are discerning, the kids will be too, and we'll all be better for it."
The bitter battle between Apple and Samsung over smartphone patents that had seemed decided by a$1.05bn (£698m) award in the US courts last Augustis not quite over yet.Judge Lucy Koh late on Friday knocked $450m off the $1.05bn award, and ordered a new jury trial to decide how much – if any – damages Samsung should pay for infringements by 14 handsets and tablets from the original case.Her decision does not overrule the jury's decision in the original trial; the new jury will only decide the size of damages to be paid over 14 other products that were found to infringe Apple's patents on design or use, or both. That is almost certain to up the damages from the new level Koh suggested – though it's unclear whether it would raise it to the same level as before, or more, or less.Apple will also be entitled to interest on the total damages at the US Treasury bill rate (of just 0.16%) for the period between the verdict and the final judgement, and supplemental damages based on sales of infringing Samsung devices since the verdict. Samsung says only three of the devices from the trial are still on sale.In the original trial, the jury decided that some Samsung products had copied the appearance of Apple's iPhone 3GS, and also infringed a "rubber-banding" patent when trying to scroll past the top of an onscreen list, and the "tap to zoom" function to enlarge text on screen with a double tap of the finger. Though some – including Samsung – complained that the decision was hasty, reached after just three days' deliberation, and contentious, Koh declined to overturn it.Kohmade the orderfollowing demands from both Apple and Samsung for, respectively, higher and lower damages.Koh urged Apple and Samsung not to go to a second trial, but instead to find a negotiated settlement – a direction that Florian Müller, an independent patents analyst, thinks the two will eventually take. "The second damages trial is unlikely to take place, because in the meantime there will be appeals of what's [already] been decided so far, and at some point there will be a settlement," he told the Guardian.The case has played out for almost two years against a background in which the two companies have had an increasingly strained relationship, even while they have both come to dominate the smartphone sector.Samsung used to be Apple's biggest supplier for phone parts, and Apple its largest customer. But in 2010, Steve Jobs, then Apple's chief, vowed to go to "thermonuclear war" over what he saw as copying of iPhone features by Android phones. HTC was the first to be sued over Android by Apple, but Samsung quickly became a bigger target, with the two contesting court cases in multiple countries, including the UK, Germany, France, Japan, South Korea and Australia.The US case, filed in April 2011, was the biggest, and the award by the jury last August seemed to mark a breakpoint in the smartphone patent wars. But Samsung meanwhile became the largest smartphone manufacturer in the world, and the second most profitable behind Apple. Together, the two companies produce around half of all the smartphones shipped worldwide.Koh upheld complaints of inconsistencies, pointed out by Samsung's lawyers, in the way the original jury calculated the damages payable by the South Korean electronics giant. She said the original jury failed to provide the royalty rate that it applied in order to work out the amounts that it awarded – and that this made it impossible to comply with Apple's request for supplemental damages relating to Samsung's sales after the case.She also said that it wasn't clear when Apple had first notified Samsung of some alleged patent infringements – which meant that the starting date for calculating damages was unclear.The titanic courtroom battle lasted three weeks, and saw the jury decide that Apple's claims were mainly correct – although they disagreed that Samsung's tablets copied the appearance of the iPad. Samsung counterclaimed in the case that Apple infringed five of its patents on 3G and other functions; the jury rejected its claims.Since then, Samsung has mounted a series of complaints against the jury decision, and sought to have it struck out. It is separately taking the decision to the US Court of Appeals to seek to have the decision thrown out, and patents in the case invalidated. Apple meanwhile is seeking to have the damages increased.For Apple, the reduction – even if only temporary – is the latest in a number of setbacks after it won the case last August. When it sought a sales ban on the Samsung devices that had infringed, Koh turned it down on the basis that Apple hadn't shown that the device sales were linked to the patent infringements – what she called a "causal nexus".Another trial between the two companies is set for 2014, after Apple claimed last year that Samsung was still infringing on other patented technologies."We are pleased that the court decided to strike $450,514,650 from the jury's award," Samsung said in a statement.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 2 March 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Crysis 3(16+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (34)22 (3)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (48)PS3 (33)Wii (4)VITA (3)233 (2)Metal Gear Rising: Revengeance(18+)PS3 (57)Xbox 360 (43)24 (4)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (39)PC (2)Wii U (1)165 (7)Far Cry 3(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (39)PC (8)146 (8)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)Xbox 360 (45)PS3 (43)VITA (10)PC (2)187 (5)Aliens: Colonial Marines(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (39)PC (3)38 (6)Dead Space 3(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (34)PC (6)49 (9)Assassin's Creed III(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (41)PC (4)1810 (10)Hitman Absolution(18+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (48)PC (1)1511 (12)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (79)PS3 (16)PC (5)6312 (14)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (38)Xbox 360 (29)PS3 (17)3DS (6)2013 (16)Halo 4(16+)Xbox 360 (100)1614 (13)Sonic & All Stars Racing Transformed(7+)Xbox 360 (30)PS3 (23)3DS (21)Wii U (19)1315 (15)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (32)Wii (17)DS (17)PS3 (14)3416 (11)Just Dance 4(3+)Wii (79)Xbox 360 (17)Wii U (4)PS3 (1)2217 (18)Grand Theft Auto IV(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (37)4418 (17)Lego The Lord of the Rings(12+)Xbox 360 (35)PS3 (20)Wii (19)DS (11)1519 (–)Red Dead Redemption: Goty (18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (43)120 (20)Forza Motorsport 4(3+)Xbox 360 (100)32UKIE Games Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
The birthday ofMiriam Makeba, the late singer and civil rights campaigner, has been commemorated with a Google doodle.Makeba was born in Johannesburg on 4 March, 1932. In 1960, the South African government cancelled her passport to prevent her returning to her home from her travels overseas. She returned after the release of Nelson Mandela in 1990.She initially sang jazz but later became an exponent of what became known as "world music". She performed with artists such as Harry Belafonte, Paul Simon and Hugh Masekela, her first husband. Other husbands included Stokely Carmichael, a leading member of the American Black Panther movement.In 1962, she performed at President John F Kennedy's birthday party.Makeba died in Italy in 2008during a performance for Roberto Saviano, the author of Sodom and Gomorrah, who lives in hiding after writing about the activities of the Neapolitan mafia, the Camorra.
Okay, so how was your weekend? I didn't get to play any Far Cry 3 – had to make do with a couple Lego Batman 2 missions with my son. How about you?
A quick burst of 14 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSimCity: "It's a bit like Azerbaijan" &gt;&gt; The Real EconomyEdmund Conway:They were considering setting up an international capital market for government finance. In previous games you could, as a mayor, issue bonds to raise money for projects (the interest rate would increase depending on how indebted you were). This time around, the team considered creating an online market buying and selling these bonds, raising the prospect that a city could face a debt crisis, could go bankrupt and could, in turn, cause a financial collapse across the entire global economy (of SimCity cities)."We were kicking it around," said Quigley. "We even thought about having credit ratings. But then we figured: let's worry about roads and bridges first off, and worry about secondary stuff later."No fusion reactors, apparently.NFC - not for consumers? &gt;&gt; BBC NewsRory Cellan-Jones:In 2007 I was involved in a trial where I used an early NFC phone to get access to London's transport system and pay for a coffee or a sandwich.The experiment was hailed a success by the companies involved, but although you can now use NFC credit cards on London buses, there is no sign yet of travellers being allowed to swipe in via their phones.Still, the GSMA now believes there is enough momentum and enough real-world examples of the technology that millions of us will soon be using it - even if we don't know it.So convinced were the organisers of Mobile World Congress that they encouraged visitors to get an NFC pass for speedier entry to an event where security involves showing photo ID.Sadly, the people I met told me that it proved to be a slower way of getting in than the old fashioned non-NFC pass.(Thanks @challengingviews for the link.)This Story Stinks &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comHalf of our sample was exposed to civil reader comments and the other half to rude ones -- though the actual content, length and intensity of the comments, which varied from being supportive of the new technology to being wary of the risks, were consistent across both groups. The only difference was that the rude ones contained epithets or curse words, as in: "If you don't see the benefits of using nanotechnology in these kinds of products, you're an idiot" and "You're stupid if you're not thinking of the risks for the fish and other plants and animals in water tainted with silver."The results were both surprising and disturbing. Uncivil comments not only polarized readers, but they often changed a participant's interpretation of the news story itself.In the civil group, those who initially did or did not support the technology -- whom we identified with preliminary survey questions -- continued to feel the same way after reading the comments. Those exposed to rude comments, however, ended up with a much more polarized understanding of the risks connected with the technology.Simply including an ad hominem attack in a reader comment was enough to make study participants think the downside of the reported technology was greater than they'd previously thought.It all goes to show you can't be too careful.Samsung code of conduct put to test &gt;&gt; FT.comSamsung Electronics' public literature, like that of many leading global corporations, appeals to investors' growing scrutiny of companies' social impact: the first line of its code of conduct states that the world's biggest technology group by sales complies with "all laws and ethical standards".Such claims, however, are now being put to a rare legal test in France.Samsung was last week sued by three French rights groups that accuse the South Korean company of misleading investors and consumers, amid allegations of labour abuses at its and its suppliers' factories in China.The essence of the complaint being that if there were labour abuses, then Samsung engaged in "deceptive trading practices" by making the claims of complying with all laws and ethical standards. Deep waters.What to do with a Raspberry Pi (the new $35 computer that could replace your Opac terminals) &gt;&gt; The Digital ShiftIn what must certainly rank as one of the least expensive plans ever proposed to replace a library's aging online public access catalog terminals, White Plains Public Library (WPPL) will soon roll out terminals built in-house using $49 APC or $35 Raspberry Pi computers. Currently, the library's OPAC terminals are 10-year old Gateway-brand PCs with Windows XP running Google Chrome in kiosk mode. This is the only application these computers are used for, so performance and speed has not been a problem, said Information Technology Manager John Lolis.OPAC is "Online Public Access", and simply shows the catalogue of materials held by the library or group of libraries.Judge strikes $450m from $1bn damages award in Apple v. Samsung: second trial needed &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsPart of the reason why a new damages determination is needed is that Judge Koh disagreed with the notice date concerning certain patents-in-suit. The jury based its award on the notice date provided by Apple, which Judge Koh now believes was too early because only one of the patents, the rubber-banding patent, had actually been listed in a presentation Apple gave to Samsung in 2010.Whenever it will ultimately be held, the second damages trial over the 14 products with respect to which the jury award has been vacated (Galaxy Prevail, Gem, Indulge, Infuse 4G, Galaxy SII AT&amp;T, Captivate, Continuum, Droid Charge, Epic 4G, Exhibit 4G, Galaxy Tab, Nexus S 4G, Replenish, and Transform) could result in a figure that is lower or higher than (or, theoretically but unlikely, identical to) the one reached by the jury in August. There will have to be a new jury.One website for the UK Government. Extraordinary &gt;&gt; processcakeCorey Marttin, who works in government IT in Washington DC:Every government has a complex hierarchy that makes little sense to most citizens.  Their web sites often reflect this, requiring people to figure out which agency handles a particular subject matter.GOV.UK turns this typical scenario on its head, allowing people to navigate by topic or service.  Sure, someone can find out what agency is behind this, but many won't care.  The citizen has been connected with a government service without needing to understand an org chart.Very quietly and thoroughly, gov.uk is integrating everything.Do Not Pass This Way Again &gt;&gt; grimoireConsidering MySQL? Use something else. Already on MySQL? Migrate. For every successful project built on MySQL, you could uncover a history of time wasted mitigating MySQL's inadequacies, masked by a hard-won, but meaningless, sense of accomplishment over the effort spent making MySQL behave.Thesis: databases fill roles ranging from pure storage to complex and interesting data processing; MySQL is differently bad at both tasks. Real apps all fall somewhere between these poles, and suffer variably from both sets of MySQL flaws.With examples.Android activations &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansAndroid activations themselves, of course, are a somewhat murky data point. It has never been entirely clear (to me at least) how devices that are activated twice (for the growing second hand market, for example) are treated. On the other hand the great majority of Android devices sold in China, which are probably a third of the total, come with no Google services installed, including no Google Play, and hence are not even included in Google's activation numbers, since signing into Google Play is what counts as 'activation'. Even some Motorola phones are sold in this state. Such devices are invisible to Google.In other words, asking Google about Android activations is a little like asking Microsoft about the Windows install base: it has some idea, but not a very precise one. Over time, with the proliferation of Kindle Fires, Android Car DVD players and all manner of other things, it might be a little like asking Linus Torvalds how many Linux devices there are: how should he know?Note that IDC and Gartner include as "Android" those phones sold in China which don't connect to Google; they're somewhere between a quarter and a third of the "Android" figure quoted in, say, quarterly stats..Security Notice: Service-wide Password Reset &gt;&gt; EvernoteEvernote's Operations &amp; Security team has discovered and blocked suspicious activity on the Evernote network that appears to have been a coordinated attempt to access secure areas of the Evernote Service...In our security investigation, we have found no evidence that any of the content you store in Evernote was accessed, changed or lost. We also have no evidence that any payment information for Evernote Premium or Evernote Business customers was accessed.The investigation has shown, however, that the individual(s) responsible were able to gain access to Evernote user information, which includes usernames, email addresses associated with Evernote accounts and encrypted passwords. Even though this information was accessed, the passwords stored by Evernote are protected by one-way encryption. (In technical terms, they are hashed and salted.)While our password encryption measures are robust, we are taking additional steps to ensure that your personal data remains secure.Evernote? Why?Google's CFO says Motorola's products aren't 'wow' by Google standards (update) &gt;&gt; The VergeIf you were hoping to see a revelatory smartphone from Motorola in the near future, you might want to tone down those expectations. Google's Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President Patrick Pichette today said that products in Motorola's pipeline are "not really to the standards that what Google would say is wow -- innovative, transformative." The surprisingly honest admission came during Pichette's session at the Morgan Stanley Technology Conference.When questioned on where things stand with Motorola at the moment, Pichette didn't mince words. "We've inherited 18 months of pipeline that we actually have to drain right now, while we're actually building the next wave of innovation and product lines," he said. Google executives have mentioned these prior commitments in the past, and Pitchette's comments suggest we've yet to reach the pipeline's end. "We have to go through this transition. These are not easy transitions."Just as well Google didn't spend $12.5bn buying Motorola for a bunch of patents that have only caused it woe in the courts with tellings-off by the FTC and EC.. oh.What will it take for Microsoft's Surface to sell? &gt;&gt; Redmondmag.comMary Jo Foley:Another potential Surface form factor Microsoft has yet to add into the pipeline is the "mini." There seems to be some softening in Redmond's stance that Windows 8 and Windows RT didn't belong on mini-tablets, or basically any device with a screen smaller than 10.6 inches (the size of the Surface devices). The Microsoft stance has been that tablets are PCs, thus they must be able to do all consumption and creation tasks that "real" PCs can do.But, more recently, there's been a new "let's see what users want" response by Microsoft management when asked about smaller screen sizes, making me hopeful we could see a mini-Surface, after all. There already have been rumors of an Xbox Surface, supposedly some kind of entertainment-optimized tablet. Maybe this device is closer to reality than we previously thought.And also she suggests making a tablet that's a tablet, and an ultrabook.Wall Clock in Pure CSS3 &gt;&gt; CSSDeckBrilliant.Tim Cook and Apple versus Wall Street: don't pity the hedgies &gt;&gt; The New YorkerJohn Cassidy:On Wall Street, of course, the attitude is: What have you done for me lately? For speculators like Einhorn and David Tepper, another noted hedge-fund manager who bought in during the past couple of years, the answer is nothing good.According to a piece on Forbes.com, Einhorn and Tepper paid an average of about five hundred and seventy-seven dollars for their shares, which suggests that they are each sitting on a paper loss of close to a hundred and thirty million dollars. Naturally, they aren't pleased, but their predicament isn't Cook's responsibility.In buying Apple shares last year, when the stock was heading for seven hundred dollars, investors were willfully ignoring the law of large numbers and the laws of supply and demand.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Price from £26,855MPG 45.6Top speed 149mphAfter an awards bash at the start of this year I was lucky enough to meet one of my heroes –Ian Callum. The likeable Scot is nowJaguar's design director and he has spent a&nbsp;lifetime drawing the long graceful lines that have sent a string of poised, elegant and desirable cars down the fast lane. I admit I had possibly had one or two drinks more than I should have, but before I knew it I was blathering into his surprised face about his genius and how, when it came down to it, you know, well, he was really the Bob Dylan of motoring – an artist whose vision and creativity has given fans pleasure for years. Decades. He smiled and we stood in an awkward silence."What's next?" I asked, flushed. Ian looked over at theWhat Car?car of the year – anAudiA3 – suspended from the ceiling. "Small cars," he said.&nbsp;"That's the future, and I'd love  to do a small, dense car. That would  be exciting."By dense he means heavy, not stupid, obviously. And by heavy he means sophisticated, technically advanced, evolved. He means a small car that feels and drives and handles like a big car. He means a Jaguar for the city that would have all the gravitas and bearing of one of Coventry's big cats.For inspiration Ian would do well to look at the newMercedes-Benz A-Class. It's the work of another Briton,Mark Fetherston, who earned his graduate degree in transport design at Coventry University in 1999. His A-Class is the baby of the Benz fleet, but you'd never guess it. From the front it looks just like any of its much bigger sisters.Get in and there's a sense of refinement and quality. The dashboard shares the same controls as the whole Mercedes range. The handling is sharp and smooth. It's roomy, too. Not in the fat-cat way of the CEO saloons, but it's more than ample and to get five seats, a boot and plenty of headroom on to a base that's just over 4m long is remarkable.The outgoing A-Class was a game-changer when it was launched 15 years ago. It was vertical where cars until then had been horizontal. It was snub-nosed and had an ingenious "sandwich" floor which meant all the gubbins were under you, not in front of you. You sat up and looked out. But the haters and naysayers made life hard for the little pioneer and Mercedes has gone back to a more traditional format. It's as if they have stood on the old A-Class and flattened it out. But if their aim was to create a premium, family-friendly small hatch, it's worked. And people love the familiar.However, there's a problem. The paperwork told me that the petrol consumption I could expect would be: urban 33.6, extra urban 56.5 and a combined figure of 45 miles to the gallon. But cars are cleverer than you think and according to the car's own computer, my statistics for the week were: miles driven 354 in a time of 12.33 hours at an average speed of 28mph and an average consumption of a pitiful 29.1mpg. The car also assessed my overall acceleration, smoothness of driving and time spent coasting and gave me an eco-drive score of 63%. Not bad, but even if I'd got 100% I don't think I'd have halved my fuel consumption. Mercedes has created a small car that looks, smells, handles, drivesanddrinks like a big car.Call yourself a biker?Scrubbing up nicely: a parade of 'clean' bikers. Photograph: ObserverHairy, long-haired, tattooed, dirty… the word biker conjures up some fairly unpleasant stereotypes. But nowBennetts, the UK's bike insurance specialists, has decided to do something about it. TheOxford English Dictionarydefines biker as 'motorcyclist, especially one who is a member of a gang' with the example 'a long-haired biker in dirty denim'. But after objections and petitions from motorcyclists, the Oxford University Press – publishers of the dictionary – have decided to remove references to 'long hair' and 'dirty denims'. Bennetts quizzed more than 500 British bikers - and found that 74% felt the old dictionary definition didn't accurately describe them, a further 21% said they were 'outraged and offended' by the definitions. But a stoic 2% were still happy to be called dirty, denim-clad gang members. Ride to live, boys!Accident black spotsDanger spots: the accident map showing incidents in an area near you. Photograph: ObserverThe public is being urged to help improve road safety by adding accidents to newUK road accident mapwhich will help reveal accident hotspots – particularly those associated with fatal and serious injury accidents. The goal of the interactive map is to highlight what changes must be made in areas where clusters occur so local governments can be lobbied for safer roads. Britain boasts one of the best road safety records in the world, but with around six deaths on UK roads every day, it is hardly a statistic worth shouting about. With still so much to be done, Osbornes, a firm of solicitors, has created the interactive map to focus attention on these dangerous areas. Featuring data from the government's 2011 road accident dataset, the map plots details of road accidents throughout the country, allowing visitors to view how many have happened in a certain area and what they involved. An 'add your accident' feature also allows users to log details of road accidents they have been involved in. As more data is gathered and clusters appear, the information will be used to campaign local governments for safer roads in these areas. To find out more or to add your accident, visitwww.osbornes.net/ukroadaccidentmap
BlackBerrys have been having a hard time of late. Once everybody's favourite fruit-based smartphone, Apple came along and knocked them off their perch. With the launch of the new touchscreen Z10 handset, and the accompanying BB10 operating system, RIM is hoping it can make the BlackBerry brand relevant again. A key part of this is expanding its app offerings beyond the stuffy business-based downloads it's known for.Endomondo Sports Tracker(free) is a handy pocket personal trainer that tracks various outdoor exercises, from running to skiing. Using the phone's GPS it monitors distance, speed and duration to calculate calories burnt and provide an accurate record of your workouts. It also allows users to challenge friends and give peptalks as they train. It's a far cry from the constant blinking red light of another work email with which BlackBerrys are more commonly associated.Yoga at Work(Stress Reliever) (Dawnsun, £1.50) offers a more sedate form of exercise. With a combination of videos and written instructions, it guides the user through a series of exercises which can be done in your office chair. Unfortunately, it doesn't provide an automated service to explain to those around you why you're twisting around in front of the computer like a T rex trying to put on a rucksack.
Some years ago, when the Google Books project, which aims to digitise all of the world's printed books, was getting under way, the two co-founders of Google were having a meeting with the librarian of one of the universities that had signed up for the plan. At one point in the conversation, the Google boys noticed that their collaborator had suddenly gone rather quiet. One of them asked him what was the matter. "Well", he replied, "I'm wondering what happens to all this stuff when Google no longer exists." Recounting the conversation to me later, he said: "I've never seen two young people looking so stunned: the idea that Google might not exist one day had never crossed their minds."And yet, of course, the librarian was right. He had to think about the next 400 years. But the number of commercial companies that are more than a century old is vanishingly small. Entrusting the world's literary heritage to such transient organisations might not be entirely wise.Compared with my librarian friend, we have the attention span of newts. We are constantly overawed by the size, wealth and dominance of whatever happens to be the current corporate giant. At the moment, the four leading monsters are Apple, Google, Facebook and Amazon. Yet 18 years ago, Apple was weeks away from extinction, Amazon had just launched, Google was still three years away from incorporation and Facebook lay nine years into the future.At one level, all this proves is that in the technology world one can go from zero to hero is a very short time. (Or, in Apple's case, from hero to zero and back to hero again in 36 years). Some of the industry's greatest executives understood this very well.Andy Grove, for instance, who led Intel for 11 years, was famous for his mantra "Only the paranoid survive". For many years – when he led Microsoft and before he embarked on saving the world – Bill Gates appeared to have the same sentiment tattooed on his forehead. And in both cases they turned out to be right: though Intel and Microsoft are still significant companies, their dominance has ended. The processors that dominate the market for mobile devices are designed by ARM, a Cambridge company, not by Intel; and Microsoft's monopolistic grip on the desktop computing market turned out to be a wasting asset.We understand pretty well the factors that determine the fortunes of companies that make things people buy – which is why, for example, one can predict thatApple won't be able indefinitely to sustain its huge profit margins on its iDevices. Likewise, it's pretty easy to predict where Amazon is headed: it aims to be the Walmart of the web, and is therefore likely to be around for quite a while. Google has a well understood and currently profitable business model and a huge technical infrastructure but ultimately is vulnerable to a well-resourced competitor armed with better search technology.This leaves Facebook, a company that has one billion products (called users) and earns its living by selling information about them to advertisers. Given that holders of Facebook accounts don't pay for the service – and are therefore free to depart at any point – you'd have thought that its long-term durability would be questionable. And yet lots of informed and canny investors disagree. They appear to regard the company as a sure-fire bet.The two key factors that will determine Facebook's future are the power of network effects and the "stickiness" of its service – ie, the extent to which it can dissuade users from leaving. A network effect comes into play when the value of a product or service is dependent on the number of people using it. A telephone network with a million subscribers is infinitely more valuable then one with only 10. In technological ecosystems, network effects are very powerful: they explain, for example, how Microsoft came to dominate the market for desktop operating and office systems.In the early days of online social networking there were a range of different, incompatible networks – Friendster, Orkut, MySpace and Facebook. But, over time, Facebook won out by attracting more users and growing more quickly than the others. And the more quickly it grew, the more powerful the network effect became, with the result that it is now the de facto standard for social networking. In fact, it is now so dominant that millions of people around the world think that Facebook is the internet.If you put your faith in network effects, therefore, Facebook looks like a good investment because it'll be around for the long term. If people want to do social networking, then it'll be the only game in town. Facebook users will constitute a captive market and will be correspondingly exploited. And the company will be regulated as a&nbsp;monopoly.Which is where "stickiness" comes in. How much exploitation will users tolerate before they decide to quit? We know a lot about network effects but relatively little about this, which is why anew study by three scientists at the Swiss university ETH Zurichmakes interesting reading. They examined several social networking services, seeking to identify what makes them resilient and what could cause them to decline. And they performed an empirical autopsy on a failed service – Friendster – using data gathered just before it closed. The key determinants of success or failure were (i) the average number of friends that users have and (ii) whether the difficulty of using the site comes to outweigh the perceived benefits. Facebook is doing OK on the first of these criteria but – in my experience – becoming increasingly vulnerable on the second as the company tries to "monetise" its users. If Mark Zuckerberg's empire can't square this circle then not even the power of network effects will save it in the long run.
TheCrysisseries has long tried to stand apart from the first-person shooter herd, partly through system-shattering hardware demands to accommodate bleeding-edge graphics, and partly by adopting a sci-fi narrative at a time when modern military-styled rivals were proliferating. This third instalment ups the ante for hero Prophet, pitting him against not only the combined forces of shady mega-corp Cell and the invading Ceph aliens, but also his own diminishing humanity thanks to the combat nanosuit that empowers him. Journeying through the overgrown ruins that were once New York provides some ofCrysis's finest imagery yet, and coupled with exhilarating combat there's more than enough to please anyone uninterested in the plot's weighty contemplations on the nature of humanity. Nanosuit abilities return, bringing invisibility, super-strength and regenerative powers, plus a huge assortment of fanciful weaponry. The addition of a hi-tech war-bow, allowing stealth kills without dropping cover, dramatically changes things though, incentivising stealthy play. Unleashing silent carnage on enemies is gleefully enjoyable. While the story campaign is engaging, multiplayer offers some of the most  inventive modes of any recent shooter, particularly "Hunter", seeing you assimilate enemies to your side until only one remains. A beautiful and engrossing package, arguably the first blockbuster of the year.
Spinning off from the PS3 and 360'sLords of Shadow– which established a new storyline distinct from the classicCastlevaniaseries –Mirror of Fatecontinues the Belmont family's eternal battle against the arch-vampire Alucard. However, in adopting a 2D side-scrolling approach to its action-platform gameplay, it feels closer to Konami's earliest games, and that's no bad thing. Gameplay also feels like a call back to the series' roots, a bouncy mix of dodging, guarding and counterattacking using the now iconic whip-chain, with increasingly deadly special moves and weapons to unlock as you level up.Focusing on the lives of three generations of the Belmont clan,Mirror of Fates's tale is of ambitious scope, touching on themes of obligation, destiny and damnation. Key story moments are told through gorgeouscel-shadedcutscenes– think the comic-book visuals ofBorderlandswith a gothic twist. It's easily one of the finest looking games on the 3DS, with striking locations in and around the gargantuan castle you'll be exploring. The actual 3D effects work rather well too, though become distracting duringboss fights.As a nice corollary to the release ofMirror of Fates, the firstCastlevaniahas alsoarrived on the 3DS eShop(£4.49, download only). Both titles provide a satisfying challenge but the original will&nbsp;feel brutally difficult to players used&nbsp;to more versatile controls.
The chances are, if you've bought an iPhone, that you think pretty highly of Apple – or at least highly enough to opt for its iOS software over rivals Android, Windows Phone and BlackBerry.With that in mind, filing lots of Apple-made apps that come preloaded on an iPhone into a junk folder and replacing them with those made by other companies may sound counterintuitive. But that's what an increasing number of iPhone owners are doing.Why? In some cases, the alternatives are better. For example, 10&nbsp;million people downloaded the Google Maps app in the first two days after its release in December 2012, which followed earlier publicity about problems with Apple's ownMapsapplication.De-Appling an iPhone isn't just a response to big problems, however. Apple tends to release a major update of its iOS software once a year, and then minor updates throughout the year which rarely tinker with its preloaded apps. That annual update cycle means plenty of room for clever developers to come up with apps whose features go beyond what's available in Apple's software.Apps such as Mailbox and Haze have brought slick swipe-based controls to email and weather respectively; Camera+ has features that keen photographers love; Sunrise Calendar is a cleverer take on diary management; and Opera Mini will save you lots of money on roaming data charges, for example.In other cases, people are choosing alternatives to Apple apps because they're using (or may use in the future) devices from other companies, and want the stuff they buy to be available on those too. An ebook bought fromApple's iBooks storewill only work on iOS devices, but one bought fromAmazon's Kindle storewill be readable on a range of devices through that company's apps. Buying MP3s from 7digital reduces the pain of porting your music collection to non-Apple devices.Apple has made noises in the past about rejecting apps from its App Store if they mirror features in its own software. Yet the fact that the 12 apps listed below are available in the store shows its policies are sensibly flexible.Apple wants you to use and enjoy your iPhone more than it wants to lock you into every single one of its own apps. With that in mind, here's a snapshot of some popular alternatives worth a space on your homescreens.The deft dozen: apps to make your iPhone betterSparrow(£1.99)Sparrow isn't just better than Apple's own Mail app, it's better thanGoogle's Gmail app– so much so that Google bought it in 2012. Features like attaching photos are useful, while its intuitive design makes inbox management a cinch.Mailbox(Free)Fresh out in 2013, Mailbox is designed to work with Gmail accounts. Its innovation is single swipes to archive or delete emails, or kick them out of your inbox temporarily while you respond to important mails. There's a long waiting list to use it, but it's worth queuing.Chrome(Free)Google's Chrome browser has been a big hit on desktop computers. That's the key advantage of its iOS version, since if you sign in to your Google account, all your desktop bookmarks, passwords and open tabs are available on your iPhone or iPad.Opera Mini(Free)If you're travelling abroad and plan to use the mobile internet, Opera Mini is an essential download. It compresses webpages before they reach your phone, saving on your data usage – and thus on your mobile bill when you get back home.Google Maps(Free)Apple's own Maps app isn't as bad as has been made out, and it's improving, but Google Maps is still the best and most reliable mapping app available for iPhone. Local search, voice-guided navigation and public transport directions are all built in.7digital Music Sync(Free)Buying music from iTunes on an iPhone is quick and simple, but if you prefer to keep your music supplier independent, 7digital is well worth a look. Buy MP3s from its well-stocked website or mobile website, then store and play them on your phone using this app.Record – Voice Recorder(£0.69)Do many people record voice memos on their iPhones? Those who do have dozens of alternatives to Apple's ownVoice Memosapp. Record works very well, recording memos (or meetings, interviews etc) then emailing them from your phone if required.Camera+(£0.69)There are social alternatives to Apple's built-in camera app on iPhone such asInstagramandFacebook Camera, but for pure photography features Camera+ is great. Powerful snapping features, crops and effects plus support to post on Facebook, Twitter and Flickr.Evernote(Free)Fond as you may be of Apple's Post-it coloured Notes app, it may be time to consider Evernote as a cleverer alternative. It stores your notes (plus photos and voice memos) on Evernote's servers, ready to be accessed and shared from any device you like.Haze(£0.69)Weather app Haze is one of the emerging class of apps that do away with as many buttons and on-screen options as possible. Here, the emphasis is on simple swiping to check the forecast, including temperature, sunshine hours and windchill. Where Apple's weather app is functional, this is elegant.Sunrise Calendar(Free)A number of apps companies are trying to reimagine iPhone's Calendar, with Sunrise the best so far. It works with Google Calendar, Facebook and LinkedIn to remind you of birthdays and provide details of people you're meeting, with weather forecasts and reminders thrown in for good measure.Kindle(Free)Apple's iBooks isn't the only ebooks store available on iOS. Amazon's Kindle reader app can download and display ebooks bought from the company's Kindle Store, although due to Apple's rules, the actual buying has to happen on Amazon's website or mobile site.
Amazon was forced to take action  on Saturday after it was found to be selling T-shirts with slogans promoting rape and violence on its website.The American clothing company Solid Gold Bomb blamed an automated computer dictionary for its series of the items emblazoned with offensive phrases such as "Keep Calm and Rape a Lot" and "Keep Calm and Hit Her", based on the much reproduced "Keep Calm and Carry On" second world war poster.Both companies were bombarded with complaints and Solid Gold Bomb later closed its Twitter account. The T-shirts were still on sale in Germany on Saturday.One of the slogans was taken down but others, including "Keep Calm and Knife Her" and "Keep Calm and Punch Her" remained on Solid Gold Bomb's website on Saturday afternoon; the company said they were all in a "deletion queue".Amazon deleted most of the offensive "Keep Calm" range but continued to promote the company's shop.Solid Gold Bomb, a label of Harold Ross Inc, based in Massachusetts, said the graphics for the T-shirts were the result of "a scripted computer process", which used an algorithm to generate hundreds of slogans.The shirts, which appeared on Amazon on Friday, prompted an online furore. Amazon did not respond to theObserver's call but a spokesman for Amazon UK told Sky News: "I can confirm that those items are not available for sale."Solid Gold Bomb said it was "doing its best" to fix the problem on its website, which has 41 pages of the "Keep Calm" range. Many of the slogans make little sense, while many of those that do are violent terms.The company did not explain how it set up such a program without considering what words might be included.The company said it had received death threats and its Twitter account was bombarded with scores of angry messages, many of which said: "Rape is not a joke."It closed its Facebook and other social media accounts on Saturday morning and left a message on its website which read in part: "We have been informed of the fact that we were selling an offensive T-shirt primarily in the UK. This has been immediately deleted as it was and had been automatically generated using a scripted computer process running against 100s of thousands of dictionary words."Any offensive items that are remaining are certainly in the deletion queue and will be removed as soon as the processing is complete. Although we did not in any way deliberately create the offensive T-shirts in question and it was the result of a scripted programming process that was compiled by only one member of our staff, we accept the responsibility of the error and are doing our best to correct the issues at hand. We're sorry for the ill feeling this has caused!"Based on Amazon's typical charges, the internet retailer was likely to be making just over £1 on each sale.Amazon is no stranger to controversy. The site's US operation faced criticism for briefly selling a book described as a paedophile's guide. In 2008 it had to pull from sale T-shirts lauding Nazi leaders.
Some cars have personality, others don't. A bit like people, really. A&nbsp;Bugatti Veyron has personality, as does a Skoda Yeti. An&nbsp;Aston DB9 doesn't. Audis on the whole don't, either; the&nbsp;A2 did when it first came out, but it's fading (interestingly, cars usually gain personality with age). As a rule Vauxhalls don't have any, though, whatever age they are; that&nbsp;famous griffin badge is like a&nbsp;seal of non-personality. You disagree? You can disagree all you like, argue until the cows come home. It's no use. I am the arbiter of&nbsp;personality.Personality isn't alway a good thing. The Mini Cooper Coupe has it,&nbsp;but it's a stupid personality. Lots&nbsp;of cars that are very desirable to&nbsp;lots of people have very little personality (the aforementioned Aston, for example). It's about character, not money or looks. Often, it's small cars that have it. Very few MPVs do. But this one, the&nbsp;Citroën C3 Picasso, does. It has been given a few midlife tweaks to&nbsp;keep it fresh, but it's essentially the same car that's been around for a&nbsp;few years now.Look at it: it's undeniably a&nbsp;vehicle for carrying people – a little bus. But there's also a sense of style, and of fun, mischief even, about it. It says OK, so I have a family now, but I'm not quite ready to give up on&nbsp;my own life just yet.The fun continues inside, where it's roomy for such a little bus, and modern, interesting, light. So light! The wraparound windscreen is like&nbsp;the bay window of a suburban semi. If&nbsp;we had a cat, I would have brought&nbsp;it along to curl up in the corner. It has a panoramic sunroof, too, so it's like being in a&nbsp;flipping greenhouse. I should have brought&nbsp;along some house plants as&nbsp;well, for&nbsp;even more fun.To drive, it's no great thrills, but&nbsp;neither is it a chore – more like a&nbsp;car than a little bus. This diesel-engined model is very capable without setting my world on fire, but it is impressive on fuel consumption and&nbsp;emissions. The manual gearbox took a bit of getting&nbsp;used to, as did&nbsp;having all the&nbsp;instruments in a&nbsp;sort of central space pod, rather than directly in front of the driver. Hey, they're for&nbsp;everyone to share. This is a&nbsp;democratic, ideologically sound car.&nbsp;It took me a while to figure out&nbsp;some of the controls, such as the&nbsp;radio and the satnav, but then I'm very thick (read: old) about things like that.Who cares, though? I don't need music, or even to know where I am. I've got light, and air, and flair. I&nbsp;may have a family, but I'm not quite ready to give up on life just yet. I'm in a car I like being in, one with personality. Good personality.Citroën C3 Picasso Exclusive HDI 115 manualPrice£16,925Top speed114mphAcceleration0-62mph in 11.2 secondsCombined fuel consumption58.8mphCO2emissions125g/kmGreen rating7/10Cool rating7/10
Following a spectacular series of leaks, Sony's recent revelations about PlayStation 4 felt a bit muted. Games likeKnack, a cutely enigmatic title featuring a shape-changing robot, andWatch Dogs, a game about hacking superheroics that's also due to appear on every other console, were joined by dreary-looking first-person shooterKillzone: Shadow Fall. Microsoft is rumoured to be holding its own next-gen announcement in April …This week's releases includeMetal Gear Rising: Revengeance Official Strategy Guide, from the redoubtable Piggyback, the masters of making walkthroughs easy to use and lovely to look at;NBA 2K13/MLB 2K13 Combo Pack(Xbox &amp; PS3), offering basketball and baseball with a name that sounds like a list of robots; and theTomb Raider Limited Edition Controller(Xbox), which looks as designer-bruised as Lara Croft herself might after the contusion-inducing first couple of hours of the game.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewLike many of the best iPhone/iPad games, Rock Runners' interactions are minimal, requiring a simple tap to make your runner jump. From this one point of contact the game invents dozens of ways to challenge you, from grappling specially marked points, some of which move, to complex sequences of timed hops and high jumps . It's a process that demands total concentration, putting you either straight into the zone or right into a disaster of mistimed leaps and repeated sections that inevitably sees you missing the possible three stars available for each level. There's an upgrade shop where you can spend the jewels you collect in each run-through, imparting rechargeable short term powers like the force field or gem magnet, helping you tackle the later levels' structures more easily. It's hugely addictive, well designed, fast-paced and only occasionally implacable in its challenge.
Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewSilhouetted against a set of serene multi-coloured sunsets and introduced only by a lonely paragraph or two of text, NightSky is an unusually atmospheric and beautiful set of physics puzzles that involve rolling a ball from left to right across the screen. Levels often bring new rules and challenges – sometimes with a few words of explanation but often without – as you learn to interpret the starkly drawn landscape and mechanical contraptions that help you manoeuvre your oddly personable little ball to the end. There are vehicles to drive, gravity to invert, and a button that lets you stick to sloping surfaces more effectively, but all these are mutable, turning themselves on and off as circumstances dictate. The puzzles are exquisitely simple, with solutions always directly in front of you even if it's not obvious at first glance how a traversal would even be possible. There can be moments of frustration when two particularly fiddly sections fall within the same checkpoint, but it's largely a delightful journey.
The activist investor David Einhorn has dropped a lawsuit against Apple that the company's CEO repeatedly called "a silly sideshow". Einhorn, however, had already won his point and is likely to continue to put pressure on Apple to release its $137bn (£91bn) pile of cash, much of which is held overseas.The story of the lawsuit is a circuitous trip through the sometimes complicated, often public disputes that activist shareholders have to wage in order to change companies. Activist investors, including Einhorn, usually use these methods to boost a company's stock. Apple stock has lost about 30% of its value in only six months, and Einhorn hopes that returning cash to shareholders will help Apple win goodwill and reverse the damage."I don't like it either,"Tim Cook, the Apple chief executive, said earlier this week of the company's share price. "Neither does the board or management… but we're focused on the long term."Einhorn is pushing Apple to reduce its $137bn cash pile by issuing a form of stock to its investors known as "permanent preferred",which Einhorn has dubbed "iPrefs". The iPrefs would pay shareholders $2 a year in dividends, as long as the company is in business.Preferred shares are stock that has some of the characteristic of bonds. Unlike most big companies, Apple does not issue debt or sell bonds. The company does not need the money, but some investors believe that going bond-free leaves Apple out of a booming market for corporate finance.Einhorn used the lawsuit as a temporary measure to stop an Apple shareholder vote, known as Proposal 2, that would have placed the decision on iPrefs in the hands of Apple shareholders. Shareholder battles are expensive and can take months. It is key to Einhorn's battle to be able to put pressure on the company's management. Apple had plans to let its shareholders vote to on any decisions on issuing preferred shares. Einhorn insisted that management should make the decision instead. Apple included the question on a ballot with four other decisions. Einhorn wanted them to be separate.A federal judge granted Einhorn a victory last week in his lawsuit, issuing a preliminary injunction against the company that forced shareholders to ignore Proposal 2. At Apple's shareholder meeting on Tuesday, Proposal 2 never came up for an official vote. The powerful California pension fund Calpers, which disagreed with Einhorn's crusade, contended that unofficial numbers showed that the vote would have carried the day. On Thursday, the judge suggested that the lawsuit had accomplished its purpose and should be discarded.Apple has said it will consider options for its large store of cash, but repeatedly dismissed Einhorn's lawsuit. In the past two weeks, has Cook called the lawsuit a "silly sideshow" and suggested that Einhorn should give the money he spent on the lawsuit to charity instead.
When a 32-year-old dotcom multimillionaire known for his "goofball" approach to business is fired, the chances are he is not going to slip out the back door, hanging his head in shame. And so it was with Andrew Mason, founder of the Groupon daily bargains website, ousted on Thursday night.In a classic of the resignation genre, Mason's goodbye was frank, funny and wide-ranging. It referenced Pope Benedict XVI and video game Battletoads, included a promise to head off to "fat camp" and told his 11,000 staff he would miss them terribly before signing off: "Love Andrew".The company Mason built, driving bargain hunters to local businesses in return for a cut of the sales, swiftly became a multinational. Founded only four years ago, it was dubbed the world's fastest growing company and valued at $13bn (£10bn) by 2011. But the business has become a textbook example of just how fast go-go internet firms can fall out of favour. The loss-making company is now valued at $3bn and the founder – once heralded as a star on the cover of Forbes magazine but more recently described by analysts as a "goofball" – became a liability.By Thursday evening, after Groupon reported a huge $80m loss over the last three months and shares slid another 24%, the board had had enough. Mason was axed – and the value of the firm immediately climbed.In an email to the  "People of Groupon" to break the news, Mason wrote: "I've decided that I'd like to spend more time with my family. Just kidding – I was fired today." He continued: "If you're wondering why&nbsp;… you haven't been paying attention."Admitting accountability for a host of financial failures, he said: "The events of the last year-and-a-half speak for themselves."He was now "getting in the way". But he counselled: "For those who are concerned about me, please don't be&nbsp;… I'm OK with having failed at this part of the journey. If Groupon was Battletoads, it would be like I made it all the way to the Terra Tubes without dying on my first ever play through."The first play for Mason, music graduate turned web designer, started in marshalling left-field ideas on a social networking website called The Point. With the backing of wealthy Chicago investor Eric Lefkofsky, the site started connecting groups of buyers with retailers prepared to offer discounts for bulk orders. The first deal was a half-price pizza from a restaurant in Groupon's office block. The concept rapidly caught on and soon Groupon was offering deals for just about every consumer experience – with special emphasis on weekends away, spa days and fish tank pedicures.Three years ago the future could hardly have looked rosier for Mason. He was heralded as the next Mark Zuckerberg, Groupon the next Facebook.Forbesmagazine's August 2010 edition, plastered a scruffy but grinning Mason over its front page, and billed Groupon as "the fastest growing company&nbsp;… ever".The magazinedeclared: "Groupon represents what the dotcom boom was supposed to be all about: huge sales, easy profits and solid connection between bricks-and-mortar retailers and online consumers."The sales growth took investors' breath away – that the business was far from profitable was ignored. The hype soon attracted interest from technology group. In 2010 Yahoo reportedly offered more than $3bn to buy it, only for Mason to turn them down. A month later Google offered £6bn. Again he sent them packing.Shortly afterwards, he announced all could share in his success with a stock market flotation.But as details of Groupon's aggressive accounting, its losses and its liabilities began to emerge some critics warned that the business – however fast it increased sales – could never support the valuations Mason and his backers hoped for.Numerous rivals sprang up to compete on the same model. Some retailers were doubting the benefits. A US study found firms that signed up to provide Groupon deals lost thousands of dollars in profits, attracting customers who never returned. Customers might have liked the prices, but many struggled to unsubscribe from the daily email that outlines the bargain deals.But critics were ignored in the enthusiasm for dotcom stocks. Groupon floated on the Nasdaq market in New York at a value close to $13bn — almost $2bn higher than Mason had sought. His stake alone had a paper value of $940m.Now he departs, older, wiser – but still about $200m or so richer than when he started out.Others who refused to go quietlyAndrew Lahde, 37, quit as boss of a Los Angeles-based hedge fund as the financial system faced meltdown in 2008 after making a fortune betting that sub-prime mortgages would go sour. In his farewell letter to clients he said: "I am writing to say goodbye. I was in this game for the money. The low-hanging fruit – ie idiots whose parents paid for prep school, Yale and then the Harvard MBA – was there for the taking. [They were] stupid enough to take the other side of my trades. God bless America. Throw the Blackberry away and enjoy life."I am content with my rewards … I will let others try to amass nine-, 10- or 11-figure net worths. Meanwhile, their lives suck."So this is it. With all due respect, I am dropping out."David Miller, finance director of Amey, quit his £280,000-a-year job 10 years ago, saying: "The reality of it is that being a public company finance director is a bit of a shitty job." He said dealing with new accounting standards was not fun: "[It's] a little cup of sick and I'm not going to drink it. I'm going home for a bit."Carol Bartz, sacked as chief executive of Yahoo in September 2011, said: "These people fucked me over." The chairman, she said, had fired her over the phone, by reading out a lawyer's letter: "I said … 'I think that's a script. Why don't you have the balls to tell me yourself? I thought you were classier.'"
This week on Tech WeeklyCharles ArthurmeetsBen Edelman, who this week questioned the small print of the terms and conditions associated with app purchases on Google's Play Store. Ben talks about his work in the area of privacy and transparency around digital consumer purchase and use policies.Jemima Kisstalks toGreg Marsh, the co-founder ofonefinestay.comthe upmarket accommodation service, about their new Sherlock app which promises to revolutionise the front-door key.Also, we have a tech news roundup with news of a new 3D interactive computer called the 'SpaceTop' created at MIT and launched at the LA TED this week and rumors of Google's entry into the music download market.The music featured in this week's edition is by the superbUnseenmachine,click here to listen to his musical creations in full.
Groupon Inc. founder Andrew Mason sent a memo to employeesafter he was fired Thursday.Here's the text of his letter:People of Groupon,After four and a half intense and wonderful years as CEO of Groupon, I've decided that I'd like to spend more time with my family. Just kidding – I was fired today. If you're wondering why ... you haven't been paying attention. From controversial metrics in our S1 to our material weakness to two quarters of missing our own expectations and a stock price that's hovering around one quarter of our listing price, the events of the last year and a half speak for themselves. As CEO, I am accountable.You are doing amazing things at Groupon, and you deserve the outside world to give you a second chance. I'm getting in the way of that. A fresh CEO earns you that chance. The board is aligned behind the strategy we've shared over the last few months, and I've never seen you working together more effectively as a global company – it's time to give Groupon a relief valve from the public noise.For those who are concerned about me, please don't be – I love Groupon, and I'm terribly proud of what we've created. I'm OK with having failed at this part of the journey. If Groupon was Battletoads, it would be like I made it all the way to the Terra Tubes without dying on my first ever play through. I am so lucky to have had the opportunity to take the company this far with all of you. I'll now take some time to decompress (FYI I'm looking for a good fat camp to lose my Groupon 40, if anyone has a suggestion), and then maybe I'll figure out how to channel this experience into something productive.If there's one piece of wisdom that this simple pilgrim would like to impart upon you: have the courage to start with the customer. My biggest regrets are the moments that I let a lack of data override my intuition on what's best for our customers. This leadership change gives you some breathing room to break bad habits and deliver sustainable customer happiness – don't waste the opportunity!I will miss you terribly.Love,Andrew
New York's Museum of Modern Art will be home to something more often associated with pasty teens and bar scenes when it opens an exhibit on video games on Friday.Tetris, Pac-Man and the Sims are just a few of the classic games that will be housed inside a building that also displays works by Vincent Van Gogh, Claude Monet and Frida Kahlo.And though some may question whether video games are even art, the museum is incorporating the games into its Applied Design installation.MoMA consulted scholars, digital experts, historians and critics to select games for the gallery based on their aesthetic quality – including the programming language used to create them.MoMA's senior curator for architecture and design, Paola Antonelli, saidthe material used to create games is important in the same way the wood used to create a stool is.With that as the focus, games are presented in their original formats, absent the consoles that often define them. Some will be playable with controllers, and more complex, long-running games like SimCity 2000 are presented as specially designed walkthroughs and demos.MoMA's curatorial team tailored controls especially for each of the playable games, including a customized joystick created for the Tetris game.Some of the older games, which might have fragile or rare cartridges, will be displayed as "interactive emulation", with a programmer translating the game code to something that will work on a newer computer system.Tell us: What video games is MoMA missing?The museum has acquired 14 games out of its approximately 40 game wish list, which includes Pong and the original version of Snake (pre-Nokia phone).The 14 games acquired from the wishlist include:• Pac-Man• Tetris• Another World• Myst• SimCity 2000• vib-ribbon• The Sims• Katamari Damacy• EVE Online• Dwarf Fortress• Portal• flOw• Passage• CanabaltThey hope to eventually acquire: Spacewar, an assortment of games for the Magnavox Odyssey console, Pong, Snake, Space Invaders, Asteroids, Zork, Tempest, Donkey Kong, Yars' Revenge, M.U.L.E., Core War, Marble Madness, Super Mario Bros, the Legend of Zelda, NetHack, Street Fighter II, Chrono Trigger, Super Mario 64, Grim Fandango, Animal Crossing, and Minecraft.MoMA's selection is only a small sampling of more than five decades of video games, so we want to know what you think about the collection. Which games should be off the list? Is your favorite missing? Or is MoMA's collection a good sample of video game history? Tell us your thoughts in the thread below.
The partner of late internet freedom activist Aaron Swartz has accused the US Department of Justice of "dragging its heels" over an investigation into his prosecution after it emerged that his political beliefs played a role in its case against him.Taren Stinebrickner-Kauffman said she was "angry and really upset" when she learned from congressional staffers from the government oversight committee  that a document written by Swartz five years ago was a key element in his prosecution."I was surprised that the Department of Justice would be so bold, that their motivation was so political," Stinebrickner-Kauffman said. "That it wasn't just one prosecutor run amok, that it was about Aaron's political views."Speaking to the Guardian from Sydney, Australia, where she is on compassionate leave from her job as executive director of corporate watchdog, SumOfUs, Stinebrickner-Kauffman said she learned of the document's role in the prosecution after a friend posted the story,first reported by the Huffington Post, on Facebook.The news made her more angry than she had been since Swartz died, she said. "This is not the Department of Justice, it's the Department of Vengeance. If you look at the Department of Justice they are not interested in admitting their mistakes, they are interested in covering their asses."Since Swartz took his own life, on 11 January, months ahead of a trial in which he faced 13 felony charges and a prison sentence, Stinebrickner-Kauffman and Swartz's family have accused prosecutors of overreach for an alleged crime with no victims and of being complicit in his death.Swartz was accused of using the MIT computer system to access too many academic articles from a digital library called JSTOR, with the intention of making them freely available. JSTOR chose not to pursue charges against him, after the activist returned all content to them and ensured it would not be used or distributed. But prosecutors indicted him on 13 felony charges. If found guilty, he faced up to 35 years in jail, and although lawyers said plea bargain negotiations were under way before his death, his request for a solution which did not involve a prison term was denied.Last month, representatives Darrell Issa and Elijah Cummings, respectively the leading Republican and Democrat on the House oversight committee, announced they would investigate prosecutors handling of the Swartz case.A congressional aide told the Guardian that, in a recent meeting for staffers on the House oversight committee, representatives from the Justice Department said the Swartz document – which Swartz called the Guerilla Open Access Manifesto – was a factor in establishing "malicious intent" to download documents on a large scale. The aide also confirmed that some of the staffers got the impression at the meeting that prosecutors believed they needed to convict Swartz for a felony in order to justify bringing the charges in the first place.The aide said: "We felt the briefing for the committee was quite thorough". However, it is understood the committee has asked the Justice Department to speak to the US attorney in Boston, Carmen Ortiz.Ortiz has saidshe believed the prosecution was "appropriate" but her standing has already suffered from a backlash to what is seen by lawyers, internet activists and supporters of Swartz as a disproportionate and overzealous prosecution.A White House petition demanding the removal of Ortiz garnered well over 25,000 signatures, reaching the level which guarantees a response from the Obama administration.The Manifesto, which Swartz wrote five years ago, argued that the world's scientific literature was being "locked up" by a handful of corporations motivated by "greed". There was a "moral imperative" to sharing information on the internet, he said, and urged "civil disobedience" in order to achieve it."It's time to come into the light and, in the grand tradition of civil disobedience, declare our opposition to this private theft of public culture," he wrote."We need to take information, wherever it is stored, make our copies and share them with the world. We need to take stuff that's out of copyright and add it to the archive. We need to buy secret databases and put them on the Web. We need to download scientific journals and upload them to file sharing networks. Weneed to fight for Guerilla Open Access."Stinebrickner-Kauffman, who began dating Swartz in 2011, said that the five-year-old Manifesto could no longer be relied upon as an accurate portrayal of his political beliefs years later."When you are a voracious active reader in your mid-twenties, your political views change a lot" she said. "My views have. Copyright issues and internet freedom issues were central to his political life many years ago, but when I knew him they weren't. It wasn't that he wasn't interested in them but he was no longer a single issue activist. He was into lots of things, from healthcare, to climate change to money in politics."She accused the DOJ of ignorance over new technology and of failing to draw a distinction between a "researcher like Aaron and "and someone who is trying to steal credit cards and hack into a database"."They have decided that the best they can do it have a law that charges anyone with a federal felony, [rather] than have a law that defines crimes in a reasonable way."Swartz was charged under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, a law that has attracted widespread criticism for being too broad. Zoe Lofgren, a Democrat from Silicon Valley, has drafted an amendment to the Act, called "Aaron's law",to prevent similar prosecutions."To them, somebody like Aaron was viewed in the same way as they viewed a suicide bomber." said Stinebrickner-Kauffman. "They want to be able to do anything. The Department of Justice has a long history of trying to suppress civil liberties and it has gotten worse since the war on terror started."Ina blog postwritten the day she discovered the revelation, she said: "the terrifying fact I'm trying to highlight in this particular blog post is this: according to the DOJ's testimony, if you express political views that the government doesn't like, at any point in your life, that political speech act can and will be used to justify making 'an example' out of you once the government thinks it can pin you with a crime. Talk about a chilling effect on freedom of speech."In a footnote on the post, she wrote that the DOJ had complained her characterisation of the prosecution as "political" was inaccurate, adding: "No argument as to why or how, so colour me unconvinced.Stinebrickner-Kauffman said that she did not know what Swartz planned to do with the articles and neither did anyone else. The couple did not talk about issues surrounding the charges he faced, partly because he was afraid she would be subpoenaed and partly because "he thought I was a safe haven"."You want to be able to have part of your life where you don't have to talk about the most terrifying part of your life."She said that part of the reason it has made her so angry is that she worked to get President Barack Obama elected in 2008. She wrote: "I helped these people get in power. And then they drove the man I loved to suicide because they didn't like something he said once."Stinebrickner-Kauffman said that she is anxious for the investigation to be completed, so that she will learn the truth and urged the DOJ to disclose all they knew."I want them to do it in a way that's designed to find justice, to find the truth. Everything we've seen so far is for them to cover their asses."It's definitely changed my attitude towards the Department of Justice, but we don't know enough yet. The Department of Justice has been dragging its heels on the investigation. I don't know who to blame yet and I really, really want to know."
I have an old XP PC which is very slow and driving me mad. At the moment, I have a Sky package that drives my phone/TV/broadband, so I can watch TV programmes that I missed. I need a fast PC that will be compatible with Sky.I'm not all that excited about having a touch screen, but should I go for it? You mentioned the HP Pavilion 23-b010ea 23 and say this does not have touchscreen, but can I use a mouse? Will it give me all that Windows 8 offers?I can't seem to find any Windows 7 PCs locally: they've all gone Windows 8!CindyMicrosoft Windows 8 was designed as a "touch first" interface, and this is the nicest way to use it. If you buy a Windows 8 machine, I recommend getting one with a touch-sensitive screen, whether it's a desktop, all-in-one, laptop, convertible, or tablet. (Or, in the case of Windows Phone 8, a smartphone.) That way, you can use the new features and new tablet-style apps by adding a handful of easily-learned edge-swipes to what you already know.Unfortunately, having a touch screen bumps up the cost, and PC manufacturers may fit cheaper processors and smaller hard drives to bring the final price down. This is something to watch out for if you're looking for a fast PC.Although Windows 8 is "touch first", you can still do everything with a mouse and keyboard. However, this seems to make it harder to adapt, because you have to change what you did before (point and click icons or menu items in folders) to do something different (scroll with mouse-wheel; point and click large tiles). Conceptually, there's not that much difference, but it requires a different set of movements.The conversion is harder for users of the 11-year-old Windows XP because they also have to adjust to changes introduced with Vista and Windows 7. For example, you may not have developed useful habits such as typing a few letters to find programs (Launchy, a popular Start menu replacement, adds this to XP), or using the Windows key, which with one keypress toggles between the desktop and Start screen.Either way, the claimed adjustment time varies from a couple of hours to never. My observation is simply that people who have used Windows 8 for longer generally like it much better.You can still buy Windows 7 machines, and slow-moving businesses are still buying shedloads. It has not been discontinued. But, as you say, it's now hard to find consumer products that ship with Windows 7, and all-in-ones are predominantly aimed at home users and students. One alternative is to install utilities thatmake Windows 8 look more like Windows 7. Another is to buy a mouse designed for Windows 8, such as theLogitech Zone Touch Mouse T400.The Start screen also adds the ability to run more than 100,000 new-style apps written to a new programming model, but even if it didn't, I'd still go to Windows 8 now, if possible. I don't see the point in making two lots of changes rather than one.The Start menu after a new installProblems with Sky GoIn your case, Sky may be a problem:Sky Godoes not officially support either Windows 8 or Mac OS X Mountain Lion. This is poor, as the shops are full of them.Windows 8 really should work, as long as you use a desktop browser (IE10, Firefox or Chrome), not a "modern" version run from the Start screen. However, an online Sky Advisor told me that while you can register Windows 8, it can suddenly stop responding. He said Sky's development team was "working closely with Microsoft to get this fixed," and it was "taking a bit longer than expected". He couldn't give a date, but I'd expect it to be released in a month or two. If it isn't, Sky will lose customers, and that's against its religion.Browsing the Sky Help Forum shows that users have found ways to get Windows 8 working. For example, seeSkyGo – Windows 8? *SOLVED*.As far as I can tell, Sky's website doesn't highlight any problems with Windows 8 or Mac OS X Mountain Lion, which is bad customer service. Presumably you just have to keep checking thelist of supported devicesuntil they appear.All-in-one choicesYou don't mention a budget, but the HP Pavilion 23-b010ea 23in all-in-one PC is at the low end of the price scale at£549.99 from PC World. The main cost saving is its use of a 2.9GHz Intel Pentium G645 processor, which I discussed three months ago in my answer toWanted: an all-in-one PC to run Windows 8. This is actually a snappy Sandy Bridge chip that performs about as well as a Core i3-2328M, but was launched at about a third of the price. It's also used in all-in-ones from Acer, Lenovo and Samsung, among others. It should easily outperform the system you are using now.What lets the G645 down is its graphics performance: it does not have Intel features such as 3D Support, Clear Video HD and Quick Sync Video. Since you'll mainly be using your PC for video, it would be better to get a second- or third-generation Core i3, because these have the missing features. However, HP compensates for the G645 by fitting a separate graphics card to many of its all-in-one PCs, and the HP 23-b010ea includes an Nvidia GeForce GT610M for your £549.99. It may also be worth spending an extra £100 for theHP 23-b030ea (£649.99)– which has both a Core i3-2130 chip and a GT610M -- if you want the extra hard drive space. It comes with 1TB instead of 500GB.The same machine as the HP 23-b010ea but with a touch screen adds £200 to the price, and the G645-poweredHP Envy 23-d010ea costs £749 at PC World. Unfortunately, this more expensive model drops the GT610M graphics card. While you could fit a graphics card yourself (or get it done for you), theToshiba LX830-11D (£769.00)is much better value.With its third-gen (Ivy Bridge) Core i3-3110 processor, terabyte hard drive and built-in Freeview (DVB-T) tuner, the Toshiba LX830 looks like the pick of the touch-screen models at the moment. If you can afford it, it's worth the £220 extra compared with the slower, non-touch, no-tuner HP Pavilion 23-b010ea.If you can spend a bit more, the Asus ET2300 and Lenovo VE32BUK A520 are also worth a look. If you want to spend less, shop around for a discounted Acer Aspire ZS600.All the prices I've quoted are fromPC Worldor Currys, rather than Amazon.co.uk because I think it's a good idea to get your hands on a few of these machines. See how you feel about their styling, and have a go at swiping their screens.Before you go, watch Scott Hanselman's 25-minute YouTube video,The missing Windows 8 instructional video – who moved my Windows 8 cheese?, where he does everything with the mouse. It's excellent. (He did a three-minute version, but it was too fast to follow. This one is nice and slow.)Finally, I notice that the May issue ofPC Promagazine is promising a group test of all-in-one PCs in its May issue, which will be published on March 14. Although you may not be interested in the technical details, the reviews are straightforward and there are always star ratings plus editor's choice and recommended systems. If you've used a slow machine for a few years, I expect you can survive another two weeks.
FTSE 100 companies and the public sector are failing to take advantage of the transformative potential of the internet economy, which now represents more than 8% of UK GDP."Flatlining", "pre-recovery", "stagnant", "sluggish" - we're running out of adjectives to describe the UK's seemingly moribund economy.  Stripped of its AAA rating last weekend, it shrank by 0.3% in the final quarter of last year, and – amid signs of a possible triple-dip recession – more of the same is predicted for 2013.The Eurozone economy, meanwhile, is a horror show in slow motion. After a contraction of 0.6% last year, the European Commission predicts that the 17-nation region collectively will shrink by 0.3% this year. And there will be no return to growth until 2014.The EU's unemployment woes are well-documented, too. Almost 12% of its workforce are unemployed, amounting to nearly 19 million people. The unemployment rate for Spain, the Eurozone's worst performer, stood at 26.6% in the most recent figures, while in Greece, the second worst, 20% are unemployed.Let's not be in any doubt here. These are the sorts of crisis conditions – as Europeans know only too well – in which destructive and extreme ideologies fester. They threaten the very social fabric – and destabilise societies.But it's thefigures for youth unemployment, which give perhaps the greatest cause for alarm: a quarter of Europeans under the age of 25 across the Eurozone are without work (in the UK, it's about 18%). In Greece the figure is a staggering 57.6%. In Spain, it's 56.5%..The significance of this doesn't just play out in the here and now, but reverberates down the line. In a report published last year,McKinsey arguedthat weak demand and hiring restraint across advanced economies could seriously damage the chances of employment returning to their pre-recession levels. This, in turn, is leading to a growing mismatch between employers' needs and workforce skills.Yet while these gloomy statistics appear to spell continuing unemployment and patchy growth for the foreseeable future in Britain, and beyond, one area in particular is defying the trends: research last year assessing the internet's economic impact in the G20 made a startling revelation: by 2016, with 3 billion internet users globally, the internet economy will reach $4.2tr – and the UK is leading the way.  According to the Boston Consulting Group, the figures for 2010 (the latest we have) showed that the internet economy in the UK accounted for 8.3% of GDP. The UK's closest rivals were South Korea on 7.3% and China on 5.5%, followed by Japan and the US on 4.7% each.By 2016, the internet is forecast to grow to 12.4% in the UK, contributing some £225bn to the overall UK economy.To get a sense of just how significant the internet is to the UK, you only have to compare it with traditional industry.  The internet sector has eclipsed construction, education and health, as a percentage of GDP.  It already dwarfs utilities and communications and is only a couple of percentage points behind financial services.It is also reshaping the daily lives of millions by creating a fluid, connected labour pool via social media such as LinkedIn and freelance services platforms such as Peopleperhour, Taskrabbit and Etsy. Meanwhile, education startups such as Codecademy and General Assembly are changing the way we learn, and holiday rental site HouseTrip and taxi-booking app Hailo, are helping growing numbers to use their time more efficiently.All of which means that the UK is right at the forefront of what has arguably become the 21st century's most compelling global, economic, social – and, increasingly, when you consider events like the Arab spring – political story; a third industrial revolution.No sector will remain unchanged, no business or service untouched. And that is why, as politicians wrestle to restart growth and boost jobs, the 8% figure must become our economic benchmark, in both the public and private sectors.But all too often when we refer to the internet economy, startups seem to get all the attention. Certainly the past 15 years have seen London, in particular, generate some incredible homegrown successes including ASOS, JustEat, King.com, Mimecast, Moshi, Net-a-Porter, Playfish and Skype.It is the US giants Apple, Amazon, eBay, Google and Facebook, which currently generate more than £15bn of annual UK revenues combined. Add to this the rapid adoption of the internet by SMEs, the continued innovation of Arm in mobile and Raspberry Pi in low-cost computing, it is clear British innovation is in rude health. This is a fact that has recently been recognised by the LSE, which proposes to open up the main market to high-growth internet stars.So, perhaps we are looking in the wrong places.  While it is startups, SMEs and large internet companies that are driving the 8%, what about the FTSE 100 and the public sector?  It seems odd, given Britain's No 1 position in the G-20 internet and the sector's surging growth, that £658bn of institutional capital in the City, with the likes of Invesco, Fidelity, Threadneedle &amp; Blackrock, more or less sitting on the sidelines.Is it because fund managers are not encouraged or rewarded to follow the internet economy? Or is it that analysts are not providing the bulge-bracket banks such as Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, JP Morgan and Barclays the necessary coverage?  Is £130bn of potential FTSE 100 internet market cap not interesting enough?  Where is the Mary Meeker of this generation – not just tracking the new internet stars, but maybe more importantly, asking the FTSE 100 how they are leveraging the internet to improve productivity and expand margins?Business fortunes can change rapidly and no board wants to be the next Kodak or HMV. So as a basic health check we must be asking, as investors, whether the current crop of FTSE 100 is above or below the 8% internet threshold.In our own research with over 20 FTSE 100 companies, it was clear that many either don't know or won't say how much of their sales, customer support, procurement and operations leverage the internet.There are some rising stars – WPP has 30% of its global sales (£3bn) online, while Pearson has 33% (£2bn) in digital sales. But overall the picture was decidedly mixed. Tesco, for example, only has 6% of its UK sales online, however, unlike Sainsbury's, at least it is prepared to answer the question.Peter Drucker famously argued: "If you can't measure [performance], you can't manage it." But despite the fact that the internet is now so central to economic activity, there is clearly little recognition within the City that the internet has become a core economic benchmark.Understanding the internet's role in our economy and society is so fundamental now that we cannot afford to operate blindly. If we are in a global economic war for talent, resources and income, perhaps we need to establish the internet age-equivalent of Winston Churchill's 1941 creation of the Central Statistical Office (the precursor to the Office for National Statistics), and build a transparent central statistics body for relevant economic internet related data.Government can and does have an enormous impact on the economy. The flurry of policy initiatives that have been developed to support startups and high growth companies is impressive, but we need to hold the public sector to the same 8% benchmark as the FTSE 100.There are enormous savings to be made by using the internet and related technologies to improve the management and service delivery of the £694bn expenses guided by ministers and permanent secretaries annually. Yet while there are some talented individuals in place, who are driving innovative thinking, as well as some standout performers – including the HMRC, which collects over 80% of income tax online, and the DVLA, which processes 33% of driving licences electronically – in general, when we asked government departments about their internet adoption rates, we were met with confusion – or  else no response at all.We have no excuses. In fact, we have a unique opportunity to capitalise on and consolidate the UK's G20 economic leadership; to build a balanced internet economy, where we celebrate the City, not just Tech City, and Whitehall, not just Moshi Monsters. In order to do so, we need to adopt a three-point plan:• ask FTSE boards, ministers and permanent secretaries the 8% question and demand answers on an annual basis by end of 2013, and, by 2015, quarterly;• create a public, transparent body to let citizens and investors track the numbers;• celebrate the champions – and short, or fire, the laggards.It's not often these days that the UK economy has something to celebrate – and in this case continued leadership has huge rewards for us all. Let's not squander our hard-won success, but rather get the City and Westminster on the bus, so they can ride with the rest of us. We are the 8% – come join us.Saul Klein is a partner atIndex Venturesand co-founder of Seedcamp, a pioneering startup accelerator.
There's a moment at the start of Tomb Raider Legend – Crystal Dynamic's first Tomb Raider game, released in 2006 – when Lara Croft, the archaeologist destined for spinal troubles in later life, meets an armed guard standing with his back to her at the yawning mouth of a Bolivian tomb. She lines up a pistol headshot and moments later he slumps noiselessly to the ground. A voice in Lara's earpiece asks: "Any idea who he was?" Lara replies: "I haven't the foggiest."No such murderous nonchalance from Lara at the start of this Tomb Raider, Crystal Dynamics' prequel to the 17-year-old series. As she wanders, battered and torn by a shipwreck, on the unwelcoming rocks of Yamatai (an island almost as hostile as its inhabitants, the Solarii) she murmurs in distress at the idea of having to murder somebody in order to survive. Her first kill is in self-defence, a gun that goes off in the middle of a hand-to-hand struggle, taking her aggressor's scalp with it. She trembles in horror, shuffling hurriedly away from the twitching evidence of her mortal sin.Still, they say the first kill is always the hardest, Lara. Indeed, five minutes later her body count is rising through the 20s and there's not a single crease of remorse on her young face. By the time she's fully plundered the macro-tomb that is Yamatai (an eastern Bermuda Triangle into which planes and ships are irresistibly drawn and wrecked), her kill count is of genocidal proportions. Small wonder by the time she made it to Bolivia she was shooting first and not bothering to ask any questions at all.This Tomb Raider is also a game that asks fewer questions of its player than in the past. Previous titles offered a series of elaborate environmental puzzles, Croft nobly throwing herself at nature, a solitary key with which to unlock the ludicrously well-maintained tombs of Tibet or South America.These grand spatial conundrums required the player to stand back, observe and, bit by bit, work out how the giant cogs might fit together in order to yield their ancient treasure. In this Tomb Raider, by contrast, the tombs are few and their raiding is entirely optional.Chasing your taleIn the main, your task is to chase the spectacle of the story. A tale in which Lara must save her scattered surviving companions from the gruesome rituals of the Solarii, upgrade her skills and weapons and explore off the beaten track for litter of varying degrees of worth: USB sticks, ceramics (fake and authentic) and the documents and possessions of previous, long-departed shipwrecked souls.The only time when there's a strain of the old Tomb Raider sense of having worked a thing out is in the tombs, a series of seven, voluntary, single-puzzle caverns. These offer some of the standout moments of the game, and are one of the few times you must run your gaze over the contours of the environment, hoping to snag onto a solution. No doubt it's in these moments that Lara gained her taste for tomb raiding that would later characterise her career, but they are rare in this prequel.This is not a superficial shift. By relegating puzzle solving to a sideshow, Crystal Dynamics has changed the nature of enjoyment players might derive from the game. In the past, Tomb Raider thrills derived from ingenuity and triumph – the satisfaction of planning a solution and executing it successfully (or happening upon it by chance).In this game, the fun is found in thoroughness and endurance – the willingness of the player to search out every trinket in the environment, before chasing the plot with all of its exciting, challenge-less, Uncharted-style set-pieces – weaving through coniferous treetops by parachute, shotgun blasting wooden obstacles as you slide down a waterfall. In truth, almost nothing's hunted here. There's always a treasure map to guide you to each and every collectible and the option to lay an impromptu marker to laser guide you towards your mark.That's not to say that these designs aren't gripping. Tomb Raider is relentlessly absorbing in the contemporary fashion, and the natural contours and relief of the island make the somewhat shallow exploration feel more believable than before.Celebration of animationLara's exquisite animation allows her to move through the world with unmatched grace, and the heavy emphasis on combat is more palatable thanks to its ease of interaction, Lara naturally crouching behind cover and switching between her bow, pistol, rifle and shotgun with rare quickness and ease.As she discovers new tools (an axe for climbing, a rope bow for creating washing lines across chasms, fire arrows), so previously impassable routes open up (although in nowhere near such a satisfying or orchestrated manner as in Zelda, or the most recent Batman titles). But it's important to note the fundamental shift at the heart of the game, one that contemporises Tomb Raider, but removes great chunks of challenge. The thrills are more sustained, but they are also muted.Lara, however, is not as she gets thrown about with bone-jarring frequency. A great deal of Camilla Luddington's voice-acting sessions have been dedicated to Lara's oohs, ahhs and grrs of fleshly anguish. In a sense, it has the desired effect. The island of Yamatai is the crucible in which the older Lara was forged and her cries of physical misfortune probably demonstrate how the girl became a woman. Incrementally, she stops cringing in the bushes and steps into her role of a heroine modelled on the aristocratic British explorers of the early 20th Century: pioneering, fearless, cultured and somewhat standoffish. We watch as she loses innocence at the hands of experience.In contrast to the previous titles then, Tomb Raider is a game about loss as much as it is about discovery – even if that loss is generally only expressed in the storyline, not the systems. It's also a game about survival, in a way the previous games were not. The increased peril – which derives from both the Solarii and the island itself – places a greater emphasis on looting ammunition from fallen foes and on collecting salvage to improve your weapons. These violence-minded concerns that were largely absent in the past. In this way, Crystal Dynamics' game loses the sharp focus of old, but gains a more wide-ranging appeal.Whether you view this discovery as treasure or folly depends on your affection for the past, and the Tomb Raider artefacts that are now lost to it.
News that Apple hasrefunded the parents of a boywhoran up a £1,700 billplaying iPad gameZombies vs Ninjashould be taken as a final reminder for children's app developers to get their houses in order with free-to-play games.A necessary caveat: Zombies vs Ninja isn't being marketed as a children's app, and in fact its App Store age rating is 9+, so you could argue that the five year-old who ran up this particular bill shouldn't have been playing it in the first place.Yet the story should spark a long-overdue scrutiny of how in-app purchases (IAP) are being used in apps that are targeted at children, given existing examples of games that are making such overspending possible.Examples? In December 2012, Gameloft released an iOS and Android game calledPlaymobil Pirates, based on the pre-school toy brand. The freemium game included an in-app store selling virtual gems that could be used to speed up in-game tasks, starting at £1.49 for 200 gems, and rising to £69.99 for 15,000. In a children's app.Examples? National Geographic releasedDino Landon iOS in February 2013: a colourful dinosaur game specifically aimed at children, selling virtual bones. £1.49 got you 300, but splashing out £69.99 got you 22,500. In a children's app.Examples? In June 2012, Capcom releasedShrek's Fairytale Kingdom, through an official licensing deal with studio DreamWorks. It too includes IAP of up to £69.99 at a time andwhen I played it at launch, the first prompt to buy magic stars came at the end of the tutorial. In a children's app.All this is going on amid a drip-drip flow of media stories about children landing their parents with enormous credit-card bills through IAP – often because they're buying it within 15 minutes of their parent entering an iTunes password (for example, to download an app – which was why the post-tutorial placement of the Shrek's Fairytale Kingdom IAP prompt was worrying).It also comes asApple settled a US lawsuit over in-app purchasesin children's apps, agreeing to refund parents whose children splashed out on IAP without their knowledge in a deal that could cost the company as much as £66m.Free-to-play isn't just about IAP, though. It's also about in-app advertising. Witness the recent release of Outfit7'sTalking Friends Cartoonsapp, complete with an advert for a "Win an iPad" competition that signed entrants up to a £4-a-week mobile content subscription service. In a children's app.This came a few months after £400 cash-loan ads were spotted in Outfit7'sTalking Gingerapp. In both cases, the company said the appearance of the ads were mistakes, and removed them.It's time for some straight talking within the apps industry about how IAP and advertising are used in children's apps. If things go on as they are, this will be regulated, but it would be nice to think the industry is responsible enough to make a stand before that happens.Here's one thought: Apple needs to do more. The company has made steps in the past – it's simple for parents to change their iOS settings to get rid of that 15-minute window, if you know how to do it. The problem is that many parents still don't.Google, Microsoft and BlackBerry must also be thinking about their default settings and education for parents. There's also a discussion to be had about whether all these companies should be restricting the maximum size of individual in-app purchases in children's apps, scrutinising in-app ads, and ensuring developers explain clearly in their app store listings how they use IAP.Here's another thought: parents need to accept responsibility too, for knowing what their children are downloading and playing on their iOS devices, for locking down their IAP settings, and in many cases, for keeping their password to themselves.And now developers. If you're making an app or game for children that includes IAP as high as £69.99 at a time, you need to take a long, hard look at your ethics.Because understand this: there are many more parents who won't have locked their IAP settings down than there are parents who'd be willing to blow 70 quid on virtual items for their children. Each new media report of a monster iTunes bill gives you even less excuse to plead ignorance of this fact.Is £69.99 IAP in a Playmobil game less acceptable than an £84.99 physical toy?Freemium business models, especially in games, are based around removing the ceiling on how much people can pay, if they want to. With adults, that's fair enough. Take your choice, pay your money (or not), and if a game feels over-aggressive with its expectation of payments, play something else.With children, it's different. A common view among game developers – epitomised bythis column by consultant Will Luton, who puts the case persuasively – is that IAP is no different to physical toys when it comes to children. Why is it fine for Playmobil to sell £84.99 Adventure Treasure Island sets in Toys R Us, but not £69.99 IAP in the app stores?One: my five year-old will be given short shrift if he wanders into Toys R Us clutching my credit card. Two: virtual items are consumable items – they run out. They're like sweets, not like physical toys. Many children, when presented with 70 quid's worth of gems, stars or bones, will blow through them as fast as possible then come back asking for more.Which is a case of parental responsibility, of course – saying "no" firmly – but how much trust will parents have in apps and games trying to tap into this pestering dynamic?That's a key word in this debate: trust. If parents don't trust an app or its developer, they'll delete it straight away. Indeed, based on my entirely unscientific survey of other parents, an increasing number are deciding not to install apps with IAP in the first place.There are many children's developers winning trust from parents by eschewing IAP and in-app ads, and there are others using IAP responsibly –Me Bookswith its in-app store for digital storybooks,Magic Townwith its in-app subscription for parents,Mibbliowith its a la carte interactive songs, and plenty more.Small purchases, controlled by parents. IAP in children's apps isn't bad, but scammy, over-aggressive and/or naive use of IAP in children's apps is most definitely bad. Developers shouldn't do it, and app store owners should be cracking down on it in their approval processes.There are challenges for developers that shouldn't be ignored. For one, there are a number of popular all-ages apps that are played by lots of kids.The Angry Birds, Temple Run and Cut the Rope games are good examples: getting to grips with using IAP as part or all of their business models, with an awareness that children are among their biggest fans. Shrek isn't just for kids, you could also argue.The debate is happening within the industry. Earlier in 2012, I took part in an online debate for the Gamesbrief website onhow Apple should help parents control their kids' IAP spending, with a variety of views coming through.There's also the challenge of selling paid apps to parents. Some developers are managing it, but a lot of wonderful children's apps are being released as paid titles with no IAP or ads, and sinking without a trace on the App Store.When I talk to fellow parents, it's surprising how many say in the same breath that they won't let their kids play anything with IAP, yet also that they only download free apps for those children. This contradiction is putting pressure on developers trying to a.) make great apps and b.) stay in business.Perhaps the media reports of kids overspending on IAP will change things, persuading more parents to pay for high-quality apps, or spend more time figuring out which apps use IAP in an ethical way.Perhaps parent power and more responsibility from developers and app store owners will ensure the best apps succeed and the scammy or over-aggressive apps fade away.Or perhaps this sector will need to be regulated to kingdom come to protect parents and children – a process that could snuff out some of the ethical, un-scammy business models that are still evolving.That's the stark choice facing the industry at the start of 2013. Let's hope their response is more like ninjas, and less like zombies.
I'm beginning to think that Far Cry 3 may be my perfect game. I don't meantheperfect game foreveryone– that's obviously Portal 2. I just mean for me, and by extension, a lot of other people who've spent their whole lives playing computer games. And this is why.It makes you feel clever without actually demandingtoomuch from you. Wait, I don't mean that it's good because its easy, that would be appalling; I mean that the systems are nicely telegraphed for the type of game that Far Cry 3 is. Missions are open enough so that you can approach enemy compounds in lots of different ways, and really develop your own cogent set of tactics (I use a LOT of rocks, my version of Jason must have a throwing arm the size of a tree trunk). But the areas in which the action take place are reasonably confined and self-evident, and loaded with useful scenic appliances, and there are rarely time pressures so you can watch the same guard complaining about the heat for 20 minutes if you like.Freedom within recognisable constraints is the perfect game state - it is textbook design. Far Cry 2 messed this up because everything was so big and soooo far apart, and the systems grinded against each other. Narrative and ludology constantly bickered and occasionally fought, and when the player stepped in and said 'stop it guys, it's not worth it' something bad would usually happen. Far Cry 3 is a regimented democracy in which the aristocracy (the missions) live in benign separation from the proletariat (the open island) everyone knows their place. And there in the background, facilitating the interplay between the two, is the great fast travel system, which lets you gather resources for a mission without having to drive around for hours in a jeep. Exploration is always, always, on your terms.I love the way that the progress page tells you everything you're going to have to do or find in the game. The exact number of missions, side-quests, relics, everything is listed here, so I know without ambiguity what is required of me to complete the game. This is good because, I am very suspicious of the way most fantasy RPGs couch this stuff in secrecy - although games like Skyrim do retain a mission structure, I don't know how many missions there are or how vital some of the side tasks might be, and I'm constantly worried I'm leaving vast tracts of the experience untouched. I like to know exactly what I'm going to achieve in a gaming session, I want to know I've made quantifiable progress. Far Cry 3's stats page tells me.But conversely, while a lot of fans will say about a new adventure title, "amazing, it's got at least 100 hours gameplay", I'll be thinking "oh god, 100 hours of gameplay?!". I recognise the importance of value and the concept that there is a vast experience to be had, but if I see the words 100 hours of gameplay, I'm thinking that I probably should spend at least half of those playing with my kids, or putting a load in the washing machine or fixing that bloody shower curtain. Again, it comes down to that peculiar quality of freedom within parameters. "Mankind cannot bear too much reality," wrote TS Elliot in the Wasteland - I'm like that with gameplay hours. And here's the beauty of Far Cry 3's progress page again - it tells me what I have to do, but not how long it's going to take me. Progress is on my terms. I might spend 100 hours playing that game, but they will be 100 productive hours within a holistic network of systems that I understand. Commitment is always, always, on your terms.The progression system reflects this sense of choice within recognisable limits. There are three different types of power-up I can get, and each has a set number of possibilities - I know that because their icons are displayed on screen whenever I want to learn a new skill. Also, the crafting system provides a very logical and understandable series of tasks. You want to carry more cash? You need a bigger wallet. You want two guns? Fine, make a holster. Those are your options. In a fantasy RPG, I'll probably have 75 wallets to choose from, each with very specific qualities. Do I go for the Pouch of Feglorek which gives me +10 on loose change, but won't hold my Am Ex card, or do I opt for the Purse of Hhgstya, which has a hidden section for magical dollars and also repels trolls? I just want a fucking wallet.Far Cry 3 also has a PG-13 approach to consequence - i.e. it only contains mild peril. If you're killed, it's no big deal, you can save regularly in the open world and missions have lots of check points. However, if you ARE good and don't keep dying or alerting all the guards, you are rewarded with extra XP. It's the carrot rather than the stick approach to game motivation - and the carrot is always best, even when it is disguised as a stick (you're a genius Miyamoto).This freedom from anxiety allows you to actually enjoy the great death sequences, which is something Far Cry 3 has in common with all the best  violent games, from Mortal Kombat to Grand Theft Auto. A couple of years ago, I wrotea feature on game designfor The Observer in which I quoted research from the Helsinki School of Economics' Mind Lab. They discovered that dying in a game – as long as it's the player's own fault and isn't too costly – actually triggers a pleasure response in the brain, because it re-affirms your agency in the world (you can read a bit more about ithere). And Far Cry 3 is full of funny deaths. For example, I have died trying to drop from a hang glider onto the top of a radio mast (has anyone done this? Is it possible?); I have also been gored to death by wild boars, and I died while trying to ride a quad-bike over an almost vertical cliff face. Each death has bought me vital lessons about the game world, each has brought the physical boundaries into greater clarity. Apart from the boars one, that was just stupid.And everything else just works: shooting is fine, cover is fine, driving is fine. The script is okay, the acting is pretty good. None of it is going to win awards, but it's all functional and doesn't yank you out of the experience every five minutes. Even the quaint repetitions are acceptable. I like the fact that every time I return to Amanaki village, there's that guy telling his wife about the totally wicked pig he just hunted (at least I think that's what's going on); I like that the woman in the general store isalwaysreminding me to unscramble the radio masts so she can get supplies from the remote villages, because those guys have amazing weapons (why do people in remote villages have amazing weapons? I don't know, there are no conversation trees – thank god). This stuff is unobtrusive enough to remind me of classic role-playing games in which NPCs were just ciphers of information bobbing on the spot like novelty toys in the back window of a car. Those are nice memories. I don't mind.Most of all Far Cry 3 offers choice on the player's terms. If I decide I want to spend an hour hunting goats because I want to craft a better holster, I can do that, and the chances are, I'm not going to be forced into a side-quest by some frantic NPC waving his hands and making a big fuss and scaring all the goats away. There are little tasks to do if you feel like it, but they lurk in the background.And this is what it all comes down to. Most open-world game systems are extroverts, they want your attention, they're constantly chucking stuff at you, loads of stuff, all the time. Sleeping Dogs doesn't make you feel clever it makes you feel like a thug-for-hire in a city of insane, demanding maniacs; Grand Theft Auto IV is amazing but boy does it want you to do lots of stuff right now, RIGHT NOW! Come on! Answer your goddam phone!Far Cry 3's freedom mechanic is an introvert – it makes itself available, but doesn't shout in your face like a systemic Al Pacino. Instead, it whispers in your ear, like an experienced statesman. "Oh, you want to have a look around? Go right ahead – here's a little reminder of your current mission in the corner of the screen, but yeah sure, ignore it; oh wait, here's a medical run you can do... oh what? You're trying to kill a tiger with a sub-machine gun? That's fine, dude, I'll be here when you're finished. Just in case..." Diversion is always, always, on your terms.I have to admit it, I'm only about halfway through so maybe there are some unpleasant shocks coming my way. But I doubt that will happen. Introverts don't set out to shock you; but they'll often put you in positions where there's danger and peril, and they'll say, "I told you so". Ah yeah, I'll think, I've learned that now. And I did it myself. Thanks introverted game design!We are heading into an era where systems will have to govern actions; where games will be too vast to script. How game designers treat emergent encounters and freeform mission structures is going to shape the next decade of interactive entertainment. So I'm saying, let's make more introverted game systems; let's let the player decide, let's facilitate rather than dictate freedom. True, man cannot bear too much reality, but man also doesn't like being shouted at by over-excited NPCs. At least this one doesn't.
Hurray, it's Friday. Too much Far Cry 3 again last night. I jumped off a hang glider onto a baddie's head!
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamBlackBerry not as secure as believed, memo warns federal workers &gt;&gt; canada.comOTTAWA — The federal department charged with overseeing cyber-security has warned its workers to think twice before sending a BlackBerry message, suggesting that the device believed to be the most secure in the world is more vulnerable than users may believe.The one-page policy memo from Public Safety Canada, updated in mid-January, attempts to dissuade government BlackBerry users from sending a PIN-to-PIN message largely because it could be read by any BlackBerry user, anywhere in the world. The messages are "the most vulnerable method of communicating on a BlackBerry," a Public Safety Canada presentation says…Political staffers use the device as well, regularly sending PIN-to-PIN messages and emails as government business has progressively migrated to mobile devices."Although PIN-to-PIN messages are encrypted, they key used is a global cryptographic 'key' that is common to every BlackBerry device all over the world," the memo reads. "Any BlackBerry device can potentially decrypt all PIN-to-PIN messages sent by any other BlackBerry device."You wonder whether certain governments have been granted access to that cryptographic key, don't you?Apple censoring iCloud emails and attachments &gt;&gt; Macworld UKApple's iCloud email service deletes all emails that contain the phrase "barely legal teen" it was revealed today.Experiences seem to vary. It does for me (sending from Gmail to iCloud). Itdoesn't, for example for Jared Earle.Google helped honour FTC chairman during agency inquiry &gt;&gt; BloombergGoogle contributed $25,000 to honor the chairman of the Federal Trade Commission while the company was under investigation by the agency for antitrust violations, Senate records show.Google donated the money to Common Sense Media Inc., a San Francisco-based advocacy group that gave FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz an award for his work in developing policies to help children, according to a January disclosure report. Google was listed as one of the sponsors of the awards ceremony along with several other companies, including Comcast Corp., AOL Inc. and a charitable arm of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.At the time, the FTC was investigating whether Mountain View, California-based Google unfairly disadvantaged competing websites by favoring its own services in search results. The agency ended the 20-month antitrust probe on Jan. 3 with no enforcement action.Google declined to comment. It was notable that FTC staff wanted to take action against Google; that stalled when deliberation got to the five commissioners.FTC-Google public comments round-up #2: Tech companies have their say &gt;&gt; The Essential Patent BlogWhile these companies all appear to agree that at least in most cases, injunctions for infringement of FRAND-pledged standard-essential patents should not be available, the parties pretty clearly diverge into two camps when it comes to many other issues (including a complete bar on injuctions) — with Apple/Microsoft on one side and Ericsson/Qualcomm/RIM on the other.Unsurprising. But the thing about SEPs is that you don't need an injunction to get paid. You get a court-ordered arbitration. If someone won't go with that, they're not a "willing licensee", and so you can injunct them - as the FTC allows. The complaints are coming from companies that want to use their SEPs to attack others. (Thanks @HotSoup for the link.)Samsung denies hiring UK judge who ruled in their favour &gt;&gt; Macworld UKSamsung has issued a statement to Macworld claiming that it has not employed the judge who last year ruled in their favour in the UK legal battle with Apple.Samsung told Macworld: "Sir Robin Jacob is not a legal representative of Samsung Electronics. A highly reputed intellectual property expert and academic, Sir Robin has been contracted as an expert by a law firm that represents Samsung Electronics in its case against Ericsson."There's really nothing to this story. Jacob isn't involved in a case against Apple; it isn't in the UK; he was one of three judges in the UK appeal; he's an esteemed intellectual property expert. Samsung's legal company has contacted a company which provides IP experts. That's about it. (Thanks @rquick for the link.)Explaining the confusion over Flash versions &gt;&gt; Computerworld BlogsFrom August 2012. Clear as mud. (Thanks @LazioLazio for the link.)FOSS Patents: Japanese ruling in Apple's favor is Samsung's 22nd failed assertion of a standard-essential patentVarious news agenciesincluding AFP reporton a statement that Samsung sent to the media, according to which statement the company lost a cellular standard-essential patent (SEP) lawsuit against Apple in Japan. No infringement was found, which suggests that the patent wasn't as essential as Samsung thought it was…Of the 25 SEP assertions by Samsung against Apple that have either been dropped or come to judgment by now, only three have been successful:two in Samsung's own country (South Korea)and a third onein the Netherlands, where injunctive relief (which Samsung was also pursuing in Japan, while it has meanwhilewithdrawn its European SEP-based injunction requests) had beenruled out beforehandand Samsung will receive only a minor amount of damages. Today's loss in Japan is the 22nd SEP assertion that went nowhere.SEPs really aren't weapons in the way that some companies thought.Galaxy Note 2 – copy bug update &gt;&gt; Terence EdenLast weekI blogged about a pretty severe flaw in some of Samsung's phones. If you use copy &amp;#038; paste too many times - the phone reboots or resets.So, I ranted and raved on my blog andin the press. Samsung wouldn't respond to me - either through customer support or through their PR team. Nice way to treat a paying customer, guys!There is an OTA update for the Galaxy Note II - taking it to 4.1.2. Sadly this isn't yet being pushed out via all UK carriers (including O2, who I work for).As far as I can tell, the updatedoesfix the bug. I've only been trying it for an hour - but it seems that copying no longer crashes the device.The Glass Bicycle &gt;&gt; Dustin CurtisWhen I see the Google Glass UI sitting in the upper right hand corner of my vision, I think of it as potentially being one of the greatest tools man has ever come up with. It's the true bicycle for our minds. It'll make everyone smarter, faster, and better connected. It takes away the clunky interface of the computer, and it brings the world's information directly to your mind.The difference between Wikipedia twenty seconds away in your pocket and the answer to your question instantly and unobtrusively in your vision is enormous.When you're first shown the future, it's hard to see it. If you don't immediately use some imagination to evolve what you're being shown into what it can or will become, you might dismiss it as something frivolous or a mere curiosity. You might even call it a toy. Microsoft built an absurd $10,000 table. Apple built a $499 tablet for everyone. Glass will play out the same way, I think, but it might be Google that makes the product for everyone.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The troubled online deals provider Groupon has ousted its chief executive, Andrew Mason, the once-lauded wunderkind who founded the company.Mason appeared on the cover of Forbes magazine in 2010 under the headline: Meet The Fastest Growing Company Ever. Google offered $6bn for the company in 2011. The company is now worth less than $3bn.Investors and directors Eric Lefkofsky and Ted Leonsis will take over running the company until a new chief is found. Groupon's shares soared in after-hours trading on Thursday.In a letter to staff Mason wrote: "After four and a half intense and wonderful years as CEO of Groupon, I've decided that I'd like to spend more time with my family. Just kidding – I was fired today. If you're wondering why … you haven't been paying attention."Pressure had been mounting on Groupon as the demand for daily coupons, which make up most of its revenue, appears to be stalling. On Wednesday Groupon said first-quarter revenue would be $560m to $610m, well below the $647.7m analysts had been expecting, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.Groupon's shares lost more 24% of their value Thursday after its disappointing quarterly results. Losses from the Chicago-based company reached $81.1m in the fourth quarter, up from $65.4m a year earlier.In his letter Mason wrote the stock price was "hovering around one quarter of our listing price, the events of the last year and a half speak for themselves. As CEO, I am accountable."The company has tried to diversify, offering cut-price goods such as juicers and exercise machines. But the profit margins on sales of these products are small and analysts are unconvinced. "We are simply not convinced on the long-term earnings power of the rapidly growing Goods business," Merrill Lynch analyst Justin Post said downgrading the stock to underperform, a rating equivalent to a sell recommendation.The move brings to an end a remarkable career for Mason at Groupon. The company was once the darling of the new generation of internet firms, selling coupons to local businesses worldwide and taking a 50% cut of the proceeds.After rejecting a bid from Google, Mason took Groupon public in November 2011. The former music student listed the company on the Nasdaq stock exchange. The firm was initially valued at $13bn but it has been on the slide ever since.Groupon's board met to discuss Mason's future last December but he managed to retain control thanks in large part to his shareholding, which controls 10 times as many votes as ordinary shareholders, and the backing of his co-founder Lefkofsky."On behalf of the entire Groupon board, I want to thank Andrew for his leadership, his creativity and his deep loyalty to Groupon. As a founder, Andrew helped invent the daily deals space, leading Groupon to become one of the fastest growing companies in history," said Lefkofsky."Groupon will continue to invest in growth, and we are confident that with our deep management team and market-leading position, the company is well positioned for the future," said Leonsis.In his letter Mason wrote: "For those who are concerned about me, please don't be – I love Groupon, and I'm terribly proud of what we've created. I'm OK with having failed at this part of the journey. If Groupon was Battletoads [a video game], it would be like I made it all the way to the Terra Tubes without dying on my first ever play through."
Combining the sleek thrills of a '60s spy caper with the ever popular 'auto-runner' genre (think Canabalt and Temple Run), The Button Affair is a short, sharp gem of a game. Created by a small team of British indie developers, the game puts you in control of glamorous thief and playboy Enzo Gabriel who sets out to steal the gigantic Button diamond from a business tycoon.The game starts when the jewel is nicked during a swish party, and then you're controlling Enzo as he evades security, hitting up and down to leap over trap doors and under lasers. After this, there are two more chapters, both requiring quick wits as Enzo legs it out of prison, then across a speeding train.The visual style manages to combine the look of cool sixties illustration with those Microsoft clipart images of faceless executives hanging out in minimalist offices. And through its short lifespan it also manages to pack in a love triangle and an ending that forces Enzo to chose between the two things he loves most.It's quick (there are likely to be more chapters, though), but it's thoroughly entertaining – I hope indie-loving Sony boss Shuhei Yoshida gets a chance to play it because this would be wonderful on the Vita.For now though, you can play it for free on Mac or PC, viathe official site. However, the makers are asking that, if you like the game, you donate one pound to the amazing SpecialEffect charity, which specialises in making video games accessible to disabled players. In fact, you can donate anyway, viathis websiteor by texting enzo50£1 to 70070. Take a look at any of the case studies on theSpecialEffect websiteand you'll see why this is such a lovely thing to give a pound to. But do play the game first, because it's marvelous.
Google representatives are to be summoned to appear before European data protection officials over concerns about the way it collects data on web users.The US search company will be asked to explain why it has not taken "any precise measures" to change its privacy policy since October 2012, whenauthorities found it was in breach of European law.On Thursday, a coalition of 30 data protection officials, including Britain's information commissioner, demanded "significant progress" from Google before the summer.The statement said: "In October 2012, the Article 29 Working Party highlighted deficiencies in Google's privacy policy and gave some recommendations to Google on how to address these."To date, considering that Google has not taken any precise measures in response to those recommendations, the requirements of Directive 95/46/EC are still not complied with."An inquiry by European privacy regulators, led by France's CNIL,  criticised Google forits "uncontrolled" and "excessive"collection of information about internet users, in some cases without their consent. The statement continued: "DPAs [data protection authorities] will continue their investigations in close cooperation and take all necessary actions according to their competences and powers. Significant progress on these actions will be made before summer. A taskforce led by the French DPA (CNIL) will help to coordinate these actions."The authorities are concerned about changes Google introduced to its privacy policies in March last year. The changes were made to "unify" how information is collected across approximately 60 products, including YouTube GoogleMail, Google has said.But an investigation by the data protection bodies concluded that the company gives insufficient information or control to its users about how it handles their information.The watchdogs recommended Google change its policy to allow users to choose when their information is combined and make it easier for people to opt out.A spokesperson for Google said: "Our privacy policy respects European law and allows us to create simpler, more effective services. We have engaged fully with the CNIL  throughout this process, and we'll continue to do so going forward."Previously, Google has said it is confident that its privacy notices "respect European law" and that it was reviewing the findings of the data protection officials.
Fans have been waiting for Real Racing 3 since it was first shown off in the summer of 2012, and then again at Apple's iPhone 5 launch event in September.Yet since publisher EA confirmed that the game would be free-to-play, fans have also beenworrying about whether freemium mechanics would spoil the gameplay. Now they can find out.Real Racing 3 is now availablefor iOSandfor Android, and is already riding high in Apple and Google's app stores. I've deliberately not called this article a review, because my early copy arrived just before I flew to the Mobile World Congress show, with playtime at a minimum.As such, this is more hands-on impressions from that week of irregular sessions, playing on an iPad mini. The conclusion so far: it's an excellent racing game, and while the free-to-play mechanics will irk some gamers, they'll be bearable for most players.The structure of the game works thus: you start by buying a car with virtual money, and racing it in different events to earn medals, which in turn unlock more events, and provide cash to upgrade your car and eventually buy new ones.The events vary: some are straight races, while the others include Speed Snap (where you have to hit the finish line at the fastest speed possible); Elimination (where the car in last place is chucked out every 20 seconds); Head to Head (a two-car duel) and Drag Race (self-explanatory, and a familiar format to anyone who's played CSR Racing).Previous Real Racing games have set the bar high for graphics, and Real Racing 3 doesn't disappoint on that score. It looks beautiful, from the cars and scenery to the glinting sunlight effects. It looks startlingly good, and while the phrase "console-quality" is overused in the mobile gaming world, it's applicable here.Just as important is the handling of the various cars: 46 licensed models in all, each with their own feel when driving. The default steering mode is by tilting your device, but you can change it to a virtual wheel or buttons if you like.Acceleration and braking can be manual or automatic according to preference, and you can also choose to turn on steering assist, traction control and brake assist. The fine-tuning means Real Racing 3 can be accessible to casual gamers, but challenging for hardcore racing veterans.The car-upgrading system is clear, as you boost the engine, drivetrain, brakes and wheels through several levels to bump up a car's speed and handling. You can own as many cars as you like, with each eligible for different collections of events. And yes, the cars can be damaged as you race, with bits hanging off after nasty prangs.The game features real racing tracks from around the world, including Brands Hatch and Silverstone, as well as Suzuka, the Indianapolis Motor Speedway and Hockenheimring. I'm not qualified to assess the accuracy of the virtual versions, but in play they offer a satisfyingly varied experience.Also very good is a feature called Time Shifted Multiplayer, which sees you racing against other players – including Facebook friends – as bumpable, rammable cars rather than transparent ghost cars, as in many past driving games.Their performances are based partly on data from when those friends last played the current track, and partly on artificial intelligence. You're racing against cars that drive a bit more like humans and a bit less like algorithms. It's a sensible step forward for the genre.And then we come to the freemium elements. There are two virtual currencies in Real Racing 3: the "R$" money used to pay for cars, upgrades, repairs and services, and gold coins which are used to speed up their progress.You can also buy car "packs" to unlock some of the game's vehicles. Coins are earned through playing the game too, whenever you level-up – visualised through a bar that fills up when you complete events.Services? This is where Real Racing 3 may lose some players. If your car gets bashed up during a race, you'll have to pay (virtual) cash to an in-game mechanic to fix it, and then wait a fixed amount of time for the car to be repaired.Even if you're a careful driver, your cars will suffer wear and tear, requiring periodic servicing of their oil, engine, brakes, suspension and tyres. But here too, you'll have to wait: 15 minutes to sort out the oil, for example, but a whopping three hours for an engine refresh. Gold coins make the process instant.Not being able to use a car for up to three hours – especially if you're on a roll in a specific category of events – is incredibly frustrating.It's also a risky move for the game, as with any title that uses timers in this way. Interrupting gamers at the point when they may be falling in love with a game could simply send them off to fall in love with something else.The flipside to this argument: playing in short bursts suits many people's existing mobile gaming habits. And once you own three or four cars, you can switch between models at will – playing with one while another is having its service.My experience: I was cross in the first day or so, when I only had one car and was still finding my feet on the tracks (well, finding bits of my cars on the tracks, to be specific). Much less so now, when I have more options to switch between.My instinct tells me that most players of Real Racing 3 will persist to this point, and live with the timers thereafter. More hardcore players, especially those keen to collect every car and win every race, may be more upset.The only advice I can give is play Real Racing 3 for yourself and make up your own mind. It's free to play, after all. Despite the pre-release anger online, it's the post-release feedback that will influence how and if Firemonkeys makes changes in the future.Adding a "ditch the timers and unlock everything" in-app purchase or a separate paid version is unlikely: if a key element to freemium business models is removing the cap on how much people can pay if they want to, then throwing a cap back in would be a curious move.For my part, I've been playing for just under a week and am really enjoying it – getting over that initial one-car grumpiness. I haven't paid yet, but I think I will – more to get R$ to unlock and upgrade a few more cars than to get coins to speed up services.Judged purely on its driving action, Real Racing 3 is the best racing game yet for iOS at least. I'll be testing it on Android when I'm back with my Nexus devices in the UK at the weekend, but please post your Android impressions in the comments. The simultaneous launch is noteworthy, too.The free-to-play elements may be risky, but at this point, they don't feel like they'll alienate the majority of players. On day one, the average rating is four stars on the UK App Store and Google Play store, which bodes well.But yes: try it out, draw your own conclusions, and make your views known to EA and Firemonkeys for better or worse through the stores. Free-to-play is already the dominant business model for mobile gaming, but it's important that players influence how it evolves in 2013 and beyond.
Smartphones are "emasculating" – at least according to Sergey Brin, the co-founder of Google, who explained his view while addressing an audience wearing a computer headset that made him look slightly like a technological pirate.His comment at the TED conference in California drew puzzlement – and satirical responses from bloggers – as people wondered if he had perhaps meant a different word. The question was, what?Brin suggested that the way people today use their smartphones was unappealing."When we started Google 15 years ago," Brinsaid, "my vision was that information would come to you as you need it. You wouldn't have to search query at all."But now people get information by turning away from the other people they are with, he said. "Is this the way you're meant to interact with other people? Is the future of connection just people walking around hunched up, looking down, rubbing a featureless piece of glass?" In an intimate moment, he said, "It's kind of emasculating. Is this what you're meant to do with your body? You want something that will free your eyes."While plenty of people were prepared to agree that smartphones can be socially isolating - or at least rude, when used to the exclusion of others who are present – many were also puzzled by how something used by both sexes could be "emasculating".At the website BoingBoing, the suggestion was that Google Glass would need an appropriately named version of the Android mobile operating system – whose robot-themed icon has pleased many geeks. But each version is named after a dessert (Frozen Yogurt, Jelly Bean) – insufficiently manly, suggested Rob Beschizza."Introducing Mandroid, Google's remasculating new operating system", he proclaimed. "Discover Gun Whisky Cologne Cigar Beard, the new version of Mandroid … a completely new camera experience, with a long, thrusting zoom lens, a new form of typing that helps pound your messages in, and much more."Others found Brin's comments simply incredible. "What message is he sending to Android customers?"askedChris Pirillo, a technology consultant and entrepreneur.Others simply felt Brin had suffered a verbal short circuit: "if only there were some kind of electronic search service that Sergey Brin could use to look up the meaning of 'emasculating',"commentedKieran Healy.The best guess? Brin actually meant to say "embarrassing" – a word that would fit well enough into the sentence he used – and had an abrupt rush of testosterone to the brain.He spoke while wearing a prototype of Google's new Glass augmented reality headset, which gives users the ability to take pictures, shoot video or look up details which are then displayed in a small screen above the right eye. He said that Glass represented a form which could be capable of delivering the dream that he and co-founder Larry Page have nurtured since Google began in 1998."My vision when we started Google 15 years ago was that eventually you wouldn't have to have a search query at all – the information would just come to you as you needed it," he said. Glass, added Brin, "is the first form factor that can deliver that vision". He said it had improved radically in the past two years since its first versions, which he said were "like a cellphone [mobile phone] strapped to your head".Google on Wednesday closed applications to its "Explorers" scheme for would-be users of Glass – though not before one who claimed to be on the project had tried to auction off their pair of the $1,500 spectacles on eBay.Bidding had reached $16,000before eBay stopped the auction on the basis that the seller did not yet have the item to sell. Google said that its conditions would prohibit transfer of the device to another person.
BSkyB, BT, Virgin Media and three other UK broadband providers have been ordered by the high court to block access to three music and movie file-sharing websites as content owners redouble efforts to stem online piracy.Mr Justice Arnold granted an order to 10 record labels – including EMI, Sony and Universal – against six UK internet service providers, requiring them to "take measures to block or at least impede access by their customers" to three file-sharing websites. The ISPs have been given 15 working days to block access to the sites.With the ISPs named in the court order accounting for 94% of the UK broadband market, this will effectively cut off internet users' access to the three websites – Kickass Torrents (Kat), H33T and Fenopy.The sites allow customers to download the latest movies and music tracks for free through bit torrents. Top of the list of popular downloads on Fenopy on Thursday was the movie Argo, which won an Oscar on Sunday and is still on general theatre release and not yet available on DVD.The record companies' action was supported by the Motion Picture Association, which represents the Hollywood movie studios, and by Pact, the UK TV and film producers' trade body.Arnold's ruling is the third issued by the UK high court in the past two years against pirate sites. ISPs have already been ordered to block access to one of the best-known websites, Pirate Bay, which operates out of Sweden, and Newzbin1 which was blocked in 2011.Fenopy, which also operates from Sweden, and the two other sites stepped into the breach and have seen traffic soar, ranking them as some of most accessed sites in the world. Kat ranks as the 116th most popular site in the world ,according to the traffic benchmarking site Alexa,.The judgment requires Sky, BT, Everything Everywhere, TalkTalk, O2 and Virgin Media to block access to these three sites which were found to have significant traffic in the UK.The challenge for music, movie and TV industries is to keep up with the pirates. Pirate Bay had an estimated 5 million unique users a month before it was blocked, while Kat has an estimated 3 to 4 million. There are many more file-sharing sites with more than 100,000 users each."With TV, you can normally get a high-quality download within half an hour of being broadcast in the US. You can get any Oscar winner from last Sunday you like in DVD quality," said David Price, director of piracy analysis at online security and anti-piracy consultancy NetNames.He said the latest ruling was significant because the judge not only concluded that the sites' policy of taking down pirate material was not effective, but said it was not fair to expect a rights holder to continually monitor the sites for breaches of the law. "He said they should not have to submit URLs to get the latest Adele track removed or the latest Oscar-winning movie removed. He used very strong language, saying it was overly burdensome. This means that every single pirate site similar to this is now liable to be blocked even if their take-down policy is effective," said Price.Geoff Taylor, the British Phonographic Industry chief executive, welcomed the ruling. "Music fans shouldn't have to worry that sites distributing music online are illegal and unethical. Blocking illegal sites helps ensure that the legal digital market can grow and labels can continue to sign and develop new talent."Although the law is lagging behind technology and it remains possible to access sites through proxy addresses, the high court rulings are proving effective.Newzbin2, once one of the most popular sites offering links to pirated contented, decided to close last November citing financial problems following legal action taken against its predecessor Newszbin1, which was said to have 700,000 registered users.The high court was told that efforts by record companies to get the sites to remove material breaching their copyright had largely failed."Each of the websites purports to maintain a content removal policy which claims to provide for their removal of copyrighted content from the website upon receipt of a relevant notification. The reality appears to be that these policies are mere window-dressing," said Arnold.• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email media@guardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook.ends
When Neil Stevens joined Skype four years ago, the company had just passed the 100m monthly unique users milestone. In 2013, that figure is now 300m, with its mobile and tablet apps one of the key factors in that growth."We're still growing at 30-40% a year, but the actual time people are spending on it is growing at 60%," says Stevens. "We've got more people coming on, and those people are more engaged. People are finding more and more people to talk to."Stevens, who is Skype's corporate vice president of product and regional development, says mobile is one of the "megatrends" behind Skype's growth, with more than 100m downloads so far of its apps for iOS and Android alone.He also says there has been a shift in the way Skype is perceived within the mobile industry, with back-to-back meetings with operators at Mobile World Congress proving more of them see Skype as a partner rather than an enemy."The carriers have realised that voice revenues are going away at last. It's been predicted for a long time, but they haven't wanted to accept that – and some still don't," he says."But the others are realising that the future is data, and that apps like Skype drive data. I used to come to Mobile World Congress and we were the enemy: people saw us as a huge threat to their business. But we always knew the world would go data, and the carriers have woken up too."Stevens cites a new deal with French operator Bouygues Telecom as an example: the telco plans to preload Skype on every handset that it sells, with no limitations on usage and a high-profile co-marketing campaign around the rollout of its 4G network.Skype has challenges on mobile as well as opportunities, though. "Skype was never built for mobile, it was built for desktops. If you use it on iPhone or Android today, there's a decent tax on the phone in terms of battery and data usage," he says."We're in the process of re-architecting Skype to solve that, and the new Windows Phone version is the first time we're using push notifications to wake up the app, so it can truly be always-on and always connected."Rolling this out on Windows Phone first isn't a big surprise, given that Skype is now owned by Microsoft. Stevens says that Skype is benefitting from its parent company's infrastructure expertise."It's allowed us to use a lot of their technology architecture, with a good back-end for features like presence, messaging and chat. It's enabling us to take services off the device and put them in the cloud, and over the next year or so, you'll see us shift more of the mobile functionality into the cloud," he says.The second major trend for Skype is video, with the company expecting video calls to account for half of its usage in 2013, across all devices including mobiles and tablets."We're certainly seeing a lot more video usage on mobile, and that's making us think harder about what sort of video products we can build, like video messaging and video sharing," says Stevens. "We see a lot of things that consumers want to do with video, and of course the carriers are seeing it as a great way to show off 4G."Changes at Skype go beyond mobile. The company has been expanding rapidly in the UK, with nearly 400 people in its London office – more than 50% of whom are engineers, with 70 more open positions to be filled."We're hiring really good web services people as we take more and more features to the web, as well as realy good development and testing engineers, and mobile client developers," says Stevens. "While the engineers focus on product development, Skype's business teams continue to woo the mobile operators. While Stevens is bullish about carriers seeing Skype as a friend, dig a little deeper and it's clear there are still frustrations."Still in Europe – France, Germany and some parts of Italy – there's a sense of protectionism. They haven't really moved on to the future," he says."In France, our App Store rating is two stars, but in the US it's four. Why? Because in France the experience on the carrier network is so different: they don't like Skype so they add latency to it and make it difficult to run on their network. In the US, we're not being blocked by anyone."Skype is facing more competition than ever in 2013 on several fronts from apps focused on one or more of features including VoIP, video calls and messaging. Apps like Viber and WhatsApp have built huge user-bases in a short time.What has Skype learnt from these new competitors? "They were mobile-first: they started on mobile, and everything they did was about mobile," says Stevens."We came from desktop, so we've learned a lot around how we have to make it easy for people to sign up to Skype from a mobile device, to connect to friends more seamlessly, and to always be on."Is Skype threatened by these companies? Unsurprisingly, Stevens says not, pointing to his company's growth, and also the wider growth of all these forms of communication on mobile."We haven't seen any impact on our growth: we think it's incremental use that everyone's creating. People are communicating constantly now, so it's not a cannibalisation thing," he says."We see ourselves in a really strong video position, but Viber is in pure voice, WhatsApp is pure text, but we see this video position really exciting the carriers. Demonstrating 4G with video messaging, for example, is much more exciting than doing it with text messaging, with the best will in the world."How about Facebook? The company is a partner for Skype on one hand – Skype powers the social network's video chat feature – yet also an emerging competitor, having recently added a free VoIP calls feature to its iOS app in the US."Facebook is a strong partner, definitely not a competitor, but in areas we're definitely going to have an overlap," says Stevens."If they want to do voice-over-IP calling on the phone, that's their prerogative. It's hard to get people to change their behaviour though: I don't know if I want all my Facebook friends being able to call me at any time…"But he finishes by pointing again to a rising tide for everyone: a growth in both synchronous and asynchronous communication, with the rise of video calling rather putting a dent in the notion, popular in Silicon Valley a year or so ago, that people would rather message than talk to one another."People want to connect," says Stevens. "This human need to communicate is driving the growth. It's not substitutional. People are still talking!"
The chief executive of Apple acknowledged the growing alarm about the company's struggling stock price on Wednesday, but did little to answer questions about its product plans and how best to return cash to shareholders.Tim Cook, speaking at the technology giant's annual meeting in Cupertino, California, beat off a shareholder revolt over executive pay and defended the company's performance. But he gave few details about near-term plans except for a project to build a futuristic new headquarters by 2016.A third of shareholders voted against the company's plans for executive pay, although it was not enough to block the package. Cook received a 51% increase in pay to $1.4m in base salary and $4.17m in compensation this year. In 2011, his stock awards were worth over $378m. Chief financial officer Peter Oppenheimer, who was paid $1.4m last year, benefited from an a $68.6m pay package, mostly made up of stock awards.The issue of executive remuneration has become particularly inflamed because of Apple's falling stock price and its first dip in profits for over a decade. Cook addressed the sharp slide in Apple's stock price, which has lost 30% of its value in only five months. "I don't like it either," Cook said. "Neither does the board or management … but we're focused on the long term."Rumours had swirled for days before the meeting that Apple would "split" its stock or announce a plan to return some of its $137bn pile cash to shareholders. One analyst at Oracle Investment Research, Laurence Balter, released a report arguing that Apple should split its stock to temporarily raise the stock price. None of that happened, although Cook said the company was "in talks" about plans for the cash.The rumours provided a temporary boost to the company's stock price. But the lack of any substantive action resulted in a fallback: Apple's stock was down 0.25% to $447.86 in afternoon trading on Wednesday.Apple shares peaked at $705 in September last year, but they have since declined amid concerns hat there is no new breakthrough product in the pipeline, and in the face of intense competition from Samsung and other smartphones using Google's Android operating system.The declining share price has led to calls for Apple to share more of its $137bn mountain of cash and securities. The demands are being spearheaded by outspoken hedge fund manager David Einhorn, who has launched a lawsuit to force Apple to pay out some of its cash. Cook said again on Wednesday that Einhorn's lawsuit was a "silly sideshow". The underlying principle of cash distribution was something he and the board took seriously, he added.Einhorn was not spotted at the meeting on Wednesday, but Cook repeated that the company's board remained in "very very active" discussions about options for cash sharing.Michael Yoshikami, the CEO of Destination Wealth Management and an Apple shareholder, said he was not surprised that the company was relatively quiet about its plans. Apple has never used its shareholder meetings to break news, and in the past, late CEO Steve Jobs rarely even attended the gatherings."I absolutely did not expect him to say anything substantive," Yoshikami said of Cook. "This is not where news will be made, but people were so desperate for news that they were hoping that something would come out of the shareholder meeting that was shocking and exciting."Howard Lindzon, the founder of StockTwits and an Apple shareholder, also did not hold out much hope that the meeting would turn the tide in Apple shares."Come on, there's nothing that he could said at this meeting. He needed to act," Lindzon  said of Cook. "People are going to sell the stock – he says he doesn't care, and he should. He has to listen. It's not just a bunch of day traders complaining any more."Lindzon said he was disappointed at the amount of money he lost on Apple stock this year. "I own enough that I feel like a dummy," he said. "It's made so much and it's created so much loyalty that i just want to see an end of the drama here."
It's Thursday and I played Far Cry 3 until 1am which wasn't very clever on a school night.
A burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamOffice 365: To the cloud and beyond &gt;&gt; Microsoft TechNet BlogsToday we are celebrating a significant milestone with our latest release of Microsoft Office 365.When we first set out to build this release of Office, we knew it would be the boldest yet. We wanted to create that "over-the-shoulder envy" that makes your friend or the guy sitting next to you on the plane ask what you're using. In a recent survey, 96 percent of people who were asked said they'd recommend Office to a friend.File under Conversations That Never Happen: "Excuse me, but I couldn't help wondering what that suite of office applications is that you're using. It's called what? Made by who? Wow, it looks really promising. You'd recommend it? Really?"Court of Appeal bans Bayesian probability (and Sherlock Holmes) &gt;&gt; Understanding UncertaintyIn arecent judgementthe English Court of Appeal has not only rejected the Sherlock Holmes doctrine shown above, but also denied that probability can be used as an expression of uncertainty for events that have either happened or not.The case was a civil dispute about the cause of a fire, and concerned an appeal against a decision in the High Court by Judge Edwards-Stuart. Edwards-Stuart had essentially concluded that the fire had been started by a discarded cigarette, even though this seemed an unlikely event in itself, because the other two explanations were even more implausible.The Reverend Bayes would be spinning in his grave if he were to hear this sort of talk.May 2007: Settling this iPhone vs. LG Prada nonsense &gt;&gt; GizmodoBrian Lam:The LG is smaller, sure. It's a better size, for an un-smartphone.It's the nicest LG I've ever seen. But it often uses it's touchscreen to boring effect. There is no interface advantage here.Just in case you ever need a reference in a discussion.Samsung takes a page from Apple's Passbook with new Wallet app &gt;&gt; The VergeThe company showed off a few features of the new app during its developer keynote, and it's quite clear that Samsung took its design inspiration for Wallet from Apple's Passbook (even down to the icon that Samsung used). Currently, Wallet is only available as a preview for developers, who can download the SDK and API guides for it now, and the app itself will be available in the near future. Samsung says that it has lined up partnerships with Walgreens, Belly, Major League Baseball Advanced Media, Expedia, Booking.com, Hotels.com, and Lufthansa for the app's launch, but it won't be integrated any NFC payment features into Wallet, despite its new partnership with Visa's PayWave service.When we asked why this was the case, Samsung said retailers prefer barcodes over NFC because they don't have to install any new infrastructure to support it.Let's hope they've actually cloned Apple's Passbook API: then we might start seeing some real-life uses.Adobe tells users to update Flash Player for the third time this month &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityHow many times has Adobe Flash had to be updated on your computer this month?The (perhaps surprising) answer is three. And let's not forget that February is the shortest month of the year.But we don't begrudge it for such essential software, do we?Lousy ABC cryptography cracked in seconds as Aussie passwords are exposed &gt;&gt; Troy Hunt45 seconds. That's how long it took to crack 53% of the [Australian Broadcasting Corporation's] now very public password database. That's more than half of the almost 50,000 passwords that werepublicly exposed today. How the passwords (among other data) were exposed is yet to play out, but what we now know for sure is that the mechanism the ABC used to protect these credentials was woefully inadequate.In case you're wondering, the Guardian's encryption system for user passwords is different from ABC's, and very substantially harder to crack.Before VFX &gt;&gt; TumblrHow the films look before the digital graphics artists work their magic.Good Technology's Q4 2012 device activation report shows Apple continues to dominate the enterprise &gt;&gt; Good TechnologyThis quarter's report showed a clear preference for iOS devices, which accounted for 77% of all activations and captured eight of the top ten spots on the most popular device list this quarter. While Android activations dropped 6.3% as compared to Q4 2011, they still accounted for 22.7% of all activations for the quarter, which were primarily driven by Android tablets. Windows Phone devices came in a distant third for the quarter, capturing just 0.5% of overall activations.These figures don't include BlackBerry devices, which have their own enterprise security. Samsung takes two of the three spots for Android activations. (See if you can guess the other before you read.)China white-box tablet players struggling for survival &gt;&gt; DigitimesDue to fierce competition from first-tier brand vendors, several China-based white-box tablet players in Shenzhen, China have reportedly gone bankrupt, while remaining ones are also struggling to survive, according to sources from the upstream supply chain.Global tablet shipments are expected to grow from 120-130m units in 2012 to 180-240m in 2013 with 7-inch models to account for 45-60% of the volume. China's white-box tablet shipments are estimated at around 40-60m units in 2012, growing from 14m units in 2011.Google's and Amazon's US$199 tablets as well as Acer's and Asustek Computer's entry-level tablets, especially Acer's NT$5,000 (US$169) Iconia B1, are all strong competitors of white-box tablets. White-box players have difficulties dropping their prices further.Due to quality issues, white-box players usually have a higher product return rate than first-tier vendors, the sources explained. With slim gross margins, white-box players are at high risks of going bankrupt, the sources added.The "China effect" isn't made clear in analysts' figures about Android tablets, but barely any of those sold in China will be "Google Android"; they'll use AOSP (Android Open Source Platform) and local, not Google, services.Google's Evil Plan Is Simple (and not so evil) &gt;&gt; AJ KohnInstead of talking about all of these natural business moves and conjuring up some nefarious plot, I want to talk about Google's real strategy. Here's the truth. Here's Google's plan.Get people to use the Internet more.That's it. The more time people spend on the Internet the more time they'll engage in revenue generating activities [for Google] such as viewing and clicking display ads and performing searches.And then goes on to analyse Google's products in the light of this analysis. It's completely correct, but people tend to overlook it in favour of more complex "strategies".Apple Is beta-testing an update that kills evasi0n jailbreak &gt;&gt; ForbesLate last week Apple released an update for iOS to developers in beta that prevents the use of the popular jailbreak software evasi0n, according to one of evasi0n's creators who tested the patch over the weekend, David Wang.Wang tells me that he's analyzed the 6.1.3 beta 2 update and found that it patches at least one of the five bugs the jailbreak exploits, namely a flaw in the operating system's time zone settings. The beta update likely signals the end of using evasi0n to hack new or updated devices after the update is released to users, says Wang, who says he's still testing the patch to see which other vulnerabilities exploited by the jailbreak might no longer exist in the new operating system."If one of the vulnerabilities doesn't work, evasi0n doesn't work," he says.Though that isn't the end of the story.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
In the days before smartphones attracted the sort of media attention that previously only attached itself to film premieres and Hollywood stars, the annual Mobile World Congress trade show in Barcelona used to be the place to launch a new phone.All that has changed, but the Barcelona show remains a favourite place to spot the coming technology trends. In a complex so large that travelator conveyor belts were installed to ferry visitors between the exhibition halls, the multitude of new gadgets on display can be bewildering. Cut through the noise and a few bright ideas emerge. Here are six of the best – and here are some of the best:Waterproof phonesWhether they are left outside in the rain, put through the washing machine or dropped down the toilet, many phones meet soggy ends. Given that water damage is one of the most common reasons for mobile insurance claims, surprisingly few smartphones are sold as water resistant. That could be about to change. Motorola and Alcatel One Touch are manufacturing waterproof phones with the help of P2i – a business established to commercialise technologies developed by the UK government's defence science &amp; technology laboratory. In the US, phone owners are doing it themselves for $60 (£40). Liquipel installs booths in phone shops that use a vacuum chamber, gas and a bit of heat to coat the inside and outside of a phone with a protective layer 1,000 times thinner than a human hair.Remote-control homesWith intelligent fridges, robot hover-vacuum cleaners and carpets that come complete with computer chips in the tufts send out a signal saying when they need cleaning, the remote-control home is beginning to move out of the realm of science fiction. The smartphone should soon allow us to remotely lock the front door, feed the pets while on holiday and check what food is in the fridge while at work. But the technology is not quite tiptop yet: LG's flying saucer-shaped vacuum cleaner is more entertaining than it is functional, and there is no robot monitoring the contents of its smart fridge – a list still has to be laboriously updated by hand.Glove-friendly touch screensAnswering a call or using a phone map outside on a cold winter's day need no longer mean the hassle of removing gloves -or the purchase of touchscreen compatible mittens. Huawei's flagship Ascend P2, launched this week, and Nokia's Lumia 920 are both responsive to fabric as well as skin. Prodding the Huawei handset with an index finger covered by thick coat fabric proved this was not an empty claim – but begloved text typing probably remains a pipe dream for now.3D printed phone casesDescribed as the closest thing to teleportation, the most sophisticated 3D printers can copy an object in one location and reproduce it millimetre for millimetre in another.These costly machines are rarely spotted outside design studios, but a company called Makerbot.com has made scaled-down versions designed for the home.Nokia is using them to let customers design personalised phone cases. The material being used is a corn-based plastic that is also biodegradable.  Those who don't want to buy a 3D printer can select their case colour, texture and inscriptions online and have the finished product sent in the post.Voice-controlled car radioShouting  at the radio could soon be normal behaviour. Ford has teamed up with the world's largest music-streaming library, Spotify, to create a voice-controlled radio for the car. The technology connects the phone to the dashboard and is activated by a button on the steering wheel. So far it only works with the iPhone and in one Ford model, but that could change if the idea catches on.Budget smartphonesWith Apple and Samsung selling most of the world's expensive phones, Nokia's flagship models have struggled to attract buyers. This year, it has set its sights firmly at the budget end of the market, but with phones that have many of the features found higher up the food chain.Nokia used the Mobile World Congress to launch the €139 (£120) Lumia 520, which goes on sale in Europe in the second quarter of this year. There is just one camera, which is rear facing so no video Skype calls, but it does come with Nokia's highly rated maps, which give spoken directions just like a satnav. For under £100, a panoply of Android handsets are now available too, which Google claims offer the full smartphone experience.Alternative operating systemsAnyone wanting to buy a high-end smartphone is already spoilt for choice, with Apple Google Microsoft and Blackberry already promoting their own interfaces with matching app stores. But web content producers, mobile networks and handset companies are now backingFirefox and Tizen and their plan is to destroy the app store as we know it.  Once bought by the user, the promise is these apps will work on any operating system, handing control of their content back to the customer.
