It's time for our weekly roundup of new and notable iOS apps – those released for the first time this week, or which have been newly ported from iPhone to iPad (or vice versa).The roundup includes apps and games, and the pricing in brackets relates to the initial download – some apps listed as free may include in-app purchases. The Android roundup waspublished earlier in the day.Here's this week's pick of the App Store:Sunrise Calendar (Free)The march of apps aiming to replace Apple's preloaded tools on your iPhone continues. Sunrise is a very slick calendar app designed to work with Google Calendar, Facebook and LinkedIn (the latter two are optional though) to keep you organised. It's very intuitive to use. The fear, as with any app like this, is that a bigger technology company will quickly buy and mothball it.iPhoneJackie Junko (£2.99)This lovely app from developer Springy Thingy popped up in my App Store RSS feeds and immediately stood out for its craft. It's a storybook app for children based on boats and animals, with 15 pages of interactivity and animation for kids to play with.iPadTraktor DJ (£13.99)Profiledat more length earlier in the week, Traktor DJ is the work of Native Instruments: an iPad DJing app based on its popular Traktor software and hardware. Forget virtual decks: this is all based around multi-touch manipulation of waveforms to mix, scratch and loop, with clever Dropbox syncing for professional DJs to use it as a preparation tool.iPadRed Nose Day In Your Pocket (Free)Comic Relief is gearing up for its UK comedy telethon on 15 March, with this official app offering news, videos and mini-games to get viewers engaged before the event. Stephen Fry, Keith Lemon and Mary Berry all make appearances.iPhoneA Midsummer Night's Dream: Explore Shakespeare (£9.99)This is part of Cambridge University Press' series of digital Shakespeare plays, offering the full text of A Midsummer Night's Dream along with an audio performance, photos of professional productions, glossary definitions, notes, word-clouds for each scene, theme-lines to navigate the key themes, and suggested activities. It sits alongside another new releasefor Twelfth Night.iPadMotor World: Car Factory (Free)Freemium game Motor World: Car Factory takes its visual cues from Tiny Tower and Pocket Planes, as you marshal a factory of pixelly people to build cars, upgrading your facilities as you go. There's a CSR Racing-style mini-game where you race, and a genuine addiction factor – I write this as someone who was playing it at 2am earlier this week.iPhoneO2 Matchday (Free)An intriguing app from O2 UK for rugby fans, designed to be used while watching England's home games in the Six Nations tournament. The app streams live audio from the match referee's mic, so you can listen to every shout. Live stats, scores and squads are also included, as well as match previews beforehand. Warning: it won't work if you're actually at Twickenham for the games.iPhoneAlbumatic (Free)Will the next big thing in mobile photo-sharing be collaborative albums with friends? Several startups are hoping so, with Albumatic the latest example. The idea: you and friends nearby take photos to be stored together in online albums, with other friends able to watch them in real-time as the pics flow in.iPhoneHaze (£0.69)Yet another app hoping to consign an Apple app to your Junk folder. Haze is a weather app that strips out clutter to focus on temperature, rain chances, forecasts and windchills, all with a simple swipe-based interface. Oh, and pretty colours, which always helps. Well, it helps when the forecast is grey and wet, anyway.iPhoneAudiobooks from Audible (Free)Amazon's audiobooks service Audible has been available on iPhone for a while, but it's now been ported to iPad – which arguably is just as useful a device for listening to literature. As on iPhone, the app offers a catalogue of more than 80k audiobooks to download to the device.iPadWanderer:War Song (£1.49)More fun for fans of the "well-tooled hero fights monsters several times bigger than him" school of combat games (see also: Infinity Blade). Developed using the Unreal Engine 3, the scenery and beasties look marvellous, while its promise that you can move freely during combat may appeal to gamers looking for a new, less-on-rails challenge.iPhone / iPadEmma in Africa – Book Puzzle (Free)Another children's app this, and just as well-crafted. Emma in Africa combines storytelling – about a pre-school-aged explorer travelling in Africa – with digital shape puzzles. If your children have been entranced by David Attenborough's Africa TV series, Emma may be the perfect interactive follow-up.iPadWalkonomics (Free)This is a really good idea: an app that gets people to rate the "pedestrian-friendliness" of streets, or just browse the database of other users' ratings. Streets are scored out of five in a range of categories: road safety, hilliness, fear of crime and so on. It works for England, New York and San Francisco.iPhoneSterling (£1.49)I like the idea of Sterling, a "simple budget planner" app that gets you to input rough calculations about spending and saving, complete with a "What If?" feature that lets you mess around with figures when trying to plan ahead, without actually changing the real numbers.iPhoneVillage Voice (Free)US publication Village Voice has released a new app that's less a magazine, and more a city-guide. It includes its events and concert calendar, as well as blogs on local New York politics, music, food and arts. Photo slideshows and daily deals are also included: it looks an invaluable app for anyone travelling to the Big Apple.iPhoneHell Yeah! Pocket Inferno (£0.69)This game is published by Sega, and developed by the team behind console indie game Hell Yeah! Wrath of the Dead Rabbit. It sees you playing Ash – "a devil rabbit and the prince of Hell" – leaping through a side-scrolling game seeing off monsters. 50 levels are included, as are in-app purchases.iPhone / iPadA Troop is a Group of Monkeys (£1.49)Yes, it is. Different to a pandemonium of parrots or an ostentation of peacocks, as you'll know. Or will you? This marvellous children's app aims to teach kids the plural nouns for various animals, aided by music and rhyme. Oh, and by the animals themselves, who have bags of character. Notes for teachers and parents are also included.iPadMokriya Craigslist (Free)This app isn't from listings website Craigslist itself, but it IS "officially licensed" by the company. What's more, it's very slickly designed – more so than the site by a long chalk. The app helps you browse listings, including by location, while setting alerts and push notifications for specific kinds. You can also post your own listings from within the app.iPhoneShowScoop Concerts (Free)Yes, that band you're going to see live sound good on record, but what if their gigs are shambolic? ShowScoop is a website (and now an app) trying to provide this information. It encourages gig-goers to rate bands on metrics like stage performance, crowd interaction and sound quality. It's almost a Metacritic for live music.iPhoneThe Gods: Rebellion (£0.69)Finally this week, one more entry in the Mythical theme / giant monsters / big-sworded hero genre, from Chillingo. It's an action game taking its cues from God of War, Infinity Blade and others, with Unreal-powered graphics and in-app purchases to boost your chances if necessary.iPhone / iPadThat's this week's selection, but what apps are you enjoying on iOS this week? Make your recommendations or comment on the apps listed above in the Comments section.
BlackBerry may only have sold about 300,000 of its new Z10 smartphone with its make-or-break BB10 software by the end of its fiscal year on 2 March, analysts say – a far cry from earlier estimates of up to 1.75m, and leaving the company at risk of a fifth loss-making quarter in a row.Both Cannacord Genuity and Pacific Crest have slashed their estimates for the number of handsets sold through retailers after carrying out their own investigations with both shops and supply chain sources.That in turn has made them pessimistic on BlackBerry's chances of emerging from its struggles and challenging Nokia and Microsoft for third place in the smartphone wars. Some doubt whether the company will be able to continue and turn the corner to profit."There is no line of sight to profitability; we remains sellers of [shares in] BlackBerry," wrote Pacific Crest's analyst."Any benefit from the Z10 is likely to be at least partly offset by cannibalisation of [the high-end BlackBerry] Bold 9900 sales, which our checks indicate have declined materially since the Z10's launch." Pacific Crest reckons that between 1m and 1.5m Z10 units will be shipped to retailers – though not sold – by the end of the fiscal year, compared to early expectations of 3 to 4m units.That would be in line with the slow start made by Nokia when it first launched its Lumia line of Windows Phone handsets in October 2010,notes Sameer Singh, head analyst at BitChemy Ventures. "I wouldn't say I'm surprised by these figures, as I always expected BB10 to fare worse than the Lumia portfolio. For BB10 to have any shot of viability, the devices should have been released at lower price points, targeted at emerging markets."With BlackBerry's quarterly handset shipments having halved over the past year, from 14.1m in the quarter to November 2011 to just 6.9m in the quarter to November 2012, the company sorely needs a hit with the new BB10 handsets. The Z10 is the first of two; a keyboard-equipped Q10 is scheduled for launch later this year.Part of the reason for the small shipment and sales figure for the Z10 is that it was released in a limited number of countries – and crucially will not be for sale in the US before mid-March.But BlackBerry will soon run into challenges from Samsung, which is expected to launch a new version of its flagship Galaxy S smartphone, and possibly from Apple, where speculation is mounting that a cheaper version of the iPhone could be announced by mid-year.BlackBerry's chief executive Thorsten Heinslaunched the new touchscreen Z10on 30 January, and the firm had them in shops in the UK and Canada the next day, with sales incentives at some including a free BlackBerry PlayBook tablet.Within a week, Heins was saying that sales of the Z10 had been three times better than any previous UK phone launch for the company, and that first-day sales in Canada were 50% better than any new BlackBerry launch – but did not give figures. In interviews that week, he said sales were "beyond expectations" and that the white model was sold out, and the black model "hard to stock up again", in what he called "very encouraging" news.But when news outlets contacted stores, they were told there were plenty of the handsets available.Singh said that the company badly needs to do well in emerging markets, where it has seen its strongest growth in sales volume over the past year: "Without that boost, BlackBerry has no shot of achieving the required three to four time the estimated BB10 sales – although, I assume that multiple would be much larger at lower price points and margins. In any case, as I said, BlackBerry 10 is too little, too late."BlackBerry did not have a comment as this story was prepared for publication.
It's time for our weekly roundup of new and notable Android apps – those released for the first time this week, or which have been newly ported from smartphones to tablets (or vice versa).The roundup includes apps and games, and the pricing in brackets relates to the initial download – some apps listed as free may include in-app purchases. The iOS roundup will follow later in the day.Here's this week's pick of the Google Play store:BBC Sport (Free)The Beeb has ported its iOS sports app to Android smartphones and tablets, promising news, live text commentary, fixtures and tables, and a mixture of live and on-demand video and audio from a range of events. The BBC is promising more features to be added in the coming months, including team customisation and homescreen widgets.Pocket Stables (£2.99)I can't over-stress how obsessed I get with every new simulation game from Japanese developer KairoSoft, even though they all use a pretty similar formula. Here, you're managing a racehorse ranch, training up horses to win prizes, while breeding new colts. Looks like a real battery-chewer (the game, not the horses – that wouldn't be healthy).Hotel Tonight (Free)HotelTonight's same-day hotel bookings app has been available on Android smartphones for a while, but it's now been redesigned for Google-powered tablets. Supporting cities in the US and abroad – 16 in Europe including London, Dublin, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Liverpool, Manchester and Birmingham – it puts the emphasis on photography of hotels, and promises bookings in less than eight seconds when time's a pressure.Newscover (Free)Flipboard, News360, Zite... Android is spoilt for choice when it comes to news aggregation/discovery apps. Newscover is the latest, promising to learn your interests as you read news stories, then serve up more articles it thinks you'll like. It's available in Spanish and English versions, with the option to log in using Twitter and Facebook for further personalisation.Mokriya Craigslist (Free)This app isn't from listings website Craigslist itself, but it IS "officially licensed" by the company. What's more, it's very slickly designed – more so than the site by a long chalk. The app helps you browse listings, including by location, while setting alerts and push notifications for specific kinds. You can also post your own listings from within the app.Snapdragon BatteryGuru (Free)If your Android smartphone has one of Qualcomm's Snapdragon processors inside, this new (beta) app aims to eke out more battery time and optimise the device – simply by running in the background and adapting to usage. Very useful, although I wonder how many people who could benefit won't, because they don't know what chips are inside their phone.Alien Breed (£2.99)Retro treat of the week comes from Team 17 with an Android remake of its top-down shooter Alien Breed, which came out in 1991 originally. The game offers a choice of classic and enhanced modes – beefier graphics and sound in the latter, as well as touch-tweaked controls – as well as four new levels, and social leaderboards.Sidebar Pro (£1.28)There's some very good buzz around Sidebar, an app to help Android users multi-task with a sidebar of their most frequently-used apps. "Simply swipe in from the edge of the screen to gain instant access to the apps you use most," as the Google Play listing puts it.The Sandbox (Free)The Sandbox is one of a clutch of pixel-art creation-games to have appeared in recent months, inspired by Minecraft but with an emphasis on 2D worlds rather than 3D. The game offers 71 levels to work through, as you trigger chemical reactions, generate lifeforms and try to build the Pyramids. Wonderful stuff.Moment.me (Free)Moment.me is one of the apps trying to aggregate people's social posts around specific events and locations. Which sounds like tech-pseudy rubbish, I know, but there's something to it: the app gathers photos, tweets and videos from an event and sorts them into collections, with the ability to cluster friends for this purpose too.Hexen GLES (£1.31)Another famous game comes to Android: a 3D hardware-accelerated port of first-person title Hexen, released by developer Kokak. And while it's probably something for more technical users comfortable with downloading IWAD files, it's still good to see.B&amp;Q Club (Free)British retailer B&amp;Q has worked with Grapple Mobile on this app for its loyalty club, serving up offers and discounts to members, while letting newcomers sign up from their phones. Competitions and local store details are also included.Sporos (Free)Puzzle game Sporos wants to stretch your brain, as you light up cells in patterns using a "sporos" seed, dragging pieces around the screen to the strains of "soothing electronic music". Hundreds of levels should provide a decent challenge.Flashout 3D (£1.29)Android isn't just about retro games this week. Flashout 3D is new, albeit clearly influenced by Wipeout. It's a futuristic racing game with lots of ships, tracks and upgrades to explore, and an intriguing-sounding "interactive equalizer" feature that matches the in-game music to the on-track visuals.BB - Trouble with Chores (£1.93)Available globally but possibly of most interest to Americans who grew up with the Berenstain Bears books, this is a storybook app for children that sees Papa Bear and his cubs trying to get out of helping Mama Bear with the housework. Expect voice narration, word-highlighting to help young readers, and (possibly) less rampantly-sexist 4-8 year-olds as a result.Manos: The Hands of Fate (£1.60)Okay, Android is quite a lot about retro games this week. Manos: The Hands of Fate is a new title that looks like an old one: "An homage to the great games you remember from your childhood... When the streets were filled with bats, ghosts and Frankenstein monsters".What a Bad Dream (£0.64)Another famous American storybook series – Little Critter – is being digitised for smartphones and tablets by publisher Oceanhouse Media. This latest app sees him having a bad dream, with similar voice narration and reading features to the Berenstain Bears app. This time, the target audience is 2-5 year-olds.Greenify *ROOT* (Free)As the name makes clear, this is an app for rooted Android devices only (if you're not aware of the phenomenon,Wikipedia is your friend, by the way). Greenify promises to keep your smartphone running smoothly, including booting "bad behaving apps into hibernation" if they're sucking up battery life or hogging the memory.Perfect365 (Free)Who needs physical cosmetic surgery, when digital face-tweaking is now A Thing? That's the idea behind Perfect365, in a way: a way to "apply a natural touch-up or a sizzling makeover" to facial photos on an Android device, removing blemishes, whitening teeth and even enhancing noses and lifting cheeks. The results can be shared on social networks, for friends to stare quizzically at.Bankers Ville: Tower Defense (Free)"First they (bankers) took everything and now they want more," explains the Google Play listing for this topical tower defence game. Not just ordinary bankers, of course: zombie bankers. Developer La Factoria d'Imatges says it'll donate a portion of its profits to charity, too.That's this week's selection, but what apps are you enjoying on Android this week? Make your recommendations or comment on the apps listed above in the Comments section.
A Google doodle has been unveiled today to mark what would have been the 88th birthday ofcult author and illustrator Edward Gorey.Gorey, who died in April 2000 at the age of 75, was known for often macabre drawings and picture-stories which gained him a worldwide cult following. The doodle features six cartoonish pictures spelling out the name of the search engine in his surreal cartoonish style.Gorey's work inspired the film director Tim Burton and the goth rock band Nine Inch Nails. His macabre books frequently showed children or other hapless victims succumbing to an undeserved death.As well as his own picture story books, the Chicago-born artist illustrated works by authors including Samuel Beckett, TS Eliot, Edward Lear and Muriel Spark, as well as drawing new pictures for Aesop's fables and the Brer Rabbit stories.Gorey was an eccentric. In the 25 years between 1957 and 1982 he did not miss a performance by the New York City Ballet, attending in an outfit consisting of an enormous fur coat and white tennis shoes.His melodramatically sinister sets and costumes for the 1977 Broadway production of Dracula netted him a Tony Award for costume design.
No one should have expected a price. Possibly we shouldn't have expected a launch date or an actual console either. This is the way Sony rolls.Think back to 2005 if you can. The PS3 reveal. There was an event early in the year to announce the console, then another at E3 to actually provide lots of the intrinsic detail. The same thing happened with the PS2. And with the original machine, Sony's first press releases didn't even name it. So anyone who sat through last night's two-hour extravaganza thinking "hang on, what does it LOOK like?" just hasn't been to enough Sony hardware reveals. Or indeed, enough games console reveals, full stop. Because, pretty much, this is how they all roll. When Nintendo first showed off the Wii U, most people in the audience didn't understand whether it was just a new controller or not.What's insideAnyway, here's what we do know. The internals are what we thought – eight AMD cores in conjunction with an advanced AMD GPU, both on the same piece of silicon, together with a generous 8GB of memory. My sources suggest the RAM was doubled in the last months of development, possibly to compete with rumours coming out of the Xbox 720 camp. Whatever, it's a pretty powerful PC set-up that has been designed and configured in conjunction with developers all over the world. This is a really important point, and when I spoke to Guerrilla and Evolution studios after the press briefing, they conformed it: the PS4 has been a joint design venture between Sony and the development community – game makers were consulted at every stage; they tested and reviewed prototypes, they suggested changes. This was the thinking that built the original PlayStation.Mark Cerny, lead system architect for the Sony Playstation. Photograph: Frank Franklin II/AP PhotoThe new Dual Shock 4 features improved rumble, a touchpad, headphone socket (for in-game chat), a light bar for personalised motion controls and re-designed triggers and analogue sticks. This is another bit that developers got to critique. Guerrilla's people say they pushed hard for better triggers and a headphone port. They wanted their next Killzone game to be more social and more precise.Sharing and convenienceGetting Mark Cerny, a veteran game designer, on board to plan the architecture was a smart move – he's a thoughtful technical evangelist. He pushed the social and convenience elements of the PS4. The fact that game downloads will be playable from the moment the first bit hits your hard drive; that in fact, all the usual bottlenecks have been dispensed with the pipeline, from PS Store to playing a game. I like the idea that you'll be able to instantaneously try out titles on the PS Store digital shopfront, accessing demos with a touch of the X button. I like the idea of the secondary processor that manages downloads as you play, so you won't have to wait 30 minutes for the latest update when all you want to do is hammer through a shooter for an hour.Expectant journos wait for the launch event to get under way. Photograph: Brendan Mcdermid/ReutersI'm less convinced about some of the sharing stuff. I don't really want to hit a button to spam my friends with game footage, but then I like the idea of being able to share a livestream of my game so I can call on people to help when I get stuck. Not that I ever get stuck of course. But my sons might. And when I'm away from home, with the PS4, they'd be able to share a section of, say, Lego Batman 3 with me and I could take the controls remotely and show them how to do it. It's a sweet little idea that may grow into something more interesting. Vitally for some, the PS4 won't require an internet connection andit won't block used games.The gamesKillzone: Shadow Fall is a definite launch title, but very little else has been confirmed for the first day. Driveclub might be, but the developers say it's an aim rather than a promise. Cerny's game Knack looked … okay. Infamous: Second Son seemed like Infamous with lots of nice explosion effects. Capcom showed its Panta Rhei engine with a new Dar Souls/Dragons Dogma lookalike named Deep Down. The Square Enix demo had already been seen at E3, Watchdogs from Ubisoft was, in effect, what we saw at E3 – an interesting paranoid surveillance thriller. It was a surprise to see indie darling Jonathan Blow on stage giving a prickly demo of his cerebral island adventure title The Witness – but refreshing nonetheless.Hundreds of developers have signed up to create games for the PS4 and all the major publishers are onboard (EA was notable by its absence on the stage last night though). Also not there: Last Guardian, Team Ico's semi-mythical follow up to Shadow of the Colossus. We're disappointed, but not at all surprised.Built for gamers by gamersEssentially this was a big old teaser. We have a general overview of the PS4 now. We know it's a social machine, but also a personal one. It will apparently learn from you and change the dashboard accordingly. That's good, because I don't want LoveFilm ads assaulting me every time I switch a console on. Indeed, a single phrase stuck out on the night. This is a machine built by gamers for gamers. For the last five years, console makers have been trying to push their machines as all-round living room entertainment devices. Game has become almost a dirty world, just another experience on the production line of digital content.But games aren't like that, and the people who make them aren't either. The big transition here is from obsessing over dominating your lounge. Now Sony wants to dominate your life – hence all the connectivity with smartphones and tablets. We've been promised pervasive gaming experiences for years – might it happen now? Might we have RPGs that let you fiddle with stats and inventories while you're on the bus? We're definitely going to get remote play – with the Vita acting as a second screen allowing you to pick up on games when someone else wrestles the main TV from you. That's quite nice. But where does all this connectivity lead?So yes, it'll be E3 for the landmark statements – for price, release date and design. That's a more controlled environment and it will allow hands-on experiences for the assembled press. That's how these things roll. Last night wasn't the bang some expected, but it wasn't the whimper that some are reporting. It was an old school hardware press conference. It looked to the future without providing it. Now it's time for the pay off.
Google made an ambitious assault on the high-end laptop market on Thursday, confirming months of rumour by announcing the Chromebook Pixel, which features a large-format, high resolution touchscreen.Demonstrating the new Pixel, Chrome head Sundar Pichai said Google's aim had been to make a device to satisfy developers and early adopters."This is about power users. Some of them buy Mac, some buy Windows 8. We wanted to make sure Chrome OS is in that segment," said Pichai. The high resolution touchscreen is designed to help developers build apps and services that work seamlessly across multiple devices. "This is the future - high resolution and touchscreen, and we're behind in the laptop world," he said. "We want to push the ecosystem and web development forward, so this can be thought of as a reference device, in the same way as the Nexus, that will inspire a whole new generation of devices."Reading on mobile?See the Chromebook Pixel promo video hereGoogle has said that it does not think in terms of market share, but a high-end laptop puts it in direct competition with Apple, particularly with the Macbook Air. Pichai insisted the Pixel offered better specifications for its price.Pichai said: "It will stand up well against a Macbook Air. Air doesn't have touchscreen or a high resolution screen, so with Pixel you get a lot for your money."The Pixel's screen is higher than conventional laptop screens at a 3:2 ratio or 2560 x 1700, at 239 pixels per inch. A new Google Plus Photo app, launching in the Chrome store in three weeks, is designed to showcase the screen, and will allow users to browse and organise photos offline as well as share them.Pichai also referred to a target business audience where companies are using cloud applications including Google Apps, and said Google's June 2012 acquisition of QuickOffice would mean Word and Excel documents can be integrated.Google's first Chromebook, the low-end CR-48, was released with Google branding, but subsequent models featured branding from partners Samsung, Acer, Lenovo and HP. The first Pixel has also been designed and manufactured by Google, and is intended to be a 'reference device' for partners.The laptop shell has been streamlined to hide cooling vents, screw fittings and speakers, part of a principle of making it as inconspicuous as possible, while the software is designed to make access to web content simple. Specifications include an Intel i5 processor, a 32GB or 64GB solid state drive and one terabyte of Google Drive storage for three years. Battery life, despite the energy-sapping high resolution screen, is claimed to be 5 hours.Pixel isavailable to orderin the UK from Google Play for £1049, with shipping in April.
Friday, I'm in... Britain again. How about you?
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWhy Apple doesn't talk, vol. 3: Sony's PlayStation 4 announcement &gt;&gt; Apple OutsiderMatt Drance:People would have happily waited longer for a comprehensive, exciting product launch. It's been nearly seven years since the last PlayStation was revealed; would another month or two have tipped some scale? Whoever this was aimed at — developers, hardcore gamers, casual gamers — the utter lack of usable information makes the timing questionable at best.There are also competitive repercussions: Sony has now shown its hand way ahead of time. Microsoft is not expected to announce its next-generation Xbox until E3 in June, leaving more than three months to respond accordingly. If Sony's offering ends up superior to the Xbox when that announcement happens, then Sony hasn't gained much, because we still don't know what it has or what it can do, and it'll be months-old news. If Sony's offering ends up inferior, it will be upstaged and stale.Writeup on nbc.com distributing Citadel malware &gt;&gt; Fox-IT International blogAt 16:43 CET, this afternoon we noticed that the NBC.com website links to the redkit exploit kit that is spreading Citadel malware, targeting US financials institutions. This version of Citadel is only recognizable by 3 out of the 46 antivirus programs on virustotal.com.Simply everywhere. Commercial, not state-sponsored, hacking.Malware attack on Apple said to come from eastern Europe &gt;&gt; BloombergThis is the hack of the iPhoneSDK site which also affected Facebook and Twitter:Investigators suspect that the hackers are a criminal group based in Russia or Eastern Europe, and have tracked at least one server being used by the group to a hosting company in the Ukraine. Other evidence, including the malware used in the attack, also suggest it is the work of cyber criminals rather than state-sponsored espionage from China, two people familiar with the investigation said.PlayStation 4 launch: no glitz, just an old school press conference &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukOur own Keith Stuart:No one should have expected a price. Possibly we shouldn't have expected a launch date or an actual console either. This is the way Sony rolls.Think back to 2005 if you can. The PS3 reveal. There was an event early in the year to announce the console, then another at E3 to actually provide lots of the intrinsic detail. The same thing happened with the PS2. And with the original machine, Sony's first press releases didn't even name it. So anyone who sat through last night's two-hour extravaganza thinking "hang on, what does it LOOK like?" just hasn't been to enough Sony hardware reveals.Secretly? We were hoping for a price, console and date. Like the handset and tablet makers usually do. Because that's who Sony is up against now - make no mistake.Samsung Copy &amp; Paste Bug (AKA Never Trust Samsung) &gt;&gt; Terence Eden has a BlogSounds crazy, doesn't it? If you copy and paste text more than 20 times, your phone will restart! Some people have reported more severe crashes than that - but for me it is only (!) a soft restart. This affects the Galaxy Note II, as well as the SIII and Note tablet. Other Samsung products may also be broken in this manner…You must be a...Oh give it a rest! I'm an equal opportunity curmudgeon. I like Linux and generally favour Android, but I get pissed off at anyone who produces a shitty product and doesn't stand behind it.Samsung - either up your game, or get off the pitch.Researchers develop technique to remotely control cockroaches &gt;&gt; North Carolina State UniversityResearchers from North Carolina State University have developed a technique that uses an electronic interface to remotely control, or steer, cockroaches."Our aim was to determine whether we could create a wireless biological interface with cockroaches, which are robust and able to infiltrate small spaces," says Alper Bozkurt, an assistant professor of electrical engineering at NC State and co-author of a paper on the work. "Ultimately, we think this will allow us to create a mobile web of smart sensors that uses cockroaches to collect and transmit information, such as finding survivors in a building that's been destroyed by an earthquake."Anonymous helps researchers link hackers to Chinese army &gt;&gt; Huffington PostIn February 2011, Anonymous gained access to the website rootkit.com - an online forum where hackers and researchers share information about hacking techniques - andpublished personal data of more than 40,000 registered usersonline. The data included email and IP addresses.The breach was one of dozens by Anonymous over the past two years and gained relatively little media attention. But now, two years later, security researchers say the data was valuable in helping them find links between hackers and the Chinese military."We are fortunate to have access to the accounts disclosed from rootkit.com," the Mandiant report said.Anonymous' disclosure of the rookit.com information included an email and IP address for the username "uglygorilla." The IP information, which identifies the location from which the user is accessing the Internet, pinned the hacker to a place close to a 12-story office tower in Shanghai that researchers believe is the headquarters of P.L.A. Unit 61398 -- cyber warriors for the Chinese military.What's the phrase for collateral damage when it's collateral but isn't damage?Let me get this straight &gt;&gt; David ChartierOn ways to market.BlackBerry Z10 sales estimates slashed by 83% | BGRCanaccord Genuity analyst T. Michael Walkley had initially called for BlackBerry to sell about 1.75m BlackBerry Z10 smartphones in the February quarter. But after his checks following the phone's launch in the UK and Canada foundlimited initial supplyand softer than expected demand, the analyst slashed his estimates for the current quarter from 1.75m units to just 300,000…"With new BB10 smartphones launching in the US only in mid-March or later at subsidized prices no better than competing high-end Apple/Samsung smartphones, combined with our expectations for the Galaxy S IV to launch at a similar time frame in the US market, we are lowering our BB10 sales estimates for the February quarter and all of [BlackBerry fiscal year] 2014."BlackBerry's quarter ends at the end of February.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
In a conference call peppered with light metaphors and eccentric asides, the prominent activist investor David Einhorn continued his battle against Apple by laying out why the technology giant should deploy its $137bn cash hoard by giving its investors new shares that would pay "50 cents in dividends, every quarter, forever".The kind of shares Einhorn proposed are called "perpetual preferred shares". These shares would pay a dividend, like the common stock that is traded on a stock exchange, but they would be worth only $50 under Einhorn's plan and the dividend is smaller – only $2 per share per year, compared to Apple's current dividend of $10.60 per share per year.In a witty nod to Apple's naming conventions for its products, such as the iPod and the iPhone,Einhorn dubbed the new shares "iPrefs".Einhorn's push comes asApple and its shareholders become ever more baffled by the slide in the company's stock priceand work to forestall it.Apple CEO Tim Cook has made more appearances in order to boast about Apple's performance and instill confidence in investors. Einhorn is taking a mathematical route. He believes shareholders will reward Apple for giving them cash by pushing up the price of the stock. "Apple wants to keep its cake, and its shareholders can eat it too," he said.Einhorn presented slides suggesting that, under his plan, iPref shares would cost Apple $170m every three months, or $1.9bn a year, in dividend payments to investors. He plumped for it on the basis that Apple could lure a new class of investor that is looking for a small, safe income. "This opens up a whole new market for Apple," Einhorn said, noting that low interest rates have made people hungry for a way to make money on their investments. "For savers across the country, this product is very much needed."Einhorn said that Apple is profitable enough that it could pay the dividend out of profits and would not actually have to touch its stored cash pile or bring back any of its cash stored in overseas operations.Apple has strongly resisted Einhorn's efforts, which include a lawsuit aimed at getting the company to change its rules on shareholder rights. "Frankly, I find it bizarre that we would find ourselves being sued for doing something that's good for shareholders," Cook said at a Goldman Sachs conference last week. "I think it's a silly sideshow, honestly."Einhorn suggested that Apple's cash pile is a growing distraction to the company. He argued that Apple, which earns about $40bn in profits and has $137bn in cash, is not using its money effectively. One investor on the call compared Apple's cash hoard to "seven beautiful daughters that are locked up, that we want to date"."Companies view their self importance by the size of their bank accounts," Einhorn said, adding later that the company's "war vault" was hindering its stock price, which has been on a steady downwards slide since September. Apple shares are currently trading at around $447, down from $702 in September. As a result, the company's cash hoard is worth one-third of its market value."When a third of the value of a company is cash, it requires the amount of energy usually required for managing the business," Einhorn said.But some investors disputed Einhorn's view that Apple's enormous cash hoard is anomalous.Bespoke Investment Group, a trading firm, released a note disputing Einhorn's claim that Apple's bank account is too big relative to its market value. The note said: "Back in the early 2000s, Apple's cash as a percentage of market cap was above 50% for years. And during the financial crisis, Apple's cash got as high as 37%. Just something to be aware of as you hear all these calls for Apple to do something with its loot."Einhorn gave a nod to Apple's conservative bent towards cash by acknowledging that late CEO Steve Jobs, like Cook, preferred to keep a lot of the company's money in the bank. Einhorn attributed this to a common fear among technology companies that they don't have enough cash to withstand harsh market movements. "This is the one place where Tim Cook's predecessor was opposed to being innovative,"  Einhorn said.Einhorn, however, spun Cook's comments positively, highlighting Cook's suggestion that he would look carefully at the proposal.
New York's political and business leaders like to trumpet the city's burgeoning tech start-up scene, but leading figures in the sector have warned that growing beyond start-up phase is proving problematic.Panelists at a Social Media Week panel on the future of technology in the city warned Thursday that though the start-up ecosystem is vibrant, New York is unlikely ever to see a homegrown equivalent of the Silicon Valley-style behemoth such as Facebook or Google.Start ups have proliferated in recent years. Jonathan Bowles, executive director of the Center for An Urban Future, revealed numbers showing 486 startups had received venture funding over the past five years, and 15 of those had secured $50m or more."It's not a blip", Bowles said.But the panel stressed a need to encourage steady start-up growth over quantity of launches. Longtime venture capitalist Alan Patricof said that New York has an abundance of seed funding to initially launch a startup; the problem, however, is locating enough funding for a business to reach the next round."There's maybe too much [seed funding]", Patricof said. "A lot of startups we're seeing are imitative of other operations around."New York's healthy startup scene is a talking point often reiterated by Mayor Michael Bloomberg and his digital staff. Bloomberg visited Buzzfeed, one ofthe most visible start-ups in New York Cityto advocate for the city'sMade in NYprogram Tuesday –482 businessesare registered on the group's directory."Since I'm going to be unemployed in 315 days I'm starting to pay more attention to this now", Bloomberg said as his team unveiled anew web resourcefor entrepreneurs.Ann Li, managing director of the New York City Economic Development, said that the startup scene is notable and long-awaited, but added that one significant challenge for the city was encouraging talent to work at a startup, instead of launching a new one."Everybody wants to start a company", Li said, "but the company needs talent in order to grow."Panelists said that two significant barriers to fostering steady growth included encouraging homegrown talent and ensuring that New York universities incentivized graduates to remain in the city to launch companies, two things currently not "clicking" in New York's tech community, according to Bowles.The third challenge echoed by panelists isn't at all unique to the tech scene: rent."Very few people are talking about housing and affordability as an issue going forward", Bowles said. "The vast majority of average workers are not making six figures."
Samsung has come under fire from developers and users of its Android smartphones and tablets for failing to fix a longstanding bug that crashes any app if the clipboard has previously been used to copy more than 20 items of data.The only way users can work around the bug, first spotted in June 2012 - just weeks after the launch of the flagship Galaxy S3 phone - is to carry out a complete "factory reset", wiping apps and other data from the phone.The company has failed to officially acknowledge the existence of the bug, which has been widely documented by both users and developers.Both smartphones and tablets are affected by the bug, which seems to lie in the Samsung "TouchWiz" software it runs on top of the Android operating system; it does not occur in Samsung "Nexus" products - which use Google's stock Android software - or in "rooted" Samsung phones where the user has installed their own version of Android.Samsung shipped a total of 212.4m smartphones in 2012 as the world's largest maker of smartphones, according to research firm IDC. But its use of the TouchWiz software in almost 200m of those means millions of users could be affected by the bug.Only Samsung can develop a complete fix for the bug, which would require it to send new code to every handset and tablet. But that might be blocked by network operators, who have been slow to approve updates, while Samsung has been more focussed on developing new phones than rolling out new software to older phones.Samsung did not respond to a request for comment.Terence Eden, a British developer who raised the problem in the past 24 hours,calledthe bug "shockingly bad engineering".Writing on his blog, he said it was "Typical Samsung. Sloppy engineering followed by complete indifference towards their customers."Users began complaining of the bug within a few weeks of the SGS 3, one of 2012's best-selling phones, going on sale in May. On 14 June a user called Nathanp05 wrote on theAndroid Forums site: "Had the Galaxy S3 for a couple of weeks now and it has been great. One thing, last weekend it started to crash any app when I tried to copy text." The only resort was a factory reset - which wipes any data stored on the phone, including photographs or notes. Anything not downloaded to a computer or uploaded to the cloud would be lost, and the user would have to re-enter details and re-download their apps.Users alsobegan complaining on Google's Android forums in July. In September, they were advised to call Samsung's US number to complain.The problem has continued without being fixed. Samsung's official developers were notified on 22 October through theSamsung Developer forums, where it was described as a "fatal clipboard bug" which seems to occur randomly.The fault was pinpointed to a file directory which does not exist in stock Android: "the fault is clearly with the Samsung software," noted the developer,Veeti Paananen, the author of a clipboard-based app who had noticed the bug surface in reports from users around the same time that the Android Forums post appeared.Paananen told the Guardian that the problem persists: "Some say that an 4.1.x update has fixed it but others claim that the problem just returns later on. Even if a 4.1 update has fixed the issue, there are a lot of Samsung devices that will not receive an update past Android 4.0."He added: "Anecdotally, I still receive daily reports about the issue, but Google's tools don't show me any OS version numbers."Users and developers are still reporting the fault on the Android Forums, Samsung Developers, and Google boards, with the most recent being today and the oldest being just four days old.
The Obama administration has singled out China and Russia as "aggressive" players in the world of cyber-espionage and warned that they will continue to try and steal US industrial and technological secrets.In a report outlining plans to deal with the theft of American trade secrets that comes in the wake ofrevelations about Chinese hacking in the US, the White House warned that both countries would remain active in trying to illegally obtain sensitive information."We judge that the governments of China and Russia will remain aggressive and capable collectors of sensitive US economic information and technologies, particularly in cyberspace," the report stated.The study was part of a broad package of policies announced on Wednesday to combat cyber threats. It comes at a time when the issue is front and center in the US after numerous revelations about hacking. They include reports that hackers based in China have tried to penetrate the security of media organisations like the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal, and areport by US cyber-security firm Mandiant, which has accused a secret Chinese military unit in Shanghai of years of cyber-attacks against more than 140 US companies.The Chinese government has denied being involved in cyber-theft, with China's defense minister calling the Mandiant report deeply flawed. It has also furiously denied being involved in attempts to hack American media organisations.In its section on China, the report said the Chinese intelligence services, as well as private Chinese companies, often used people with family ties to China as a way to hack into sensitive information. "[They] frequently seek to exploit Chinese citizens or persons with family ties to China who can use their insider access to corporate networks to steal trade secrets using removable media devices or e-mail," the report said.The Obama administration's new initiative includes a new diplomatic push to discourage intellectual property theft abroad, along with better co-ordination with American companies so that they can improve their defences against hackers. It also wants to improve co-operation between its law enforcement agencies and those of other countries.Aside from rival countries, the new report has also warned of the threat by online activist groups looking to leak secrets. "Political or social activists may use the tools of economic espionage against US companies, agencies or other entities, with disgruntled insiders leaking information about corporate trade secrets or critical US technology to "hactivist" groups like Wikileaks," the report said.The mention of WikiLeaks in such a high-profile government document is likely to provide ammunition to supporters of Wikileaks founder Julian Assange,who is currently claiming asylum in Ecuador's embassyin London while he fights extradition to Sweden to face allegations of sexual assault and rape. Assange claims that he fears the US will seek to extradite him from Sweden should he go there, as revenge for his WikiLeaks activities, which have included publishing highly sensitive American documents about the Iraq war and diplomatic cables from US embassies abroad.
I have several devices that I'd like to be able to connect to the internet when on the move. I'd like to avoid the cost of multiple 3G or 4G subscriptions and get a small telephone that could act as a Wi-Fi hub. I'd like a smallish phone as I tend to prefer my tablet for browsing and my phone for calling people. I'd also like to buy it outright, to avoid the need for an expensive subscription, so something fairly cheap would be a bonus. Anyone making anything like this yet?RobertYou can connect a laptop to the internet by plugging in a "dongle" or "USB modem", or by connecting the laptop to your mobile phone via a USB cable. If you want to connect several devices at once, you can use a mobile phone's data connection to create a Wi-Fi hotspot. This is called tethering, and it's built into many if not most smartphones nowadays. (If not, you can sometimes download an app that will do the job.) However, tethering tends to consume a lot of data, and some networks charge extra for it.Your tethering device doesn't have to be a mobile phone. It can be a small standalone router such as 3's MiFi, though other networks offer similar products. (MiFi is a registered trademark ofNovatel Wireless.)You can buy an unlocked "mobile Wi-Fi hotspot" from the usual sources, includingAmazon.co.uk. Popular examples include the ZTE MF60 and variants of the Huawei E585 and E568, as well as Novatel's MiFi 3352.Having a mobile hotspot means you don't have to worry about owning a particular type of phone or being locked to an expensive long-term contract. If you are prepared to put up with the inconvenience – and using a mobile hotspot takes more effort than using the web from a smartphone – you can manage without a smartphone at all.There are two major drawbacks. First, data charges are very high, perhaps £3 or £5 per gigabyte on contract or £15 or £20 on PAYG (pay as you go). Second, no UK company seems to offer a reasonably priced PAYG data service that works in the same way as a PAYG voice service. You can't just top up with £50 of data and use it until it runs out – all the services I've seen force you to pay a monthly fee exceptGiffGaff, which on some deals requires a top up every three months to maintain the same rate.One possible solution, which I learned from fellow journalist Steve Gold, is to buy cheap pre-loaded sims on Amazon or eBay. Some of these last for three or 12 months, and when they run out you can cut up the sim and throw it away. You don't have to know or care what the phone numbers are: nobody is ever going to call them. (As Gold says: "Caveat emptor applies to all non-standard sim usage/purchases, of course.")If you want a second phone, as your question says, then I'm stuck for a recommendation. There are dozens of smartphones that work across GPRS, 3G and sometimes 4G networks run by several different carriers. Figuring out which works best would be a massive undertaking, and the practical results might depend as much on where you are as on which smartphone you are using. You'd need to run some sort of nationwide logging system, as used to track fixed line broadband speeds.However, when it comes to buying a small, cheap smartphone, the answer is usually going to be Android. Have a look at the LG Optimus L3 (£70), Samsung Galaxy Y (£78), Sony Xperia Tipo (£90), HTC Desire C (£110) and Samsung Galaxy Ace II (£163). Approximate prices are for sim-free models from Amazon.co.uk, though you should obviously shop around.There's also the Google Nexus 4, a high-end phone that Google sells direct for only£239. But while it's cheap, it's not small.You can compare specifications atGSM Arenaand similar sites. If you plan to use it for tethering, double-check that the phone supports it.Once you've bought your unlocked, sim-free handset, the best data deal at the moment seems to be 3'sThe One Plan 1 month SIMfor £25 per month. This is a sim-only deal, it provides unlimited data, and it allows tethering, which Vodafone either forbids or charges extra for. (Oh yes, it also includes 2,000 minutes and 5,000 texts.) Because it's on a one-month rolling contract, you're not committed to the 18 or 24 monthly payments that would also get you a "free" (ie ludicrously expensive) phone.Of course, The One Plan may not be the best data deal for very long, but this is an unnecessarily complicated market. An honest industry would sell phones, data, texts and minutes separately, so users could compare prices directly and buy only what they need. That would result in lower prices, and I'd be able to buy a block of cheap data that didn't expire before I'd used half of it.
Sony launched the latest salvo in its ongoing rivalry with Microsoft with the launch of the PlayStation 4, the first of a new generation of consoles. At an event held in the Hammerstein Ballroom in New York's Manhattan Center, Sony revealed that the PlayStation 4 would go on sale this Christmas. It refused to set a price, or even show the console itself but it is unlikely to cost much less than £300.With under-the bonnet power considerably in excess of that of the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, it will usher in a new breed of games with startlingly lifelike graphics, set in virtual worlds that operate in a much more believable manner than the current crop. But it will not have that ground to itself: Microsoft is applying the finishing touches to a successor for its Xbox 360 which, it is believed, it will unveil at the E3 Show in Los Angeles in June. That, too, is likely to go on sale this Christmas, unleashing a titanic battle for living room supremacy between Sony and Microsoft.Several aspects of the PS4's design caught the eye. Sony has redesigned the controller, which remained more or less unchanged through the PlayStation 2/3 era, giving it a curvier shape, a touchpad and a blue reflector strip that interacts with a PlayStation Eye camera (included in the price) to form a motion-sensing system. It will connect with smartphones – Sony makes a range of Android phones – enabling phone users to chat with PS4 gamers and to control their PS4s remotely.It will also reflect the changing nature of the console business, which now has to contend with gaming on mobile phones and tablets. In 2012, Sony bought a company called Gaikai, which developed a technology allowing games to be hosted in the cloud and streamed via the internet, and that has been incorporated into the PlayStation 4. It will have more than one use: as well as providing a means by which PlayStation, PS2 and PS3 games will be playable, according to Gaikai founder Dave Perry: "Your friends will be able to look over your shoulder and interact with you virtually" while you play – you can record your gameplay by pressing a new "share" button on the controller. Perry added that the PlayStation 4 will be able to stream games wirelessly to the PlayStation Vita handheld console, and Gaikai's technology will allow games to start instantly.Using Gaikai's technology to provide backwards compatibility gives the PlayStation 4 an economic edge, too: it means that costly backwards-compatibility chips can be dispensed with, making it cheaper to manufacture. Cutting-edge consoles tend, in their early days, to be sold at a loss, only becoming profitable when millions of units have been sold and component prices plummet. But the PlayStation 4 has a better chance of achieving early profitability than its predecessor – whereas the PS3 had a custom, Sony-manufactured processor called the Cell (which attracted criticism from developers for being difficult to program), the PlayStation 4 uses more off-the-shelf components similar to those found in PCs (an approach Microsoft has always taken with its consoles).In terms of games, the PlayStation 4 was given strikingly enthusiastic support by third-party publishers.Developer Bungie – once owned by Microsoft – will bring its ambitious first-person shooter Destiny to the console, and Blizzard, hitherto a PC-only developer, has struck a strategic agreement with Sony, the first fruit of which will be a PS4 version of Diablo III. Ubisoft's Watch Dogs, in which you will be able to hack into everything and everybody within a city, looks truly ground-breaking.Sony showed several first-party titles, including Drive Club, a team-based driving game with incredible graphical detail from British developer Evolution Studios, Killzone: Shadow Fall, and a puzzle game from Braid creator Jonathan Blow called Witness. Square Enix announced there will be a new Final Fantasy game for the console.With the PlayStation 4's incorporation of cloud gaming and power, Sony appears to have launched a convincing first salvo in the impending console showdown with Microsoft. Pricing, a launch date and the console's physical design, along with a firm line-up of launch games will surely emerge at the E3 Show in June, along with Microsoft's rival console. This Christmas could be the most exciting one ever, as far as gamers are concerned.• This article was amended on 21 February 2013 to correct some inaccuracies.
Sony's "launch" of its PlayStation 4 turned out to have a lot less than meets the eye. The event itself, held in New York, was expected to include the rollout at least of a box, and a price, and a date when you'd be able to get your hands on one.Well, that might be what you expect, but you're not a colossal multinational which has been struggling to grow and whose console has been battling it out for second place in the current market, are you? Because if you were, you'd know that what you need is to keep the press and analysts hanging on for as long as humanly possible. Not forgetting the people watching the livestream...First to crack was Chris Hall of Pocket-Lint:Stop waffling&mdash; Chris Hall (@christhall)February 21, 2013For Gartner, consumer analyst Michael Gartenberg wasn't impressed:Am I jaded or is this boring? No. It's boring.&mdash; Michael Gartenberg (@Gartenberg)February 21, 2013Brian X Chen, the New York Times's technology reporter, had deja vu:This reminds me of the commercials played before the trailers before the movie#whereistheps4&mdash; Brian X. Chen (@bxchen)February 21, 2013Even underway, with Sony pointing out how incredibly detailed the screen was, there was a certain amount of lack of interest. Such as from the unrepeatable Charlie Brooker:When am I going to look at the fibres in the chair I'm sitting on in my made up car in a computer game? Bloody hell.#PS4&mdash; Charlie Brooker (@charltonbrooker)February 21, 2013The recreation of a face in colossal detail left the press unimpressed:Unfortunately, they used all the polygons for the whole console on one head, so the game is just staring at him&mdash; Jonathan Cresswell (@JonathanEx)February 21, 2013and the conclusion by Chris Applegate:My entire feed is snark at the PS4 launch. This is what Twitter was made for&mdash; Chris Applegate (@qwghlm)February 21, 2013Stamina was needed too:At PS4 launch, which is running so long that we might get PS5 tease by the end.&mdash; Steven Levy (@StevenLevy)February 21, 2013And this caustic observation from Henry Blodget (who wasn't there):If Sony is seriously still talking [about PS4], they have nothing to say.&mdash; Henry Blodget (@hblodget)February 21, 2013More generally, what did we learn about gender stuff from the Times's tech writer?Not a single woman has presented anything at#PS4launch. Games industry still a boys club I guess. Disappointing.&mdash; muradahmed (@muradahmed)February 21, 2013Two hours it went on. Two hours!THE PLAYSTATION 4 SAGA ENTERS ITS 903RD DAY.&mdash; Peter Bright (@DrPizza)February 21, 2013And by the end there wasn't a price and there wasn't the console itself (not even an empty box into which the guts of its might be poured).Let's leave it to Gartenberg to sum up the feelings of those who attended:A cynic would say Sony had a chance to impress tonight and failed. So would a realist.&mdash; Michael Gartenberg (@Gartenberg)February 21, 2013Which doesn't seem to leave a very large group. Chris Ziegler remarked:I mean, if you're okay with not being shown a PS4 at a PS4 announce event and not learning about PS4 specs, I don't know what to tell you.&mdash; Chris Ziegler (@zpower)February 21, 2013Although for fans of Brooker and his TV output, there's this little hint (though it might not be that positive for Sony…):Have to go work on Weekly Wipe now. Some of the PS4 launch might end up in next week's show.&mdash; Charlie Brooker (@charltonbrooker)February 21, 2013Wouldn't want to be in Sony's shoes for that.
Hey, it's Thursday! What are you up to?!
A burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSamsung devices crash after multiple uses of clipboard &gt;&gt; SAMSUNG DevelopersPlease pass this information on to the appropriate development team.Samsung devices running TouchWiz and Android 3.0 or higher have a fatal clipboard bug that can cause it to become permanently unusable until a factory reset. It seems to occur randomly. Whenever a user tries to copy something, this error occurs in the system ClipboardManager class:java.lang.NullPointerException at android.content.ClipboardManager.setPrimaryClip(ClipboardManager.java:146)And the application that the user is using crashes. The only fix for this is to perform a factory reset or to clear the contents of /data/clipboard as a rooted user. Since this directory does not exist in stock Android, the fault is clearly with the Samsung software.This thread begins in October 2012 and is unresolved as of 20 February 2013.Steve Ballmer on the strategy behind his strangest product &gt;&gt; MIT Technology ReviewBallmer:Surface is a real business. In an environment in which there's 350 million PCs sold, I don't think Surface is going to dominate volume, but it's a real business.Look forward to seeing it in the accounts, then. Plenty more in the interview.Ad-titan Google blocks Adblock Plus in Android security tweak &gt;&gt; The RegisterThe maker of Adblock Plus is upset its users must jump through hoops to get its advert-banishing app working on devices running Android - the mobile OS made by advertising giant Google.The complaint follows moves by Google that made it more difficult for Google Chrome users to use Adblock Plus as a browser extension.The Android app no longer works out of the box on non-rooted devices running Android 4.1.2 or 4.2.2. Instead it shows a warning box telling users they must manually configure a proxy server: that's because the app works by routing web traffic through a server running on the handheld that filters out websites' adverts before they appear in a browser…In Chrome land, Google changed the way users could search for its web browser's apps, and since Adblock Plus was established as an extension, the utility stopped appearing when users looked for apps. Adblock Plus switched to offering a Chrome app on 12 December, only for Google to take it down 12 hours later. The software's maker accused Google of singling out the utility, which we're told has been downloaded 190m times for Firefox, for unfavourable treatmentThe fix requires you to go through eight steps to reconfigure AdBlock Plus.First impression: HTC has a winner with the One &gt;&gt; ReadWriteHTC may have a winner on its hands – if only people will pay attention… We'll have a better idea when we get our hands on the device for a full review, but it seems that HTC really set the bar pretty high.HTC has been beaten down for more than a year as it tries to turn heads away from the like of Samsung and Apple. If any phone can get people to pay attention, it has to be the HTC One. Then again, quality doesn't always win the war. We'll know by the middle of 2013 if the HTC One is the company's savior... or its last gasp.As Robert Scoble buys a new phone...BREAKING: Social Media Addict Switches Telephone Brands&amp;mdash; NextTechBlog (@NextTechBlog)February 19, 20133Doodler: the world's first 3D printing pen by WobbleWorks LLC. &gt;&gt; KickstarterHave you ever just wished you could lift your pen off the paper and see your drawing become a real three dimensional object? Well now you can!More than a month to go and it's raised over $800,000 - its goal was $30,000.Linked Data: Connecting together the BBC's Online Content &gt;&gt; BBC Internet BlogFree text searching (like a Google search) would get you so far but would probably return false-positives too (it can't disambiguate betweenShakespeareandShakespeare).It would be even harder (or maybe impossible) to do something more complex like find the latest 20 pieces of content about environmental issues or people who have been in northern Britpop bands. Here text searching starts to become significantly less powerful.The primary goal of the Linked Data Platform is to make sense of all the BBC's creative works and provide an API to allow the retrieval of any creative work about any 'thing', with the added benefit that we hold a semantic graph of data behind the 'things'.This means the platform doesn't just know that tomorrow's episode of theCulture ShowfeaturesJarvis Cocker. It also knows thatJarvisis fromSheffield, was the lead singer inPulp, that Pulp were aBritpopband, that they had a single called Common People, and that Common People was played on6 Musicthis morning.Berners-Lees's ideas coming to life.How far would oceans levels fall if you took all the ships out? &gt;&gt; xkcdNot much (but read). Also:Marine fish biomassdropped by 80% over the last century, which — taking into consideration the growth rate of the world's shipping fleet — leads to an odd conclusion: Sometime in the last few years, we reached a point where there are, by weight, more ships in the ocean than fish.And don't miss the climate change fact either.Java CPU Feb 2013 Update &gt;&gt; OracleLots of critical fixing after the Facebook/Twitter/Apple hack. The next one is scheduled for April. What's the betting a serious Java vulnerability will be found in the wild before then?China's army recruited hackers directly from universities &gt;&gt; gbtimesChina's army - the People's Liberation Army (PLA) - was already looking for new young computer hackers in 2004, a publicly available job advert show.The job advert, which is still posted on Zhejiang University School of Computer Science and Technology's website, shows that the Chinese military's Unit 61398 is the employer.This is significant because in a recent report published by US security company Mandian, the 12-story building that hosts the PLA's 'Unit 61398' is identified as the location from which the PLA's most active cyber espionage unit operates. The Chinese government has staunchly denied these accusations. According to Mandiant the address is: Datong Road 208, Pudong District, Shanghai.The Chinese government is going to find it increasingly hard to deny the existence of its hacker army. The US's NSA used to be secret too. No longer. (Thanks @tnbertelsen on Twitter for the link.)Nexus 7 maths &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansSo:• Around 4.8m tablets sold by the company since the Nexus 7 went on sale• Verbal comments indicate 2.1-2.2m in Q3, which is consistent with the total figure• However, that would imply a collapse in sales of all other products (616k in Q2), and might perhaps include product ramp-up in June• 2.4m tablets sold in Q4• Therefore total possible Nexus 7 sales of say 2.2m in Q2/Q3, plus at most 2.4m in Q4, and probably a hundred thousand or so less (given sales of other devices)• Hence, total Nexus 7 sales of 4.5m to 4.6m, and no more than 4.8mIt's worth pointing out that Nexus 7 distribution was somewhat patchy - for example, it only went on sale in Japan at the end of September.Apple doesn't disclose iPad Mini sales separately, but going on the ASP, my estimate is that it sold 10m in Q4, despite the fact that it wasn't available until the beginning of November.Kindle Fire sales numbers aren't much better than guesswork, given that Amazon doesn't disclose anything, butmyguess is that it outsold the Nexus 7 as well.The Pirate Bay reports anti-piracy outfit to the police &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakThe Pirate Bay has asked the Economic Crime unit of the Finnish police to investigate the alleged criminal actions of anti-piracy group CIAPC. Last week the group copied The Pirate Bay's design, violating the site's usage policy. In their complaint TPB cite a similar case where the owner of a parody site was prosecuted recently. "We will not stand by and watch copyright enforcing organizations disrespect copyright," TPB comments.Doesn't doing this make The Pirate Bay a copyright enforcing organisation, though?You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
The White House has said it will step up diplomatic pressure over cybercrime and intellectual property theft from US businesses and security interests, in an announcement that indirectly cast China as one of the biggest perpetrators.The US attorney general, Eric Holder, said the plan included working with like-minded governments to tackle offenders using trade restrictions and criminal prosecutions. There would be a 120-day review to see whether new US legislation is needed."A hacker in China can acquire source code from a software company in Virginia without leaving his or her desk," Holder said.The report stops short of blaming the Chinese government itself but a study released this week by a private security firmaccused the Chinese military of  orchestrating numerous cyber attacksagainst US businesses, a charge Beijing has denied.The White House report listed 17 cases of trade secret theft by Chinese companies or individuals since 2010, far more than any other country mentioned in the report.The Obama administration has said its strategy aims to counter what Holder called "a significant and steadily increasing threat to America's economy and national security interests".President Barack Obama introduced acybersecurity executive orderin his state of the union address that offered a broad outline of how the government plans to deal with cyber threats."As new technology has torn down traditional barriers to international business and global commerce, they also make it easier for criminals to steal secrets and to do so from anywhere, anywhere in the world," Holder said.Dutch Ruppersberger, the top Democrat on the House of Representatives intelligence committee, has said US companies suffered estimated losses in 2012 of more than $300bn via theft of trade secrets, a large share due to Chinese online espionage.US corporate victims of trade secret theft have included General Motors, Ford, DuPont, Dow Chemical, Motorola, Boeing and Cargill. A target company can see the payoff from research investment evaporate as a result of corporate espionage and lose market position, competitive advantage and efficiencies."We have repeatedly raised our concerns about trade secret theft by any means at the highest levels with senior Chinese officials and we will continue to do so," said Robert Hormats, an under-secretary of state.Those cases cited mostly involved employees stealing trade secrets on the job rather than cyber attacks.Victoria Espinel, the White House intellectual property rights enforcement co-ordinator, said the effort aimed to protect the innovation driving the US economy and job creation.Cybersecurity and intelligence experts welcomed the White House plan as a first step but some said much more needed to be done. "You've got a nation-state taking on private corporations," said former CIA director Michael Hayden. "That's kind of unprecedented ... We have not approached resolution with this at all."The US Chamber of Commerce, America's largest business lobby, offered a lukewarm statement of support, while other industry groups expressed more enthusiasm for the effort."We strongly endorse and applaud the administration's focus on curbing theft of trade secrets, which poses a serious and growing threat to the software industry around the world," said Business Software Alliance president and chief executive Robert Holleyman.The report that laid out the strategy repeated a 2011 White House recommendation that the maximum sentence for economic espionage be increased to at least 20 years, from 15.Another part of the solution was promoting a set of "best practices" that companies would use to protect themselves against cyber attacks and other espionage, Espinel said.The report said the FBI was "expanding its efforts to fight computer intrusions that involve the theft of trade secrets by individual, corporate and nation-state cyber hackers".US trade representative Ron Kirk said the problem of trade secret theft in China was a factor in the decisions of some US companies to move operations back to the United States. The companies have "had very frank conversations with the Chinese, [saying] 'You know it's one thing to accept a certain level of copyright knock-offs but if you're going to take our core technology then we're better off being in our home country'".
8.24pmETSummaryFinally the Sony news conference ends. In two hours, we learned:•As expected, Sony is planning to release the PlayStation 4, the first new PlayStation in seven years.•The new console will have a redesigned controller, an eight-core processor and 8gb of memory.• The PlayStation 4 has a focus on social gaming, with gamers able to broadcast their progress and hop in and out of friends&apos; virtual worlds.• Sony did not show what the console actually looked like. Hundreds of thousands watched the two-hour event online.Thanks for reading!Check out our PlayStation 4 news story here.8.24pmETRock da HouseAndrew Housereturns. He speaks quickly. &quot;Intensified power to enhanced social capabilities,&quot; he says. &quot;We believe playstation 4 proves that we have more to offer than ever before,&quot; he continues. &quot;We look forward to continuing the conversation,&quot; he adds.And just like that, the event ends.8.24pmETA look at some of these new gamesJapanese video game producer Yoshinori Ono shows off Capcom's Deep Down. Photograph: EMMANUEL DUNAND/AFP/Getty Images8.24pmETAndrew House introduces another brand partner as the Sony conference ticks past the two hour mark.It&apos;sBungie, introducing &apos;Destiny&apos;. Dramatic music. Crimson skies. Caves. &quot;It&apos;s an ambitious project,&quot; says a man from Bungie of Bungie&apos;s new game. He introduces four new people onto the stage, to the delight of tired bloggers everywhere.By the way, you might have noticed that the presenting pool has been 100% male tonight...Congrats on not a single woman taking the stage!#playstation2013&mdash; Will Perkins (@WilliamHPerkins)February 21, 20138.24pmETAnother game preview. For&quot;Watch Dogs&quot;. Looks good. It seems to revolve around the dangers of sharing private information and the possibility of that information being stolen. Which is ironic.ThenBlizzard Entertainmentannounces the release of a new &quot;Diablo 3&quot; game for the PS4. &quot;We&apos;re very excited about this product and what the future has in store for us.&quot;8.24pmETEvent continues...Still going here in New York. We get a look at aSquare Enixgame which features a fire-breathing dragon. Friends can swoop in and help you slay the foul beast. Then Andrew House, who is Welsh, is back up to spout some jargon.Sony and partners are certainly taking their time. But we&apos;re all having fun, right?Why is this thing so long?? Almost 2 hours so far...#PS4&mdash; Tony A (localzuk) (@localzuk)February 21, 2013This#PS4event is running too long, and really, kind of boring, please show the console, and end this soon.&mdash; Moises Soto (@moisoto)February 21, 2013These console announcements are becoming unbearable... game developers talk more than the console makers! Too long!#WiiU#PS4#Xbox720&mdash; R. Chase Razabdouski (@ChaseRaz)February 21, 20138.24pmETMy colleagueErin McCannnotes that the PS4 seems to be killing off physical media – &quot;which is interesting because PS3 was a Blue-ray player, and the only one most people ever bought&quot;.She adds:They&apos;re not talking about which of these games are exclusive to Sony, but it will be interesting to see which ones are also devleoped for the upcoming Xbox 720.8.24pmETAnother controller option: the PS VitaDavid Perry, CEO of Gaikai, left, speaks as Mark Cerny, demonstrates remote game play on the PS Vita. Photograph: Frank Franklin II/APDavid Perry describes how the handheld PS Vita can be used as a controller for the PS4. Photograph: BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS8.24pmETBelow the line in the commentsHappy Boxlinks toYouTube&apos;s stream of the event, although I think both YouTube and UStream are struggling a bit.pauliepolecathas asked for help with the tech specs of the PS4, andSkropodopoliskindly responds:@pauliepolecat - well, I&apos;d say it&apos;s pretty much a high-end PC with familiar and static architecture - good for game developers. Devs will probably leverage it more than PS3 which used peculiar processor. Graphics are high-end PC, but again familiar architecture - and DX11, whilst PS3 was DX9 IIRC. So, significant improvements are in lighting and efficiency. Definitely a lot better spec than P3.Highly doubtful you could build a PC system of similar spec at that price. I&apos;m sure you couldn&apos;t actually. So, you&apos;ll get bargain hardware, and pay it back through the software.Because the platform is fixed they can leverage it more than PC equivalent. Looks a very solid platform to me and they should certainly deliver some amazing stuff.8.24pmETThe Witness previewBig moment asJonathan Blowtakes the stage to showcase The Witness. He&apos;s been working on the game since 2008 and it is eagerly anticipated. Blow leads us quickly into the preview for the game. I&apos;m switching back into descriptive mode:Picture the scene. A record player in a tree stump. Then a forest. Then a beach. And a castle. And the sea. Whispery vocals and panpipes. A weirdly lit green room. The whispery vocals start going &quot;Ahhhh, ahhh, ahhh&quot;. An electronic platform worms about in a yard. Something shoots a laser off a mirror. The camera swoops out of this little world. Pan pipes fade. THE END.8.24pmETNate Fox, game director at Sucker Punch Studios, introduces a new game by saying he was once tear-gassed by police.We&apos;ve all been there.Anyway he&apos;s introducing a new game, which will be exclusive to the Playstation 4 –Second Son. The live feed was giving me gip through most of it, but I did see a military vehicle explode.8.24pmETIrish video game developer David Perry appears to have lightning coming out of his head. Photograph: BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS8.24pmETKillzone for Playstation 4 previewWe&apos;re battering through a very pretty looking video now. The share button is showcased again. Send pictures with it, video, live stream, etc.Now we have Herman Hulst of Guerrilla Games to showcase what the 4 can do. He launches straight into his games pitch.&quot;In the not-too-distant future, there&apos;s a conflict between two warring factions&quot; – bloody typical – &quot;this isKillzone Shadowfall&quot;.We&apos;re shown in-game footage. I&apos;ll describe it.A camera pans down onto a blissful urban utopia, full of rich blues and greens. A glass towerblock. A man. The man is in the process of going through security to get into what appears to be a greenhouse ontop of a towerblock. Then a bomb goes off! Chaos! All of a sudden the sky is grey, the greenhouse full of smoke and fire. Our man has a big gun, and is running around shooting men with red masks on. A helicopter takes off. He grabs a rope hanging from it. Someone&apos;s shooting at him, which is inconvenient, but not for long, because he shoots right back and kills them. He climbs up the rope, into the helicopter. The clip ends. FIN.RT @izzynobre: Killzone Shadowfalltwitpic.com/c5ghhf&mdash; Sú Barros (@subarroos)February 21, 20138.24pmETWatch friends play Playstation from the comfort of your own home!Dave Perry, big-wig in the cloud games industry and founder of Gaikai is next.He says the share button on the Playstation 4 controller will mean gamers can broadcast &quot;100% realtime to your friends&quot;.&quot;Your friends will be able to look over your shoulder and interact with you virtually&quot; while you play, Perry says.That sounds a lot like when my mate used to invite me round to watch him play Goldeneye on the N64.But your friends will be able to help too! Perry continues. They&apos;ll be able to help you out with medicines and repairing injuries incurred in-game.8.24pmETNew game, new controllerGame designer Mark Cerny talks about the new controller, Bioshock 4. Photograph: Emmanuel Dunand/AFP/Getty ImagesCerny introduces his new game &ndash; Knack Photograph: Emmanuel Dunand/AFP/Getty ImagesAnd a close-up of the new controller Photograph: BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS8.24pmETCerny says Playstation 4 will be an &quot;exponential leap&quot; over its predecessors. Gamers will be able tointeract their tablets and smartphoneswith the console.Playstation &quot;continues to offer the best place to play&quot;, Cerny conclues, and adds that he is &quot;thrilled about the vast potential for the Playstation 4 to develop new and even more powerful gaming experiences&quot;. So...8.24pmETNew controllerHere&apos;s a look at that snazzy new controller. It will sync up with a camera interface, according to Cerny.The DualShock 4. Loving the mood lighting.twitter.com/kezamacdonald/…&mdash; Keza MacDonald (@kezamacdonald)February 20, 20138.24pmETCerny leans down and picks up abrand new Playstation 4 controllerthat was apparently just knocking about on the floor.He uses it to show off a game he&apos;s designed – his return to game direction – called Knack in which a creature called Knack fights goblins.&quot;[Knack] will be invaluable in the fight against the goblins,&quot; says one of the characters. Knack can use his surroundings to grow bigger and thus become more effective at goblin slaying, it seems. The video ends to applause.Oh and in the meantime, Sony has sponsored a tweet that sounds just a little bit smug.That's right -- PlayStation 4.&mdash; PlayStation (@PlayStation)February 20, 20138.24pmETEcosystems evolving, preference-driven paths emergingMark Cerny has taken the stage, and immediately started waffling.The design team &quot;looked at how the Playstation&apos;s ecosystem could evolve&quot; he says. Evolve to provide a &quot;dynamic preference-driven path through the world of content,&quot; he says.Cerny is talking in a whispery, awe-struck tone, eyes wide, hair floppy. He developed Sonic and Crash Bandicoot and is a Sony big cheese.8.24pmETPlaystation 4 exists!There is a Playstation 4.House just said it. And PS4 just popped up on the screen. We aren&apos;t all here for nothing.Logo de PlayStation 4#MeriPS4twitter.com/Caith_Sith/sta…&mdash; Pablo González (@Caith_Sith)February 20, 20138.24pmETIn da HouseAndrew Houseis up at the Hammerstein ballroom. He hasn&apos;t launched anything yet. In his opening remarks he addresses one of the issues consoles face – competition from tablets and phones that can be used on the go.We&apos;ll show you in which the living room is no longer the center of the playstation eco-system. The gamer is.Before House we had a little glimpse of the original Playstation in a snazzy, dance-music backed video. Memories of Tenchu: Stealth Assassins come flooding back.8.24pmETJust jazzy music from theSony livestreamat the moment. Sax heavy. It sounds like the music you might hear during the opening credits of a 1980s cop film. Not going down well on teh internetz.Creepy sex music has sounded to initiate the beginning of the Sony press conference crab lecture type o' thing.&mdash; Michael Healy (@SenatorHealy)February 20, 20138.24pmETGreat ExpectationsSo what can we expect to see from the new Playstation? At risk of just copying and pasting Keith Stuart&apos;s knowledge and wisdom,he did write about this last week. The meat, Keith reckons, is in the specs:Right now, documentsposted on the VGLeaks siteand the titbits we&apos;ve managed to squeeze from developers suggest an eight-core processor set-up based around AMD&apos;s Jaguar technology; a GPU utilising AMD&apos;s R10XXSouthern Islandsarchitecture; 4GB system memory; and Blu-ray drive. Eurogamer has an immense analysis of these specifications and how they compare with rumoured Xbox Durango featureshere. The information suggests, as many predicted, a much less expensive architecture than the PS3, and one that will be familiar to coders already working with high-end PC hardware. But will there be any extra surprises, like support for 4K screens?But there&apos;s also those leaked controller images, showing some reworking to the current design.&quot;Rumours also suggest Move-style motion functionality, a microphone and a headphone socket. Documentation seen by various game sites has also mentioned a Share button, which may well allow gamers to take screen grabs or video clips to post on a social network,&quot; Keith wrote.Check out the rest of our speculation here.Prototype Playstation 4 controller leaked (via Kotaku)#playstation2013twitter.com/Kevin_Oliver/s…&mdash; Kevin Oliver (@Kevin_Oliver)February 14, 20138.24pmETBuilt in 1906, the elegant old Hammerstein ballroom in New York City will be hosting a very modern show tonight,writesKeith Stuart.It&apos;s here that Sony will usher in the next generation of video game entertainment, finally unveiling its successor to the 70-million selling PlayStation 3 console. At least that&apos;s the world&apos;s press is assuming: the corporation, which launched the original PlayStation back in 1994, is keeping its cue cards close to its chest. All we know is that we&apos;re being shown the future of the PlayStation business. If that&apos;s not PlayStation 4 there are going to be a lot of angry tech journalists in here.Tonight&apos;s event will be hosted by Andrew House, the President and Group CEO of Sony Computer Entertainment, but Sony have told us to expect other guests on stage. That will doubtless include Kaz Hirai, the president and CEO of Sonyand a cult figure with gamers. We&apos;re expecting the tech specs of the new console to be revealed - leaked documents suggest its a mighty eight core AMD processor aided by a state-of-the-art graphics processing unit, also by AMD.Old faithful – rumours are rife that the Playstation 4 will see an upgraded controller. Photograph: Rex FeaturesWe&apos;re also expecting a redesigned version of the Dual Shock controller, complete with its own touch pad, motion sensors and a microphone. Sony is also hinting that it will revolutionaries its online offering, perhaps with a subscription-based streaming service – a sort of Spotify for games. There are rumours we&apos;ll also see some cool new social networking features including the ability to quickly capture and share screenshots and video of games your playing. Andof course, this being a modern console launch, nothing will be complete without an array of video-on-demand partnerships. Netflix, LoveFilm, etc, will no doubt be hovering in the wings.As for games – the launch titles are going to be all important. We can probably expect a new Killzone shooter, perhaps word of a Gran Turismo driving game and teasers of other PlayStation favourites - maybe Uncharted 4, LittleBigPlanet 3… maybe even something new? Stranger things have happened.Whatever, the significance is huge for Sony - and the wider industry. Console and game sales are falling in both the US and Europe, and Wii U has not made the impact Nintendo expected - this business needs a hero right now; a new beginning. PlayStation 4 looks to be a powerful machine, that won&apos;t be hideously expensive to manufacture so it could be coming in at less that £350 - that would be big, too.The key thing is, there&apos;s a lot of excitement here, a real buzz. This may well be the biggest video game hardware launch night since Sony first revealed the PS3 back in 2005. The future is coming to the Hammerstein ballroom - we just don&apos;t know what it looks like yet.This is a gorgeous old ballroom. Photograph: BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS8.24pmETGood evening and welcome to our live blog coverage of this week&apos;s big technology launch – the unveiling in New York of Sony&apos;s next-generation gaming system.The electronics giant, which has struggled in recent years in competition with its more nimble competitors, hopes that the new console will boost its position in a tough market. Its main competitor, Microsoft, is due to reveal the next-generation Xbox later this year.Sony&apos;s decision to eschew its home country of Japan and hold the event in the US, underlines the importance of the American market. Worldwide, sales of the the Playstation 3 outstrip the Xbox 360, but in the US Sony trails its Microsoft rival.Somewhat unusually, the event is being held in the evening, starting at 6pm ET, presumably to maximise primetime online chatter in the US while catching the morning market in Japan, where it will be 8am.The Guardian&apos;s games blogger,Keith Stuart, is at the event at the Hammerstein ballroom in Midtown Manhattan and, Wi-Fi permitting, we&apos;ll have updates from him as the event progresses.While we wait for the event to start, here&apos;s Keith&apos;sexcellent preview piece.
The 4G auction took five years to organise and involved 50 rounds of bidding by seven competitors, in a process so complex its result was determined by computers and mathematical algorithms. But what was it all for?Our passion for smartphones – more than half the population has such an internet-capable device – means the 3G airwaves currently used to transmit mobile internet signals are rapidly getting crowded. "If more than about 30 people show up in any one place and try to get online with their phone, it all grinds to a halt," said one industry observer.With the addition of 4G, that should change. New spectrum – equivalent to two-thirds of the radio frequencies currently used for mobile – has been put under the hammer. Much of it was freed up by switching the nation's television sets from analogue to digital. The UK is not unique: digital switch-over has been used to boost mobile services across the world in an internationally co-ordinated changeover.Fourth generation mobile wireless will change the way we use our phones. The speed and capacity of networks will improve, with connections as fast as the average home broadband service being promised.But better services are not a given. They will require new equipment and more spending by mobile companies. Telecoms regulator Ofcom has said it will keep them on their toes by publishing who is deploying services in which areas and at what speeds.If they invest in the right number of masts and radios, networks now have the bandwidth to ensure they do not collapse under the strain of servicing commuters in railway stations at rush hour, car passengers on motorways in traffic jams or festivalgoers unwise enough to use their smartphones in the mud.
Google is preparing to release 8,000 test pairs of its long-awaited glasses to carefully selected winners of an online competition who will have to pay $1,500 for the privilege.In an announcement on Wednesday, Google said it was looking for "bold, creative individuals" to help test Glass, the official name for its wearable technology which allows users to take pictures and navigate the web using a built in camera and see-through computer screen.The company is soliciting applications exclusively through Google+ and Twitter, and thousands of posts were swiftly made on both as users vied for their chance to become "Glass Explorers"."We'd love to make everyone an Explorer, but we're starting off a bit smaller," Google said in a statement. "We're still in the early stages, and while we can't promise everything will be perfect, we can promise it will be exciting."Google could also have promised that the experience will not be cheap: the 8,000 selected to be explorers will have to pay $1,500 plus tax for the technology and personally attend a "special pick-up experience" in New York, San Francisco or Los Angeles to collect their prize.Perhaps concerned that early media reviews of its technology might be harsh, particularly if everything isn't "perfect", Google appears to have decided that early buzz about the glasses is likely to be more positive in the hands of diehard fans who have paid handsomely for the privilege of being involved in the testing process.Google has been working on its Glass product for years and offered the latest glimpse of how it would work ina video released alongside the competition. Called "How it feels [through Glass]" the footage showed a man skydiving while taking a picture, a different man ruminating in front of a big block of ice before Googling a picture of a tiger and an apparently stressed person looking up flight details as they run through an airport.Only those living in the US are eligible for the chance to "purchase Glass". To get that opportunity those interested must write a 50-words-or-less post on Google+ or Twitter, pondering what they would do with the technology and using the tag #ifihadglass. There is the option to submit a short video accompanying the application as well as up to five photos. The winner will be chosen by an independent panel who will rate each submission on "creativity", "compelling use", "originality" and "social and spectrum",according to the terms and conditions.Google has yet to announce a general release date for Glass, and was similarly coy with details as to when it will dole the device out to the 8,000 winners, merely stating that it will it will contact winners in mid-to-late March,with the deadline for applications on 27 February.The glasses feature a screen in the top-right corner that can display mapping information, pictures, phone contacts and more. Various videos released by Google have suggested that wearers will be able to voice-instruct the glasses to take pictures or seek information on their surroundings. The Glass website suggests the specs will come in five different colours including "tangerine", "shale" and "cotton".Google is not the only tech company investing in wearable technology.Apple is reportedly developing the iWatch, a wrist-wearable computing device, whilethe company was granted a patent for wearable computers back in 2009.Oakley's Airwave goggles, released last October,use an inbuilt miniscreen coupled with GPS and Bluetooth to display the wearer's speed, altitude and locate fellow skiers.
In front of me is a list. It is a non-disclosure agreement I had to sign to get an early copy of Crysis 3, and outlines story spoilers – don't mention that Captain Steakbrain dies in the first chapter or we'll have your house, that kind of thing. But Crysis 3's story is so terribly forgettable that, re-reading this list a few hours after finishing the game, I can barely remember most of it happening. Or want to. There's a lot of competition for awful FPS storylines, but Crysis 3 takes the gold at a canter.Luckily the real star doesn't have a single line: Crysis 3's campaign is all about a long-destroyed and now overgrown New York, a jungle-fied take on Crysis 2's setting. Twenty years after the previous game the destroyed shells of skyscrapers and shops are slowly being recovered by nature, with skittish deer ducking in and around the rusting husks of vehicles. This brings back a key element from the original Crysis: lots of long, concealing grass and scrubland.So Crysis 3 has a bit of both its predecessors; the tightly-scripted funnelling of Crysis 2's story, but the original's more open and experimental style of combat. You typically approach fights from a distance, or at least a vantage point, and a neat tactical visor can be used to "tag" enemies and objects of interest before moving in. In combat terms Crysis 3 could fairly be called a Predator simulator, a point driven home by the new bow weapon which kills silently, can be fired while cloaked, and has multiple arrow types.Crysis 3: New York turns urban jungleIn combination with the Nanosuit, the bow makes main character Prophet an apex hunter in a world full of prey. The suit's two main abilities, both dependent on a recharging pool of energy, are armour and cloaking. The first makes head-on combat possible against even overwhelming odds, while the second is a multi-purpose delight – letting you sneak by patrols, escape when cornered, and silently thin out the opposition. Cloaking drains energy faster when you're moving, a beautifully-tuned system that forces you to be slow and deliberate or quick and efficient – with any lapses leaving Prophet exposed in no man's land.Stay hidden and take out enemies via the scenic route and the intricate environments of Crysis 3 come to some kind of life. There's something deeply sadistic about this kind of play, exploiting the enemy patrol patterns and, at times, toying with their simple minds – picking off Cell operatives one-by-one sees their comrades move swiftly from anger to panic, and de-cloaking right in one's face rewards you with a delicious backwards stumble and scream of fear. You begin to like it, a lot.But there's an elephant in the long grass, and one Crysis 3's developers know well. Ubisoft's recent Far Cry 3, a continuation of a series began by Crytek, was a slick mainstream take on open-world jungle sneaking that is better-tuned and much more interesting to play. Crysis 3 may not be open-world, but its environments want so badly to be expansive that it ends up with levels that are baggy funnels – lots of space but not all that much to do beyond following checkpoint markers.Crysis 3: Ross Kemp lookalike PsychoPerhaps the most surprising thing about Crysis 3 is that, if you opt to fight head-on, it's one of the poorest straight-up shooters in years. There are plenty of guns but it's a perfect example of quantity over quality, and the main problem is that the enemies are dumb as posts; stealth-kill a soldier's buddy in front of his eyes and he won't notice anything is amiss until the corpse hits the ground. Crysis 3 is at its best when you don't touch it much, moving through its clockwork soldiers silently and watching from a distance – getting into fights always disappoints. It's not a long game, about five hours, but by the end it drags and the climax is truly atrocious; a poorly conceived and ugly mess. To quote Prophet's ridiculous cockney buddy Psycho, "fackin 'ell!"Redemption comes in the form of multiplayer, a packed offering with a dozen maps and smart variants on the usual gametypes. Hunters begins with two players as invisible bow-wielding aliens, with all other players spawning as Nanosuit-less marines. The name of the game is for any marine to survive for two minutes, but each one killed respawns on the other team. This is quickfire stealth for the hunters, with every second nearer defeat, and simply scary for the marines; an effect created, in no small part, by an Alien-style motion tracker. Games of Hunters can be sickeningly swift victories or heroic hold-outs, and those moments when the silence breaks, when a glint in the water makes a rookie panic, are magic.Even in standard gametypes such as Team Deathmatch and the zone-controlling Spears, the Nanosuit gives Crysis 3 its own competitive flavour. A starting perk enables auto-activation of the suit's armour upon taking fire, which simplifies things in a good way, and Crysis 3's cornucopia of weaponry feels much more at home. There's also a slightly ridiculous customisation system that lets you, during matches, switch out various attachments and dictate how hard you're pulling the bow-string. No other FPS offers a feature like this, and there may be a reason why.But even if that's fussing over details, Crysis 3's multiplayer goes some way towards making up for its poor campaign. It's just much more fun. Crysis 3's singleplayer sometimes forgets that people buy a game starring a man in a super-powered suit because they want to do ridiculous super-powered stuff. But multiplayer doesn't, and stuffs its arenas full of poles to rip from the ground and cars ready to be booted into other players.From another angle that says everything about Crysis 3: the best thing in this game, after who knows how many years of development and millions spent, is hitting other players with a giant pipe. It is a gorgeously-rendered pipe, to be sure, and this is technically an incredible-looking game – but to call it beautiful would be to disregard aesthetics entirely. Crysis 3 shows how far the series has moved from the original's fabulous ambition, and makes you wonder exactly when Crytek stopped trying to make amazing FPS games – ones that pushed the important boundaries – and settled for pretty average.•Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Spotify wants to boost the amount of free music it offers to smartphone users in the UK, in a move likely to fuel a sharp rise in on-the-go streaming.At the moment, onlySpotify subscribers who pay £9.99 a monthcan play tracks on mobiles and tablet computers after a free 30-day trial.The digital music service is expected to enter negotiations with major music companies this month as it hammers out new licensing agreements.Spotfiy's move to expand its free offering would give it an edge on its streaming rivals, Napster, Rdio and Deezer, all of which charge a monthly £9.99 fee to play music on the go.Last year, Spotifylaunched a free radio playerfor Apple iPhone and iPad owners in the US offering unlimited songs and stations alongside advertising. Complex licensing arrangements mean that Spotify has been unable to launch this service in the UK – but a renewed push in the current negotiations with rights holders could see a similar product offered to music fans in Britain.According to US technology site, The Verge, Spotify has already started negotiations in the UK with Warner Music – home to Bruno Mars and Fleetwood Mac – and will begin talks with the other two music majors, Sony and Universal, in the coming weeks.Industry experts believe London-based Spotify is in pole position among streaming rivals to expand its free offering. The company has managed to convert about a fifth of its 20 million active users into paying subscribers and has paid out over $500m (£327m) to rights holders since its launch in 2006. The loss-making company pays 70% of its revenue to rights holders, which totalled €187.8m (£164m) in 2011 according to the latest available accounts.Spotify faces competition in the UK from US-based Rdio, which launched in Britain last year with a similar pricing model. Deezer is another competitively priced rival, but has the advantage of being bundled into Everything Everywhere's UK 4G service from its launch in October 2012.Research published by the BPI, the UK music industry trade body, earlier this month showed the increasing importance of streaming services to customers and record labels. Products such as Spotify and Rdio contribute nearly £50m annually to music labels, accounting for 15.2% of their digital income, according to the research.Last year saw the launch of the first Official Streaming Chart in the UK, eight years after the introduction of the legal download chart.Spotify declined to comment.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email media@guardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook
New York, 6pm Wednesday, the next generation starts. Sony is filling the huge Hammerstein Ballroom with more than 1,000 journalists from all over the world. And although the company remains tight-lipped about what's on show... we all know what's on show. PlayStation 4 – or "Orbis" if you want the alleged working title.Almost eight years after the E3 press conference that ushered in the PS3 era, we're making another hyperspace jump into unknown territory. Specs have been leaked, photos posted online, rumours disseminated and deconstructed. But everyone who really knows what's going on is walled up behind airtight NDAs – for at least another 14 hours.So in the meantime, here's what we'd like to see from tonight's meeting – some of it is mandatory, some fanciful. Feel free to add your own wishlist in the comments section.The specsThis is the meat of any video game console launch, and we'll want as much detail as possible. Right now, documentsposted on the VGLeaks siteand the titbits we've managed to squeeze from developers suggest an eight-core processor set-up based around AMD's Jaguar technology; a GPU utilising AMD's R10XXSouthern Islandsarchitecture; 4GB system memory; and Blu-ray drive. Eurogamer has an immense analysis of these specifications and how they compare with rumoured Xbox Durango featureshere. The information suggests, as many predicted, a much less expensive architecture than the PS3, and one that will be familiar to coders already working with high-end PC hardware. But will there be any extra surprises, like support for 4K screens?The controllerNo doubt you've seen theleaked imagesof a reworked Dual Shock pad. It boasts a d-pad, analogue sticks and shoulder buttons, but the Start and Select buttons have gone, replaced by a large (possibly multitouch) touch pad which can also be clicked for an extra input. Rumours also suggest Move-style motion functionality, a microphone and a headphone socket. Documentation seen by various game sites has also mentioned a Share button, which may well allow gamers to take screen grabs or video clips to post on a social network. I've spoken to developers who have told me the touchpad has been on protoype PS4 controllers for some time – but what will it add to gaming experiences? The Vita has shown some interesting uses, especially in tactile titles like LittleBigPlanet and Little Deviants. Is it possible there's another one on the base? Or is that justtooVita?The servicesWe all know that last year, Sony paid $380m for cloud gaming company Gaikai. So what's it doing with that technology? Lots of possibilities here. My money is on an extension of the PlayStation Plus philosophy – ie a subscription-based service that lets you stream and/or download new titles, perhaps even for free. Even if you don't play them over the web (broadband services might not be up to that task), you may be able to start playing titles as they download in the background. I think it's all going to be about ridding gamers of all the bottlenecks associated with digital content and downloadable updates. There's another angle though. Here's Sony's pre-event teaser trailer:So, okay, that might just be a little 'story so far' re-cap, but some sites are suggesting it could hint at some sort of backwards compatibility potential. Maybe PSone, 2 and 3 titles will be made available as streaming content. Elsewhere, it seems integration with other devices is going to be a big issue. Xperia, tablets, Vita – will we be able to use them all as controllers for PS4 games, or even seamlessly use them as remote portals to play PS4 titles while on the move? Of course, Sony tried that with PS3 with limited success – but some sort of cross-platform integration between the console and mobile devices is surely inevitable.The gamesThe range of exclusive titles is going to be crucial – this is where the mainstream will be looking to decide on yet another console purchase. So far, the line up of potential launch titles includes a new Gran Turismo (and Sony'slatest teaser videorevolves around the series), Killzone 4, Uncharted 4, a new Motorstorm, LittleBigPlanet 3 (in development at Sumo Digital), the upcoming new title from Media Molecule, and maybe even Team Ico's long awaited Last Guardian. Metal Gear Ground Zeroes is a possibility and other third-party publishers could also roll out their big multiformat, gen-spanning titles including Star Wars 1313, Battlefield 4 and Watchdogs. Sony also needs to nod toward the indie sector too. If even half of that gets demo time tonight, we'll be happy.The release dateI don't think we'll get a price on Wednesday. Even though rumours are suggesting a surprisingly reasonable £299 start point, Sony will want to see what Microsoft comes out with on the next Xbox before committing to anything. But we should get some indication of a launch date. At the moment, most pundits are suggesting Winter 2013 for Japan and the US, with Europe trundling along in the spring. But that was the old model. Now Sony is no longer relying on manufacturing its own proprietary components, surely a contained global launch period is possible. PS4 by Christmas? Is that too much to ask? We'll find out tonight... Maybe.
Oooooh, PlayStation announcement tonight!Sorry, guys, but as you read this I am on my way to New York. I'll bring back news and some Cheetos!
Apple has revealed that it was targeted by hackers exploiting the same software that was used to launcha recent attack on Facebook.The company said unknown hackers infected the machines of some Apple workers when they visited a website for developers that had been infected with malicious software designed to attack Mac computers, according to Reuters.It added there was no indication that any data had been taken and was working with authorities to investigate the incident. The California-based corporation said: "Apple has identified malware which infected a limited number of Mac systems through a vulnerability in the Java plug-in for browsers."The same software was used to launch attacks against Facebook, which it disclosed on Friday. Twitter was hacked on 1 February in the same campaign, Reuters was told by a person close to the investigation.Another person briefed on the case said that hundreds of companies, including defence contractors, had been infected with the same malicious software. Though this person said that the malware could have originated from China, there was no proof."This is a new campaign. It's not like the other ones you read about where everyone can tell it's China," the first person said.A Finnish cyber security firm, F-Secure, said the attackers might have been trying to get access to the code for apps on smartphones, seeking a way to infect millions of end-users. It urged developers to check their source code for unintended changes.Charlie Miller, an expert on Apple security, who is co-author of the Mac Hacker's Handbook, said the attacks showed criminal hackers were investing more time studying the Mac OS X operating system so they can attack Apple computers.For example, he noted, hackers recently figured out a fairly sophisticated way to attack Macs by exploiting a flaw in Adobe Systems Inc's Flash software."The only thing that was making it safe before is that nobody bothered to attack it. That goes away if somebody bothers to attack it," Miller said.
A blogger has published once-classified FBI files that show how the agency tracked and collected information on internet activist Aaron Swartz.Swartz, who killed himself in January aged 26, had previously requested his files andposted them on his blog, but some new documents and redactions are included in the filespublished by Firedoglake blogger Daniel Wright.Wright was given 21 of 23 declassified documents, thanks to a rule that declassifies FBI files on the deceased. Wright said that he was told the other two pages of documents were not provided because of freedom of information subsections concerning privacy, "sources and methods," and that can "put someone's life in danger."The FBI's files concern Swartz's involvement in accessing the Public Access to Court Electronic Records (Pacer) documents. In pursuit of their investigation, the FBI had collected his personal information and was surveilling an Illinois address where he had his IP address registered.One page reads: "Washington Field Office requests that the North RA attempt to locate Aaron Swartz, his vehicles, drivers license information and picture, and others. Since Swartz is the potential subject of an ongoing investigation, it is requested that Swartz not be approached by agents."The FBI also collected information from his social networking profiles, including Facebook and Linkedin. The latter proved to be a catalog of his many notable accomplishments, which include being a co-founder of Reddit, a founder of a website to improve the government, watchdog.net and as metadata adviser at Creative Commons.Information from a New York Times article about his Pacer hack was also included in the files, though strangely, since the article can still be read online, the name of the article's other subject, Carl Malamud, was blocked out.Hacking collective Anonymous released a State Department database Monday in memory of Swartz. The files included employees' personal information such as addresses, phone number and emails.
February's viral hit Harlem Shake relies, in time-honored viral style, on silly dancing and catchy beats. But this simple combination has potentially serious implications as YouTube becomes an increasingly important music service.On Reddit, the man behind the Harlem Shake meme, Baauer (also known as Brooklyn's Harry Rodrigues), answered questions in classic famous-by-internet fashion with the site's Ask Me Anything feature. Among his revelations about what sort of dinosaur he'd be,(a pterodactyl)andartesian wells(or internet searching), he also responded, vaguely, to questions about the profits he's made from the video which has received more than 11.6m hits.Reddit user harry-bergeron: How much money have you personally made thus far off of Harlem Shake?Baauer: $1,000,000,000,000Though that figure is clearly inaccurate, Baauer and his label Mad Decent are definitely reaping monetary benefits from its YouTube success, thanks to YouTube's content ID system that gives content creators copyright control over their product.Those who enroll in the content ID service give YouTube a reference file of their content. They then choose between getting videos that are found to use that content blocked from the site, or taking a slice of the advertising revenue those rip-off videos generate and tracking the original's success.According to Billboard, more than 4,000 Harlem Shake-related videos have been claimed by the content ID system which makes for more than 30m views as of last week.The single is also doing well oniTunes charts, where it was fighting for the top two spots on Tuesday in the US, UK, Canada, Australia, Germany and most of the rest of Europe.YouTube has more than 3,000 partners in their content ID program, and content can have multiple rights holders, an important standard when so many songs, including Harlem Shake, rely on sampling – when a producer takes and reworks bits of other songs to create something new.Fader sourced Harlem Shake's opening calls of Con Los Terroristasto a DJ remix of Gregor Salto, DJ Gregory and Solo's track Con Alegria. When asked where the sample came from, Baauer failed to mention the crew in the AMA, and these groups are unlikely to receive significant benefits from Harlem Shake popularity.Not only is Baauer getting fame and money for the sample and clipped together Trap track,some say that by dominating search results he's overriding the cultural cache previously associated with the Harlem Shake, a dance popularized many years earlier.But while Baauer is profiting from a song loosely tied to a decades-old dance move, others have been less savvy. Miniature music stars of the Hot Cheetos and Takis fame aren't making money from their wildly popular snack jam from summer 2012.The Minneapolis Star Tribune(via Daily Dot) reported that the actually little lil'rappers aren't being paid for their track, which clocked more than 5.4m YouTube views.The viral hit was made by the kids in a recording program at a Minnesota YMCA. The video has made about $10,000 in online sales and YouTube views, though the YMCA and videographer Rich Peterson have said they don't plan on surrendering any of the profits to the kids, though Richardson did put in a $1,700 check to the YMCA.It's proving to be a harsh lesson for the grade-school rappers and their parents, who are working with a local production company to help resolve the YMCA dispute as the kids prepare to sign a national recording contract as Kids.
My name is Michael and I'm a Hotmail user. Phew, am I glad to get that off my chest. I'll just wait for the ripple of supportive applause from my fellow sufferers to subside before continuing …I first signed up toMSN Hotmail, one of the first free web-based email services, in 1998. Back then, certain people (OK, me) weren't sure this internet thing would "catch on". We certainly didn't foresee that one day, email would become our primary method of communication. It seemed so impersonal and soulless compared with a good old-fashioned phonecall. Or, you know, a fax.So we didn't give much thought to our email addresses. We just got one and that felt modern and "with it" enough, thanks very much. At least my email address is just my name, unlike those who went for wacky in-jokes and have been regretting it ever since, as they apologetically repeat it down the phone for the squillionth time. And at least Microsoft is still a big player, unlike those who went with AOL, BTopenworld, Blueyonder, Yahoo or TalkTalk. Name@hotmail.com is still better than snugglebunny60@mail.demon.co.uk, right?During the noughties, though, Hotmail slowly but surely fell out of fashion. It gained a social stigma. It was for squares and luddites. It never fared well in those"what your email address says about you" articles. Emails from Hotmail accounts would get consigned to the recipient's spam folders, as if even other people's computers were judging us. Hotmail became the cruel punchline to geeky jokes. "What did you send that on, a Dell or a Compaq? NOTmail, more like."Its brand was ageing, its design dated. It was blue, busy and ugly in an age of streamlined white minimalism. It was like using a knackered Nokia in the days of BlackBerries and iPhones. We Hotmailers would cast envious glances at Gmail dudes, me.com Mac show-offs or those with their own domain names (witchcraft!), wanting to be in their gang but too lazy and loyal to defect.Now Bill Gates and his buddies in Redmond, Washington, have made up our minds for us. Microsoft's faster, simpler, cleaner Outlook.com officially launched on Tuesday, marking the demise of its predecessor. All users will switch to the new-look service over the next few months, although we can keep our hotmail.com addresses if we like. I probably will, hoping it now becomes charmingly retro rather than deeply un-hip. After 15 years, I have grown attached to it, even though it's the source of irritation and embarrassment. A bit like a partner, possibly. Or a temperamental vintage car. Yes, that's a better analogy – and one less likely to get an email "pinging" into my Hotmail inbox from my angry partner.Farewell then, Hotmail. Are you sure you want to sign out? Click yes.
The Chinese army has launched hundreds of cyber-attacks against western companies and defence groups from a nondescript office building in Shanghai, according to a report that warns hackers have stolen vast amounts of data from their targets.Mandiant, a security company that has been investigating attacks against western organisations for over six years, saidin a report (PDF)the attacks came from a 12-storey building belonging to the People's Liberation Army (PLA) general staff's department, also known as Unit 61398.Mandiant said it believed a hacking network named the Comment Crew or the Shanghai Group was based inside the compound, in a rundown residential neighbourhood. Although the report fails directly to place the hackers inside the building, it argues there is no other logical reason why so many attacks have emanated from such a small area."It is time to acknowledge the threat is originating in China, and we wanted to do our part to arm and prepare security professionals to combat that threat effectively," said the report.The discovery will further raise the temperature in the intergovernmental cyberwars, which have heated up in recent years as the US, Israel, Iran, China and UK have all used computer subterfuge to undermine rival state or terrorist organisations. One security expert warned that companies in high-profile fields should assume they will be targeted and hacked, and build systems that will fence sensitive data off from each other.Rik Ferguson, global vice-president of security research at the data security company Trend Micro, said: "We need to concentrate less on building castles and assuming they will be impervious, and more on building better dungeons so that when people get in they can't get anything else." .Mandiant says Unit 61398 could house "hundreds or thousands" of people and has military-grade, high-speed fibre-optic connections from China Mobile, the world's largest telecoms carrier. "The nature of Unit 61398's work is considered by China to be a state secret; however, we believe it engages in harmful computer network operations," Mandiant said in the report.It said Unit 61398 had been operating since 2006, and was one of the most prolific hacking groups "in terms of quantity of information stolen". This it estimated at hundreds of terabytes, enough for thousands of 3D designs and blueprints."APT1", as Mandiant calls it, is only one of 20 groups Mandiant says has carried out scores of hacking attacks against businesses and organisations in the west, including companies that work in strategic industries such as US power and water infrastructure.A typical attack would leave software that hid its presence from the user or administrator and silently siphon data to a remote server elsewhere on the internet at the instruction of a separate "command and control" (C&amp;C) computer. By analysing the hidden software, the pattern of connections and links from the C&amp;C server, the team at Mandiant said they were confident of the source of the threat.A Chinese foreign ministry spokesman denied the government was behind the attacks, saying: "Hacking attacks are transnational and anonymous. Determining their origins is extremely difficult. We don't know how the evidence in this so-called report can be tenable. Arbitrary criticism based on rudimentary data is irresponsible, unprofessional and not helpful in resolving the issue."But Ferguson told the Guardian: "This is a pretty compelling report, with evidence collected over a prolonged period of time. It points very strongly to marked Chinese involvement."Mandiant, based in Alexandria, Virginia, in the US, investigated the New York Times break-in, for which it suggested Chinese sources could be to blame.President Barack Obama isalready beefing up US security, introducing an executive order in his State of the Union speech this month that would let the government work with the private sector to fend off hacking. But it will take until February 2014 to have a final version ready for implementation.The revelation comes days after theNew York Times, Wall Street Journal and Washington Post, as well as the social networks Facebook and Twitter, said they had been subjected to "highly sophisticated" hacks that in some cases focused on correspondents writing about China and its government.Separate investigations by the computer company Dell, working with the news company Bloomberg,tracked down another alleged hacker, Zhang Changhe, who has written a number of papers on PC hacking. Zhang works at the PLA's "information engineering university" in Zhengzhou, Henan province, north-central China.The allegations will raise the temperature in the continuing cyberwar between the west and China, which has been steadily rising since the Pentagon and MI6 uncoveredTitan Rain, a scheme that tried to siphon data from the Pentagon and the House of Commons in 2006, and which one security expert said at the time dated back at least to 2004.Ferguson suggested that western governments were also carrying out attacks against Chinese targets – "but that's not a culture which would open up about being hit. I would be surprised and disappointed if most western nations don't have a cybersecurity force."TheStuxnet virus, which hit Iran's uranium reprocessing plant in 2010, is believed to have been written jointly by the US and Israel, while Iranian sources are believed to have hacked companies that issue email security certificates so that they can crack secure connections used by Iranian dissidents on Google's Gmail system. China is also reckoned to have been behind the hacking of Google's email servers in that country in late 2009, in an operation that files from WikiLeaks suggested was inspired by the Beijing government.
Last Christmas, I had a bad case of blogger's physique, earned over the course of 15 years of mainly-sedentary journalism. I looked unhealthy, felt unhealthy, and my double-chin was as tired as I was whenever I walked up a hill.Two months later, I've lost a noticeable amount of weight. Not because of gadgets and apps: it's a story of more exercise, less over-eating and unhealthy food and (much) less cider.But technology is playing a motivational role in the process. I bought myself a Fitbit One device, downloaded its app and then linked my account to food, activity and weight-tracking app MyFitnessPal. Something about all this tracking has really clicked – so far at least.I followed up withFitbitto find out more about the company's plans. It was founded in 2007 by James Park and Eric Friedman, who'd sold their previous startup Webshots – a photo-sharing community – to CNET in 2005. Fitbit's inspiration was Nintendo's Wii games console."I was just blown away by the way Nintendo had combined sensors with amazing software," says Park. "It really changed the way people thought about gaming: not sedentary, and very active. Eric and I wanted to capture the fitness and entertainment aspects of this magic."The company set to work creating its first Fitbit device, which was released in 2009. It was a smart-pedometer tracking people's steps, distance covered and calories burned, among other metrics.Companion apps weren't initially a big part of the company's strategy. Even when Apple launched its App Store in July 2008, Park says Bluetooth wireless technology was too power-hungry to support what Fitbit's devices do in 2013 – wirelessly sync data to its iPhone and Android apps throughout the day.Fitbit now has a range of devices, but it's far from the only company working on fitness gadgets that sync data with smartphone apps. Nike+ FuelBand, Jawbone Up, Withings Smart Activity Tracker, Fitbug Orb, BodyMedia Core 2 are all either on sale or on the way.Fitness toys for geeks, or a trend that's going beyond early adopters? "It's definitely crossing the chasm to becoming more mainstream," says Park, who points out that fitness-tracking is hardly a new gadget category in any case."This is tracking behaviour that people have been doing for decades. Pedometers that count steps have been with us for at least 100 years as a technology. It's only very recently that advancements in sensors – particularly accelerometers – and low-powered radio technologies have enabled these devices to become more sophisticated."Park says that around 14% of Fitbit users visit their health dashboard – the central hub for tracking their metrics – seven times a day, showing the addictive nature of such fitness tracking.Also important, though, is the fact that many other health and fitness apps can draw on Fitbit data. In fact, the rise of this entire app category has been built – so far – on openness among the various startups jostling for attention.Fitbit has anApp Galleryshowcasing apps tapping its API, including MyFitnessPal, Microsoft HealthVault, Endomondo, SparkPeople, Digifit, MapMyRun, Earndit and others.Several of those alsoplay nice with devices from another device-maker, Withings– including Fitbit itself – while activity-tracking app RunKeeperhas its own "Health Graph" APIand a host of partners. Nike, meanwhile, has launched aNike+ developer portalas it prepares to open up, complete withits own startup accelerator programme.There's an ecosystem emerging, which Park says shouldn't be a shock. "It's hard for any one company to really satisfy everything that their users want to do," he says."If you want deep food-logging or run-tracking for example, we have a lot of bi-directional API partnerships with the top apps in the space. Consumers can pick and choose."How long will this last though? As it becomes clearer which devices and apps are being used by lots of people, won't there be a temptation for some to start locking off their ecosystems, and trying to keep people within their own apps?"Yeah, things could change, and different companies have different philosophies on how open they want to be," says Park."A lot of the innovation in this space has been driven by smaller, more innovative companies. While there could be a tendency for companies to try to do everything, we always try to focus on what's really the core competency of our company. For us, that's how we get people off the couch to become more active."What next to push that on? Park says that Fitbit will spend the next year partly working with handset makers to ensure Bluetooth 4.0 "works really well for people out of the box", while also forging distribution relationships with mobile operators to sell Fitbit devices alongside smartphones in their stores.Further ahead? "For everybody in the space, it's a race to figure out how they can capture as many different data points about the human body as accurately as possible, in the most convenient-to-wear form factor," says Park."That's where a lot of the R&amp;D is going to be, and it's pretty obvious what all of those different data points might be: people want to track their sleep, their blood pressure, their heart rate etc. The challenge for any company, including us, is that there are a lot of things you could be doing – but what's the right product?"There's also the question of social. At the US D: Dive Into Media conference earlier in February, Facebook's vice president of partnerships Dan Rose said thatfitness is one of the areas set for social reinvention, following games and music.Yet fitness is one of the areas where – and this is just my personal opinion – people want very firm control over what they share, and with whom. Some may want to brag about every 1,000 steps walked or every pound lost, and others may not."If your goal is to lose weight, a lot of people are pretty sensitive about the types of data that get shared," agrees Park. "Any device maker, including ourselves, has to be careful about privacy and the types of data that are being shared, while understanding that sharing is a huge motivational factor."He gives the example of Fitbit's Aria connected-scales, which sparked lots of questions from potential buyers about whether the device would be merrily tweeting their weight every time they stepped on."Yes it can, but by default it doesn't," says Park. "You can choose to turn it on. What we do see, though, is that if you are connected to at least one friend, you're likely to stick with your exercise regime or goals longer."Back to Rose's comments, though. What scope is there for closer integration of Fitbit and Facebook – within the bounds of privacy that Park mentioned, obviously?"We have a lot of discussions going on with huge web properties," is his diplomatic answer. "Health and fitness is definitely a huge topic that's on everybody's mind." He goes on to cite Twitter and Evernote as other companies of interest, alongside Facebook.Finally, a question about threats: on the one side from device makers like Apple and Samsung and their interest in wearable technology, and on the other from apps like the recently-releasedMoves, which tracks walking, cycling and running without requiring a separate device.Park bats back the question about competition from the big manufacturers, with the not-unreasonable comment that these companies are focused on handsets rather than specific accessories. Apple's rumoured smart-watch may provide more food for thought if it a.) exists and b.) has fitness-tracking features though.What about Moves, though, and the idea of smartphone sensors getting more sophisticated, and killing off the need for separate gadgets in the process?"Phones will always get more and more capabilities, but there are a lot of issues in terms of battery drain," says Park."But also, we're thinking about the notion of wearability 24-7, and while the smartphone is a great device, it's not necessarily something you have all day, whether it's in a handbag or on a desk. That's where the notion of a complementary device that's a lot more wearable comes from."
It is fitting, perhaps, that Metal Gear Rising should be subtitled with a neologism. The game is something of a novelty itself – a new kind of construct, one fashioned from a blend of alien ingredients. Hideo Kojima's long-running series has always been a game of military hide-and-seek: creeping in khaki, sneaking with silencers. Sure, the tense scuttles past armed guards under a roomy cardboard box are usually followed by a soliloquy on the nature of contemporary warfare, but Metal Gear's quiddity was always to be found in its shadows.The Osaka-based Platinum Games – creators of Metal Gear Rising – by contrast, is a video game developer known principally for its swagger and volume. If not the greatest Japanese developer at work today, Platinum is certainly the most creatively boisterous, hurling explosive titles such as Vanquish and Bayonetta out of the door to enthral players and disrupt rivals with their noise and muscle. If Metal Gear neutralises its foe with a sleep dart fired from a darkened air vent slit, Platinum Games rides into the mess hall on an armoured stallion wielding a readied bazooka on each shoulder like a vision plucked from a Michael Bay cheese dream. Bring the two outfits together into a single game and you're guaranteed a neologism.In any creative marriage of this sort, it's important to understand what each party brings to the banquet. Metal Gear Rising Revengeance is a Platinum game dressed in Metal Gear's garb, which is to say it's a game that prioritises spectacle over stealth, hurled one-liners over hushed codec comms and death by katana cleave over a chloroform choke. You assume control of Raiden, the protagonist from Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty (petulant, weedy) that nobody wanted to play and the supporting character from Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of the Patriots (determined, cyborg ninja) that everybody wanted to play. Raiden may not have the gruff, stubbly charm of series poster man Solid Snake, but he's a solid choice for this role: lithe, quick and with a determined steel jawbone.Metal Gear Rising Revengeance: the cyborg ninjaWhere Metal Gear Solid 4 was characterised by Solid Snake's old age, Raiden's youth and agility infuses every aspect of Rising, where the props and trappings of the Kojima's myth are presented with a light touch. There are none of the drawn out cut scenes and conversations of the mainline Metal Gears. Communications still arrive via the earpiece codec, but they are short and pointed. Mei Ling-esque esoteric philosophising is entirely absent, for example. What the dialogue loses in verbosity and lyricism ("What do you want with the president?" "I want him … dead.") it makes up for in brevity (and the odd peculiar idiolect). The cardboard box makes a return but it's a visual quip more than a serious asset in the arsenal, wobbling precariously as Raiden hunch-runs behind enemies he'd far rather be chopping into segments than squeezing past.This swordplay is at the heart of the game's interactive toolkit. While running in his "Ninja Dash" (a high speed take on Assassin's Creed's one-touch parkour routine) Raiden will gracefully deflect incoming bullets with his blade, allowing him to streak up to any antagonising cybernetic soldier and engage in hand-to-hand martial combat. In close quarters, a squeeze of the left bumper sends Raiden into Blade Mode. Here time is slowed while your right thumbstick rotates a plane that passes through the centre of the screen. Release the thumbstick and Raiden performs a sword strike along its path. In this way its possible to slice and dice enemies (and many inanimate objects) while an on-screen "combat log" keeps track of the number of disparate "parts" that your handiwork has created. In order to temper its use, Blade Mode drains the Raiden suit's energy, which will replenish slowly or which can be refilled by attacking enemies – a design that naturally favours offensive play.Metal Gear Rising Revengeance: features Blade ModeActivate Blade Mode with maximised fuel cells and you will trigger Zandatsu– a technique that automatically analyses the ideal cutting position on any given foe. Slice the red indicator box and you can seize your foe's self-repair unit, defeating the enemy in a single swipe while also fully refilling your fuel cell and life bar. In order to discourage button-mashing, enemies flash red just before they attack, inviting a parry. If you're alert you'll suffer only a slight knockback, while a perfectly timed deflection will stun the enemy for the prescient player. Each of the game's stages is broken into smaller segments, with a Vanquish-style score sheet rating your performance at each conclusion, summarised by a final alphabetical "combat rank" up to the faultless "S" grade.A sub-weapon slot allows you to engage with distinct targets using rocket launchers and grenades. Nevertheless, Platinum ensures that even remote battles with helicopters end with the appropriate ceremony, inviting the agile protagonist to skip along the tops of incoming rockets before slicing the chopper into Teflon shards as a fitting end to a sky battle. No matter how you dispatch of them, defeated foes drop BP, the game's currency which can be spent on a huge array of different customisation options for upgrading Raiden's suit, weapons and abilities, increasing the range and spectacle of every battle.Metal Gear Rising Revengeance: a VR missionVR missions – a feature of the original Metal Gear Solid – take Raiden into a Game Boy-green virtual training dimension, with 20 timed challenges to complete in which you must, for example, rush past enemy soldiers to reach the exit point in as short a time as possible, or throw armfuls of grenades at moving targets.  New missions are unlocked by finding the relevant suitcase pick-up over the course of the storyline and provide a competitive change of pace away from the pocked African streets on the main game.Rowdy, animated and exhaustingly vigorous, Metal Gear Rising is a game that retains the capacity for stealth, but actively encourages players to rush in, katana blazing. The Metal Gear myth has never before appeared so agile, fresh and youthful, but more than the setting its Platinum's virtuoso coders that shine throughout, the object slicing a marvel of high-speed 3D manipulation. A technical masterpiece, Rising offers a funfair ride approximation of Konami's brooding series, but one with more than enough capacity for the Bayonetta veteran to express their dexterous expertise.
Microsoft's early mobile strategy was "clearly a mistake", according to its chairman Bill Gates – but he refused to criticise chief executive Steve Ballmer, although he didn't give him unequivocal support.Speaking to CBS on a wide range of topics covering his current activities, Gates was asked about the growing number of articles that seem to contain criticism of Microsoft's strategy."We appreciate the advice," Gates says drily. "There's a lot of things like cellphones where wedidn't get out in the lead early. We didn't miss cellphones, but the way that we went about it didn't allow us to get the leadership." That strategy, he said, was "clearly a mistake." Explaining precisely why would be "too complicated" for the show segment, he says. (It is a CBS profile, rather than an in-depth study of the mobile business.)Asked whether he is happy with the performance of chief executive Steve Ballmer – whose tenure since the end of 1999 has seen Microsoft's share price show no significant growth, missed the chance to buy Yahoo, lost billions on the Bing search engine, seen the company take its first ever net loss after a huge writedown on its aQuantive acquisition, and most recently the departure of Windows chief Steve Sinofsky apparently after a disagreement – Gates pauses fractionally.Then he says: "He and I are two of the most self-critical people you can imagine. There are a lot of amazing things that Steve's leadership got done with the company in the last year – Windows 8 is key to the future, the Surface computer, [the search engine] Bing, people are seeing is a better search product, but is it enough? No, he and I are not satisfied in terms of breakthrough things that we're doing everything possible."Microsoft's Windows Mobile, the OS that preceded Windows Phone, was the second biggest smartphone OS in use at the beginning of 2007, just as Apple launched its iPhone. Nokia's Symbian dominated, followed by Windows Mobile and then RIM.But the total smartphone market at the time was comparatively small, comprising just 17.6m handsets per quarter. Windows Mobile peaked in the fourth quarter of that year, shipping on an estimated 4.8m handsets, according to Gartner.Microsoft finally abandoned development on Windows Mobile at the end of 2008 and introduced Windows Phone in 2010. Now the market is more than ten times larger in terms of smartphone sales, hitting 207m in the fourth quarter of 2012 according to the research firm Gartner. Windows Phone has about 3% of that market by Gartner's figures.Here's the video:
Hey, it's Tuesday. one day before the PlayStation announcement!
A burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle asks journalists to tone down story of "massive" Google Play security flaw &gt;&gt; Apple InsiderAfter publishing the story [that Google Play accounts pass on emails and location details of buyers of apps to the app owners], News.com.au reported that "this story was amended at the request of Google. News.com.au took out the words 'massive' and 'huge' - referencing the size of the security 'flaw'. The word 'flaw' was also put into inverted commas."Google wouldn't comment on the record, but apparently views the issue of sharing customers' data as non-newsworthy policy that shouldn't be reported as a security flaw, especially not as a serious one that users should take notice of.The author, Claire Porter, added a comment on the story after its headline had been neutered to the nicer "Google 'flaw' puts users' details on display" that stated, "For the people asking how the story was amended: Despite the fact that Google refused to comment on the record, I was asked to change the headline (both the homepage headline and SEO headline inside the story), as well as the standfirst and lead (first paragraph). Google's issue was with the use of the word 'flaw.'(Thanks @jseths on Twitter for the link.)No cute Android pins, no Schmidt, no slide: Google tones down its presence at MWC this year &gt;&gt; TechCrunchIngrid Lunden:So what's the reason for this? There appear to be a few.We've heard from sources that Google these days is less keen on emphasizing the Android brand — witness the Android Market getting rebranded almost a year ago (after the last MWC) as Google Play. Pulling away from having a strong a presence may fold into that. "Nexus and Galaxy are brands; Android is not," is how the thinking goes here. It's a far cry from years past, when Google had a dedicated site to its efforts at the conference, and gave out its popular array of Android pins to fans and those hoping for a neat profit someday on eBay (even making a video about them).You could also argue that part of the reason why Google does not need to make as big of a push at MWC is because it has already achieved market dominance… In this sense, absence is power, not weakness.Any two pages on the web are connected by 19 clicks or less &gt;&gt; Surprising ScienceNo one knows for sure how many individual pages are on the web, but right now, it's estimated that there aremore than 14 billion. Recently, though, Hungarian physicistAlbert-László Barabásidiscovered something surprising about this massive number: Likeactors in Hollywood connected by Kevin Bacon, from every single one of these pages you can navigate to any other in 19 clicks or less.Barabási's findings,published yesterdayinPhilosophical Transactions of the Royal Society, involved a simulated model of the web that he created to better understand its structure. He discovered that of the roughly 1 trillion web documents in existence — the aforementioned 14 billion-plus pages, along with every image, video or other file hosted on every single one of them — the vast majority are poorly connected, linked to perhaps just a few other pages or documents.Distributed across the entire web, though, are a minority of pages—search engines, indexes and aggregators—that are very highly connected and can be used to move from area of the web to another. These nodes serve as the "Kevin Bacons" of the web, allowing users to navigate from most areas to most others in less than 19 clicks.They came too soon: the history of tech's premature births &gt;&gt; Wired UKSurely there are plenty more?Open addresses and linked data &gt;&gt; Open Data InstituteStuart Harrison:There has been a lot of talk recent about the need for an open national address dataset. As someone who has campaigned tirelessly for open postcodes, and, in my previous role at a local authority, who is only too aware of the issues surrounding licensing of geodata, this is something I'm passionate about too.However, all the talk recently has been around making the Postcode Address File (PAF) public, which, given that the Royal Mail is about to be privatised, I can understand.It's a suggestion and debate that has been going on for the best part of a decade, without any resolution.Apple iWatch vs Google Glasses and the next UI battle &gt;&gt; Tech.pinionsBrian S Hall:Advertising is not merely built upon data collection. It also requires interruption – what I call the "intrusive business model". I think the most potentially intractable problem that Google faces in its quest to create connected, personal hardware devices, one that Apple is liberated from, is the fundamentally intrusive nature of its business model. We may all "search" for information, but that does not necessarily mean we want to be bombarded with ads. Ads are already everywhere, it seems; within our (free) apps and games, on Google maps, scattered across web pages, inside YouTube videos, and more and more on the Google search page. Where does this end?I don't want my Google Glasses, for example, to pop up ads right in my eye, nor have a commercial play some catchy jingle into the sensor I keep in my ear. I don't want my iWatch clone, for example, to vibrate every time it thinks I might be interested in some deal or datapoint – when in fact, it's really because the sender – the intruder – is making money off stealing my attention. As computing becomes increasingly more personal, there is a very real chance that Google's business model becomes increasingly more intrusive.Dislike of advertising is puzzling to Americans, but much closer to the surface in the UK and other European countries. Then again, in Asia advertising is rarely less than intrusive. Will there be regional differences in the success of different business models?Boy meets girl. Girl strips on webcam. Tells boy to do the same. Girl blackmails boy &gt;&gt; Naked SecuritySingapore's Police Force has warned of femme fatales befriending potential victims on sites such as Facebook and Tagged.com.&lt;p?The women enter steamy webcam conversations with their prey, where they strip and encourage their male victim to do the same.What the man doesn't realise, as he feverishly rips his clothes off and agrees to engage in various sexual acts in front of the camera, is that his female love interest is secretly recording everything that's going on.The male victim is then blackmailed for money by the woman who threatens to circulate the compromising photographs and videos.Ouch! That must put a dampener on the evening.Tesla owners hit the road to prove long distance can be done &gt;&gt; AllThingsDDifferent ambient temperatures, different levels of knowledge on the parts of the drivers (especially that the New York Times writer had had problems because the apparent mileage varied with temperature) - not surprising that they'd succeed, is it?A Chinese hacker's identity unmasked &gt;&gt; Businessweek[Joe] Stewart says he meets more and more people in his trade focused on China, though few want that known publicly, either because their companies have access to classified data or fear repercussions from the mainland. What makes him unusual is his willingness to share his findings with other researchers. His motivation is part obsession with solving puzzles, part sense of fair play. "Seeing the U.S. economy go south, with high unemployment and all these great companies being hit by China … I just don't like that," he says. "If they did it fair and square, more power to them. But to cheat at it is wrong."The internet forgets nothing.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Google's latest doodle celebrates the birthday of Nicolaus Copernicus, the astronomer who transformed our understanding of the solar system and is best known for his theory that the sun and not the Earth is at the centre of the universe.Born on 19 February 1473 as the son of a merchant in the city of Toruń, Poland, he studied at Krakow Academy, now the Jagiellonian University, before travelling to Italy to study law in 1496.While studying at the University of Bologna, his passions for geography and astronomy were encouraged by a mathematics professor, Domenico Maria de Novara.He returned to Poland and worked there for several years as a secretary to his uncle, a bishop, before taking on an administrative post in the city of Frauenberg, where he continued to study astronomy.By 1514, at the behest of the Catholic church, he was involved in working to improve the calendar and in 1530 produced a major piece of research, De Revolutionibus Orbium Coelestium (On the Revolutions of the Celestial Spheres).His observations were the first to place the sun, not the Earth, at the centre of what is now known as the solar system.His heliocentric revolution was condemned by Martin Luther.He died in May 1543. Legend has it that the first printed copy of De Revolutionibus was placed in his hands on the day of his death.His long-lost skeleton was located in 2005under floor tiles near one of the side altars in the 14th-century Roman Catholic cathedral in Frombork.
Burger King's Twitter feed was hacked on Monday afternoon, apparently by hackers affiliated with the Anonymous collective, who quickly took it over and rebranded it with rival McDonald's logo and name, and began using it to tweet McDonald's special offers.The hack happened at 5.01pm GMT on Monday, with a tweet announcing that "We just got sold to McDonalds! Look for McDonalds in a hood near you @DFNCTSC" – the latter referring to a Twitter user set up on the same day which hadn't tweeted.The hackers then changed the name and began advising those watching the feed to eat at McDonald's, and began retweeting comments from other users complaining about Burger King.The hack, which happened while the US is on a public holiday for George Washington's birthday, will intensify the need for Twitter to introduce better security on the passwords used to protect accounts. The Guardian revealed earlier this month that the microblogging site aims to introduce "two-factor authentication", which would require any new login to also enter a code sent separately to a mobile phone. Similar systems have been offered by Google for some years now. That would have meant that the hackers' attempts to log into the Burger King account, even with the correct password, would fail unless they also had its owner's phone.With Twitter looking to attract more high-profile clients – such as McDonald's and Burger King – the need for better security is becoming urgent.In January an intern at HMV took over its Twitter accountto tweet about the fact that the staff were being fired.The concerns are real for many companies: a social media consultant for fast food chain Wendy'stweeted: "My real life nightmare is playing out over on @BurgerKing".A spokesman for Burger King said: "It has come to our attention that the Twitter account of the Burger King brand has been hacked."We have worked directly with administrators to suspend the account until we are able to re-establish our legitimate site and authentic postings."We apologise to our followers who have been receiving erroneous tweets about other members of our industry and additional inappropriate topics."
Anew surveyindicates that 45% of Britons are willing to admit they have used their mobile – or even email – to communicate with someone who is in the next room. The gradual acceptance of habits that were once considered unforgivable requires continual updating of the relevant etiquette. Obviously procedures will evolve over time, but here are some basic rules of engagement to get started.It is OK to ring someone who is in another room in the same house provided that person is:a) Not answering your shrieks.b) At least one flight of stairs below or above you.c) Refusing to respond to repeated Facebook updates, or direct tweets.It is not OK if:a) You can hear each other's voices clearly through the wall.b) You are simply using the mobile ringtone to locate a child.c) The answer to your stupid question can be Googled just as quickly.d) You are ringing from the loo.• For conversations likely to last longer than a minute, the mobile call should be used only to make an appointment to meet face-to-face at a convenient mid-point in the home.• Room-to-room mobile calling dispenses with most formalities associated with telephone exchanges. It is, for example, permissible to begin the conversation by saying "What?"• Remember: when both of you are at home, you can't pretend you're not available. If the other&nbsp;person can hear your phone ringing, you must either answer or be trapped under something.Five acceptable room-to-room emails:1) "Is the printer on?"2) "Is there paper in the printer?"3) "I thought you would like this [INSERT YOUTUBE LINK]"4) "Do we need one of these? [INSERT LAKELAND CATALOGUE LINK]"5) "Did my thing print OK?"Five unacceptable room-to-room emails:1) "Is it just me, or is the magic gone?"2) "Do you smell burning?"3) "Can you ring my phone? I can't find it and I need to speak with you."4) "Don't call me now!!! He's in the other room!!!!"5) "Ignore that last email – it wasn't meant for you."
For a franchise that boasts global recognition and a sizable international fan base, Final Fantasy has certainly taken its knocks over the last couple of years. Final Fantasy XIII's release was greeted with ardent fervour and it shifted close to 6m copies, but it was also heavily slammed by a lot of its traditional fan-base for being too linear for a lot of its 40-plus hours running time. Fans and critics agreed it looked absolutely stunning, but they resented being shoved into a corridor for more than 24 hours of the game.These complaints were listened to and, to some degree, addressed by Square Enix in the follow up, Final Fantasy XIII 2, which abandoned XIII's rigid structure for something a little more asymmetrical. In it, players shuttled back and forth in time between pocket dimensions and a lot of these worlds offered large open areas to explored. However, it seems the damage was done with Final Fantasy XIII; its sequel sold just 3m copies and while a lot of lesser known IPs would kill for those sales figures, it represented quite a steep drop to Square Enix.This is why it was rather remarkable to hear that Square Enix is still on track to hit the sales target it originally planned for the XIII series of game. At a recent reveal event in Paris last month, Motomu Toriyama, the series director, and Yoshinori Kitase, the franchise producer, revealed to a packed room of journalists that the original plan for the XIII trilogy was for it to crack global sales of 10m. Together, Final Fantasy XIII and XIII 2 have shifted roughly 9.7 million copies, so in order to hit their projected sales goal the forthcoming instalment, Lightning Returns: Final Fantasy XIII, only has to shift just more than 300,000 units.That said, Toriyama and Kitase aren't taking anything for granted."Between Final Fantasy XIII and Final Fantasy XIII 2, we saw a drop in sales of 3m," says Kitase. "So it's not like we feel the pressure is off at all.""The reason for the drop may have been down to the fact that not many players knew you didn't have to have played Final Fantasy XIII to understand the plot in its sequel," he adds."We're hoping that we can get that message across for Lightning Returns, because the same is true here."Indeed, punters need not have played either of Lightning Returns's predecessors to get a feel for the new game's story. Although, I have to confess that, as someone who played and enjoyed both XIII and XIII 2, I was at a loss to understand much of what I was shown in Paris when it came to plot details.As near as I could make out, the story in Lightning Returns: Final Fantasy XIII commences such a long time after the end of XIII 2, that the previous game's plot has no bearing. Lightning, the flint-like ex-soldier protagonist in XIII awakens from a centuries-long hibernation to find that the chaotic realm of Valhalla has merged with the real world to form a series of beautiful islands. She also discovers that the world will end in 13 days and it's up to her to save it and its inhabitants – as you do.The world's doomsday clock is a prominent feature in Lightning Returns. Essentially it boxes the player into a limited timeframe, which effectively prevents them from accomplishing every quest and side-mission the game holds, which in turn increases the game's overall replay value."It's impossible to complete the game with 100% completion on all of the missions and side quests in just go," says Toriyama. "Not only is there not enough time, certain quests are only available at certain points on certain days.""You only have 13 days in the game to save the world," he says. "Every second counts."Players aren't limited in terms of choice about their activities; they are free to explore the game's four islands, talk to non-player characters, shop for trinkets and battle numerous beasts as they go about saving the world. It seems Square Enix is still taking the complaints from fans about Final Fantasy XIII to heart; the key gameplay focus, according to Toriyama is "world-driven", which translates to the screen as a game in which players are free to explore to their heart's content with a limit on the barriers holding them back.The developers have put a lot of work into the four worlds contained in the game, imbuing them all with their own unique look and distinct personality. We were shown snippets of two of the worlds – the lush forest environments of the Wildlands and the Dead Dunes, which, with its ancient ruins and sunburnt deserts looks like something out of the last Uncharted instalment. For the game's demo in Paris, Toriyama showed off the metropolis of Luxerion, which looks like what would be produced if you imagined Final Fantasy XIII through the lens of Assassin's Creed II.Luxerion blends a lot of varying architectural styles, but nothing seems garishly out of place. It's a city with dusty panhandling market stalls that sit comfortably in front of ornate buildings, which look like they were cast in marble during the Italian Renaissance. At the beginning of the demo, Lightning steps off an electric train that pulls out of a decidedly Victorian-looking railway station. She then proceeds to follow a group of scholars wearing cowls that wouldn't have been out of place at a monastery in the Middle Ages.We were told that Lightning was on the trail of a murderer and her time in Luxerion would involve interviewing witnesses and suspects, as well as a bit of investigative work. To demonstrate this, the developers showed a mission in which Lightning was tasked with stealthily trailing the group of hooded figures through the city. It wasn't long before she ran into trouble in the form of a monster in an alleyway.This gave the developers a chance to show the new combat, which is a heavily tweaked version of Final Fantasy XIII's Active Time Battle (ATB) turn-based combat. Unlike previous iterations, where players picked out attacks and then had to sit back as combat animations played out in front of them, the ATB system here allows for a more immediate control. The reason for this, Toriyama says, is because players aren't going to be controlling entire groups in Lightning Returns."In Lightning returns, you only have one playable character throughout the entire game – the title character. Obviously, that a major change from XIII and XIII 2," he says. "We wanted to create a speedy, yet strategically based combat system for this game. So for this approach we built three ATB gauges for the same character, which players can switch between."The gauges in question act in the same way as the paradigm shifts in the ATB systems from the previous two games – except here, they're called Styles. Players can switch between up to three of them at a time and they're tied to different outfits that the player can customise before sending Lightning into battle. Like the last game certain Paradigms – Styles – are more effective against certain enemies, but Toriyama says that they've constructed the combat so players will never find themselves staring down an enemy that's invulnerable to all of Lightning's attacks."The three Schemes or Styles can be set at any time," says Toriyama. "If you see one attack works better on an enemy than another you can switch to that Style in the middle of a battle. However, if you find that none of your Styles affect an enemy, you can end the battle, swap out your Style combinations for something more effective and then re-enter the fight. The enemy's health, however, will be re-set to full if you do."The combat also feels a little more like that of a Western RPG. Players can now move Lightning around the battlefield with the right thumbstick and even execute a dodge roll or a jump attack."If you're the kind of player who mainly plays action-based games, it'll feel similar, because you can execute a lot of movement abilities around the battle area," he says. "It was a chance to give players a chance to control Lightning more directly, which is what a lot of our fans said they wanted."While this more Western style of gaming may sound appealing, it's pretty clear that Lightning Returns: Final Fantasy XIII has a steep hill to climb. Interest in the brand has fallen if the sales figures of the last two games are anything to go by, and I wouldn't like to bet money that the fan base are going to respond overwhelmingly positively to the changes made for this third iteration. There seem to be two disparate styles of play here. Collecting all of Lightning's Style outfits, shopping for trinkets and baubles and wading through the game's weird plot may sound like a fun time to JRPG fans, but how will they respond to the new combat? Similarly, will the new ATB system attract a wider fan base – even if one doesn't need to have played either of this game's predecessors?All of a sudden, 300,000 copies seems like a small mountain to climb and we'll have to wait until autumn to see if Square Enix's new direction will rejuvenate Final Fantasy's ailing fortunes ...
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 16 February 2013PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (–)Aliens: Colonial Marines(18+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (30)PC (6)12 (1)Dead Space 3(18+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (35)PC (4)23 (2)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (33)Wii (4)214 (3)Call Of Duty: Black Ops II(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (40)PC (2)Wii U (1)145 (4)Far Cry 3(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (38)PC (6)126 (12)Assassin's Creed III(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (41)Wii U (5)167 (7)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)PS3 (48)Xbox 360 (44)VITA (6)PC (1)168 (8)Just Dance 4(3+)Wii (80)Xbox 360 (15)PS3 (3)Wii U (2)209 (10)Sonic & All Stars Racing Transformed(7+)Xbox 360 (29)Wii U (25)PS3 (22)3DS (14)1110 (13)Halo 4(16+)Xbox 360 (100)1411 (9)Hitman Absolution(18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (46)PC (1)1312 (11)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (74)PS3 (15)PC (11)6113 (15)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (39)Xbox 360 (30)PS3 (15)3DS (5)1814 (5)Hitman: HD Trilogy (18+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (47)315 (18)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (30)Wii (18)PS3 (15)DS (15)3216 (17)Lego The Lord of the Rings(12+)Xbox 360 (36)PS3 (21)Wii (15)DS (13)1317 (14)Forza Horizon(12+)Xbox 360 (100)1218 (16)Football Manager 2013(3+)PC (94)PSP (6)1619 (–)Dishonored(18+)Xbox 360 (57)PS3 (28)PC (15)1620 (–)Grand Theft Auto IV(18+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (37)42UKIE Games Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
It should come as no surprise that there are official Angry Birds books, given its evolution into a brand spanning toys, clothing, sweets and hundreds of other products.What may be more surprising is that Rovio doesn't simply license Angry Birds out to publishers and leave the details to them. There are licensing deals – Penguin is publishing seven Angry Birds books in 2013 – but Rovio also has an in-house book publishing team, headed up by vice president Sanna Lukander.The VP status for this Finnish publishing industry veteran hints at Rovio seeing books at more than just another spin-off, as she explained during Penguin's recent press event for its 2012 children's catalogue."What's a publisher doing at Rovio Entertainment?" said Lukander. "A publisher started a publishing unit within the gaming unit as a part of changing this gaming company into a media and entertainment franchise. The story has to be born there, where all the creative guys are – the guys behind the actual characters."Rovio's publishing life began with cookbook Bad Piggies Egg Recipes in late 2011, which the company laterself-published as an iPad book-appin October 2012. That year, it also teamed up with National Geographic foran educational book based on its Angry Birds Space game.The Penguin deal – through its Puffin imprint – will seefour books published in July 2013: two sticker books, a puzzle book and a story-book revealing "The Mystery of the Green Bird". Three more will follow, including an official tie-in for the next new Angry Birds game.Lukander says that Rovio's creative decisions in books come from close monitoring of feedback from fans of Angry Birds. "In December we had 263m users of our games, and from a publisher's perspective there is constant dialogue with the fans," she said at Penguin's event."People already love the characters, and they are actively initiating a dialogue with the publisher. There is so much potential, but we have to be very careful and very sensitive about what we do. It can only be of the highest quality."This may provoke snorts in some quarters – there is no shortage of sceptics when it comes to Angry Birds' rapid expansion as a brand in the last year or two.Yet the publisher has always maintained that it rejects many more licensing and partnership opportunities than it approves, while also walking its talk about serving Angry Birds fans rather than squeezing them – witness its regular release of free levels for its games.2012 also saw Rovio take the first steps towards countering concern in some quarters that Angry Birds might be distracting children from other, more educational activities.The National Geographic book was one step, while apartnership with CERN– the European Organisation for Nuclear Research – announced in October 2012 promised physics-based "fun learning experiences" as part of an educational initiative calledAngry Birds Playground."We knew that the characters could work with educational content in a very fun way, to get people interested in something they might not otherwise have bumped into," Lukander told me after her presentation. "We're working on those types of partnerships with CERN, National Geographic and NASA. There are so many possibilities."Judging by my sons' school playground, Angry Birds continues to strike a chord with children: the number of hats, bags and dangling plush-toy charms certainly rivals more traditional brands from the likes of Disney and Star Wars.But this is an educational opportunity, through books? "It's important for kids to read," said Lukander, whose background before Rovio was in educational publishing. "I don't care where they read or how they get interested in reading. It's more important that they do get interested in it."Rovio's Sanna Lukander. Photo: Stuart DredgeRovio's partnership with Penguin is focused on physical book publishing – it joins digital brands Moshi Monsters and Skylanders on the publisher's roster.Rovio has retained the digital publishing rights for Angry Birds, which leads onto a conversation about how storytelling is evolving on devices like tablets – beyond pure digitisation for e-books."Digital publishing is a huge question mark for all of us," says  Lukander. "I personally think gimmicky digital publishing isn't the thing. You shouldn't shove the same story into digital formats, and ruin the experience by aggressively putting a topping on it that doesn't belong."Rovio has a publishing team in-house, but also animators – working on a series of shorts for digital distribution, as well as a full movie for 2016 – and the games developers.If – as is already happening – children's book-apps are blurring the boundaries between text, animation and gaming, Rovio is surely well-placed to experiment with this kind of thing. Is this the future for digital publishing?"We're finding out," says Lukander. "It's definitely not about gimmicks, but…"And then silence and a smile. Whatever Rovio is up to in this regard – and it's pretty clear it's up to something – isn't quite ready to be talked about yet.The Penguin event was notable for the regular mention by the publisher's executives of their desire to go "beyond the book" – the company sees itself as a brand-owner, extending into e-books, apps, virtual worlds, consumer products and licensing.Are other publishers adapting at a similar pace to new opportunities? "Some are, some aren't," says Lukander."It's irrelevant though. The one thing that matters is that the stories reach the people who the stories are meant for. If someone's telling a story and someone's listening, that's what's important. It's not about the form or the business model of it."She continues: "Publishers need to stay awake, and we should all understand what we're good at. If a publisher really understands that and walks the talk, that's terrific. From my point of view, it's publishing without boundaries. We don't have to be stuck in our ways."
Tom Cullen is showing off Sonos's new offering to add to its wireless speakers and streaming service: it's a soundbar, that long wide item you put underneath (or above) your TV to enhance the sound of films and television shows. And he's explaining why Sonos won't get into video, why streaming is the future of music, and why it's taken Apple so long – despite having bought the streaming service Lala in 2009 – to kick off its own streaming service.The Playbar (as it's called) has been the cause, one gathers, of a little friction inside Sonos. John McFarlane, the chief executive and co-founder who is normally the face of Sonos, didn't think for a long time that it was the right product to make, says Cullen – one of the four co-founders. "But I said, in the digital world, convenience is more important. The reason why home theatre isn't out there more widely is that it's a pain to set up."You can see his point: normal 5.1 setups (two speakers at the back, two on left and right, one in the centre, and a subwoofer) can be a pain to configure, not to mention all the trailing wires."John was against it," says Cullen. "But we've been working on this for five years. I say that all speakers should have brains in them." Pushing the intelligence to the edge, rather like the internet does – so that each speakers has its own amp, and can operate independently through a stream – is what Sonos does well.A question that I've been asking Sonos since first encountering the company in 2005 is: when will it start offering video streaming? Given that it has shown its ability to move data around efficiently, video has seemed like a natural next step after audio.Cullen squashes that suggestion flat. "There are two answers to that," he says. "The first is the business answer. Digital video is going to be this whole clash of the titans over the next decade. Samsung, Apple, Google, Microsoft, Sony, they're all going to fight to control it. Some of them face fundamental existential threats from that. I don't want to be caught up in that."The other reason, he says, is "once we had the idea of these smart speakers, we realised that we could invest more and more deeply in them, and we wouldn't run out of things to do."Hence the Playbar – which he says is "the only part of the home theatre market that is growing". Quite probably that's because they combine all front three speakers, simplfying the wiring nightmare. And now Sonos, which Cullen says in 2012 became the world's second biggest speaker manufacturer by revenue (after Bose, and ahead of Bowers &amp; Wilkins), is moving in to get a piece. At £599, the Sonos Playbar won't be in everyone's price range. But Cullen thinks that if you like hearing the dialogue in films ("we've written code to help that, the mixing of 5.1 means the dialogue is in the centre speaker and it gets drowned out") and you like hearing music clearly, you'll at least consider it."Hi-fi is about a six-billion-pound market worldwide; less than a billion dollars is in streaming kit. It's going to change – we want to get the sales in the 'mass premium' market," Cullen says. (It's hard to find independent figures that confirm this; other reports put the value much higher, but mix in TVs and set-top boxes; the global home audio market should bemore than $20bn by 2015, according to a report in October 2010.)Sonos is certainly riding that growth. Cullen won't say how many users Sonos has, preferring to talk of "rooms" – which roughly equates to speakers, though not quite items (because Sonos sells its own remote control, and subwoofer, and a "bridge" to your home router)."We announced that we were in a million rooms 15 months ago. It took us six years to get there. Now we're in 2.5m," he says. That sort of takeoff could be lifted by the Playbar, which he wants to replace the (admittedly always lousy) speakers on TVs – "the quest for thinness means they're using the same speaker technology you use in your smartphone" – and also act as a music streaming service (from the TV or internet music or speech services or your own home server).So streaming – and services such as Spotify, Deezer, Last.fm and (in the US) Rdio and Pandora are the future, then? "For the past ten years I've been saying that 'in five years everybody is going to stream their music'," Cullen says, his grin acknowledging how reality hasn't kept pace with his plans. "OK, we made crazy assumptions about the way that this was going to change. Habit changes take time to happen. But the vast majority of home audio today is very different from what it was in 1995."When he and MacFarlane and the other founders created the company in 2002, he says, they had a crucial discussion about where music was going. "John is a technology visionary. We talked back then about how many streaming services there would ultimately be – would it be a handful, or thousands? We concluded it would be thousands, that music is like oxygen, and that for every niche there would be someone serving it. You live in Kazakhstan and you want Kazakh music? Someone's going to be able to buy a server and fill it with music and put it online and they're in business. Well," he pauses, "I say 'in business' but that still leaves the question of the business model."That thinking that the ocean of music will be composed of multiple overlapping streams has informed the design of all the company's products, he says. Every day another two or three streaming music or speech services start up; they can add themselves to Sonos's services via an API, he explains, which saves writing any extra per-service code.So where is Apple in this streaming world? Clearly, not offering a streaming service, despite havingbought Lala – which did just that – in 2009. Cullen thinks that the owners of the streaming rights might be trying to strike a hard bargain with Apple over streaming royalties – any iTunes streaming service would probably be a major competitor to the existing ones within a couple of months, given the hundreds of millions of credit card-connected accounts on the story. "I'm sure Apple would like to stream [from iTunes] but they're now so powerful that I think the content people are trying to get their own back," Cullen says. "But the thing is, the iTunes model [of selling individual tracks or albums] works for the music companies; the streaming model works too, but it depends on massive use to generate money for the music labels."For Sonos, though, the new growth – helped by lower prices on its equipment ("we have seen volume increases from reducing costs," Cullen admits) – has shifted it into being a different company: one that isn't living from hand to mouth, desperately trying to get products out to buyers, but one that can be more reflective about its aims and timing. "We're changing as a business," says Cullen. "But the point I've been making forever is that nowadays, simplicity wins."Correction: this article was updated on 18 February: the device is called the Sonos Playbar.
Well, that was interesting. On Saturday, I wrotean articleabout the challenges facing Sony and Microsoft's next generation of consoles. I put forward the hypothesis that there's a growing demographic of gamers who don't care about the quality offered by dedicated machines – they just love the convenience of their smartphones and tablets. I wondered how such an indifference could be combated.To explore this perspective I spoke to Oscar Clark and Will Luton, two games industry veterans from the social, mobile and smartphone side of the industry. Their comments provoked a strong reaction from readers, with a lot of very negative comments. The vision of the future that Clark offered – one in which specialist consoles become a fifth wheel in the whole smart TV/tablet/phone ecosystem – was not universally popular.So, to get some different angles, I spoke to several other pundits and developers about the future of games and the role consoles will have. Here's what they had to say.The expertsRhodri Broadbent – veteran game designer and co-founder of Welsh studio, Dakko DakkoJames Hannett – coder and designer at award-winning developer, Mode7Michael French – editor-in-chief, MCVPiers Harding-Rolls – senior principle analyst, IHS Screen DigestPhil Gaskell – co-founder, Ripstone Publishing, previously senior producer at Sony Computer EntertainmentBy breaking the five-year console cycle this time round, is it possible that Sony and Microsoft weakened their position in the industry? Move and Kinect were not compelling enough to keep a mass audience interested. Was that seven-year wait was too long?Rhodri Broadbent:Whilst there has been a section of the market crying out for new hardware, the Xbox 360 and PS3 are still expensive to buy, relative to previous generations, and that means there is still a fair way for them to go in selling to the widest possible user base.James Hannett:I don't even think this generation has been hugely delayed. There was a six-year gap between the PlayStation and PS2 for instance. But this generation was hugely expensive to develop and manufacture so I suppose they wanted to try and maximise their return. I'm sure the whole global financial crisis caused them to put their plans on hold for a while as well.Phil Gaskell:Eight years is a long time to wait for a new shiny console. In that time we've had world events that rippled around the globe. The economy has taken a nose-dive and isn't recovering any time soon, and smartphones and tablets have disrupted the fight for the living room by adding asecondscreen!During this cycle, the traditional console makers have, at times, made a ham fist of trying to invigorate their audiences and extend the life of the platform. You can't blame them, game production costs are increasing, games need to sell in higher volumes, so audiences need to be bigger. Perhaps this is contributing to an apathy, or maybe it's because Apple launch a new bit of kit every year to a rabid fanfare and it's starting to desensitise us to the hoopla we used to get embroiled in every five to six years in the past? We'll all read about PS5 and Xbox 4 on our iPad 12s.Are gamers after new experiences though? I'd like to think they are because as an old-school gamer, I'm looking for them; but in reality a pretty sizeable portion of gamers seem perfectly happy just buying Fifa, COD and GTA games – watch GTA V break all records again this year. I draw a lot of hope and inspiration from the surge of indie games we're seeing, games that embrace risk and aren't afraid to offer those types of new experiences.But do you think that there is also a new type of gamer emerging that values convenience over quality; that acknowledges the deeper experience they may get from a console, but remains happy with their tablet or phone?Michael French:The audience has definitely moved faster, and their tastes have developer faster, than the tailend of the pace of the current console generation. Kids especially are more mobile/tablet, and handheld gaming, savvy than ever. Anecdotally, you can see across the console market that all the big boxed games released are for an older crowd. Angry Birds and Minecraft have mostly eroded the video games on console, where only the Lego and Skylanders games remain. Licensed games are, mostly, irrelevant. This doesn't necessarily mean this generation of gamer is lost forever, or that this is the end of games-specific devices, but certainly their habits are being catered to by these new devices so console manufacturers have to adapt in some way.Piers Harding-Rolls:It's true the industry landscape for gaming is more competitive than ever. There will be gamers that are happy with gaming on the tablet or smartphone of course, but consoles still have a unique proposition which we believe allows them to make a relatively strong move at the start of this next generation.Is there still as much excitement about the generational shift? I wonder if there's a great air of skepticism this time round ...RB:I don't know that there is an air of skepticism – certainly not online amongst game sites. There has been a fairly natural lull in excitement around the current generation machines as consumers got used to iterative updates of the generation's finest moments, but once people see new games with fresh ideas, I expect the excitement to return with force.JH:I'm hugely excited to see what [the new consoles] are capable of. The thing that interests me most about the spec rumours is that they're so similar. I'm not sure if there's ever been a generation like this before where the main competitors were so closely matched. This should be beneficial for everyone as it will lower costs and there's a lot of existing tech and knowledge from the PC world that can be applied – this means games should look and perform great from the start. If no one's struggling with their tech, they'll have more time and money to focus on the rest of the game and maybe the usual disappointing launch lineup can be avoided.But is there a chance that tablets and smartphones could evolve to a position where they genuinely match the dedicated consoles for performance? I mean, look at the latest ARM Cortex A15 chipsets and Mali T604 GPUs.RB:If they add buttons? Sure they'll be viable. They're already viable for many players. It depends what you want from your game device. Gaming is a really wide world, and I don't think it's likely that the rise of smartphone or tablet gaming means other types of gaming will suffer terminal decline, nor that one has to replace or evolve into the other. Neither a platform nor a business model need to own the world in order to be successful.When I got my first iOS device, I was a very active consumer of new iOS games, regularly searching out new stuff. As the years have gone by my iOS devices have settled into a groove and I play SpellTower and LetterPress, because that is what they do for me better than any other game device I have. Until my iPad has buttons and a stylus, it can't replace my 3DS or Vita or the feelings I get from games on them, but nor do I need it to. When I got my latest iPhone, it transferred everything I already used my old one for on to it, and so I don't think I've even been to the app store on the new phone. Other than for updates.The idea that you connect a tablet to your TV and play seems to only work in single-gamer households, or as a very much secondary function. For the tablet to be the household's main game machine, what happens when I want to take it to work or on the train with me? No one at home can play. Or do they all have to have their own device? That doesn't sound like a particularly good setup to me.JH:Have you ever tried to play a game on a TV using your phone or tablet as a controller? I'm sure that there are some really great game designs made possible by it – probably to do with local multiplayer and asymmetric knowledge. But for everything else, it just tends to get in the way.PG:If you look at the way tablets are sporting more impressive processors it leads you to believe they will rival consoles very soon and on paper there's no question they will, but consoles have a unique advantage. They are plugged into the mains and this lets them run their silicon fast, hot, and long. Who wants a tablet that will only play games for 17 minutes before a recharge? I used to have a gaming laptop like that for the heady years when I didn't have kids and played a lot of World of Warcraft in the garden. I ended up running an extension cable from the house!Tablets either need to see some big advancements in the way they deal with power and the inevitable heat it produces, or they need to be docked so they can amp things up. I'm very excited about how we're just starting to see innovation in this area of games. The way WiiU creates its own second screen experience, and new solutions for connecting tablets to the big screen like Green Throttle's Atlas controller. Again there are a couple of companies in a position to lead the charge and make this happen, and joint ventures in this space wouldn't surprise me.How about some of the other potential rivals to Sony and Microsoft? Do you think, say, open-source consoles such as Ouya or GameStick pose a threat?PHR:We view these devices as disruptive 'seeds' which will co-exist in the market alongside the established high-end consoles [more on thathere]. They will find traction for sure but we don't expect them to eat into the incumbent's market share yet. However, they may push Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo to change their content and platform strategies more quickly or indeed may drive a more aggressive approach to games content services from companies such as Samsung.RB:I am not one for market predictions, but I like the idea of more ways to play and different business models so I hope that alongside the big three console manufacturers, we see increased competition from new players, and increased ways for developers to get their games released.I feel that Apple or Google may have a chance of coming in and taking over though – I mean, they did that with mobile gaming: it was all about Java until iPhone showed up and effectively destroyed that market.RB:I've got a current Apple TV and I have yet to see anything which suggests Apple's interface designers have mastered this type of device in the way they have with multitouch. It'll certainly be interesting to see their final idea for how a set-top-box should work.MF:I think there is a chance these devices can erode the power of games consoles, but not to the point of their obsolescence. The whole issue around the fight for living room/TV space just suggests we should expect market fragmentation like we already find in the mobile space. You have TV manufacturers directly trying to make the actual screen more powerful, versus the various set top box manufacturers. Then within that set-top box sector there is a battle between the established games firms and the wider Apple TV or broadcaster.If anything, a more aggressive fight for the home console space with these big screen devices just underlines how much sense a games console business makes – it doesn't undermine it. So Steam Box might grab some market share from Xbox, but it might also help Xbox in the long-term by offering good opposition and competition.Stepping back from that a bit, the thing that strikes me there is that TVs are about high performance and fidelity, whether that's HDTV and 3D or 1080p games. The sexy new world of mobile is about snack games. There's virtually no crossover so far – Angry Birds isn't relevant to the TV market, for instance. So whatever fears we might have about the rise of mobile gaming, and the changes in audience tastes, it doesn't necessarily mean that this world and console games are mutually exclusive. If anything, the excitement about new under-the-TV games consoles at the moment suggests a pent up demand for them – from journalists at least. I've got a much wider hypothesis about what consumers make of this situation,which is a bit tangential to your questions ...PHR:We expect Apple to come to the market with a more convincing TV games-related proposition in the future. Part of the reason Apple hasn't aggressively gone after this space yet is because it is a different proposition from its existing ecosystem of devices in relation to games – finding a well-balanced approach which opens the door to a strong move is not an easy task. In relation to games on TV, we already have plenty of lighter games on connected television devices, none of which monetise particularly well. At the other end of the spectrum we have consoles, which continue to be strongly positioned in relation to TV gaming. Apple needs to break into both these domains and at a suitable price point.Philip, do you think someone such as Apple, Google or Valve can just come in and dominate with a set-top box that does everything?PG:Past performance shows us that these players are the ones to watch for innovation and disruption, so I'm not going to risk my reputation by saying no. Apple makes things that are a joy to look at and use; Google makes things open and provide fantastic services using the power of knowledge; and Valve has great people trying to do what's best for gamers and game makers and happen to make kick-ass games.Yet each of them has weaknesses in other areas, not one of them offers the true panacea solution. So suggesting one of them might "just come in and dominate" both trivialises what they need to do to achieve dominance in a quickly changing market, and undermines the foundation work that companies like Sega, Sony, and Nintendo have done to build the games industry to what it is. The consumer electronics business isn't an easy one to operate in, ask Sony. Gaming retail and the very makeup of the high street is changing fast and that still represents the best route to get hardware into the hands of gamers. I'm still scratching my head wondering why Sky and Virgin haven't positioned themselves better in this race. Will we perhaps see some strategic JVs soon? Samsung appear to be on the ascendant.Isn't there a possibility here, then, that a TV manufacturer like Samsung or LG could just produce a television with a built in multi-core processor and high-end graphics card and cut peripheral boxes out of the equation?PG:I have a smart TV ... it isn't very smart. There is so much wrong with these devices right now, from the user interfaces, to the consistency of input from app to app, to the obvious fragmentation that's going to happen from TV to TV (a headache content makers would prefer to avoid). But these are not insurmountable problems.What I think the biggest hurdle that smart TVs face is consumer behaviour. Most people have been trained to plug some sort of device in to get things on their TV, it's been so dumb for so long I wonder whether it's an impossible feat to re-educate people. The idea of supplementary hardware is engrained in us, we expect it, nay demand it. TiVo boxes, Sky HD boxes, Freeview boxes, DVD players, AV amplifiers, these are all bits of hardware we've been programmed over the years to buy and connect to our dumb screens to give them new and enhanced capabilities. I don't see that behavioural programming changing quickly – but there are a couple of companies uniquely placed to converge their businesses and start to make it happen, and soon.So let's look at the next-gen PlayStation and Xbox devices. It seems that Sony and Microsoft may both be having similar ideas about longevity: offering cloud-based gaming so eventually the onboard tech is less important; and maybe even providing modular components so bits and pieces can be switched out over time.RB:Cloud-based processing playing a larger role will be interesting but is unlikely to make a big impact on action games. As for modular designs, if you mean upgrades over time, then it erodes one of the main benefits of a games console; the fixed specification. Also, adding or upgrading parts over time doesn't seem cheaper than simply replacing the machine in six years, and as a consumer, I like shiny new things more than just upgraded current things!MF:It's all up for grabs. The point of a console is that it pulls together a range of otherwise ambitious or unobtainable technologies into a steady base to release games on for five or so years. The volume of content on PC and mobile – platforms which are either modular or updated every six months or so – has certainly shown that model to be slow, but maybe the opportunity here is for the console manufacturers to create platforms which evolve and change.Consumers have dealt with successive waves of iOS and Android games that need more powerful OS and updated hardware to run – maybe we'll end up with grades of Xbox and PlayStation. Perhaps the actual notion of a hardware generation, not the actual idea of successive hardware, is what is outdated here. So, short answer: maybe these platforms will just drop the numbers and be called PlayStation and Xbox instead?PHR:We would like to see consoles tackle a few areas to maintain their competitiveness next generation. First, incumbent console platforms need to make it as easy as possible to publish high-quality content, whether it comes from a major publisher or from a small group of bedroom coders. Second, consoles need to be open to adopting freemium game experiences. We are already seeing some standout experiences on console platforms which are monetising very strongly so that needs to be embraced more effectively next generation.Thirdly, pricing has got to be attractive in the current competitive climate. We expect both next gen Microsoft and Sony devices to be priced similarly and we'd like it to be as aggressive as possible to drive adoption in the opening months. Four, we expect digital distribution of retail games to be a standard next generation. If the platforms can implement technology which enables instant play of high-end digital games content, then we believe that consoles could establish a strong beachhead based on this unique offering around which they could defend their position.Lastly, we'd like to see consoles push the boundaries of cross-device integration to maintain their relevance in the eyes of the consumer.It definitely feels as though there needs to be a major change with the digital services offered by Sony and Microsoft. More room for indies, more room for alternative payment methods ...JH:I don't know why but online services like Xbox Live and PSN have barely changed at all this generation. I hope to see Sony and Microsoft rectifying that for the next generation. They're crazy not to support things like free-to-play, in-app purchases and app stores now – and who knows what else is coming in the next 5 years.MF:Not sure my answer here is particularly inspiring: [Sony and Microsoft] need to offer a wider palate of download games; compete in an 'entertainment' sense by offering the usual Sky/Netflix/iPlayer/Blu-ray access; the platform holders could do with a more open and flexible licensing structure for publishers and developers; as cheap as possible hardware; sensible pricing for software; and better ways to upgrade firmware and hardware.RB:I don't think we've yet seen how consoles might cope with the many different business models springing up recently, but I've not seen anything to convince me that free to play or micro-transaction driven games have to replace outright purchase of a complete product. There is a lot of excitement among pundits around new business models but both as a consumer and a developer, I am only interested in great games, so as with the 3DS's recent boom in Japan, if the game I want costs £40, and I feel that is good value, then that is what I will pay for it.I realise that I represent the "enthusiast" section of the marketplace in some regards, but for as long as there remains a sizeable group of enthusiasts, and we can keep cultivating more of them, then that enthusiast marketplace will remain a viable target.But there is a need to foster more of an open environment for developers isn't there?PG:Consoles try to exert control, it's a throwback in my opinion to the crash of the 80s and the introduction by Nintendo of the licensing model; the Nintendo seal of quality that helped repair consumer confidence in games. They've started to lag in recent years by trying to maintain that control under the guise they are preventing bad game experiences coming out on their hardware and affecting the brand. They use gated processes to make it difficult for people to create content, they sell the hardware necessary to build the content for exorbitant prices, and even now they set ridiculous policies that favour big corporates publishers over smaller enterprises. They've failed to embrace the wisdom of the crowd fast enough, and create robust systems to allow gamers themselves to decide what is good and what is not – nothing that wasn't being done by online retailers like Amazon since the mid-90s.What has remained consistent throughout though is how content is ultimately king, and is paramount to the success of any channel whether that's passive or interactive. We shouldn't underestimate the brand power that consoles still have, the talented teams that work exclusively for them, and the fast learning that's going on inside them right this minute.The verdictThe next Xbox and PlayStation machines can flourish if they evolve to accept the new payment models introduced in the smartphone sector while embracing the openness of the Android consoles. There remains a sizable audience for dedicated high-end gaming hardware: the future is uncertain but filled with exciting possibilities.• Sony is set to announce the next PlayStation console at a press event on Wednesday night. We'll bring you all the details as they come in
Monday! How is everyone? Relaxing weekend? Glad to be back at work?
A burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWho supplies Apple? (It's not just China): an interactive map &gt;&gt; ChinaFileLast month, Apple Inc. released itsupdated list of suppliers&amp;nbsp;(PDF). This report says it includes "the major manufacturing locations of suppliers who provide raw materials and components or perform final assembly on Apple." ChinaFile used this data to construct the interactive map, above.Not where you might think.January sales show continued rough tides for the Wii U &gt;&gt; GamasutraWhile the NPD no longer provides specific sales numbers for hardware, a representative does tell us that sales of the Wii U hardware for its first three months on the market are down 38% from what the Wii's numbers were at that same point.We're told by someone with access to the NPD's data that sales for January were "well under" 100,000 units. By our estimates, sales were somewhere between 45,000 and 59,000 units for the month, which is lower than any of the three previous-generation home consoles sold in their worst months, with the possible exception of a recent performance by the original Wii.THis is all estimation, but Nintendo's own numbers don't suggest the Wii U is doing anything special either.I sell local cider not iPads, says Hoveton trader! &gt;&gt; Eastern Daily PressThe headaches for trader Geoff Fisher only started in 2009 when the Apple Store opened in the Chapelfield Centre, in Norwich.Since then a growing number of people have been ringing him up not to inquire about his cider and apple juice but to bombard him with queries about their iPhones and iPads."Over the last 12 months I have been inundated with calls and it has reached as many as 25 a week," he said.What if he did sell iPads too, though?Apple v. Samsung: Justice delayed is justice denied &gt;&gt; Fortune TechIn July 2011, Motorola filed a complaint in Germany's Mann­heim District Court charging that Microsoft's Xbox was infringing two of its video-coding patents. In May 2012 -- less than nine months later -- the court granted an injunction.Contrast that with Judge Lucy Koh's federal court in the Northern District of California.Daily Dot | China's Uyghur minority targeted by Mac malware attacks"During the past months," Raiu wrote, "we've monitored a series of targeted attacks against Uyghur supporters, most notably against the World Uyghur Congress... Although some of these attacks were observed during 2012, we've noticed a significant spike in the number of attacks during Jan 2013 and Feb 2013, indicating the attackers are extremely active at the moment."The attacks apparently use poisioned Microsoft Word documents to exploit a Microsoft Office vulnerability.Victims are targeted via email, with messages that appear to include a relevant attachment, sometimes a Word document entitled "Concerns Over Uyghur People's Fundamental Rights Under The New Chinese Leadership," other times masquerading as a white paper.The mysterious death of Shane Todd in Singapore &gt;&gt; FT.comShane had died a week before he was to return to the US. The police said he had drilled holes into his bathroom wall, bolted in a pulley, then slipped a black strap through the pulley and wrapped it around the toilet several times. He then tethered the strap to his neck and jumped from a chair. Shane, 6ft 1in and nearly 200lb, hanged himself from the bathroom door, the autopsy report said.So the Todds, along with two of Shane's younger brothers, John and Dylan, were unnerved by what they didn't see as they crossed the threshold. The front door was unlocked and there was no sign of an investigation – no crime-scene tape, no smudges from fingerprint searches. "The first thing I did was make a beeline for the bathroom," Mrs Todd recalled. She wanted to see exactly how Shane had died – and she saw nothing that fitted the police description. The marble bathroom walls had no holes in them. Nor were there any bolts or screws. The toilet was not where the police had said.A missing laptop, a backup hard drive, a potentially "dual-use" (civilian and military) project using gallium arsenide being worked on by China's Huawei, instructions to employees at Todd's former company IME not to talk to anyone - and staff there thinking his death was not suicide. (May require subscription.)Posterous will turn off on 30 April &gt;&gt; The Official Posterous SpacePosterous launched in 2008. Our mission was to make it easier to share photos and connect with your social networks. Since joining Twitter almost one year ago, we've been able to continue that journey, building features to help you discover and share what's happening in the world – on an even larger scale.On April 30th, we will turn off posterous.com and our mobile apps in order to focus 100% of our efforts on Twitter. This means that as of April 30, Posterous Spaces will no longer be available either to view or to edit.Lights out, or a new dawn?Korean lawmaker who exposed Samsung corruption forced from office &gt;&gt; The VergeA South Korean politician who sought to expose corruption within Samsung's ranks has lost his seat in parliament. The Supreme Court upheld that by publishing transcripts of wiretapped conversations online, Roh Hoe-chan broke communications laws; the conviction means he cannot remain a lawmaker, and he has received a suspended prison sentence. In explaining its decision, the court said "Unlike distributing press releases to journalists, uploading messages on the Internet allows an easy access to anybody at any time."…The conversations in question are part of what is known as the Samsung X-File, a trove of tapes illegally recorded by the government's intelligence service during the 1990s. The files include conversations between Samsung chairman Lee Kun-hee and his brother in law, and reveal bribes allegedly paid by the conglomerate to prosecutors, politicians, and presidential candidates.Does Apple really assign engineers to "fake" projects as a loyalty test? &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaI was prompted to look into the question after several friends – Apple employees, no less — expressed disbelief at the claim. Their skepticism matched my own experience; in my years of reporting on Apple and speaking to many of its employees, I had never heard of such a practice. When I sought answers by interviewing current and former Apple engineers, I found that "fake" projects are certainly not a regular occurrence at Apple — and they quite probably do not exist at all.Prepared to wager that there aren't 100 people inside Cupertino working on a smart watch project too. Ten, maybe.An offer for Tim Cook &gt;&gt; Paul's Down-Home PagePaul Robichaux lays it on the line for Apple:It's pretty clear that your EAS client team doesn't know howExchange client throttlingworks, how to retry EAS errors gently, or all the intricacies of recurring meeting management (and how the server's business logic works). If they did, the client wouldn't behave the way it has. They could learn it by trial and error… but look where that's gotten us.I'm in Mountain View, right up the road. Seriously. Have your people call my people.It is definitely puzzling, given Apple's targeting of the enterprise by stealth, that it doesn't have better coders and testers for EAS. (Thanks @arebee on Twitter for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on PinboardTo suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Price £21,395MPG 39.2Top speed 118mphI drove to New York last weekend. No, not that one… the one in Lincolnshire. Population 150, it has two roads – Sandy Bank and Dogdyke – and, unlike the other New York (pop 8.5 million), it's named after the city of York rather than the  Duke of York, the future King James&nbsp;II. Marooned in the middle of the hedgeless expanse of the Fens, there's little to detain you in this tiny hamlet, but as a driving destination I can't recommend it highly enough. Heading north from Cambridge and the end of the M11, make your way to Ely and then follow your nose to Boston, New York and finally Lincoln.The marshland which stretches unbroken from horizon to horizon was drained centuries ago and is home to an astonishing number of churches and cathedrals – their spires like sharp spikes on an otherwise flatlining hospital read-out. And across this ancient and, let's be frank, pretty weird landscape, run some of the straightest, flattest roads in Britain.To make the most of these runways, you would ideally want to be skimming along in something as low, flat and open as the topography – a&nbsp;supercharged Caterham, perhaps, or maybe the beautiful new F-Type Jaguar. Sadly, I was bobbling along in a family SUV – the latestHondaCR-V. It's the fourth generation of the Swindon-built soft-roader and more than 5m have been sold globally. The biggest market is the US, where it seems anything wearing an SUV overcoat will sell, and in many respects that is exactly what the CR-V is – a Honda Civic in utility wear.For such a capable and yet restrained vehicle, the CR-V seems to dramatically divide opinion. In the same month a review inTop Gearmagazine called it "the most boring thing in the world" and even worse than watching five hours ofThe One Show, while a journalist testing it for theDaily Maildescribed the car as "the best 4x4 so far". What is interesting is that both reviewers agreed on the underlying facts. Both said that the CR-V is reliable, capable, reassuring, comfortable, safe and efficient… It's hard to know what a carmaker is to do if those six adjectives get a vehicle a bad write-up. Is being bland really such a&nbsp;crime? It hasn't stopped Canada, mild cheddar, Tess Daly and the missionary position from playing a part in all our lives.CR-V sounds like an acronym for something to do with cardiac resuscitation, but it actually stands for the more prosaic (of course) Compact Recreational Vehicle because, well, that's what it is. This new model is the first to offer both two- and four-wheel drive options, but only with the 2-litre petrol engines. Far better to go for the 2.2 i-DTEC diesel unit, which is cleaner and more efficient than ever before. It's quiet, purposeful, robust. So if those are characteristics you can't abide in a&nbsp;car, then look elsewhere.The real benefit of the latest redesign can be found inside. You couldn't call it trendy, but there is a&nbsp;pleasing no-nonsense practicality to it all. There are cubbies and cupholders everywhere, the high ceiling and glass roof make it feel light and airy, and the enormous boot can be made even bigger by folding down the rear seats. You could have a&nbsp;lie down if it all got too much.The CR-V is sober, down-to earth and mature and, though we may resist those forces, when it comes to cars it always pays to be grown-up.Email Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one placeWacky racesRacing demons: Year 6 pupils show off their electric cars.  Photograph: Martin Love for the ObserverThe humble tissue box doesn't often spend much time in the limelight, but just occaisonally it enjoys a moment of glory. One such moment came last week. My 11-year-old daughter, along with her classmates, has been building a small electric car in Design Technology at school and for a bit of fun her teacher, Mr Powles, asked if I would go in and judge the results. First of all he explained that the children had been concentrating on three things: speed, driving in a straight line and what the vehicle looked like. Clearly some professional car designers could have done with paying attention. We walked out to the track – which also serves as the wooden walkway to the school dinning room - and set the cars off in waves of six. All started with the same premise: a tissue box on a wooden base with a tiny battery-powered motor powering the wheels with a rubber band. All kinds of vehicles were presented, from tanks to sports cars, buses to ice-cream vans and even an amphibious Duck Tours landing craft. A few failed to move from the start line with wheels falling off and rubber bands becoming disconnected, some careered into the wall or into each other, and a few even made it to the finish line. In the end the quickest and most reliable was Lucy's red bus (that's her on the right). Ironic, because I can't imagine a bus has ever won an award for being quick and reliable before…Fast foodSpeedy eaters: the latest Silver by Aston Martin cutlery designs. Photograph: ObserverSometimes just owning a car isn't enough… you want to eat with it too. That's the case with this stunning cutlery by Silver by Aston Martin. The firm launched its first store in Harrods at the end of last year, but you can buy some of the stuff while you are picking up your Aston in most showrooms, or if that seems like too much work, online atgrantmacdonald.com/astonmartin/. And later this month they'll be exhibiting one of its hampers (£2,750) at the Geneva Motor Show next month.
