Renouncing the life of crime spectacularly documented in the first two instalments for a more peaceful, rewarding existence, charismatic protagonist Kazuma Kiryu moves to Okinawa to run an orphanage. From where, inevitably, following video-gaming's penchant for bloodshed over babysitting,  it's not long before he's dragged back to Tokyo to sort out rifts in the clan he left behind. Yet ifYakuza 3's story covers well-trodden ground, it's about the only part of the game that feels conventional.Newcomers to the Yakuza series are catered for in lengthy recaps of the first two games at the outset, though anyone expecting a JapaneseGrand Theft Autowill likely be disappointed at the size of the sandbox. Similarly, those spoiled by the fluid combat sequences ofGod of War IIIorBatman: Arkham Asylumwill bristle at the loose brawls, which can initially feel awkward.But that's becauseYakuza 3does things very much its own way. It is steeped so utterly in Japanese culture that it's impossible to come away without a little more knowledge of the place. The action is broken up by an astonishing wealth of distractions, from crane-grabbing arcade games and gambling dens to golf and fishing interludes. And the skull-crackingly brutal fights provide improvisation as well as spectacle: smashing a bicycle over someone's head has never felt so spontaneous, nor, oddly, so satisfying. By turns dark, hilarious and moving,Yakuza 3's richness and eye for detail overcome its technical limitations. On its own terms, it's something of a flawed masterpiece.
Spiky blue hedgehog, notable for a turn of speed absent from his real-world cousins; collects rings and saves woodland creatures from balding maniac Dr Ivo "Eggman" Robotnik.The story so farSega launched its rival to Mario, Nintendo's platforming colossus, almost 20 years ago. Going on to become the company's mascot, Sonic first wagged a gloved finger at owners of the Mega Drive system in 1991, and the franchise has since sold 70m units.Hitting the skidsSince the late 90s, Sonic has been trading off past glories, his 3D adventures markedly less successful than his early work in two dimensions. He has also picked up an array of irritating sidekicks, the worst being the despised Big the Cat.Back from the brinkThe DS'sSonic Rush(2005) and its sequel briefly made Sonic feel relevant once more. But 2006's awful 15th anniversary title, simply namedSonic the Hedgehog, is a career nadir.Greatest hitsThe Sonic Classic Collection sees four of Sonic's best games (basically, the first four) squashed on to one DS cartridge – and they are squashed, the DS's screens being the wrong resolution for these classics. Otherwise they've aged surprisingly well, withSonic 3perhaps the best exponent of the series's fast-paced platform action.Lock and loadAs a bonus, the collection allows players to use Knuckles the Echidna inSonic 2and3without having to "lock" one game cartridge into the other to access this content, as original MD owners had to.
What is your favourite piece of technology and how has it improved your life?My favourite piece of technology is a MacBook Air. As a journalist, to have access to a full-sized keyboard, full-sized screen, absolutely everything you want except a CD/DVD drive, which you can take along in your pocket and plug in  if you need to – it's changed my life. I've had it in Haiti, I've had it in Iran, I've had it all over the world, and it's the best thing I've ever bought.When was the last time you used it and what for?I used it yesterday travelling on a train, to write a blog.What additional features would you  add to it if you could?God, it has absolutely everything I could ever want, though I suppose it could be even thinner and even lighter.Do you think it will be obsolete  in 10 years?I imagine so, but as I enjoy it now, I can't imagine it will be, but  then I couldn't imagine that the portable typewriter would be.What always frustrates you about technology in general?My failure to understand it.Is there any particular piece of technology that you've owned and hated?God yes, I mean, try any PC on me…If you had one tip to give about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Spend rather than save, and  get the right piece of kit from the outset.Are you a luddite or a nerd?I think I'm a nerdite.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've owned?I suppose the MacBook Air, but, no, I suppose my original desktop Mac was – they were pretty expensive.Do you still buy physical media, such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I download. Although just occasionally there are things  that you can't get online, particularly classical music. My last purchase was a choral work by Rossini, and the particular piece I wanted – the particular rendition of the piece – wasn't online.Robot butlers – a good  idea or not?I wouldn't want a butler, so why I'd want a robot butler foxes me.What piece of technology would you most like to own?It used to be an iPhone but now that Vodafone has just made them available, I do own one.•Newsreader Jon Snow's blog is athttp://blogs.channel4.com/snowblog/
Is Facebook now "too big to fail"? I don't mean in the sense that the taxpayer would have to pick up the pieces if it went under, but in the sense that the social networking service has achieved a position of such dominance in the online ecosystem that its eclipse is unthinkable. Is Facebook, in other words, the next Microsoft or Google?The question is prompted by a couple of milestones recently passed by Facebook. The first is that it now has more than 400 million members. The second is industry gossip predicting that its revenues for 2010 will exceed a billion dollars. Other straws in the wind are estimates of the size of the "Facebook economy" – ie the ecosystem of applications, services and products that has evolved around the service; and themoral panics it now triggersin the mainstream media – a sure sign that they fear a competitor.In the real world, if an enterprise – a bank, say – becomes "too big to fail", then that's a failure of regulation because it means that normal competitive forces have been disabled. A capitalist economy can't function efficiently if enterprises are immune from the consequences of their mistakes. That's the "moral hazard" that theGovernor of the Bank of Englandwas so keen to avoid when the banking crisis first broke.In the online world, the pressure exerted by network effects – ie the way the value of a product or service increases in direct proportion to the number of people who use it — constantly threatens to produce winner-takes-all outcomes. It's one of the paradoxes of networking technology that the aggregation of billions of free choices made by millions of free agents can lead inexorably to the emergence of a single, monopolistic behemoth. We saw that with Microsoft's dominance in the operating systems and office software markets; we saw it again with Google's dominance of the market for search and query-based advertising. Are we now seeing it with Facebook in the social networking sphere?History suggests not. In the world of technology even giants can stumble – or fail. Once upon a time AOL was the reigning online behemoth. At its peak in the 1990s it had 30 million paying subscribers (which at the time was a significant proportion of the online population in the US and Europe) and thought itself big enough to take over Time Warner. There was even a schmaltzy movie –You've Got Mail– based around its email service. Now it's a business-school case study in hubris.AOL was also a study in corporate strategy from which the Facebook founders learned avidly. Initially they conceived of their service as an AOL-type "walled garden" – which implied trying to keep subscribers inside that controlled space. If one of your Facebook friends sent you a message then you had to be logged in to read it.When the irritations of that became apparent, the Facebook server began sending messages to your normal email account telling you that your friends had posted messages – but you still had to log in to read them. Now you can reply to the messages from inside your usual email system.By gradually breaching their walled garden, the Facebook founders have managed to avoid the fate of AOL – so far. Their boldest move was the launch of Facebook Connect – which allows external services like Twitter to interact directly with subscribers' Facebook accounts. What this means is that people can interact with their Facebook friends without being logged in to the site. This has triggered an avalanche of development as companies strive to cash in on the network effects of such a large subscriber base. The metamorphosis of Facebook into a platform on which other people do interesting stuff was not just a smart move; it was also a necessary one, because social "networking" is intrinsically self-limiting.If you have too few friends then people think you're a loser; but if you have too many, they think you're either a social slutor a self-publicist. As we know from the anthropologist Robin Dunbar – see My Bright Idea, page 26 – the cognitive capacity of the primate brain limits the size of the social network that an individual can develop. Last yeara study by Facebook's in-house sociologistcalculated that the average number of friends in a Facebook network is 120. And when it comes to real, intensive interaction, that number shrinks dramatically. It turns out that the average Facebook male interacts with only four people and the average female with six.So if Facebook is to continue to grow, then it needs something more than social networking to sustain it. We are, in the end, just naked apes. Becoming a platform will keep it going for the time being. But it won't make it too big to fail. If you doubt that, just ask AOL.
From the opening scenes, it's hard not to sense the monumental effort that must have gone into creating this video game. A beautifully realised, gruesome retelling of Greek mythology,God of War IIIshowcases what is a clearly a dedicated and talented development team, but also demonstrates the PS3's considerable power.Pitched as the closing chapter of the long-running canon ofGod of Wartitles, it sees protagonist, Kratos, return to finish the elaborate tale of warring gods and an ex-Spartan bent on revenge. Gameplay focuses on bloody melees between a heavily armed Kratos and a range of increasingly gargantuan foes. The brawling, which is finely balanced throughout, also occasionally gives way to slightly more engaging puzzle segments, where the mysteries of ancient towering mechanisms must be overcome to continue.Although breathtaking visually, it's the level design inGod of War III, rather than the cutting-edge graphics, that really sticks in the mind. From the macabre structures of Hades to the two mile-high Titans whose limbs play host to entire playable areas, it displays an impressive breadth of imagination. All of which is ably abetted by a fine musical score, while the puzzle elements are varied and intriguing.It's not without some minor problems. After a bold start the first few chapters take a little too long to fully find their stride, and the controls seem far from instinctive. However within an hour of playing, both those niggles are left behind.The game's setting itself may also be a little off-putting for some.God of War IIItakes its mythical inspiration very seriously indeed, so that those unconcerned by fantasy fiction will look in vain for a spot of self-deprecating humour amid the portent.Yet a brilliantly successful execution far outshines the smattering of faults; this is set to become a benchmark of level design, graphical flair and ambition. Within the boundaries of the classic action-game genre,God of War IIIis one of the most exciting and striking on any console.
MonkeonRico Monkeon likes a good videogame but prefers a really bad clunky old one. Here then is a site dedicated to the early days of 8-bit technology and principally making fun of them. Among the many exciting games is the Pro Battenberg Simulator 1.0 in which visitors click on a square of the popular marzipan covered cake and change its colour – the magic of technology. The brilliant 8 Bit Movie Challenge, meanwhile, asks you to guess which blocky shapes correspond to famous 80s actors, and Box Art Bother is a quiz where you match the exciting looking Atari 2600 box with the rather less interesting gameplay reality. Back in the 21st century, there's a useful tool for adding a laughter track to any YouTube video, some hairy animals and the rather inspired Name That Spaghetti contest.WeVeeWeVee.WeVee is an initiative – currently in the beta stage – by the UK Film Council to bring some of its archives to a new audience. In this case that new audience is people who enjoy mucking around with stuff online. From stock footage of the Cadbury's factory in the Midlands to news footage of major events such as the Queen's Coronation, we are offered 200 vintage short films, some in beautiful old colour from the 50s, 60s and 70s, others in crackly black and white, depicting regular everyday life – the Man In Bath is just that (the interesting thing being the bath is very small). The clever bit is that once you sign up you can create a mix of these films with a bunch of free music tracks to create your own "WeVee", which you can share and use to pretend that you're some kind of video cut-up genius. Great fun.Blog roll: 6 MusicSave 6 MusicFacebook page with links to the BBC Strategy Review and protest sites upset by plans to axe the BBC's digital station.Where Did It All Go Right?Andrew Collins wishes Bobby Womack well and ponders the captioning decisions of Masterchef.Adam &amp; JoeNot currently on air but the fun continues, with Adam's response to reviews for The Persuasionists.TwitterTweets from the comedian (twitter.com/jonholmes1), the guv'nor (twitter.com/gidcoe) and Mr Breakfast (twitter.com/Shaun6music).Kenickie Fried ChickenFansite dedicated to Lauren Laverne's old band.Just PlayedNotes on a week spent listening to 6 Music and nothing but 6 Music.Lamacq CentralHome to the 6 Music DJ, Colchester United fan and indie-rock legend.What we learned on the web this weekHow to redesign the classic hot dog.How toredesign the classic hot dogSome goodreasons to avoid using the telephoneAbout thecursed Japanese tissue advertThe islandof rubbish in the middle of the Pacific is twice the size of TexasBritain hasbecome the Willy Wonka of social controlTales fromLiverpool's legendary department storeWhy humanskissThe secretof an interminable lifeWhy thebody isn't thirsty at nightBogeys aregood for youWorking foran ad agency isn't as much fun as it used to be
Final Fantasy XIII, PC/PS3/XboxTelling the story of a purge of innocents, forcibly evicted from their homes merely for having come into contact with alien species the L'Cie, you'll find the usual mixture of spiky-haired heroes and sultry heroines armed with outsized swords and sporting clothes that would give the 80s a headache. What ensues is a wonderful, sprawling adventure with overblown and frequently cheesy dialogue, a labyrinthine plot underpinned by pages of additional background that become available as you explore, and a revised fighting system that gradually layers in its otherwise overwhelming complexity over the game's first dozen hours. Where most titles would be drawing to a close, Final Fantasy XIII is just getting started, and while it looks resplendent in its new HD trappings, this is every bit the familiar experience for devotees and one that's beautifully complemented by the Piggyback Official Guide (£14.99), which is a fitting partner to a game so Brobdingnagian.Square Enix, £49.99Nintendo DSi XL, HandheldNintendo DSi XL.Far from falling into Nokia's approach to product development, which places its customers in front of an endless incoherent spew of new devices, some of which are apparently made to compete directly with each other, the new DSi XL is just what its name says it is: a larger version of the DSi. It does all the same things, including taking pictures with its two cameras and letting you shop for games at the DSi Shop, but has screens that are almost twice as big. That makes it distinctly less pocket-sized in dimension, but slightly more pleasing to interact with, especially using its chunky pen-like stylus that is clearly designed with frittering away whole afternoons in mind, rather than its smaller sibling's more traditional position of filling in time between bus stops. Coming in either wine red or dark brown, the XL is the grown-up, housebound and surprisingly shiny version of the world's favourite portable console.Nintendo, £159.99Echoshift, PSPEchoshift.Not so much sequel as sister title to PSP puzzler Echochrome, which placed a mannequin in a series of MC Escher-style spatially implausible levels, from which he had to be extricated by manipulating the camera until from your 2D perspective there was a clear path to the exit. Echoshift has similar trickery in place, not using its visuals, but in time. Played in a series of "shifts", whereafter your time limit expires, you replay the level, while a shadow performs actions exactly as you did in the last shift. The game hinges on the resulting ability to perform multiple interlocking actions that you've effectively programmed over several passes. It's a nicely brain-stretching package, even if its enforced trial and error mixed with the closeness of its timings can be appallingly frustrating as the game gets more complex, necessitating multiple entirely perfect attempts to come together to get your mannequin  to the exit.SCEE, £14.99
Print publishers are hopeful the iPad will hit the streets next month.There are already several test examples out there. Some blend print and onlineas BERG'sversion forthe innovative Swedish publishing house Bonniershows, others ues a more online approach as the video of De Telegraaf shows.Publishers are hoping the iPad will encourage people to read digitally with users willing to pay for content. It is also hoped that the iPad will be used more in people's leisure time so it will attract different advertisers.A question which isn't answered is if publishers are ready to serve another platform, in a time when workforces are not getting any bigger, who is to shoulder the extra work?Maybe the version of De Telegraaf therefore isn't the most thrilling, but the most realistic.As Robert Andrews of paidContent UKpoints out rightly about De Telegraaf's approach: "It only renders Telegraaf.nl's existing website on the gadget."Have a look at the different iPad versions, and decide which one is your favorite.1 Wired and Adobe decided to go for a deconstructed magazine version. They favored on scrolling down instead of flipping sideways, but magazine sides are still the entry point. In addition, they show some new possibilities for advertisers.2 The Swedish publisher Bonnier R&amp;D asked BERG to help with the transition of the print reading experience to a digital format. BERG focused on maintaining the relaxed and curated features of printed magazines, and compared to Wired it feels more like an app, indeed. In addition they invent a couple of new ways of navigation through "heating up" to select all, cut, copy and paste, among others.3 The official iPad commercial of Apple shortly shows a really short glimpse of the New York Times application at second 0.6. Developed in house, it has also favorites a more curated feel than the website.4 Sports Illustrated version for the iPad was one of the first and is a collaboration between Wonderfactory and Time.5 The Dutch newspaper De Telegraaf transferred its website to the iPad, however this might be the most realistic approach for most publishers in terms of work flow.Which interactive iPad design is most convincing?
The Opinion Space web application at the US State DepartmentThe US State Department has launched a web application,Opinion Space, that solicits views and input on US foreign policy.The site was launched at theAlliance of Youth Movements summit in London.Instead of a virtual suggestion box, users respond to comments by moving a slider showing gauging your view ranging from strongly disagree to strongly agree. For the launch, Opinion Space explores five topics, the threat posed by nuclear weapons in the hands of terrorists, the role of empowering women in terms of development, "proactive diplomacy", food security and climate change. Users can also leave an idea and suggestions for follow up for Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.The topics will change every month. The initial topics are broad, but in the coming months, the questions will "drill down" into issues including those that might relate to upcoming trips by Secretary Clinton, saidAri Wallach, founder of consultancy studioBenZion which was involved with the launch strategy of the site and developing the topics and questions.Secretary Clinton said: "Opinion Space is an example of 21st Century Statecraft, where connection technologies can encourage open dialogue and engagement. My staff and I look forward to listening to the opinions and ideas the Opinion Space participants provide and vote on."What is 21st Century Statecraft (for those of us who don't have a degree in international relations)?In the past, Wallach said that diplomacy was often "two people in suits over Scotch talking about how they were going to do this or that vis a vis the other country".In Secretary Clinton's vision, 21st Century statecraft means that foreign relations isn't just government-to-government but also government-to-people, people-to-people and people-to-government, "a new matrix of how we interact with one another".Developed with theCentre for New Media at the University of California Berkeley, the site designers hope that contributors will not only add interesting views but also filter the best ones.Once you've added your views, you are charted in what looks almost like a star chart. It's a very impressionistic mapping of your views."This map is not based on geography or predetermined categories, but on similarity of opinion," said UC Professor and Berkeley Centre for New Media director Ken Goldberg. "It's designed to 'depolarise' discussions by including all participants on a level playing field."Wallach said that they thought a lot about ways to create incentive systems as opposed to "unintelligent, unenlightening, debate flame wars".Also, once you've left your views and comments, you can then see the views and comments of others and again, using a slider, say whether you strongly agree or disagree with the comment and whether you found the comment insightful. The site also lists the top authors and reviewers. You can see other views and see how they relate to one another.This is not just an information gathering tool for the State Department, it's also an information gathering tool for everyone who uses it, Wallach said. People answer the questions but in testing the site, they saw people spending 20 to 40 minutes exploring other views.It's an experiment and they hope to refine this over the years, he said. "In line with the technological aesthetic of the day, don't wait for something to be perfect. Put it out there. See how it works and how it doesn't work. Refine along the way."
Facebook has called on the ex-detective who posed as a 14-year-old girl online on a "well-known social network" and said he was approached by men making sexual suggestions within minutes to name the site he used.But Mark Williams-Thomas, whose experiences were described by the Daily Mail in a contentious story this week, declined to name the site today. He suggested that it would not be helpful to the site's users – and that it might damage its reputation or attract paedophiles to use it more extensively.A spokesperson for Facebook said that it was important to identify the site so that young users could be protected. "If you really want to protect people online, then you should name sites which allow this. It's up to the Daily Mail and Mark Williams-Thomas. If they really want to protect their readers, they should give the name."However, Williams-Thomas said that although the operators of the site would be able to identify it from his description in the story written in the Daily Mail earlier this week, identification would not be beneficial because it might attract unwelcome users. "The site would implode," he told the Guardian.Facebook isthreatening to sue the Daily Mailover a story which appeared in Wednesday's paper under Williams-Thomas's byline which was headlined "I posed as girl of 14 on Facebook. What followed will sicken you". The piece described how Williams-Thomas had created a profile on a social networking service of a 14-year-old girl and within minutes of the profile going live had been contacted by men aged between 20 and 40 seeking sexual gratification.The Mail has accepted that it wrongly suggested that the social network was Facebook, issuing an apology and blaming the error on "miscommunication". However, Facebook is still considering whether to sue for damage to its reputation.Facebook has come under fire this week after theconviction of Peter Chapman, who used Facebook and other social networking systems to pose as an 18-year-old boy and lure 17-year-old Ashleigh Hall to a meeting, upon which he raped and killed her. Some police organisations have criticised Facebook for not installing a "panic button" system that would let young users alert them over their concerns – although there is no evidence that Hall had any worries about who she thought Chapman was.Williams-Thomas, who was a detective with Surrey police until 2002, previously made an ITV documentary about the hunt for paedophiles in which he shadowed a team from the Metropolitan Police's Paedophile Unit.He added that the piece which appeared in the Daily Mail was part of an ongoing study being carried out into safety of social networks, which will be published later this year in a peer-reviewed journal.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Facebook has defended the safety measures it employs to protect users from sexual exploitation and continued to resist calls to include a "panic button" on its website.The social networking website is today understood to be considering options includingtaking legal action against the Daily Mail, after the paper wrongly claimed in a piece published on Wednesday that 14-year-old girls who create a Facebook profile could be approached "within seconds" by older men who "wanted to perform a sex act" in front of them.Despite the fact that the Daily Mail has admitted the story was false Richard Allan, the former MP who heads Facebook's European public policy operation, last night moved to reassure the public that the social networking website is safe in an interview on BBC Radio 5 Live."What we are really keen to do is to ensure that our users, the parents, the children, have a really good understanding of how to keep themselves safe online," he said.Yesterday senior police officers and theChild Exploitation and Online ProtectionCentre (Ceop)accused Facebook of ignoring claims that it is providing a safe haven for predatory paedophiles by refusing to sign up to a "panic button" for children and young people.Facebook has refused requests by Ceop to put a panic button on the website. Rival social networking services including Bebo and MSN Messenger have the feature, which links users directly to Ceop to report suspected activity by predatory paedophiles."We simply believe we have some very effective reporting mechanisms already on the site," said Allan. "They are very simple and well understood by our users and what they allow us to do is have really good real-time intelligence about the kind of activities taking place on the site. And when there are issues of concern we have a very strong team of technology experts who are then able to intervene and try and stop things happening before they become dangerous."Allan admitted that Facebook's system "can never be 100% effective" but said he believed that the social networking website has "one of the safest environments out there on the internet"."We would hope people would look at the different services they can use and then judge whether or not they are taking reasonable efforts [to protect users]," he added. "Facebook will remove any reported photos of nudity or pornography from our site. That is not the case everywhere."Internet Watch Foundation, which polices child sexual abuse content online, said that Facebook joined its initiative last month. IWF already has members including Microsoft, MySpace and Bebo.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
A quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamjkkmobile: JooJoo tablet dissected: Reveals Atom N270 and Nvidia IonRemember that tablet computer - the CrunchPad - that Michael Arrington was going to, ahem, make? Now called the JooJoo and disentangled from Arrington (not that he's happy about that; lawsuits should still be lingering somewhere), it's got FCC approval in the US and may be on sale from March 25. &#10;&#10;Or Americans could wait a week and buy an iPad. Hmm, wonder what they'll do?Video Chat on the Plane? Illegal? OK? Legal Gray Area? - John Battelle's Searchblog"Cameras not allowed!". Well, "two-way devices" not allowed on planes. Except.. er... they provided the Wi-Fi. But they block it. Except for Apple's iChat. Until now.MPs Urge Facebook to Add Child Protection Button &gt;&gt; eWEEK Europe UKHarriet Harman urges "swift action" on buttons. However, she might not have considered what's really needed to add it.Relative Performance of Rich Media Content across Browsers and Operating Systems &gt;&gt; Mike Chambers"# From these tests, Flash content does not perform consistently worse on Mac than on Windows.&#10;# There is a wide range of CPU usage for HTML 5 video, depending on the browser / operating system it is being played back on, with Mac generally being slower.&#10;# Canvas / JavaScript animations (at least those tested) seem to have high CPU usage, and generally run slower on Mac than on Windows (although not in all cases)."Why one IT guy found Windows 7 to be too user-friendly - CIO SymmetryInstallation of Windows 7 only takes three clicks? How can you justify an IT staff with that?AOL Has a Boo-Boo on Its Bebo"What's interesting is the predicament facing AOL. Due to somecomplex tax laws, it may actually make better financial sense for AOL to just shut Bebo down." Scary stuff: will Bebo become the first big one to vanish?A Crowdsourced Interview With Mr Wikipedia - video at All Things DIn this case, it was "crowdsourced" by asking for suggestions on TwitterZeus botnets suffer mighty blow after ISP taken offline • The Register"The takedown is the result of two network service providers, Ukraine-based Ihome and Russia-based Oversun Mercury, severing their ties with [east European ISP] Troyak, said Mary Landesman [of ScanSafe], who cited data returned by Robotex.com. The move meant that all the ISP's customers, law-abiding or otherwise, were immediately unable to connect to the outside world."Facebook Credits Now the First Payment Option in FarmVille - Inside FacebookFacebook's virtual currency, Credits, is growing in popularityHackers love to exploit PDF bugs, says researcher"According to F-Secure, 61% of the nearly 900 targeted attacks it's tracked in the first two months of 2010 exploited a vulnerability in Reader, Adobe's popular PDF viewer. By comparison, Microsoft's Word was exploited in just 24% of the attacks, and bugs in its Excel spreadsheet and PowerPoint presentation maker were leveraged only a combined 14% of the time."&#10;&#10;But do the exploits work against Apple's PDF-reading Preview? We await news.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Peers will reportedly offer concessions over controversial anti-piracy legislation that would lead to websites being blocked without due judicial process,following criticism from internet companies including Google, Facebook and Yahoo.The Liberal Democrats are planning to publish changes to an earlier amendment to the digital economy bill, 120A, that seek to address concerns about the anti-piracy proposals raised by internet service providers and leading web companies,according to today's Financial Times.Last week Lib Dem and Conservatives peers added amendment 120A to the bill giving a high court judge the right to issue an injunction against a website accused of hosting a "substantial" amount of copyright infringing material, potentially forcing the entire site offline. The amendment was passed in the House of Lords by 165 votes to 140.Under three changes proposed by the Lib Dems, of which the FT reports the Conservatives are broadly supportive, a judge could order copyright owners to pay legal costs and other compensation for asking a service provider to block a site. Content owners must also inform owners of sites they accuse of infringing their copyright before asking that it be blocked, and list the works illegally hosted.Website owners or "any person aggrieved" would be able to appeal against a block under the latest amendments.The Lib Dems are expected to publish the amendment today and they will be voted on in the Lords on Monday as part of the third reading of the digital economy bill, according to the FT.Earlier this week a group of internet and technology companies, along with consumer groups, co-signed a letter published in the FT criticising amendment 120A. They said it raised "myriad legal, technical and practical issues" that needed to be reconciled before it could be "considered a proportionate and necessary public policy option".The letter was co-signed by the heads of the four largest UK internet service providers – BT, Orange, Virgin Media and TalkTalk – as well as Google, Facebook, eBay and Yahoo, along with consumer groups, academics and the technophile television host Stephen Fry.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Illegal downloads continue to be a cause of Armageddon within the music industry and a source of endless fascination outside. Business leaders still regularly moan that illegal downloads are destroying their livelihood, especially if representatives of government are within hearing range. At the first Music 4.5 conference in London last week, speakers took it as read that "kids are not buying music anymore" and that they must look elsewhere for revenues. Evidence of the demise of purchased music is everywhere to be seen, except for one place: the statistics.In fact it is easier to make the case that the music industry, far from imploding, is one of the great success stories of the recession. The most dramatic example of this is in what kids are supposed not to be buying any more: single tracks. Last year sales of singles soared to an all-time record of 152.7m units, an astonishing 33% rise in a year when the whole economy (GDP) contracted by 3.3%. If the music pundits seriously think that these are not being bought by kids, then it shows how out of touch they are with their customers. These same youngsters who were – and probably still are – massively downloading free music from the internet were prepared to pay up to £3 a pop for an insipid ringtone (interestingly, not included on the industry's statistics unless they are full-track ones). Why? Because there is an easy payment system on phones which didn't exist on the web. Now there is an easy payment system (iTunes et al) on the web they are starting to pay again. If the big music companies had spent their energies dreaming up a payments mechanism for web downloads instead of suing their customers they could have swept all before them. Instead they were like the crew of a sinking boat that blames the sea instead of trying to mend the leak. If they were in the bottled water industry, they would probably be urging the government to stop free downloads of tap water at home as unfair competition. Yet the bottled water industry should have been their model. It got away with charging us lots of money for a product that was no better than free tapwater through clever marketing.Even now practically everyone I meet from the music industry protests that it couldn't be expected to combat the technological disruption that was eroding its traditional model. What piffle. Lots of books have been written about disruptive technologies. They can't say they weren't warned. As it turned out, pretty well every system for monetising music – iTunes, Spotify, We7, Shazam, Nokia's Comes with Music et al – has come from outside the industry. What a missed opportunity.Sales of singles are, of course, only one part of the industry. There has, unsurprisingly, been a fall in sales of  albums – down from 133.6m units to 128.9m last year, not helped by the closure of key UK retail chains Zavvi and Woolworths – but that was more than offset by growth elsewhere in sponsorship, live shows and merchandising where there is something of a boom happening in Britain. Overall, the music industry grew by  an amazing 4.7% in recession-ridden 2008, according to PRS for Music, and will probably be resilient when the full 2009 figures come in. A key fact is that last year income from live music overtook that from recorded music for the first time. Don't think tracks, think music.Clearly, the industry is changing. Consumers can now buy the singles they want without being locked into buying albums containing other tracks they don't want. That may bring in less income but it is the gateway to other revenues. The people who allegedly won't pay for downloads will pay huge sums to hear their favourite artists live or be part of the merchandising experience. Maybe illegal downloads – which, needless to say, I don't approve of – should be looked on as a massive crowd-sourced marketing operation to generate money for gigs, memorabilia and future sales.The future lies in capitalising on the whole musical experience, as the admirable Music 4.5 initiative well knows: it seeks to bring together artists and entrepreneurs to plot the future. If the quality of the five-minute pitches made at the conference by budding businesses is anything to go by, the future is bright. I loved the way Songkick.com is moving beyond Last.fm by linking songs you and your friends like with information about the band's past and present gigs, enabling you to talk about them after the show. MusicGlue offers free downloads in exchange for email addresses which, over time, will produce geographic patterns showing where there is a dense enough cluster of fans to justify a gig. CloseCallMusic encourages people to interact with live music as it happens, while TuneRights is trying to crowd-source the financing of records. Audiofuel, which matches music to your jogging beat, aims to be the new Ministry of Sound. I loved what Decibel is planning – to have a vast data base of meta tags so you can find out details of each member of the band: that Jimi Hendrix played as a session man on a Little Richard track, for instance. That is just the sort of value-added that will lure people away from free downloads. Nick Hornby would love it.These were only some of the pitches made which suggest that the future of the industry may continue to reside in bottom-up initiatives rather than the top-down approach of the major labels. The music industry, to be fair, is still a very heavy investor as a new study shows, but it had better be alert if it doesn't want to be upstaged even more. The sad fact is that around 90% of start-ups fail – but it is vital for future employment, as well as the health of the music industry that we spend money to find the winners. A revolution is under way.
The Touch, Medion's new all-in-one toucscreen PC, is a monster. But when you consider what you get, it's really not that big. After all, it's a 24-inch HD TV set (with remote control), a digital video recorder, a DVD and Blu-ray player, FM and internet radio, world map and digital picture frame, as well as a 64-bit PC. You can use the built-in webcam and microphone for video chats, and it also plays games.The Touch works well as a TV set and entertainment centre, once you've read the manual to figure out what the numerous buttons – the sensors on the front of the system, and the remote control – do. Windows 7's Media Center software does good job with the 10-foot experience. It includes an electronic programme guide (EPG) for one-touch recording, and Sky Player.The multitouch screen means you can do some things with fingers, without reaching for the wireless keyboard and its built-in mouse pad. It works well with Microsoft's Touch Pack for Windows 7 software bundle, which offers some stuff you might have seen on the Microsoft Surface, such as Surface Globe.As you'd expect from the specification, the X9613 works well as a PC, too. It has an Intel Core 2 Quad Q9000 processor with 4GB of memory, nVidia GeForce GT240M graphics and a 1TB hard drive running 64-bit Microsoft Windows 7 Home Premium.The Touch scores 5.9 out of 7.9 on the Windows Experience Index, which reflects the hard drive's (relatively) low score. The processor and memory both score 7.0, with the Aero and 3D graphics scoring 6.4.It has lots of ports including DVB-T and DVB-S for television; HDMI, Scart and VGA sockets; ExpressCard and multi-format card slots; S/PDIF for sound and eSATA for an external hard drive. For wireless connectivity, it has Wi-Fi b/g/n and Bluetooth. It also has fingerprint recognition and a small secondary touch screen for Microsoft Sideshow. It comes up slightly short in only having three USB ports, and one of those is used to connect the wireless keyboard supplied as standard. (There's no mouse.)The problem is that using a PC is a 3-foot experience, which means you might not want to mount the X9613 on your wall. If you're far enough away to enjoy the TV or watch a movie on the 24-inch screen, you're not close enough to read the text in your web browser. Stand it on a desk and you can have the TV in one window and Windows Live Messenger or Twitter in another, though that's not how most people watch TV.The other problem with The Touch is the £1,699 price, though there's a £1,399 version with a Core 2 Duo. For that sort of money, you can buy an LCD TV set, a Blu-ray player (or a Sony PlayStation 3) and a laptop or netbook to use while watching TV. Medion's all-in-one package could appeal to students and others who don't have much space, but it's not a cheap option.Ultimately, though, this is a "hero product". While Medion is a major supplier in Germany, it's best known here for knocking out high value systems at low prices via Aldi supermarkets. The Touch carries a different message: it's a high-end system that shows Medion can do more.Alas, from that point of view, The Touch doesn't quite make it. It lacks the style of an Apple or Sony PC, and Medion has even put stickers on the screen bezel for Windows 7, Intel Inside, nVidia, Dolby Home Theatre, and Plus X. Stickers that look a bit tacky on a laptop look far worse on a smart TV.Finally, Medion has to compete with several other manufacturers in the all-in-one space. Rivals include the HP TouchSmart, Sony Vaio L, Lenovo IdeaCentre A300, Acer Aspire Z5610 and Asus Eee Top. HP and Sony are bigger brands; Acer and Asus offer better prices. The quad-coreAcer Z5610, for example, has a lower spec, but it only costs £836.Pros:Good 64-bit PC specification; TV and Blu-ray; lots of ports; Surface Globe softwareCons:Price; five stickers on front bezel; styling may not appeal to everyone.Medion.co.uk
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?I would have to say non-linear editing systems in general, and now, specifically, Final Cut Pro. I've used them all over the years, but now Final Cut Pro is the most convenient and user-friendly one.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I'm using it today, cutting a movie. The technology has put the tools of production into a laptop, basically.What additional features would you add if you could?I think someone should try to integrate sound editing programs with video editing programs. There's no reason why you could not edit the sound to much higher accuracy rates within Final Cut Pro.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Of course. I think that's what going to come next, ironically, will be more tactile – it's going to go back to feeling more like that.What always frustrates you about technology in general?Built-in obsolescence is a huge problem that nobody talks about – the way that a lot of the files we create now will be very difficult to play in 10 years from now. All these file formats will become obsolete.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I once owned a PC and I absolutely loathed it – it was the biggest piece of junk that you cold imagine, I couldn't make anything work on it.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?For me, the key is that the people who make the stuff – the software and the hardware – tend not to do the work [that it's intended for]. You can't let them tell you how to use it, you have to find out how to use it yourself, and its capabilities.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Fortunately, because I have to deal with complex stuff, I've become more of a nerd.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably a digital camera of one kind or another – I've owned a lot of cameras over the years. I use them for work, so it's not quite the same thing. I recently bought the new Canon D7, which is an interesting example of how technology is converting because it's a digital still camera that you can shoot a movie on.Mac or PC, and why?I have to say Mac – the worst thing I ever owned was a PC. PCs just don't do what I need them to do.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?I download music, absolutely. I don't buy physical media because it's the same thing on a crappy piece of plastic. On the other hand, it is shockingly easy to lose all your things on iTunes – so CDs do have that advantage. The last thing I downloaded was a Schubert piano, Sonata in A Major, Sonata D959 in A Major.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?No, of course not. Anyone who's seen 2001 does not want a resentful machine in their house.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I think there needs to be an iPhone that is also a hi-def camera and non-linear editing system – where you could just do the whole thing in your pocket. And I expect them to make this in the next five years.• Director Bernard Rose's new film, The Kreutzer Sonata, is out today
The originalDeus Exwas a genuine classic. The sci-fi RPG was a role playing game in the truest sense. It gave you real decisions to make and numerous customisation options. Ten years on and it still shines very bright.Invisible War, the sequel - released in 2003 - was less ambitious, possibly to make it more appealing to the console userbase.  It was still a way above average action role-player though. 7 years on and the wait for a new Deus Ex is nearly over. The teaser trailer for Human Revolution has just been released at GDC (you have probably already clicked on it above). Whether it will match the impact of the PC original remains to be seen - actually, it probably won't -  but personally I can't wait for this.What do you think then? Excited by Human Revolution or will nothing better the original Deus Ex?
&bull; We reported an interesting twist in the saga of thedigital economy billlast night, when it emerged that thecontroversial clause added by the Liberal Democrats- which has been criticised for threatening sites like YouTube that don't carefully monitor user content - wasactually drafted by British music industry body the BPI. The battle between the different lobby groups looks set to continue - and get more vicious - as the bill draws closer to becoming law.&bull; After a week in which itsappeal over a near-$300m patent lawsuit failed, some good news for Microsoft: the Xbox 360 overtook Nintendo's Wii to becomeAmerica's most biggest-selling games console in February. Less promising? Games salesdropped by 15% in the same month, despite the launch of high-profile titles likeBioShock 2.&bull; And given that it's Friday, I'd like to leave you with a .Jason Kottkepoints me in the direction of thisfascinating article about the work of David Cope- who has spent years developing a piece of software that can compose classical music. The crucial addition to his latest iteration is that it doesn't just lob in any old notes or copy the patterns set by old masters like Bach and Mozart, but actually analyseshow to break the rulesto make its compositions sound more real.Listen to the compositionsand you might have a hard time distinguishing it from the real thing. That opens up some amazing - if slightly worrisome - possibilities.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech,@gdngamesor ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
So, PlayStation Move it is then. Sony has officially named its motion controller, previously known as Arc, and confirmed an autumn launch date - placing it in direct competition with Microsoft's Natal motion control system for the Xbox 360.And to confirm the rumours that have been circulating the industry of late, the microphone-shaped device will now be accompanied by the release of a sub-controller - a supplementary device which, like the Wii nunchuck, will handle precise character movement and other functions. However, gamers will also be able to use a standard DualShock or Sixaxis controller for these elements.Working in conjunction with the PlayStation Eye camera, the Move system is able to detect the precise movement, angle, and position in 3D space of the motion controller. The movement tracking is accompanied by the high-tech innards of the Move which includes a three-axis gyroscope, a three-axis accelerometer and a terrestrial magnetic field sensor. So whether you're swishing a tennis racket or stabbing someone with a sword, the movements are accurately read and transferred to the onscreen action. "Furthermore, PlayStation Eye camera can capture the player's voice or image, enabling augmented reality experiences," says the press release, clearly keen to corner every facet of the alternative interface gaming scene.Apparently, 36 third-party developers and publishers are supporting the device, and this year SCE Worldwide Studios is set to release more than 20 games, "that are either dedicated to or supported with the PlayStation Move platform". It seems that you'll be able to buy it in a console bundle, in a starter pack (complete with PlayStation Eye and a game) and alone. Pricing is yet to be officially announced but $100 is being batted about for the Starter package.Sony has been showing off the tech at the Game Developers Conference in San Francisco and reports suggest that it is every bit as precise as the company has suggested. The demo titles include Move Party, a sort of augmented reality video chat system, and Sports Champion, a multi-event title, complete with archery and table tennis (Joystiq has some imageshere).Clearly there are going to be both favourable and sniffily dismissive comparisons to the Wii set-up. Some gamers believe Move is desperately off pace, the device's resemblance to the four-year-old Nintendo technology symptomatic of Sony's inability to lead in the current generation. Others however, think it's a brilliant trade off between the ambition of Natal (which uses a sensor array to detect the player's 3D movement with no need for controllers) and the tactile feedback of the Wii control set-up. The immediacy of the motion technology would seem to contrast with early reports on the Natal, which have mentionedlatency issues. (Though those worries have beencountered to some extent).So what do you think?
A controversial amendment to the digital economy bill that could block sites such as YouTube is copied almost word-for-word from a draft written by the BPI, which lobbies on behalf of the British music industry.The BPI confirmed on Thursday that it drafted a letter which was circulated to government and opposition peers containing a suggested draft amendment to the 1988 Copyright, Designs and Patent Act. Earlier this month the Liberal Democrat peer Lord Clement-Jones added the text into the digital economy bill almost exactly as provided as part of amendment 120a.However, the suggested changes – which won approval from peers and will now be considered by the House of Commons – have come under fire from the heads of the four biggest internet service providers in the UK, as well as the UK chiefs of companies including Google, eBay and Yahoo,who said yesterday  that they threatened freedom of speechand could lead to British websites being blocked without due judicial process.In response, the BPI said that the amendment a "clear and sensible" way to deal with illegal downloading – but not that it had been the source of the draft version.Today a spokesman for the BPI insisted that the organisation was not embarrassed at the disclosure of the source of the amendment."This was a suggestion that we made to the government in 2009, with this wording. This version of the proposal was sent to the government and also to the opposition parties. The government decided it wanted to go a different way. The opposition parties, while not fully agreeing with it, saw it as a good framework for what they wanted to put down," the spokesman said. "We have consistently said that the digital economy bill should have sensible measures to deal with peer-to-peer file sharing."The BPI's proposed amendment, in a letter dated 8 January,is almost identical to the version put forward by Lord Clement-Jones on 3 March. The key difference is the addition in Clement-Jones's version of questions about national security, and of tests to see whether the blocking of a site infringes human rights and freedom of speech, and whether an ISP has tried to "facilitate legal access to content".Jim Killock, head of the Open Rights Group, a pressure group on digital rights which opposes the amendment, said that it was understandable that a lobby group such as the BPI would try to draft legislation – but that the Lords were at fault for not querying the source and intention of the amendment more closely."The BPI has got every right to do this," said Killock. "The question is why the politicians have said in such a complicated arena that they will take the BPI's ideas wholesale without consulting anybody else."Killock said that ORG, Consumer Focus and Liberty had all provided draft legislation and notes to politicians for the bill - but that theirs took the form of "probing amendments", whose purpose was to show weaknesses in the draft bill which could then be revised."It's the politicians who have been irresponsible here. It shows that they're taking the BPI far too seriously," Killock said.The BPI spokesman responded: " We made a proposal on this – and as is quite common – used statutory language to convey our point. This is something  that all sides in the digital economy debate do." He defended the addition of the amendment to the draft bill: "[the peers] made changes to our proposal which was then tabled by them, debated fully in the House of Lords, before being agreed and made part of the bill."
The Conservatives have launched atechnology manifestothat aims to increase broadband speeds and improve access to government data as the government's digital economy bill moves quickly through parliament.The manifesto pulls together a number of technology proposals that the Conservatives have floated in the runup to the general election, including promisingsuperfast broadband connections of 100Mbps to most Britonsand opening up data on contracts and public sector salaries.The Tories are looking to outdo Labour by promising improved broadband speeds. Labour set a target of universal access of 2Mbps by 2012. The Tories promise 50 times that but tomost citizens, not to everyone.Most current superfast broadband technologies are limited to short distances from central switching offices, and most companies focus on cities where the cost of deployment is offset by lots of customers in a relatively small area.Virgin Media has announced a trial using telegraph poles to connect rural areas to its fibre optic network, which will offer 50-megabit per second broadband to Woolhampton in Berkshire. If this proves successful, the company says that more than a million homes could be connected to its network via telegraph poles.The government is considering a change to planning guidelines that would allow for the large-scale building of overhead cabling for faster broadband, and the Conservatives have said part of their technology plans rely on changes to easing planning rules.However, the last mile will only be part of the challenge. Geoff Bennett, product director at network technology company Infinera, said: "Without a complete examination of core (and metro, and so-called second mile) networks and a technology overhaul, there is a risk that the entire network would come to a screaming halt the day the 100 megabit access pipes were turned on."Rather than thecontroversial 50p a month levy on fixed-line phones proposed in the digital economy billto pay for broadband rollout, the Tories promise to "unleash private sector investment to build this superfast broadband network by opening up network infrastructure, easing planning rules and boosting competition".The party points to Singapore and South Korea, where such strategies have worked. However,Singapore is a city-state with the third highest population densityin the world. Unlike the UK, it has very few rural areas. South Korea has a population density10 times the global average and most its residents live in major cities, also making it much easier to deploy superfast broadband to most of its population.If private sector investment does not achieve the desired target, the Conservatives would consider taking some of the licence fee settlement from the BBC currently dedicated to digital switchover.In addition to trying to best Labour with their broadband plans, the Conservatives are trying to outdo the government's open-data plans, pledging to open up data on smaller contracts and information on public sector pay.Their technology proposals also include changes to IT procurement so that large projects would be broken into smaller components and opened to small and medium-size businesses. They also want to create a "government skunkworks" to speed the development of low-cost IT projects.The technology manifesto is couched in terms of economic development. Quoting Nesta, the Conservatives say their plans for a superfast broadband network will create600,000 jobs and add £18bn to Britain's GDP. For their open-data proposals, they cite new research byDr Rufus Pollock of Cambridge University which says open-data programmes could create £6bnin additional value to the UK.Apart from the internet and IT, the manifesto also called for the creation of a high-speed rail network and a smart electrical grid.The Conservatives' technology manifesto contains little about controversial changes to copyright and the anti-piracy measures in the digital economy bill. It says only: "We recognise the need to tackle digital piracy and make it possible for people to buy and sell digital intellectual property online. However, it is vital that any anti-piracy measures promote new business models rather than holding innovation back."The Open Rights Group, which campaigns for on digital rights issues, called the Conservatives' plan "contradictory". Its executive director, Jim Killock, said: "These are welcome ideas, but it is totally contradictory to propose building a future dependent on the internet and support Labour's plan to disconnect families as a punishment. The Open Rights Group calls for Cameron to ditch support for disconnection, which would kill open Wi-Fi, damage businesses and libraries and punish the innocent."
If you've got $1m for a starting bid, and many millions more available, you could next week be the proud owner of the internet's most fought-over domain name: sex.com.The site's ownership goes up for auction next week by DOM Partners LLC, a New Jersey lender that backed a 2006 purchase of the domain name for up to $14m but which is now foreclosing on the loan.The auction is scheduled for 18 March at the New York law firm Windels Marx Lane &amp; Mittendorf LLP, according to legal notices. And there is good reason for the site to attract bidders: at one point, it was making at least $15,000 a day, according to a 2008 book, The Sex.com Chronicles by Charles Carreon.In the late 1990s, internet domains used to change hands for stunning amounts: though sex.com sets the price record, others including fund.com ($10m), porn.com ($9.5m), business.com ($7.5m) and diamonds.com ($7.5m) proved how much value some investors saw in the visitor-attracting power of a simple, easily remembered name.But in many cases those domains were sold before the rise of Google, whose search engine dominates internet navigation, and which assesses sites not by their names but by their reputations, as measured by the number of other sites that link to them. A search for "sex" on Google shows sex.com as the fourth result; the top result is a site first registered in 2000.The auction is yet another twist in the history of sex.com, which has seen bizarre shenanigans between would-be rival owners including Mexican jails, international pursuits and accusations of hacking which Kieren McCarthy, the author of another book about the struggle for sex.com's ownership, has called "a Trojan war for the digital age".That war began in October 1995, when Gary Kremen, who 18 months earlier had become the first person to register sex.com, noticed that he was no longer listed as its owner. An 11-year battle, sometimes legal, followed with Stephen Michael Cohen, who also claimed to be the owner, disputing Kremen's ownership. It was finally settled in January 2006, when Kremen, having been declared the owner, sold the site to Escom LLC.But Escom made the purchase with a loan from DOM Partners – and that has been in default for more than a year. "The loan was in default and DOM partners is foreclosing pursuant to its right under the security agreement," DOM's attorney, Scott Matthews, said. Attempts to reach Escom and sex.com for comment were not immediately successful.But Richard Maltz, an auctioneer at Maltz Auctions who is running the sale, said on Monday there was considerable interest in it. "We don't know who's serious and who's not, but prospective bidders need a $1m certified cheque. It should be interesting."Maltz said his firm was arranging for potential buyers to also be able to bid online. It is not known whether Stephen Cohen will be among the bidders.Kremen, meanwhile, has been successful away from sex.com, having set up match.com, the dating website, and is chief executive of Grant Media.
A quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamWired Reread - seeing how well old copies of Wired forecast the pastAh, those far-off days when the year 2000 and the millennium bug were ahead of us, and handheld computers were not at risk of slipping down the sofa. Or of being held in your hand, come to that.Two solicitors accused over file-sharing 'bully tactics' | The Law Gazette"Mark Stephens, a partner at Stephens Finers Innocent who is representing the two solicitors involved, rejected the consumer group's allegations. He said Davenport Lyons has a long tradition of protecting the rights of creators, and its methodology for handling illegal file-sharing cases conforms to industry best practice, and has been adopted in the Digital Economy Bill currently going through parliament.&#10;&#10;Stephens said it was not correct to say the solicitors' conduct was inappropriate in the manner alleged by Which?, adding that Davenport Lyons has a 100% success rate for the illegal file-sharing cases that it has taken to court."&#10;&#10;We'd like to know: how many cases has it taken to court?Amazon.com's 1-Click patent confirmed following re-exam &gt;&gt; Techflash.comIs it a software patent, or a business method patent? Either way, the USPTO reckons it stands. Until 2017, anyhow.GDC: Sony's Motion Controller Is 'PlayStation Move' - GamasutraIt works like a Wii-mote but looks more like a sex toy. PlayStation Eye camera also required.Geeknet at OSBC 2010 - Port 25: The Open Source Community at MicrosoftScott Collison from Geeknet reports on the share of open source on Windows at Geeknet (which owns SourceForge, Slashdot, ThinkGeek, Ohloh, freshmeat etc). He says: "the amount of Open Source Software (OSS) that is Windows compatible has been steadily climbing over time, from 72% in early 2005 to some 82% in late 2009."YouTube - THE NEW DORK - Entrepreneur State of MindA geeky spoof of Jay-Z and Alicia Keys' Empire State of Mind, from the guys behind Grasshopper.com. The lyrics and in the info panel5 Emerging Social Media Sites to Watch in 2010 - Social Media ExaminerYou mean there's more to life than Facebook and Twitter? Well, there's Foursquare...Does HTML5 Really Beat Flash? The Surprising Results of New Tests - ReadWriteWebTests at streaminglearningcenter.com confirm that Flash works better on Windows because it can't use hardware acceleration on Mac OS X.Flash and Standards: The Cold War of the Web - A List Apart"Until we realize the foolishness of faith in technology, we'll see the same cycle repeated," says Dan MallDrudge Report accused of serving malware, again  - CNET NewsTo be precise, it looks like a "malvertising" hit - malware served up via third-party advertising systems which have been conned by the bad guys. Drudge will be a huge target, which potentially means thousands affected. ""This will be a problem (for sites) as long as JavaScript and Active Content, like Flash ads, are allowed" on sites, said Mary Landesman, a senior security researcher at ScanSafe." Quickly solved then..You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Google Reader Play: takes a very visual approachGoogle has launchedGoogle Reader Play, an experimental feature that offers a new, highly visual way to browse the web.The new interface displays only one story at a time, focusing on pictures, videos, visual statistics and maps."We think Reader Play is a fun way to browse interesting items online that you wouldn't find otherwise,"said software engineer Garrett Wu in a blogpost announcing the new product.Unlike the standardGoogle Readerin which users have to subscribe to feeds, Google Reader Play requires no set-up. It learns new users' preferences by asking them to mark items they like with a star to read later."We designed it especially for people who don't want to spend time curating their own set of feeds," said Wu.Google Reader Play: offers interesting statistics in graphic formGoogle Reader Play is thus easy to use, and as the items are displayed in full-screen, there is one type of content it is perfect for: television.AsNick Bilton of the New York Times puts it: "Although Google doesn't address television in the description of the product, the promising use case for many people could be the ability to use Google Reader Play on a computer hooked up to a larger screen."Launched a few weeks before Apple's iPad hits the stores in April, Google Reader Play makes it clear that the big tech companies are aiming to take on the consumer market.Do you like the idea of Google Reader Play? Please have your say in the comments
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; It's heading for a year sinceSonyfirst unveiled its motion controller at E3, in what most people considered a fairly hurried demo to combat Microsoft's Project Natal. But now the Japanese electronic giant has lifted the lid on the finished product: at the Game Developers Conference it said the device,known as PlayStation Move, will go on sale in the autumn for the US price of around $100. Is it more than the Eye? Or just another me-too attempt to cash in on the Wii trend?&bull; We mentioned software patents in yesterday's briefing (courtesy of Jonathan Schwartz), but here's a biggie:Amazon's 1-Click patent - which has caused so much controversy over the years - has beenconfirmed once again after being re-examined. Looks like Amazon will be on top of that one for some time to come. MeanwhileMicrosoftfailed in its appeal against i4i, which accused the company of infringing its patents. That's got to sting.&bull; Ever wonder whetherGooglewould actually do anything to follow up itsthreat to lift censorship in China- or whether it was just posturing? You're not alone. Talking in Abu Dhabi, Eric Schmidt said that"something will happen soon", though it's not clear whether that is a decision to take action - or an agreement with Beijing. Let's see how it pans out.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech,@gdngamesor ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Remember Microsoft, and the case taken out by i4i alleging that it held particular patents relating to XML, and that later versions of Word infringed it - and that Microsoft should therefore be injuncted against selling it?Yes, that case, which got itsfirst result last August. (And you'll recallour interview with the chief executive of i4i.)At that time, both sides were waiting for the outcome of an appeal lodged by Microsoft - which, being big, would expect to prevail.And now, the result:"a panel for the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a revised opinion in i4i v. Microsoft which affirms the August 11, 2009 Final Judgment by The Honorable Judge Leonard Davis that ruled in favor of i4i and found that Microsoft had wilfully infringed i4i's U.S. Patent No. 5,787,449."Oh dear, Microsoft, that has to hurt."Loudon Owen, Chairman of i4i, says, "The appeals court has again upheld the lower court's decision in its entirety. In addition, it issued a more detailed analysis in concerning the finding of willfulness in this case. The determination that Microsoft willfully infringed i4i's patent stands."""Michel Vulpe, founder of i4i and co-inventor, says, "i4i is especially pleased with the court's continued decision to uphold the injunction, an important step in protecting the property rights of inventors. i4i continues to offer custom XML solutions.""The Court of Appeals is still considering a petition by Microsoft foren banc review(which, to save you the click, is granted pretty rarely - about 94 cases get it per year).Which may mean that that's that for the XML-infringing version of Word, which is the 2003 version - though of course Microsoft is perfectly able to sell other versions that don't.As Jack commented way back when the first case came up:"anyone who has read a chunk of i4i's US Patent No 5,787,449 might well have doubts about the competence of the US Patent Office in granting it, and it seems even more unlikely that the average judge or juror in East Texas is competent to adjudicate on it. Perhaps someone should tell POTUS that the US software patent system is broken."Having said that, you have to wonder whether Microsoft has a rational legal strategy. Given its track record for losing lawsuits, and its presumed familiarity with the East Texas courts, you'd have thought it would either have found some way to move the case or change its Word code so that it couldn't be seen to infringe i4i's patent. If the latter is impossible, of course, then the XML open standard could be in trouble, too."i4i has subsequently indicated that it's not going after the XML open standard.
Nintendo's recent advertising campaigns have focused on showing gaming as a social pastime:Ant and Dec sit grinning on a sofa asking families about playing with their Wiis, whileZoë and Johnny Ball compete on DS games. With such ads, Nintendo is positioning itself as the "wholesome" end of gaming, the games that you can and should play with other people.There's nothing wrong with playing in a group. Arthouse game-creatorJason Rohrer has written fascinatinglyabout the new dimensions opened up by playing against a human opponent rather than a computer. Games can be an opportunity for empathic interaction, in which we try to understand what the other person is thinking, put ourselves in their shoes and work out what move we'd make if we were them.But it's a shame that so much of the stigma around gaming has come from it being seen as a solitary activity, because there's nothing wrong with doing something on your own. Culturally, we are troubled by solitude, labelling those who enjoy it as"lonely" or "antisocial".But lone gameplaying can be as enriching and fascinating as reading, walking or enjoying any other cultural pleasure alone. It's freeing to play alone: you can experiment and make mistakes without anyone laughing at you. Lone playing is absorbing or even meditative: you can get involved in what you're doing without someone else distracting you with questions. And it's pleasurable: you don't have to justify the silly games you like, or listen to someone else telling you that they're a waste of time. I'd certainly rather play games alone than under the constant chirpy commentary of Ant and Dec.
OK, so you want 3D TV, but you don't want to wear those dorky Timmy Mallett glasses that they gave you in the cinema when you went to see Avatar and Up. Never fear: tireless engineers have come up with a design that will let you get that three-dimensional experience without face furniture. (If you want to be showy, it's an "autostereoscopic" system.)The principle is the same as those 3D postcards that entertained you as a child, where you tilt them from one side to the other and the picture seems to flip. That's known as a "lenticular lens" – officially, an array of magnifying lenses that show different pictures when viewed from different angles. But where the postcard shows you only one image at a time, the lenses on the 3D TVs already in production from Philips and LG show two distinct images, one for each eye, routed through the lenses (which act more like slits pointed in particular directions).If you ask a 3D-imaging specialist such as NewSight how it does it, it will say that it has "a proprietary technology with numerous patents throughout the world". Fine, but what technology? First, you build a standard HDTV; then you add eight lenticular-style layers on top, which break the image into repeating segments – in effect, four potential points of view for the left eye, and four for the right (which means you get the 3D effect over a wide field of view). Your eyes pull two of these images together and interpret them as a binocular scene, which means that you perceive it as being 3D. It's finicky, though: the lenses have to be aligned precisely over each of the millions of pixels in the screen. That means you're not going to be getting them cheap for quite a while.There's another catch: some people who have tried the sets over long periods have reported feeling seasick (and not only while watching A Perfect Storm). This is caused by your brain struggling to cope with changes in focus and orientation as whizzing camerawork is a favourite of directors discovering 3D. But don't worry, they'll surely calm down when the novelty wears&nbsp;off.
Google and the Italian Ministry of Cultural Heritage have reached an agreement to digitise up to a million out-of-copyright works at the national libraries in Florence and Rome, including some by Galileo.And it's just two weeks after anItalian court gave three Google executives suspended prison sentencesover a video of bullying on YouTube that had been removed once the company was told about it.Google is not only to work closely together with the Italian libraries, but also with the Italian ministry of culture – the first time that the search engine has had a government department a such a close partner on such a project. Google called it a "groundbreaking deal"."The libraries will select the works to be digitised from their collections, which include a wealth of rare historical books, including scientific works, literature from the period of the founding of Italy and the works of Italy's most famous poets and writers," says Google's strategic partner development manager, Gino Mattiuzzo, in ablogpost announcing the deal.While the costs will be covered fully by Google, the company will pass the scans on. The books will be available to groups includingthe EU's Europeana project, which already has scanned 6 million digital items of cultural value."We believe today's announcement is an important step, and we look forward to working with more libraries and other partners," says Mattiuzzo.Google has similar arrangements with Oxford University, Madrid's Complutense University, the Bavarian state museum and others.However, it's not clear whether Google is creating the world's biggest library or the world's biggest bookshop. Some fear the search engine is exploiting cultural heritage as a cheap context for advertising.Recently,a New York judge postponed a decisionon whether the company should be allowed to display parts of books still in-copyright.Google on the other hand claims good intentions: "We envision a future in which people will be able to search and access the world's books anywhere, anytime. After all, Antonio Beccadelli and Anastasius Germonius – like Shakespeare and Cervantes – are part of our human cultural history."
Once in a while I post about interesting events, art exhibitions and film festivals that have a passing relevance to games and/or the people who read about them on Gamesblog. So here are here are some genuinely fascinating new examples...First up, from April 2 to May 16, the excellentPlymouth Arts Centreis housing, 'Alejandro Jodorowsky's "Dune" An Exhibition of a Film of a Book That Never Was', a touring event originating at London'sDrawing Room. In 1976 the cult Chilean director attempted to interest Hollywood in a surreal movie adaptation of Frank Herbert's bloated novel. Sadly, he garnered little interest and the project was shelved, but not before he'd commissioned a cabal of famed artists and designers to produce concept work for him - some of which will be shown at the centre.Why is this relevant? Well, among his collaborators were the legendary French comic book artist Moebius, an oft-cited influence on videogame artists and designers, and HR Giger, who should need no introduction on this website, and has also been a formative presence in game art. Also on board was British sci-fi artistChris Foss, famed for his beautiful book covers, which graced the works of Isaac Asimov, E.E. Doc Smith and other notaries of the genre. His intricately imagined and brightly-coloured spacecraft festooned with alien iconography, have no doubt inspired game developers all over the world.And of course, Alejandro Jodorowsky himself has been referenced by Japanese game design maverick andGrasshopper Manufacturefounder, Suda51, not least inNo More Heroeswhich bears a few similarities to Jodorowsky's feverish Westerm El Topo.Elsewhere, from March 22-26, the Science Museum is running a series of nightly events at itsDana Centrevenue, exploring digital technology, and its impact on our lives. The five one-hour tech fests have been curated by TV presenter and Gamesblog outcast Aleks Krotoski (hi Aleks! Oh sorry, Dr Aleks!), and while they all look interesting, there are two particular highlights for Gamesblog types.On March 25 there's 'What Are Games Really Teaching Us?' a debate about the educational value of games (including, I believe, some playable examples), and on March 26 there's 'Technology You Can't Live Without' a series ofPecha Kuchapresentations (basically lightening fast power-point talks using 20 slides in six minutes and 40 seconds) by various luminaries including a triple A games designer, a tech academic, a poet, a web developer and a community manager.Places should be pre-booked by calling 020 7942 4040 or emailing tickets@danacentre.org.uk.Finally, between April 1 - 16, the National Media Museum in Bradford will be celebrating the opening of its newGame Loungearea (pictured above) with a range of special events and activities. On the 7th and 9th, there's Big Screen Gaming, which brings popular Xbox and PS3 games to the Museum's cinema screen - and visitors can play for free. There are also Lego Animation Workshops based on the Lego Star Wars and Lego Indiana Jones games, and two Pixel Art Stop Motion Animation Workshops, which will allow you to design your own retro 2D game characters.There's also the cool-sounding Games Lounge itself, which features Tetris-shaped furniture and 15 retro computer, console and coin-op games to try out, including Donkey Kong, Pong, Super Mario Kart and Manic Miner.Events need to be booked via the National Media Museum box office on 0870 70 10 200.
Google has announced that it has opened theGoogle Apps Marketplaceto developers.More than 50 companies wil be involved in the Apps Marketplace, which will offer business software such as a project management application, a tax and a payroll program, an electronic fax program, an e-signature service, and a design tool for Google Docs.The third-party cloud-based applications will be integrated within Google to work like nativeGoogle apps. It will charge developers 20% of the revenue from sales on the marketplace site, apart from a one-off fee of $100."The Google Apps Marketplace eliminates the worry about software updates, keeping track of different passwords and manual syncing and sharing of data, thereby increasing business productivity and lessening frustrations for users and IT administrators alike," said product manager Chris Vander Mey ina blogpost that announced the move.Google is challenging Microsoft with the aim of becoming the operating system of the web. Up till now the search engine offered users and businesses severalweb applications such as Gmail, Google Calendar and Google Docs. It already has 25 million Google Apps users, with 2 million of them businesses."More than 2 million businesses have adopted Google Apps over the last three years, eliminating the hassles associated with purchasing, installing and maintaining hardware and software themselves," says Vander Mey.Cloud computing applications, which are internet-based rather than desktop-based, were looked upon as promising but have been slow to take off. Computer users tend to choose names they already trust, and seemed to be confused about cloud-based applications. For a long time the market position of Microsoft seemed secure.But Google might now be changing the game. It might also have found a new revenue stream – 97% of its income currently comes from advertising. As it already has released the Google Chrome browser and is working on aGoogle Chrome OS, the App Marketplace is the next logical step towards becoming a software company.
At some stage, the government has to get over its habit of trying to not just reinvent the wheel, but to build cars and sell them. Once upon a time itowned British Leyland- which didn't make its cars any better (in fact there were some right lemons). BL was a debacle. The UK government swore off nationalisation. A bit.However when it comes to the digital domain, it seems that it has to learn the lesson all over again. One gets little steps forward - the opening up of data.gov.uk, which provides the raw data that people need to build apps on government data, is a notable (and big, actually) one.But then you get situations like MyPolice.It's a snappy name - and the idea of setting up a site so you could evaluate and compare and converse with local police forces might seem like one that would spring pretty easily from any meeting of motivated geeks. And indeed it did, last summer, from the Social Innovation Camp: say hello toMyPolice, which aims to provide data and feedback on police forces.Here's how it describes what it's about:"MyPolice is an online feedback tool that enables the public and the police to have a conversation. It fosters constructive, collaborative communication between people and the Police forces which serve them.""MyPolice helps communities identify weaknesses and opportunities in Police services. In providing analysis and data for the Police to act on, MyPolice challenges policy decisions that are made and ensuring that service users have an active part in changing the Police for the better."All well and good until this morning - whenHMIC(Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary, a government body which assesses the performance of the police) announces that it's going to launch a site called My Police (see the difference?) from Saturday, and that it will have the domain of mypolice.org.uk.Naturally, the people behind MyPolice aren't thrilled. Kate Ho atStartupCafe has the full conversation, which includes the fact that the HMIC has bought up domains around the MyPolice name - including mypolice.org.uk, which is rather close to mypolice.org, after all.Lauren Currie, director of MyPolice (the non-HMIC one), is very unhappy:We are in an extremely narrow market, and it is incredibly likely that confusion would arise if they continue to use our name, Mypolice.It is extremely unprofessional to view all our channels and move forward with the name mypolice.If HMIC launch as Mypolice, they will run the risk of confusing the public to think they are an independent company, which they are not.It's really not good - and does raise the question of why HMIC is trying to do it this way, rather than putting its data out through data.gov.uk so that people can build on it, rather than get stomped on.
A quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamPink Floyd Suing EMI Label Over Online Royalties - BusinessWeekBecause their songs are seamless, see, and fade into each other, every single download should count as an album. Something like that. Forecast: could get ugly. Of course in the old days, a top person at EMI would have just said "Get me Pink on the phone - he and I can sort this out..."Vodafone distributes phone that spreads Mariposa botnet &gt;&gt; Panda Research BlogOoh, dear, Vodafone, we think that this counts as an enormous mistake.The Secret Origin of Windows &gt;&gt; Technologizer.comA year after first being announced, Windows was still vapourware - which meant Tandy Trower (no, really) had the job of wrestling it into real, running code in a product with a price tag and a strategy. When he started, it looked "a bit clunky" due to the system font. A fascinating read.Melting down the crown jewels &gt;&gt; Information World ReviewTim Buckley Owen on the contradictions generated by the fact that data.gov.uk will make Ordnance Survey data available, but hasn't managed to get Royal Mail to do the same for postcode data. (Note though that the OS consultation proposes making CodePoint - a long/lat set of postcode locations - available for free reuse.)Gaming sites losing out to 'social networking games' &gt;&gt; BBC NewsAs the Games Developers Conference comes into sight, the problem is that Farmville and Mafia Wars are sucking up peoples' time that used to be spent on games sitesAnother one bites the dust: Cisco steps out of the WiMAX game &gt;&gt; EngadgetWiMAX isn't quite a dead duck, but it's starting to look distinctly peaky.Apple's iTunes LP 6 Months Later: LP What? &gt;&gt; GigaOMNoticed how everyone is talking about Apple's iTunes LP format? Um...perhaps they're doing it on Google Wave? Or perhaps it was launched in a hurry to placate the record industry, which wanted to have some way to tempt people to buy albums, rather than singles. &#10;&#10;Even so, it might work well with the iPad, if that ever reaches us...Should you use ad blockers or not? &gt;&gt; Guardian TechnologyWorth reading for the debate in the comments too - but why is nobody discussing the idea of the subscription to get rid of ads?All Your Apps Are Belong to Apple: The iPhone Developer Program License - EFFThe Electronic Frontier Foundation "used the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) to ask NASA for a copy, so that the general public could see what rules conrolled the technology they could use with their phones".Inside the Low-Paying Cheezburger Empire &gt;&gt; Ben Huh - GawkerThose pictures of furry cats won't post themselves, you know. Oh, wait, they do. Unexplained: why are the people working at cheezburger so lowly paid?Should Microsoft get into the PC hardware business? &gt;&gt; Ed Bott at ZDNet.comMaybe not all PCs, but a few reference versions?Click CEOP Button - Add-ons Gallery &gt;&gt; IEAddons: where's the Firefox one?CEOP has a "panic button" so kids can report scary people, but is this really only available for IE8? Can't they implement a bookmarklet?Tim Berners-Lee: The year open data went worldwide &gt;&gt; TED.comThat's *Sir* TBL to you. The year before, he was getting the audience to chant "raw data now". This year, he's showing them the how of raw data.Popular [not Frequently Asked?] Questions &gt;&gt; UK Council for Child Internet SafetyPerhaps a frequently asked question might be "why is your website so amazingly uninformative?"You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Amendments made to the digital economy bill by the House of Lords threaten freedom of speech and will lead to British websites being blocked without due judicial process, the chief executives of leading technology companies said today.The heads of the four largest UK internet service providers – BT, Orange, Virgin Media and TalkTalk – as well as Google, Facebook, eBay and Yahoo have all co-signed the letter, along with consumer groups, academics and the technophile television host Stephen Fry, objecting toamendment 120A to the bill, which was added to the bill last week with support from Liberal Democrat and Conservative peers.Ministers had been seeking powers to amend copyright law and impose conditions or fees where infringements were taking place.But the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats succeeded in removing the measures from the bill last week, replacing them with a more specific amendment handing courts the power to force internet service providers (ISPs) to block certain websites.Ina letter to the Financial Times, the online giants argue that the rules, if they become law, would fail to tackle copyright infringement as intended. The amendment has "obvious shortcomings", the 16 signatories say.The letter says: "Endorsing a policy that would encourage the blocking of websites by UK broadband providers or other internet companies is a very serious step for the UK to take."There are myriad legal, technical and practical issues to reconcile before this can be considered a proportionate and necessary public policy option."The amendment had been roundly criticised last week when it was added, ascritics pointed out that it could be used to block sites such as YouTube.But Lord Tim Clement-Jones, one of the backers of the amendment,said last weekthat the intention was to deal with "cyberlockers" – a system that allows individuals to swap large files directly, rather than sending them by email or storing them on websites.The House of Lords passed the amendment last week, replacing a clause that would have given broad powers to ministers to change the Copyright Act to respond to new forms of online infringement without the need for primary legislation.But the letter's signatories called the amendment "bitterly disappointing", and explained: "Put simply, blocking access as envisaged by this clause would both widely disrupt the internet in the UK and elsewhere and threaten freedom of speech and the open internet, without reducing copyright infringement as intended. To rush through such a controversial proposal at the tail end of a parliament, without any kind of consultation with consumers or industry, is very poor law-making."Responding to the letter, the chief executive of UK music industry body the BPI, Geoff Taylor, said that the amendment provided a "clear and sensible" way of dealing with illegal downloading.Taylor added that the signatories to the FT's letter have acknowledged that illegal downloading has to be dealt with."The amendment adopted by the House of Lords provides a clear and sensible mechanism to deal with illegal websites," he said."Contrary to the claims in the letter, service providers would in every case be able to ensure that the decision as to whether a site should be blocked is made by the high court. The court would be required to consider the extent of legal content on a website, any impact on human rights, and whether the website removes infringing content when requested. So the suggestion that the clause would lead to widespread disruption to the internet or threaten freedom of speech is pure scaremongering."The signatories to the letter recognise that dealing with illegal websites is a legitimate concern, and have argued in the past that action against illegal downloading should focus on commercial operators. Removing unfair competition from clearly illegal websites will encourage investment in legal online services and improve the legal internet experience for everyone."The digital economy bill is expected to be pushed throughbefore parliament is dissolved for the general election, widely expected to happen on 6 May. If it reaches a second reading by early April, when an election would be called, it could go into the "wash up" – the process at the end of a parliament when bills that have not been passed are hurried through. The government would need cooperation from the opposition to achieve that with the bill – but it is not clear whether the Tories, who have objected to elements of the bill, as the "landline tax" of £6 a year to help pay for next-generation broadband, would support it.Lord Clement-Jones had said the provisions, approved by 165 votes to 140, would protect the creative industries by preventing access to websites where films and music were being provided illegally.He told peers: "I believe this is going to send a powerful message to our creative industries that we value what they do, that we want to protect what they do, that we do not believe in censoring the internet but we are responding to genuine concerns from the creative industries about providing a process whereby their material can be satisfactorily accessed legally."Lord Clement-Jones said the "blanket nature" of the government's original intention was "objectionable". He argued the new proposals were "more proportionate, specific and appropriate".The bill extends the role of media regulator Ofcom to include communications infrastructure and media content, and to appoint providers of local news in ITV regions.It also includes powers to stop under-age children getting hold of violent computer games and contains measures to help the switchover to digital radio.
How's that for a delay?! Best of Chatterbox has really surpassed itself this time. Forgive us, it's been something like two months since our last confession, but we're back again, this time with a new editor - step into the sickly limelight HumofEvil! He has produced something of a 'boutique' Best of this week; it's quick, it's simple and it starts with Heavy Rain. What could possibly go wrong?Heavy RainThis week saw the first of a flood of comments about the French murder mystery masterpiece, pretty much all complimentary but leading swiftly into spoiler blog. Massive chunks of boldSPOILERtext soon filled the place.It would seem not everyone was impressed by the game's unique approach to introductory pacing, however. Newbie idobsyn had this to say: "Building myself up to play Heavy Rain again tonight. The opening was so rank I'm fighting against simply letting it rot while I up the headshots on my SPAS-12."We're hoping he's talking about a game.End of the PS3 daysBy around 9AM Monday it was clear something was up in the land of PS3. This day will go down in infamy as, 'the day PS3s couldn't work out when a leap year was and threw a wobbler'. Or maybe they will something more snappy. Whatever, rabid Sony fans across the globe got in a huge upset about it and demanded blood (or at least a free game!). The Blog was of course level headed about the situation and swiftly realised we could just not use the PS3 for a day! Gettingnervous had this to say:"PS3 being broken by the calender,Makes a change from the machine overheating i suppose.Im going to buy me a Xbox. I will call it Clive.We will have xbot babies called Tristan and Shaniqwa.He will then leave me for an iPod"Luckily by Tuesday morning usual service was resumed and the blog sighed a breath of collective relief. All except OfficePest that is: "My name is OfficePest and I've lost my Katamari Forever trophies." Bad luck!Final Fantasy XIIIFinal Fantasy XIII being almost upon us brought a few JPRG virgins out of the woodwork looking for a description of what the FF series is all about. Killerbee stepped in with a graceful synopsis of the series:"Basically, the core game ingredients are: lots of dialogue; awesome pre-rendered cutscenes; a 'saving the world' plot; menu-driven turn-based combat (or sometimes not so turn-based and more against the clock); a spikey-haired protagonist; a bloke called Cid and giant chickens (aka 'Chocobos')."(Actually, I think that's a direct quote from Hironobu Sakaguchi - Keef)Not Safe For Work BlogLarge portions of this week's blog were taken up with things best not repeated. Leading to this inspired (but sadly impossible!) suggestion from onedaveofmany: "Maybe you could offer up a 'worst-of' this week? There's been a few offerings served up today..."  Oh how much easier life would have been if that could be done!(It can't - Keef)Above and beyond the call of duty....Discussion was given to numbers of hours spend playing a single game, with some stunning results. The hall of fame (or maybe shame) included:Simian - 600 hours in four months on WoWOfficePest - 524 hours on WarhawkMatt 123 - 457 hours on Battlefield 2Take a bow chaps!Notable Quotes"Got in on Friday night after a few too many beers and decided to have my first try at Demon's Souls, this was a mistake. Ran along for a bit, chopped some soldiers down, found a glowing hole in the ground, jumped in, died. Start back at the beginning of the level, kill soldiers, get back to hole, forget it's a pit of death, jumped in, died. Get myself back to the hole, remember this time it's a pit of death although still manage to fall in and die. Other highlights included:* Find some big dude with a club, get whacked, died* Come across red eyed knight, get whacked, died.I eventually managed to fall asleep while playing, must remember to not play games while very drunk....."Matt123 learns the hard way that Demon's Souls is not to be trifled with."Eskimo is a subset of Grime, not Goth. Anyone who's been to the Fridge in Brixton will tell you that."Smellavision submits his application for tea boy at NME."What's the point of a vampire if it isn't a bloodsucking but ultimately urbane creature! And sparkly skin!? This isn't an episode of happy little elves go to Transylvania! Even Dead and Loving It had better vampires in than the new breed of crap being churned out to appease the Emo generation."Simian. Absolutely not a Twilight fan.Returning old facesRiffmagusElquesodiabloWelcome new facesPipSicknessMarie2490Tanglewood1420GamesBorderlandsDarksiders &amp; God of War 3 demosHeavy RainDemon's SoulsMass Effect 2MW2FilmsThe Dark Knight (the good old 'is Health Ledger the best joker' blog reared its ugly head again)AkiraBrokeback MountainMusicDubstep
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
An email came through to me last night that, in many respects, is the stock-and-trade of the startup world: a team of entrepreneurs company has received some funding.In this case, the site in question is the Paris-basedSmartdate, and itsreceived $2.2m from investorsto try and build its idea of using Facebook data as the basis of a matchmaking service.So far, so normal. We've heard a great deal of this over the years; venture capitalists and investment funds putting money into companies that are building web services.But there's something else going on here. From the swathes of press releases and funding announcements I trawl through each day, it feels to me like we're hearing much more recently about sites specifically and publicly built using Facebook as a platform. In many cases, they are almost entirely reliant on Facebook to provide their link to users.Now, in part, that's no surprise: building up an ecosystem around Facebook is something that the company hastried very hard to do with F8andFacebook Connect- and it's a smart move, because they know that when lots of people are invested in your success, you are less vulnerable to competitors.But if so many people are pumping into companies that are almost entirely reliant on the world's largest social networking site, exactly how bigisthe economy around Facebook?Let's see if we can work it out.We know from a number of reports and internal estimates thatFacebook itself is due to post somewhere upwards of $1bn in revenue for 2010, but I'm more interested in what the other companies are doing.What levels of investment are going? How many companies rely on Facebook to keep themselves going? The conservative estimate must stretch into several billions of dollars worth of business at least.After all, the headline sites who make the most from this business are worth hundreds of millions - and some are even looking to launch on the stock market. Even if they don't entirely base their business on Facebook (in many cases, they are available on - or partner with - other social networks too) the spread of users suggests that they're heavily invested in it.&bull; Back in November, Electronic Artsboughtsocial gaming sitePlayfish, in a deal we are now told was worth around $275m.&bull; MeanwhileZynga, another developer of popular games (like) has already taken more than $200m of venture capital.&bull; Other companies making applications includeSlide(also closely linked with MySpace but funded to the tune of $78m);Mindjolt(recently bought by MySpace co-founder Chris DeWolfe, funding not public); and of course FriendFeed (bought by Facebook for around $50m).&bull; On top of that, there's a huge number of companies like the aforementioned Smartdate,Plancast($800,000); and a whole bunch of companies pushed forward by Facebook's own $10m fbFund.That's just the start.What other companies do you know that are reliant on Facebook? How big do you think the Facebook economy really is? Stick any information you know in the comments - once we've got an idea how big this is, we can start thinking about whether it's a viable ecosystem, a bubble or a house of cards.
&bull; After a spate of phishing scams and attacks,Twitteris cranking up safety for usersby blocking all dubious links. Essentially it routes all links through Twitter's filter and eliminates the bad ones before potential victims reach the destination. Looks like good news for users - but possibly bad news for the URL shortening services that have emerged in Twitter's wake?&bull; If you're looking for some fun reading, it's worth taking some time to look through the blog ofJonathan Schwartz. Nowliberated from his job at Sun Microsystems, Schwartz is delivering a few stories of his time at the company - the sort of things he couldn't say while there. The latest morsel?Tales of patent bluster with Steve Jobs, Bill Gates and others. And there are fighting words in there: while he says he gets the value of patents, he also believes that "for a technology company, going on offense with software patents seems like an act of desperation".&bull; And it's time to tune in again to the latest edition of ourTech Weekly podcast, headed by the effervescent Aleks Krotoski.the latest showfeatures a dissection of the BBC's apparently contradictory digital plans - is it pushing out or pulling back? - and a look inside San Francisco's wonderful mechanical museum.Click here to listen now.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech,@gdngamesor ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Only the biggest gaming brands get their own retail launch event andFinal Fantasy 13was one of them. The UK launch event was held in London yesterday with, apparently, thousands turning up to meet producer Yoshinori Kitase and art director Isamu Kamikokuryo. According to HMV's Tim Ellis the event was their biggest yet.Today's Final Fantasy 13 signing at HMV's flagship store on Oxford Street was the biggest game launch the store has ever seen. With thousands of fans queuing up round the block it even beats our store's previous best game launch event, which was for World of Warcraft.As the picture above shows there was plenty of dressing up for the occasion - were you there? - so let's hope the game was worth the effort. I'm going to grab some time on it today but anyone here started playing Final Fantasy 13 yet? If so what do you think so far?
Charles Arthur, Rick Wray and Aleks Krotoski take on the BBC in this week's podcast, picking apart the latest news on the corporation - from the director general's strategy review to the battles with iPhone app developers. What's behind the BBC's contradictory new media messaging? Is digital really the future, or will they abandon a decade of investment to the archives?Meanwhile Bobbie Johnson takes the team through the Musee Mecanique in San Francisco, the leading collection of pre-digital entertainment machines; and Mercedes Bunz speaks with Blaise Aguera y Arcas, the man behind Bing Maps.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Have you bought a digital TV? Dithered over buying a high definition TV, and then wondered whether you were getting any high definition content? Felt puzzled by Blu-ray DVDs, and whether they would look better on your old TV or your HD TV? Get ready for another round of confusion as 3D TV rushes closer – beginning with the World Cup this year, a dedicated Sky Sports channel in 2011 and the Olympics in 2012.The principal message is: don't hurry to buy one unless you delight in getting the first version of things. Adam May, a producer with 3D producers and consultants Vision 3, says TV companies have started showing interest in making programmes in 3D; but the big push to sell the sets will come this Christmas.But right now, the easy way to find out if you need or want a 3D set is to look at your household bills. Is there a huge monthly payment to Sky Sports there? If so, then maybe you do want 3D because it has already started broadcasting. Otherwise, just wait: the prices are going to fall, as they do with all consumer electronics as volume, and production quality, rises.That's not the message that Sony and Samsung will want you to hear, but the introduction of any new technology for displaying a new form of content is always a chicken-and-egg challenge: why push the content if nobody can watch it? But why sell the gear if there's no content? Sky clearly sees a way to accelerate the process through sports (which clearly benefit from 3D, just as action films do; nobody is proposing to splurge on a 3D version of Lark Rise to Candleford).The best thing to do is sit on your hands until there's both content you want and a set you can afford. In the end, it's only television.
The friendly green monster Shrek, the blue-skinned Na'vi of the planet Pandora and Wayne Rooney's shots on goal will shortly take on a new, three-dimensional glory.Spurred on by the success of the Hollywood fantasy blockbuster Avatar, the world's top electronics companies believe they can make 3D television sets the norm for consumers in the US and Europe within three years.The Korean company Samsung kicks off the industry-wide push – and battle for brand supremacy – by launching a 3D range that will be in British shops by the end of the month.Billed as the world's first high definition, three-dimensional LED televisions, Samsung's range will be serenaded by the Black Eyed Peas at a glitzy global marketing debut in New York tomorrow.At a press conference today, Samsung said its televisions and Blu-ray devices will come with a starter pack of two pairs of 3D glasses and a Blu-ray version of Monsters vs Aliens under a tie-up with the movie studio DreamWorks Animation."It's quite simply the entertainment revolution of our time," said DreamWorks' chief executive, Jeffrey Katzenberg. "It's as important as the introduction of sound or colour."Keen to get in on the act, the Japanese company Panasonic will sell its first 3D television at a BestBuy electronics shop in Manhattan this week. And Sony, which expects to begin selling its sets in June, has set an ambitious target of selling 2.5m 3D televisions by March 2011 – amounting to roughly one tenth of all its global television sales.In British shops, John Lewis's vision buyer, David Kempner, said he expected demand to be a "slowburn", with an opening price point of £2,000. "HD is still a relatively new concept and consumers are just getting used to it but 3D will be the next big thing. Given it has the support of all the major manufacturers, 3D technology has got momentum of its own but it also requires content providers to support it and there is a time lag there."Experts say that 3D televisions are likely to enjoy mainstream uptake because the technology behind them barely costs any more than existing sets. To achieve three dimensions, manufacturers need more powerful processors but the fundamental make-up of the television changes only marginally. The only substantial extra cost is making 3D glasses."The add-on cost of manufacturing isn't significant," said Jim Bottoms, director of the technology consulting company Futuresource. "Set makers are starting to incorporate 3D in higher-end televisions this year. Very quickly, certainly by 2015, virtually every full-sized television will have 3D capability."Although pricing for British shops is yet to be finalised, Sony's 3D televisions range in Japan from around £2,150 for a 40in set to double that amount for a 60in model, while Samsung is charging $2,000 (£1,350) to $4,000 in American stores.Sport and films will be the early applications for 3D home entertainment. Under a deal with Sony, Sky has already begun showing certain Premier League matches in pubs on 3D televisions and this summer's World Cup could be a watershed for the technology: Sony will film 25 matches in South Africa using 3D cameras.The opening ceremony of Vancouver's Winter Olympics was available in 3D. More than 20 movies in 3D are scheduled for release this year, including Tim Burton's Alice in Wonderland, which topped Britain's cinema box office charts at the weekend.Mainstream television programming will take longer. The BBC and ITV have expressed interest in experimenting with 3D content.But Bottoms said everyday shows were unlikely to go 3D until technology arrives to eliminate the need for special glasses, which is thought to be up to five years away."We see the next three to five years as being 'event-driven' for 3D. When we get to a glass-less solution, then we'll really see 3D become more pervasive," he said.It has taken decades even to get to this point. The first 3D film, The Power of Love, was made back in 1922 and dozens of movies came out in the 1950s including such gems as Creature from the Black Lagoon.But a key problem was "3D fatigue" whereby viewers' eyes became tired from distinguishing the twin  images needed to create depth perception.Samsung's president of visual display products, Boo Keun Yoon, told the Guardian that 3D fatigue killed off three-dimensional filming in the 20th century but that new techniques have overcome this lingering problem by creating a more consistent image."We've recently had developments in how 3D films are shot," said Yoon. "I believe 2010 will be the year of the 3D television revolution. Probably by the end of this year, we'll see an explosive growth in demand."
Hundreds of UK gamers, many dressed as wizards and warriors, are expected in London tonight for the European launch of Final Fantasy XIII.Fans at HMV's Oxford Street store will be the first to get their hands on the latest instalment in the long-running, Japanese role-playing game franchise, which has sold more than 92m copies worldwide since its release in 1987.TheJapanese release of the new game in Decembersaw eager gamers snap up more than 1m copies in the first 24 hours.Final Fantasy XIII became the first title on Sony's PlayStation 3 – the laggard in overall sales to Microsoft's XBox 360 and Nintendo's Wii – to sell more than 1m copies in Japan. Square Enix, the game's creator, said then it hoped to sell at least 2m copies in the country.The latest chapter promises improved graphics and a reworked battle system for complex chains of attacks. TheGuardian's reviewgives it a rare five stars.The first 50 gamers to run the risk of ridicule on the tube and attend the launch in costume will win a free Final Fantasy XIII soundtrack, which includes Leona Lewis's song My Hands from her second album, Echo.The DJ and TV presenter Alex Zane will host the event and Yoshinori Kitase, Final Fantasy's producer, is flying in from Japan to sign copies and meet the series' dedicated fans.Game launches are beginning to rival film premieres. Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 sold 5m copies worldwide on its opening day, making it the biggest entertainment launch in history.Sales of Final Fantasy XIII are expected to push total sales for the series over the 100m milestone.
Microsoft has shuffled the algorithm which produced the browser choice ballot screen, because it wasn't random.If you can't remember why it's running a browser ballot screen, here's yourreminder- including a pointer to the fact that the code to "randomise" the browsers atbrowserchoice.eu, which was supplied by Microsoft, wasn't random. (IBM's Rob Weiranalysed it.)Two questions: why wasn't that noticed, and where did Microsoft get the flawed code from in the first place?To which the answer for both seems to be: someone searched for the code to do the randomisation - after all, why reinvent the wheel? Someone must have written code to do a random sort with Javascript - and got code with a flaw in it.To be fair, the code actually disadvantaged Microsoft: it put Internet Explorer into fifth position in the list of available browsers about twice as often as it should have, and put Chrome ahead too often. (See Weir's illustrationhere.)As Tim Andersonpoints out, if you do a search for "Javascript random sort" on Google, youget a list which includes a link to a Javascript librarywhich has theexact same flawas the Microsoft code.But hold your horses - if you do that search on (Microsoft's) Bing, youget the same top result. So don't assume that Microsoft's people were being unfaithful.However as Anderson points out,"I am sure I am not the only person to turn to Google when confronted with some programming task that requires some research. In general, it is a great resource; and Google's own algorithms help a little with filtering the results so that sites with better reputation or more inbound links come higher in the results."Still, what this case illustrates – though accepting again that we do not know how the error occurred in this instance – is that pasting code from a Google search into your project without fully understanding and testing it does not always work. Subtle bugs like this one, which may go unnoticed for a long time, can have severe consequences. Randomisation is used in security code, for example."Now that's scary. Got any copied/pasted Javascript in your security code? Fess up.Update:Weir's conclusion on his second post, where he finds that the new shuffle algorithm works much closer to expectation, is instructive:In the end I don't think it is reasonable to expect every programmer to be memorize the Fisher-Yates algorithm. These things belong in our standard libraries. But what I would expect every programmer to know is:That the problem here is one that requires a "random shuffle". If you don't know what it is called, then it will be difficult to look up the known approaches. So this is partially a vocabulary problem. We, as programmers, have a shared vocabulary which we use to describe data structures and algorithms; binary searches, priority heaps, tries, and dozens of other concepts. I don't blame anyone for not memorizingalgorithms, but I would expect a programmer to know what types of algorithms apply to their work.How to research which algorithm to use in a specific context, including where to find reliable information, how to evaluate the classic trade-offs of time and space, etc. There is almost always morethan one way to solve a problem.That where randomized outputs are needed,  the outputs should be statistically tested. I would not expect the average programmer to know how to do a chi-square test, or even to know what one is. But I would expect a mature programmer to know either find this out or seek help.Supply your own jokes about programmers needing to seek help, of course.
It's calledBodycountand it's from the co-designer of frenzied PS2 classic, Black: that may be all that veteran FPS fanatics need to know about Codesmasters' new IP, set to hit Xbox 360 and PS3 in the first quarter of 2011. Announced today, it's a contemporary shooter, set amid a clandestine global power struggle - you're an elite agent/hitman/killer with enough modern weaponry to sink an ocean liner and an open brief to use it all at your discretion.Powered by the in-house EGO engine (Race Driver, Operation Flashpoint 2, et al), the game is being put-together by what Codemasters has referred to as an all-star team, based at the publisher's Guildford studio. Indeed, creative director Stuart Black, once of Criterion, helped to create Black, the slick and absolutely ceaseless blaster that brought a new lease of life to the PS2 in its autumn years. Ina recent interviewwith the Official Xbox Magazine, he criticised the current crop of FPS titles, calling the standard cover-based gameplay (i.e. wait for AI enemy to break cover then pop him in the head. Repeat until dead), "fucking boring".So what's the alternative?"If Race Driver: GRID was all about the purity of racing, then everything in Bodycount is absolutely centred on the bullet and its impact on the world," says Black. "Our shredding tech enables us to create a different kind of gameplay, where players and AI can't hide behind indestructible cover and rely on whack-a-mole mechanics. Here the environment is constantly changing as the game world is shot to hell; it's going to be a huge amount of fun."Okay, so destructible cover has been done by Bad Company among others, but Bodycount is clearly marrying this with a more overtly stylised experience in which bullet damage becomes a key visual and physical theme. Codemasters has historically been very good at inhabiting and re-setting genres, its Colin McRae and Pete Sampras titles effectively cornering their respective sports genres via fluid, intuitive gameplay. And as the anti-Gran Turismo, the GRID series has brought attitude and grit to the modern driving sim.I'm not sure if an obsession with bullet physics and collapsible walls will really re-invent the FPS, but this will be an interesting attempt nonetheless.
Users ignore "real time" results in searches. That's the conclusion of some eye-tracking studies carried out on people doing usability studies with Google results, and it might not be good news for Twitter - which has donedeals with Googleand Bing to let them index its content and serve it up in the results for searches. Google isreckonedto be paying $15m, and Bing $10m - though the length of the deal isn't known.Thestudyis unequivocal: tweets are the gorillas in the passing game of search results.Come again?"It was right in front of you. Why didn't you see it? That's what a group of researchers investigated over a decade ago when they asked their study subjects to watch a video of a group of people passing a ball around. For the study, the participants were asked to count the number of passes completed. The participants were surprisingly accurate in their counts. And what about the gorilla? (Well, not a real gorilla, but a woman wearing a gorilla suit). In one group, less than 10% of the participants reported seeing a gorilla pass through. It is precisely what the study participants didn't see – a woman in a gorilla suit – that interested the researchers."The news will bring a quiet smile to Nick Carr, the author and blogger who has beencompilinghis sardonic Realtime Chronicles (like the Martian Chronicles, but more terrestrial) about the faint whiff of idiocy that attaches to attempts to orient the web, and particularly search, around the leavings of folk on Twitter.But why don't we care about real-time results? Over at Scripting News, ur-blogger Dave Winersuggeststhat it's because"It's impossible to convey much information in 140 characters. So when a search hits a tweet you get at most a soundbite, telling you something you probably already knew. When you search you're looking for information you don't have but want."He adds:"I have a collection of Google Alerts that report once a day or immediately, via email, telling me about occurrences of my name, products I've made, other topics I'm interested in. These used to be pretty useful until they started including tweets in the body of stuff they search. Now the alerts are mostly useless. So in this case, adding real-time stuff actually subtracts value. "(Though I've also heard separately from other people that Google Alerts are becoming useless to them because of the prevalence of SEO efforts which push useless results into the alerts. Now the interesting point: I heard it on my Twitter stream, without searching it out.)To which Josh Young'scomment, also linked by Winer, makes sense: "Yes, real-time results in search suck because the feed is what's important, not the individual tweet."The intriguing thing is that Google's senior vice-president of search products and user experience, Marissa Mayer, sounded absolutely certainwhen I interviewed her in the middle of last year(before the deal with Twitter was signed) that real-time search would be really useful, and was something that Google absolutely should include. Here's the relevant quote, in response to the question:"We think the real-time search is incredibly important, and the real-time data that's coming online can be super-useful in terms of finding out whether – something like, is this conference today any good? Is it warmer in San Francisco than it is in Silicon Valley? You can actually look at tweets and see those types of patterns emerge, so there's a lot of useful information about real-time interactions that we think ultimately will really affect search."But it's already looking as though stuffing Twitter results high into the search results isn't quite the way to do that "useful information". Possibly Google - and Bing - will need to have a rethink about how results are presented: should "real-time" results (stop sniggering, Carr) be roped off in their own space, as sponsored results and text ads already are? But in that case, where? How does that gel with Google's aim of having plain, simple pages that load fast and also lead you to the information that you really want?There's an associated question: are real-time search results any use? When you're trying to find out about breaking news that affects you, they'll definitely look damn useful - for instance, if you've heard about a natural or other disaster at a location where you know a relative is living or visiting, you'll want to search and find out what's happening. (Assuming the telephone system isn't working.) Possibly if you could see a flow of tweets from that region, it would go some way to helping.For the other situations, though... harder to make out. Over to you: can you frame a use for real-time search results from services like Twitter (and perhaps even, who knows, Facebook), and can you solve Google's presentation problem?
Every year the wonderfulIndependent Games Festivaltakes place alongside theGame Developers Conferencein San Francisco to highlight the best work from the indie community. As part of the event, there's a dedicatedmobile component, with its own indie game awards ceremony, and to celebrate the fast-approaching event, Apple has created a special IGF page on the App Store, where you'll be able to download the finalists, and a few other honorable mentions.Honestly, any of these are worth downloading, especially as they're all under two quid. But if I had to pick a couple, I'd go for the winner in the Technical Achievement category, the eccentric staircase navigation  sim,Stair Dismount, or of course, the victor in the Best iPhone Game section,Spider: The Secret of Bryce Manor, a beautiful action adventure title in which you play a mystery solving arachnid.You can find the App Store IGF sectionhere.
