Think of it as a cross between an alarm clock and a Furby: it's the first computer you can both hack and hug. Customising the case is meant to be part of the fun, and you can build it into a soft toy or decorate it with shells, whatever suits your living room or bedroom decor.The Chumby is a small Wi-Fi terminal that uses software "widgets" to display things on its 3.5 inch LCD screen. The most popular widgets at the moment - after the digital alarm clock - are a Flickr photo viewer, a Shakespearean insult generator, Digg, Google News, Slashdot and a daily horoscope. Other ideas include sports results, celebrity gossip and instant messages. If it's available on the web, someone will probably figure out a way to display it on a Chumby.But you're not supposed to pay too much attention to it. The Chumby's designers are aware that many people now have "two incompatible lives" - a net life and a real life - and that "these two lives are somewhat hard to reconcile", according to the Chumby blog (http://chumby.wordpress.com). The Chumby is "an attempt to integrate a lot of that net life stuff into your real life". Chumby Industries hopes to start selling the gadget next spring at close to cost price - "We're shooting for $150," says its website. It also hopes users will subscribe to a service that provides more sophisticated widgets for perhaps $5 (&pound;2.60) a month.The group that created the device includes hardware hacker Bunny Huang, who is best known for hacking Microsoft's Xbox games console to run Linux. So rather than lock the Chumby down, they've made the case removable and everything inside accessible and open source. As part of the development, they're giving early machines to geeks to see what they can do.The Chumby has been described as the "anti-iPod". Really, it's anti the whole consumer electronics industry.The specification is pretty basic. At the moment, Chumby uses a 266MHz ARM controller with 32MB of memory, and the screen resolution is only 320 by 240 pixels. It doesn't have a keyboard, though it does have a USB port that supports thumb drives.The Chumby is probably not going to replace any electronics devices you already have. But it could help you keep an eye on the net while you're away from your computer. And even if it's a disaster, you still have an alarm clock...
One of the most unusual features that the Google search engine boasted when it first went online was that little button called "I'm Feeling Lucky" - which, when pressed after entering a search phrase, would take you straight to the site that Google judged to be the top result for that search. What boosted searchers' confidence in Google, at a time when rival search engines such as AltaVista were stuffed by spammed results with no bearing on any phrase you might have wanted to find, was that if you felt lucky, you almost always were lucky.The first result was, indeed, very often just what you were looking for, far more often than on the spam-bombed competitors. Google rose to the top.But how powerful is Google's grasp over our searches? And what effect will that have on the web? While many have focused on the identities of the people revealed by the logs of Google searches accidentally made public by AOL earlier this month, other groups online have begun to use that research just as was intended: anonymously, to understand peoples' web-searching habits.It turns out that in a world where we hear so much about the "long tail" of a million niches, there is a very short tail indeed of "clickthroughs" - where someone clicks on a search result to go to the linked site (which happened, in the AOL data, 52% of the time).According to the logs, the top result on any search engine gets 42.1% of the clickthroughs; the second, 11.2%. That's more than half of all clickthroughs in just two results. It's rapidly downhill from there, apart from the 10th result (before you click onto the next page), which sees a slight uptick in popularity over the ninth .Digging deepThe latter seems to stem from a psychological effect: on reaching the bottom of the results page, people decide to start looking at something external rather than another page of potential answers.Even so, the 10th result only garners 3% of clickthroughs. The next 990 results (since Google only ever offers links to nine other pages) share just 11% of clickthroughs, an average of 0.01% each, though almost every click beyond the first page of results occurs on the second. The furthest that any searcher went, according to an analysis attinyurl.com/hnh8a, was the 449th result - in a search for "beastiality" [sic]. "Guess you've got to go a long way for your kicks," observed the person who dug up that datum.Our tendency not to search very far matters to two disparate groups: those concerned about where we find sources of authoritative knowledge, and those keen to tweak their web pages - and at the extreme to spam the web - in order to move up the search rankings for all sorts of commercial activity.This second group, of self-described "search engine optimisers" (SEOs) - whose mission is not actually to tweak Google or Yahoo, but to optimise the web pages of their clients - has fallen upon the AOL data with glee. Analysing the dataset is not trivial; it contains 20 million entries, and occupies 439MB when compressed, and about 2GB when decompressed. But for SEOs, it is literally a gold mine: there is money in understanding how many people will click on a particular item in the rankings, because SEO clients pay by results. If you can work out how much more valuable it is to be the No.2 link than the No.3, you will know how to allocate your resources better.There are some caveats: the database of results came from AOL users, who tend to be less web-savvy than people who have chosen a particular search engine (Google is the default search engine for people using AOL's service or web pages). Some SEOs noted that the results seem skewed towards the top result compared to their own experience - that the first three results might see a variation of 10% in popularity - while others said the results matched theirs almost exactly.Do you feel lucky?The data also reveal the problems some users still have with search engines - such as the words "search terms" which appear in the search box in light text. Some people, apparently, click the search button at once. "That's where we got all the useless clicks for the term 'search terms' when we ran Adwords. I'd love to see how many of the 20 million searches were for 'Type AOL Keywords Or Search Terms Here'," said Dan Thies ofseoresearchlabs.com.But while the data files are pleasing SEOs, they will probably distress those who feel that the bias towards feeling lucky - and particularly that too many people rely unquestioningly on the top few links on any search engine - is not positive. Just because something gets a lot of links doesn't mean it's true. The practice of "Googlebombing" - creating links to a phrase aimed at a particular page to move it up the rankings - probably saw its clearest example when the page pointing to George W Bush's profile on the whitehouse.gov site was linked to by pages using the phrase "miserable failure". Type that phrase in, and you'll still get pointed there.Wikipedia doesn't rely on Googlebombing, but the frequency with which its pages are linked to means its pages rank very highly in search results. But can those results be trusted as sources of factual information?Recently The Onion, the satirical newspaper, ran an article entitled Wikipedia celebrates 750 years of American independence, and quoted the site's co-founder Jimmy Wales, as saying: "At 750 years, the US is by far the world's oldest surviving democracy, and is certainly deserving of our recognition. According to our database, that's 212 years older than the Eiffel Tower, 347 years older than the earliest-known woolly-mammoth fossil, and a full 493 years older than the microwave oven."Of course, none of those "facts" is correct, and Wales never said nor believes any such thing. But the satire bites, because Wikipedia is simultaneously widely relied on, yet also often blatantly or subtly wrong. It is one of the internet's great unspoken truths.And the reliance is both wide and deep. "I'm still trying to find a common keyword that doesn't have Wikipedia in the top 10 results," noted Nick Carr, the author of Does IT Matter, on his blog (atroughtype.com) earlier this month. Gunpowder, Mona Lisa, trans fat, Holy Roman Empire, sauerkraut: for all, Wikipedia was top. If you feel lucky, Google will take you to them. And brothel, lawn mower, Alfred Hitchcock, even Nicholas Carr: according to Google, Wikipedia had the second or third most authoritative web page about them, meaning they will garner around 11% of all clickthroughs on those topics.But it's not only common words that Wikipedia dominates. Where would you expect to find the best - as in most accurate - source of online information about John Harrison, the British inventor of the maritime clock that would keep time accurately on a ship? His efforts were the subject of Dava Sobel's painstakingly researched, and bestselling book Longitude; but the top result on Google, and so the one which will see 40% of clickthroughs, is Wikipedia's.Patrick Ross, of the Center for the Study of Digital Property, a US thinktank, decided to follow this thread. He used his interest in cartography to see how far Wikipedia's grip on Google results - and hence on people's expected reliance on it as a topic - extended into the realm he knew about. Vinland, the Vikings' apparent landing in North America in the 11th century? The top result links to the Wikipedia page. And so on. (Often, results further down the listings - such as those atanswers.com- are themselves taken directly from Wikipedia, where the open licence allows direct copying of information; so the appearance of multiple reinforcing answers is false, and the Wikipedia entered data will get much more than the expected ratio of clickthroughs.)Ross then pointed out, on the IPcentral blog, that there was at the time no Wikipedia entry for Battista Agnese, a 16th century Italian cartographer. One soon appeared - plagiarised, said Ross, from a Library of Congress page, and with errors added. Then that entry disappeared - deleted by a Wikipedia "administrator" and replaced by a different one. And within days of appearing, the Wikipedia version was the 10th-ranked result for "Battista Agnese" on Google, although the Library of Congress page remains top at present. But as the entry spreads to other online encyclopedias that reuse Wikipedia's content and acknowledge it with a link, how long will that remain true?For SEOs, though, accuracy of content doesn't matter - as long it's their content someone is looking at. To that end, they are all mining the data as vigorously as they can; there is now even a site where you can query the database by user ID, search keywords, and what website people went to. Ask it what search terms people put in that saw them go towikipedia.org, and the 2,853 hits indicate that they were most commonly looking for ... Wikipedia.On that, at least, one can be certain that Google got it right.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
"Sony's target shipment volume of four million PlayStation 3 (PS3) consoles by the end of this year is likely to be cut to two million units because volume production is not set yet, according to sources in Taiwan's game console manufacturing industry,"reports DigiTimesin Taiwan.There's a shortage of blue laser diodes and Cell chips, apparently. What a surprise.On Monday, DigiTimes said:Since manufacturers of blue laser diodes are still unable to improve yield rates, the shortage may result in pushing back the competition between Blu-ray Disc (BD) and HD-DVD optical disc drives in the market to the first quarter of 2007, according to sources at optical disc drive (ODD) manufacturers.Utilizing BD drives in its own PS3 game consoles, Sony suspended shipments of blue laser diodes to other customers, the makers indicated, adding that only Nichia, Sharp and Sanyo continue shipping the diodes. Nichia, which currently holds 80% of the global blue laser diode supply, reported that its yield rate for blue laser diodes reached 30%, according to the makers. However, the actual output still falls behind the demand, the makers said.
Charles Ely, Assistive Technology Adviser for the South Lakes Society for the Blind in Kendal, responded to one of my answers (below) with some practical advice in a letter he acknowledged would be too long to print. Fortunately the blog has no shortage of space, so here it is. JSI'd just like to add a few comments to your "Easier reading" reply (24/08/06). In no particular order...To alter text size in IE and Firefox (and lots of other programs including MS Word), hold down the Ctrl key and use the mouse wheel. This saves going through menus that you have difficulty in seeing.A really good way of getting web page font style, size and colour to suit an individual is to create your own style sheet and use it for all web pages, this can be done in most browsers. You can go some way to creating your ideal style sheet using theOneFormatweb site, but you may want to create something more closely tailored to your own needs. Of course some badly designed pages will not work well, so you need the ability to change back to the site's own style sheet. To avoid going through barely visible menus to do this, the process can be automated using windows scripts.Many screen readers and talking browsers are not quick-fixes, they need to be learnt. Jaws, for instance, is a wonderful program (probably the best) for people with no sight, but would anyone that can cope with large text really want to use it? I doubt it. Incidently, if you do use Jaws, stick to IE - there are scripts available to make it work with Firefox, but it does work best with IE. If you need a screen reader, whichever one you use, if the web page has been badly constructed (and there are plenty that have), you don't stand a chance.I thinkThe Guide (from Software Express)deserves a mention. This program makes computer use for visually impaired novices amazingly easy, but if you want to do anything more than the basics, it is not for you.You mentioned the Windows magnifier, which works but is really not very good. Much better commercial alternatives are available (Zoomtext and Lunar). But if you don't want to spend £300 for a magnifier, tryiZoom. This is an open-source (Free!) magnifier, not wonderful, but much better than the Windows one.Toodle pipCharles Ely
Big noise today about the announcement that Google CEO Eric Schmidt isjoining the board of Appleas a non-executive director (as our New York correspondent Andrew Clarkreports).Apple today announced that Dr. Eric Schmidt, chief executive officer of Google, was elected to Apple's board of directors at their meeting today. Eric also sits on Google's board of directors and Princeton University's board of trustees.Schmidt has a long track record with technology firms and before Google he held senior positions at Novell, Sun and PARC - but this announcement is bound to cause some reaction at competitors of both firms, principally Microsoft... especially coming on the back of a wave of deals and initiatives announced by Google recently. Conspiracy theorists are getting their tin foil hats ready, but at the very least it will make relations between the two firms easier.Everyone's out to comment on What It All Means, includingJohn Battelle"Apple shares much in common with Google, that is for sure. But I'm not sure there's too much to be made of this connection - yet" while Microsoft'sDon Dodgesays "Nah, this don't mean nuffing".MeanwhileTechcrunch's Marshall Kirkpatrickdoes an admirable job of sitting on the fence (could be great, could be terrible!) andThe Unofficial Apple Weblog, unsurprisingly, says "If I were in upper management at a certain Redmond based company I would take note of this development".As far as I can tell, the biggestactualrepercussion of this is that everyone's started calling Eric Schmidt "Dr Eric Schmidt", in deference to the Apple press release. His mother must be proud.
Flickr co-founder Stewart Butterfield (see below) reports that there were 1,234,384 geotagged photos in th first 24 hours. In along post, he also looks at The Tech Behind the Scenes, and the API.Finally, for the hackers reading this, today we're also releasing extensions to Flickr's API to enable adding and retreiving geo information, setting privacy permissions, and searching by location: everything you need to roll your own. The docs are under the link above (scroll to photos.geo) and the best place to dig in as on the developers' mailing list (see today's announcement).This also means: "hey, if our maps don't work for you, use whatever maps you'd like!" We expect the momentum of third party geo-based Flickr "mashups" to continue and hopefully this will let developers take it to the next level since they don't have to do their own spatial indexing any more, can enable private geo-data and get the new "accuracy" and search-within-locations features thrown in. Go for it!Comment: Some searches are being added in comments, such as Brenda'sLighthouses of the Great Lakes
There seems to be a macho philosophy underpinning PC game development: if your current project runs on a majority of PCs it is, by definition, lame. To be hotly anticipated it must only be playable on the highest spec machines kitted out with the most bloody of bleeding edge graphics cards.According to TeamXbox.com, Bernd Diemer, senior game designer at Crytek, has just been telling a German publication that, "next-generation consoles don't offer enough computational power to run Crysis".Not enough computational power?! Two feature-packed multi-processor machines - one of which isn't even out yet?No, apparently only DirectX 10 - shipping with Vista - will allow this beast to play "as it was intended".If this is all accurate, it's a baffling indictment of the development scene. What we're supposed to do here is gasp in astonishment and barely contained excitement - it's like some steroidhead on Venice beach complaining loudly that he's run out of dumbbells heavy enough to challenge his vein splattered biceps. ATI vs nVidia, AMD vs Intel: in the age of hyper-accelerated platform warfare, developers are unwitting pawns in a mystifying and destructive game. Power is synonymous with quality, they imply. Well, no. No it isn't.Yet this kind of electronic willy waving is commonplace. You can blame the technology manufacturing companies for relentlessly pushing new products. But then you can also factor in the fans for salivating over 3D techno-jargon. And then there's the developers themselves, so desperate to prove their cutting edge credentials they'll happily prioritise the ridiculous processing demands of their code over the genius of their game design.Of course, you can understand studios wanting to stay one step ahead of the current suggested specifications - with an 18 month development cycle liable to slip into two years, it's necessary to aim high. But Crytek's previous game - the ingenious Far Cry - is just as entertaining now as it was two years ago - because it had some good ideas, and was beautifully designed.You can experience those good ideas now. On all current formats. Without forking out hundreds on a new PC so powerful it could conceivably oversee NASA operations for the next ten years.
"Google Inc on Wednesday plans to begin letting consumers download and print free of charge classic novels and many other, more obscure books that are in the public domain," reportsAP."Using Google's Book Search service, Web surfers hunting titles like Dante's Inferno and Aesop's Fables will be able to download PDF files of the books for later reading, to run keyword searches or to print them on paper. Up to now, the service only allowed people to read the out-of-copyright books online."
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
ModelPeugeot 207 GT HdiPriceFrom &pound;14,745Top speed120mphAcceleration0-62mph in 10.1 secsConsumption58.8mpg (combined)Emissions166g/km (road tax band x)At the wheelSharon OsbourneThey'd rather walkOzzy OsbourneOn the stereoThe FeelingEn route forFarnhamNever take for granted the smell of a brand- new car. "New car" smell offers one of the greatest olfactory pleasures known to man - right up there with freshly cut grass, baking bread and just-bought magazine print.The failure of "new car" smell to last anything more than two weeks into ownership, however, is an undeniable weakness in the odour's make-up. That magnificent bouquet of recently stitched leather and recently hammered plastic is soon lost to the atmosphere. After this point, depending on the vigour of the owner's commitment to valeting, a car's interior will come to smell increasingly, shall we say, "homely". Within a year, the averagely neglected family runabout tends to hum of stale coffee with a low but persistent hint of training shoe.People who care about this kind of thing tend, having little alternative, to go down the air freshener route - the jewelled card or a-seasonal Christmas tree shape, hung from the rear-view mirror or (less obtrusively) the headlight stalk. These devices themselves combine the astringent, eye-watering tang of bleach-intensive, industrial lavatory cleaner with the fruity top note of some of the cheaper kinds of bubble-gum - meaning that they work perfectly, except inasmuch as they smell far worse than the smells they are intended to mask.All credit to Peugeot, then, for achieving, with the launch of the new Peugeot 207 hatchback, nothing less than a major 21st-century breakthrough in car-odour management. For, fitted as standard in the SE model of this charismatic runabout - and as an option on the Sport and GT versions - is nothing less than a dash-mounted, dual-function "fragrance diffuser".This patented process features a replaceable cartridge containing scent which, at the click of a switch, can be made to waft through the central air vents in tandem with the air-conditioning system, thus creating the sensation, as and when required, of floating through a perfumed garden, rather than - as may be the case - driving around with bottle of Coke Zero and a bag of pickled onion-flavoured Monster Munch.Clearly, such versatile dedication to in-car nasal action is not to be sniffed at. Moreover, Peugeot has made available, through its dealership chain, a wide range of (in Peugeot's presumably well-researched opinion) suitable fragrances for dispersal through a 207, including Lime Fresh, Tropical Mango, Tender Jasmine and Dog's Chew Toy. I really am not making any of this up. OK, I made up Dog's Chew Toy. But the rest is true.The New York Times, we read, has just appointed a perfume correspondent - believed to be a newspaper first. I could have used his input. Indeed, if Peugeot's innovation takes a hold across the market, there will be ample work in journalism for someone capable of operating efficiently at the motoring/perfume interface.All I can report is that I was getting furniture polish cut with strawberry yoghurt and, if I breathed deeply enough, just a trace, in the perfume's exotic hinterland, of Listerine. Better than stale coffee and trainer.The 207 is a fresh little number in many respects. It is a bigger, slightly punchier version of the popular 206, and will be sold alongside it. It's for people who want a 206 with a bit more perk about the wing mirrors and some crunchier bumpers, as well as being, obviously, for people who like the whiff of mango.I had the turbo-charged 1.6-litre diesel version, which, being light, and almost fluffy to handle, and easy to accelerate through small gaps, was pretty big on temptations to foolhardiness, but also big on engine noise in the cabin. It is, however, bright and sensibly built and, for a hatchback, its seats are uncommonly interested in your comfort. And is it not fragrant? Fill your nasal passages. It's the great smell of Peugeot &middot;
Betsy Aoki, program manager for Microsoft's question and answer service, has announced thepublic beta versionon theQnA team's blog.
The Today programme is such an ingrained habit that I can't do without even the bits I hate - like Thought for the Day and the sport. The sports coverage on Today is almost all football, usually the guy called Garry interviewing another guy called Garry in one of two modes: either alpha-male ferret or fawning puppy. If cycling gets mentioned at all at 25 past the hour, it's only during the Tour de France and then the chief interest is in how radically Garry will mispronounce the name of the previous day's stage winner.But you see how the cynicism of the minority sport fan is rewarded. Yesterday, Today ran a long segment on the Tour of Britain, which has just begun (it finishes in London on Sunday). The gist was that while the top echelon of cycle sport is in desperate crisis, with major sponsors pulling out left, right and centre after getting burned with doping scandals, the lower orders are in rude good health. As a participation sport, cycling is flourishing. A measure of the enthusiasm is that more than 1,500 people have volunteered to marshall the Tour of Britain, standing at junctions with flags to maintain the rolling road block so the riders can race safely on closed roads.I've just been on holiday in Brittany, where cycling is a secular religion. For a cyclo-sportive in honour of local hero Bernard Hinault, with 600 entrants for a hilly 230km ride (despite a poor weather forecast), squadrons of motorcycle outriders performed the task of stopping traffic the whole way. Every Sunday, from Finisterre to Normandy and from Roscoff to the Loire, high streets and local roads are closed and whole villages turn out en f&ecirc;te for bike races. On our way home I read the regional paper, Ouest-France, proudly proclaiming that 100,000 people had turned out to watch the professionals race at Plouay in last weekend's round of cycling's World Cup. And this despite the taint of dopage at the top of the sport.Many like me have long been used to looking across the Channel, enviously thinking, oh well, of course - that's France. Cycling is truly popular there. But a great deal of it is to do not with popularity in the sense of mass participation - cycling is a minority sport even in France - but with promotion: how to put on an event with panache, how to create a sporting spectacle that anyone can enjoy and find colourful and exciting. This is what makes the Tour of Britain such an inspired effort. It's a work in progress, but it gets bigger and better every year. I'll be there to watch the finish on Sunday - and do the grassroots thing by taking part in the amateur race beforehand.But don't take it from me. Just ask Garry.For more information, seectc.org.ukandcycletraining.co.ukBike doctorAll your cycling questions answeredDear Matt,I recently read that cyclists now need third-party accident cover(Warning to cyclists who do not have insurance).What is your view? And where is best to buy it?Tristan Leaver, via emailUnlike motorists, there is no legal compulsion on cyclists to have third party insurance cover. But it's not a bad idea - even if the likelihood of you as a cyclist being liable for compensation for damage or injury to another road user is fairly negligible. But strange things happen - especially in a world where a cyclist can be successfully prosecuted for not riding in the gutter.The simplest way to get third-party insurance is to join one of the membership organisations, such as the Cyclists Touring Club (CTC) - whose director is thus cheerfully promoting the idea in the story you mention. British Cycling (the sport's governing body) also includes it as an automatic benefit of membership. Local cycling organisations (such as the London Cycling Campaign) may do the same, but check in each case. Getting your insurance this way is cost-effective because these bodies get discount rates.
There's nothing like religious imagery to get the capitalist cogs in action.Wonderlandbrings the good news of the latest "miracle" to emerge in theterminally-expansive body of Marian apparitions. The creator of a newly generated cube object in the virtual world Second Life, where Residents are encouraged to build objects out of wooden shapes called "prims", recently noticed that his creation featured a slightly Mother of God-like optical illusion, and decided that he'd flog it for cash on the Second Life marketplace siteSLExchange.This incredible item is a gift from God himself and a true sign of His existence. People will flock from sims around to see this prim, to touch it, to be healed by it's holy aura. Never before has such a sight been seen in SL. Seize the opportunity to own this wonder today!But is anyone prepared to pay the 30K Linden Dollar (~$100) asking price? Enter the relativity of wealth discussion here.If you're keen to catch a glimpse of Her Holiness,here's a good guideto maximising your apparition potential.
I've beenmoaning onfor ages about the lack of a decent UK games event. Last week's Leipzig show only bought home what the UK is missing, namely a celebration of videogames and a chance to try out the latest stuff. So I've been meaning to blog about theLondon Games Festivalfor a while, mainly because it's about time something like this happened. Yes, the retail elements appear superfluous and there is no showpiece consumer show, but there is still some interesting stuff, particularly the fringe. It will be interesting to see if the Lizards' Lair event - pitch your game idea to developers - receives anything more than "GTA set in my town". Read on for the full list of events.Cinema Showdown Vue Cinema, Leicester Square - 7th OctoberPlay this year's hottest new games on the biggest and best format available. Hone your skills and get ready to play against and in front of up to 400 fellow gamers. Tickets are free although subject to a small booking fee, and will be available throughout September from Vue Cinemas and competitions nationwide.Tournament Stage HMV Oxford Street - 2nd-7th OctoberPlay new and future releases, and battle against fellow gamers at the HMV store on Oxford Street. Different games and challenges will be available throughout the week, along with giveaways, and celebrities making on stage appearances. Announcements on games on show will be made throughout SeptemberThe Family Game Show John Lewis, Oxford Street - 2nd-7th OctoberTake a break from shopping in one of Britain's top department stores to try your hand at the latest games. Games pods and consoles will be situated throughout the store, with something to appeal to all members of the family. Competitions, challenges, and special events will run throughout the week, turning a shopping trip into a family day out!The London Game Career Fair Café Royal - 3rd-4th OctoberThe London Game Career Fair will provide the opportunity for games industry professionals, recent graduates and individuals from related industries, such as computer graphics, animation and film, to speak with leading companies in the game industry about career opportunities.Fringe Events Calendar London Games Festival Fringe A range of central London locations - 2nd-7th October This years Festival Fringe will explore aspects of interactive entertainment as culture, creative form and a market that falls outside the recognised games industry. The Fringe will involve performances, exhibitions, master classes and seminars, participatory workshops and, of course, opportunities to play. A full list of events will be released soon. Highlights of the programme include:Lizards' Lair Central London location - 2nd October Got an idea for a new game? Want to meet the makers and work at a games developer? Then this is the event for you. The London Games Festival is inviting you to enter your game idea, and then if successfully picked, present and pitch the concept to a panel of industry experts from some of the most respected publishers and developers. Each panellist will select their favourite game and the winners will receive a week's hands on experience at a games company.Playing Films, Watching Games BFI's National Film Theatre - 7th October Playing films, watching games will be the forum for an exploration of the convergence between what are arguably the two most powerful entertainment forms. This event will see a panel of some of the most innovative drivers from film and games come together to discuss how the two industries currently relate to each other, and where they are taking us.Sense of Play - A Game Design Symposium Central London location - 6th October Sense of Play is a one-day symposium, co-sponsored by the University College for the Creative Arts. The event aims to promote lively debate on the nature of game design: what it means to different people - both inside and outside the industry. Games designers are often considered to be key to the medium's creative future and this event asks how we can best equip emerging talent to square up to the considerable challenges they face as the industry moves forward. Sense of Play will also look at whether talent from other industries could make a difference to the creative process.
This is a bit of a shocker, for anyone in the trade -- a bit like Ricky Gervais leaving The Office. The problem is that the SEW site and associated conferences have been sold by Jupiter Media to Incisive Media, and the new owners have failed to do a deal.According to a post on Sullivan's blog, Daggle:I'm far from the only reason behind the success of SEW and SES, but I've played a major role. I helped build both of those assets. Then I watched one company sell them to another without me having any formal capital stake in the sale. That left me wary of history repeating itself. I wasn't going to help this new company grow the business out of the sheer kindness of my heart.I explained these reservations at the very beginning of my relationship with Incisive, that I needed some long-term incentive for helping them continue to grow and strengthen the site and conferences. After over a year of talks, that's failed to materialize. As a result, I'm departing.Comment: Incisive Media seems to be making regular aquisitions, starting with Timothy Benn Publishing in 2000. Since then it has bought Matching Hat, Risk Waters Group, Insurance age, Initiative Europe, Search Engine Strategies (Danny Sullivan's company), Global Professional Media Limited and Centre for Interactive Financial Training (CIFT) Ltd. I wonder if they subscribe to the old maxim that one journalist can be changed for any other journalist, without penalty. In this case, they could be in for a bit of a shock. The SES/SEO/Web 2.0 business is so young that it still revolves around personalities rather than properties.It would also be interesting to know if there's a non-compete clause to stop Sullivan from setting up a rival company. If he does that, I have no doubt he would be a success. And if he needs investment beyond the money he got from selling out to Jupiter, he knows a number of people who have recently become very rich from Web start-ups or share offerings. If Incisive doesn't know what he's worth, I'll bet plenty of other people do.Note: Danny Sullivan haswritten for usand given us lots of quotes, but we have no other connection with his company, and he has no connection with The Guardian.
Exciting news from the world of tables - Philips is showing off its new'Entertaible'tabletop gaming platform at the Internationale Funkausstellung event in Berlin. I think we covered this briefly when the company started flaunting prototypes earlier this year, but it's definitely worth covering again now they've presumably built a couple of proper ones...This brilliant, not-at-all awkwardly-named device promises to finally bring interactive entertainment to the masses. Featuring a 32-inch horizontal LCD, BaryBass™ sound technology and internet connectivity, the (one day this will just trip naturally off the tongue) 'Entertaible' is the next word in multiplayer social gaming. Here's a chunk of the press release:"Entertaible uses proprietary digital shape recognition and multi-touch sensing (patent pending) to interpret the moves of several players simultaneously. This generates a highly interactive, intense gaming experience where speed and clever tactics are essential to win. The simultaneous tracking encourages players to make their moves in real-time by dispensing with the need to wait for their turn, and allows participants - with practice - to plan moves in advance and react immediately to the actions of the other players. The use of physical objects like pawns and bats to directly manipulate the virtual world enhances the sense of magic."They haven't mentioned yet whatsortof multiplayer games you'll be able to take part in on the device - or indeed where you'll be able to buy it and what it's likely to cost. But considering the tidal wave of enthusiasm this product is likely to provoke, these are piffling matters of little consequence.The company is talking about delivering its technology in a number of form factors - let's hope one of them is a pub table (as the accompanying press shot would seem to suggest). As you are no doubt aware, the decline of the traditional British drinking establishment can be traced back to the point at which they stopped making tabletop versions of Space Invaders and Pac-Man.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
While theSerious Gamesjuggernaut continues to garner support from the public and private sector for its battery of worthy (and of course entertaining) products, theBBC(andothers) reported this weekend that a more passive form of solving the world's ills could lie in a forthcoming device hitherto considered entertainment. According to a recent press release, the PlayStation 3 console might contain within it the computing potential that could contribute to scientific knowledge. All hailCitizen Science.However, as bambino_tostare suggested in an email to the gamesblog, this is reminiscent of the types of things found under "rumour mill" in the pre-PlayStation 2 marketing push. Our favourite? That it was feared that the mighty machine would be used asmissile control computers(see footnote 14) in Iraq.Says IGN:Via a partnership between Sony and the Folding@home distributed computing project, a client is being developed that will allow idle Cell Processors to turn their considerable computational power from crunching the polygons that makeup curvaceous videogame breasts to crunching the math of folding proteins that hold the secret to curing cancer. Like the old SETI@home project that harnessed idle PCs to analyze masses of data collected by radio telescopes in hopes of discovering signals from another world, the Folding@home project will rely upon an army of PlayStation 3s rather than expensive super computers.Rather less fanboy-esque information comes from theFolding@Home PS3 FAQ page:Our goal is to apply this new technology to push Folding@Home into a new level of capabilities, applying our simulations to further study of protein folding and related diseases, including Alzheimer's Disease, Huntington's Disease, and certain forms of cancer. With these computational advances, coupled with new simulation methodologies to harness the new techniques, we will be able to address questions previously considered impossible to tackle computationally, and make even greater impacts on our knowledge of folding and folding related diseases.There are many other citizen science projects out there.SETI@homeis a progenitor to many of the distributed computing projects in process today, and is one of the most famous. For more information, check out theRadio 4's Citizen Science series.
Perhaps the biggest surprise from the Leipzig show - ignoring the high number of irony free Iron Maiden t-shirts on display - was the quality ofJust Cause, the upcoming 360 game from Eidos. A free roaming third person thing set on a stunningly depicted tropical island, Just Cause is a preposterously over the top and hugely enjoyable action hero romp. From the moment you start - parachuted in to enemy territory, landing on a vehicle and leaping off guns blazing - the action rarely lets up. Think jumping off a stolen motorbike and skydiving to the ground before pulling a stunt flip off a nearby jeep and you'll get the picture. The missions I played were fairly standard take out the bad guy affairs, but such was the anarchic and inventive action it didn't seem to matter.The sun dappled graphics are impressive too - the initial missions need to be competed before the sun sets and the excellent lighting negates the need for an on-screen clock. Obviously I've no idea how it plays out or whether the action gets any deeper, but on initial impressions Just Cause looks like something special.
No online gaming session this week due to the bank holiday, but next monday 8pm I'll be holding another PC Battlefield 2 session. More details later, but stick this in your diary and make sure you keep at least an hour and a half free for combat action. Everyone is welcome, from complete newcomers to seasoned veterans. If you want to practise on our Gamesblog server (kindly provided by EA), search for 'multiplay guardian' - the one server that pops up is ours. The password is goater. Any problems, email me on gamesblog@gmail.com and put Battlefield in the subject header.Also, we'll be using TeamSpeak to communicate so if you fancy joining in, make sure youdownloadthe latest TeamSpeak software (you want the TeamSpeak 2 client). I'll provide details of our TS server later in the week.The week after will be Xbox360 again - Battlefield, Table Tennis or GRAW...
"Search is how people discover new websites and find individual pages within websites and intranets. Unless you're listed on the first search engine results page (SERP), you might as well not exist. So, the first duty of writing for the Web is to write to be found," opinesusability guru Jakob Nielsen, plugging hislatest book.Nielsen quotes Chruchill's "short words are best and the old words when short are best of all," and adds: "Familiar words spring to mind unbidden. Thus, users are likely to employ old words when they boil down their problem to a search query, which is typically only 2-3 words long."
"Flickr's great for exploring photos by photographer, tag, time, text and group, and now it's also great for exploring photos by place. There are a couple of short video tutorials (or "screencasts") which give the 90 second overview on how to geotag your own photos and how to use all the controls for searching and exploring geotagged photos. Watching them first will give you all of the information you need to get up and running,"writes Flickr co-founder Stewart Butterfield.Seehttp://flickr.com/mapfor a world map with more than 100,000 photos to explore.There's a special tag for photos taken at Upcoming.org events, and Butterfield says: "this is part of a much bigger launch for Upcoming. You can read more ontheir blog."
lonelygirl15 isthe hottest thing on YouTubeat the moment (18,222 subscribers, 1.5 million views) but the big debate is whether she's a "genuine" vlogger or something else entirely. The New York Times blogVirginia Hefferman's Screenshas raised the main points and categorised them as sweet, weird, or fraud. The main options are:+ A cool vlog by a witty, home-schooled, religious teenager whose video editor has a crush on her. (SWEET)+ An unnerving vlog by a member of a satanist cult or Aleister Crowley's perplexing Thelema, a concept that in itself is either very scary or possibly just a vague religious mashup that doesn't mean anything. (WEIRD)+ An insidious vlog by a music (or other) marketer that uses suspiciously good scripts and lighting to lure people into its story of a home-schooled satanist ... only to induce people to download the songs on its soundtrack. (FRAUD)Brain Flemming responds thatArguments for a real LG15 fall short.Comment: Might do as a two-minute substitute for Hollyoaks or whatever, but it's notzefrank. (OK, unfair. Not even the BBC can match zefrank.)
Bank Holiday Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Google has launchedGoogle Apps for Your Domain, which doesn't include any new software (not even the bought-in Writely). Basically this is just a renaming job on the page that used to be called Gmail for Your Domain. What makes it different for Google is that it's aimed at small businesses -- a market where Google has almost no presence, and Microsoft is dominant. According toInformation Week:The free, ad-supported package combines Google's E-mail, calendar, and instant messaging with Web site creation software. It will be hosted in Google's data center, branded with customers' domain names, and packaged with management tools for IT pros.The four apps -- Gmail, Google Talk, Calendar and Page Creator -- are the only ones Google can offer because they are the only ones that are integrated. (Google's bought-in products such as Picasa, Google Earth and Blogger -- and the home-grown Orkut -- are still separate.) But clearly Google intends to integrate more. As Information Week says:That's the first step. Later this year, Google plans to add its Writely word processor and Google Spreadsheets to the suite, build online collaboration features that work across its applications, and market the whole package to large companies for a fee. Google will include IT-friendly features such as APIs, directory-server integration, guaranteed performance levels, and telephone tech support.Instead of trying to displace the hundreds of millions of copies of Office installed on business PCs, Google will try to snare users once they start sharing the Word and Excel files they've created. "The right way to view Writely and Google Spreadsheets, especially in the context of a larger business, isn't necessarily as a replacement for Word or Excel," says Matt Glotzbach, head of enterprise products at Google. "They're the collaboration component of that."Google has a press release:Google Launches Hosted Communications ServicesComment: Collaboration is clearly Microsoft's weak point for small business users, following the failure of the online version of Microsoft Office. (Hosted applications on the application service provider or ASP model were part of the Microsoft.net strategy half a decade ago.) Large companies can use SharePoint, but small businesses have never even heard of it.However, Microsoft is currently investing a couple of billion dollars in the suite of Windows Live services (mostly in beta), and it is offering SharePoint online to small businesses as Office Live (in beta). Also, Office System 2007 (in beta) is "Web enabled" while Vista (in beta) has links to the Windows Live services.So Microsoft is pretty much getting lined up to match or beat Google on the specs of its offerings. Whether it can match Google on adoption, ease of use and price is an entirely different matter. If the key component turns out to be email -- and it's Windows Live Mail (Kahuna) versus Gmail -- then I think Google is going to win practically every time.Of course, three of the four products in Google Apps for Your Domain are very weak. GTalk is lacking in features and has hardly any users, Calendar has barely got going and Google Page Creator is a bit of a joke. However, they are all easy to use, and that may be more important to the target audience -- if, indeed, they bother to use these apps at all.Either way, Google Apps for Your Domain puts a marker down, and provides a focusing point for Google's own programmers to build on. (There will be much less excuse for failure to integrate in the future.) This isn't about having an overnight success, but it could be the start of something that turns into a real powerhouse over the next five to 10 years.Update:Microsoft's Don Dodgepoints out that Microsoft offers more useful business applications via Office Live, including CRM, an enquiries tracker, project manager, employee directory etc, plus the opportunity to create password protected Web sites. Meanwhile on Infectious Greed, venture capitalistPaul Kedroskypoints out that Google could have a big impact on the barely emerging Web 2.0 market:Finally, and this is mostly directed at people sending "Enterprise 2.0" business plans my way: If you're thinking of doing something squarely in Google's enterprise-lusting aim you need to ask yourself one question only: Why? What makes you think that you can do it so much better than Google can that the inevitable free Google Apps product doesn't kick your ass out of the office market? I'm not saying it's impossible, and there are plenty of things outside Google's aim -- including apps that are much more social by design than what Google builds -- but the gate is 99% closed for bringing vanilla, mass-market office apps to the web.
"The chumby is a low-cost, wifi-enabled information delivery device that's so appealing you'll want to keep one close," reportsChristine Herron.Chumby's team of hardware hackers wanted this device to be fun and open, the anti-iPod. While iPod has a clean look and expensive molded plastic, it's not very accessible. The Chumby is meant to be personalized. If you're crafty, you can redesign it with a seam ripper; if you're a hacker, it's all open source inside.One you've plugged in your chumby, it connects to your home network via wifi. Select "Trust the chumby" and it will autodiscover. Once you've registered online and picked from a selection of free widgets, the chumby displays a Flash stream of whatever you've configured - weather, news feeds, alarm clock, movies, pictures, stock tickers, etc.See Christine.net for more technical details. Theofficial Chumby siteappears to be down at the moment.
Cartoon by Hugh MacleodSeth Godin's latest book,Small Is The New Big, is based on excerpts from his blog. Hugh Macleod, who is famous for drawing great cartoons on (or for) the back of business cards,emailed him 10 questionsand got some interesting replies.
Wikipedia (in English) has started publishinga list of the hundred most viewed pages, but as it says: "Statistics have been running for one day. This tool is still being tested. Some of the results may be false or misleading!"A the moment, the top dozen pages are:1. Main Page 2. Wikipedia 3. Pluto 4. List of gay porn stars 5. David Bowie 6. List of sex positions 7. Stan Lee 8. Linkin Park 9. Oral sex 10. Hurricane Katrina 11. Sexual intercourse 12. WiiComment: I would have given a Top 10 but the Wii was at 12 ;-)
A Syrian blogger has been arrested by the country's security forces without explanation, raising fears that President Assad's government is seeking to curb freedom of speech on the internet.Ali Sayed al-Shihabi, an English language teacher, has not been seen since he was summoned to a meeting with security agents in Damascus on 10 August. It is believed his detainment may be linked to articles he has written on a political website.Amnesty International warned that Shihabi, who is 50, is at risk of torture, and urged its members to write to the Syrian authorities.Amnesty's joint campaign with The Observer, atIrrepressible.info, calls for an end to governments' censorship of the web and has attracted more than 36,000 signatures.Two days after Shihabi was taken, his wife was told that he was being held at the state security centre at Kafr Soussa, Damascus, but that she could not see him. Shihabi has written political articles on the website Hiwar al-Mutamedn ('Civilised Dialogue'). He also has had two books about social affairs published in Syria and was detained between 1982 and 1991 for his membership of the outlawed Party for Communist Action.Amnesty said Syria has a history of persecuting bloggers. Tim Hancock, its UK campaigns director, said: 'We know Syrian military intelligence has held internet dissidents in secret locations in the past and we know they are then at risk of torture.'
Dance FactoryPS2, &pound;29.99, CodemastersStand by for an earth-shattering revelation. Contrary to popular belief, dance mat games do not make you a better dancer. I learned this to my cost when, after shaking my booty with Dance Factory, I attempted to demonstrate my new mad skillz at the local discotheque.My knees gave out after 20 minutes.What this dance mat game can do for you, however, is add a fresh spin to your CD collection. The biggest problem with most dance games is that they are limited to a set number of tracks licensed from record companies. These tend to be bubblegum pop variety which dates within weeks. Codemasters have worked around this by creating a game which, they claim, can analyse any song or album you insert into your PS2 and create a custom routine that you can stomp along to on your PS dance mat (&pound;9.99,www.logic3.co.uk). The idea may have come to them through desperation rather than design - they'll have saved a few pennies by not licensing any tracks beyond the bare minimum, adopting instead the philosophy of 'bring your own music'.But the appeal of this is huge, the opportunity to dance to handpicked songs of your favourite artists too good to pass up. And therein lies the rub; not every song you choose is a good candidate for a dance mat routine. Hi-NRG numbers such as Madonna's 'Ray of Light' will work absolutely fine, but if you settle upon a plodding folk song by Bob Dylan, don't be surprised if you find yourself nodding off instead of throwing shapes. The key, as any embarrassing dad will tell you, is in selecting a track with a really good beat.Occasionally I had misgivings about the fidelity of the music analysis. There were moments when the instructions on the screen were out of time with the music, but that probably had as much to do with my own erratic rhythm as it did with the game. Irrespective of these doubts, Codemasters have hit upon a great innovation for the dance mat, and it should attract an audience beyond the traditional stereotype of giddy schoolgirls and Lycra-clad athletes. What's more, the game is also compatible with the Eye-Toy camera accessory, so you can also try to score points for grace
as well as speed.Movie game roundupVarious platformsEvery summer, as game releases dry up, the studios pump out movie tie-ins for those of us with an aversion to the sun. Unfortunately, they're nearly all abysmal and this year's batch is no exception.Cars(PS2, XBox, GC, PC, &pound;29.99, THQ) should be ripe for game adaptation; anthropomorphised vehicles, the protagonist a famous racing car, it sounds more like the plot of a game than a film anyway. Taking place after the events of the movie, it features the cast's vocal talents, including Paul Newman, and nicely rendered graphics that compare well to the source material.However, the gameplay alternates between all too easy racing and some dull minigames. Tractor tipping sounds like it should be fun but there's only so many times you can drive to the side of a mooing tractor and press a button before you lose the will to live. It plays like any of a hundred other racers out there, but the popularity of the film on which it is based has been enough to propel it to the top of the charts.Disney has brought out two iterations of Pirates of the Caribbean to coincide with the cinema release, the direct tie-inDead Man's Chest(PSP, DS, GBA, &pound;29.99, Buena Vista) for the handhelds andThe Legend of Jack Sparrow(PS2, PC, &pound;29.99, Ubisoft) for the consoles. Dead Man's Chest is a standard hack and slash adventure with a few puzzles thrown in and some multiplayer seafaring action. It looks pretty and sticks closely to the film's plot but it's standard, disposable fare that will be quickly forgotten.The Legend of Jack Sparrow has similar gameplay, but focuses on the past exploits of Johnny Depp's character. It does boast at least one original aspect, employing the bored-sounding Depp as an unreliable narrator. Those familiar with the first Pirates feature may get a kick out of Sparrow's version of events. Sadly, it's only used in the narrative and not the gameplay. It feels like a lost opportunity in a game that could certainly have used something to distinguish it.Ant Bully(PS2, PC, &pound;29.99, Midway) is the worst of a bad bunch. Another game based on a CG animation film, consisting solely of gathering generic items and killing the same enemies over and over. You'd think there'd be something imaginative to do with a Borrowers-style oversized environment, but when making a movie tie-in originality is the last thing on a developer's mind. Some excuse these simple, uninspiring efforts as kids' games, but while the young may be able to enjoy them for a short time, they'll quickly become bored. It's not because attention spans have shortened: the games are just less interesting.Toby Moses
One of the downsides of having one's email address published in newspapers (or anywhere else) is the resulting deluge of junk email. The only known defence is a fierce spam filter. Unfortunately, mine is so ferocious that it may exclude perfectly reasonable messages from friends and colleagues with headers like 'Fancy a drink?' or 'Wow - have you seen this?'.Maintaining good relations requires that I scan through the messages blocked by the filter to see if it has been unduly snooty, invariably a sobering experience. For one thing, there's the sheer volume - thousands of messages a week. Recently though, I - and some of my correspondents - have noticed an interesting change. In between the invitations to buy pharmaceutical products designed to improve one's physique or horizontal performance is an increasing number of messages recommending investments in penny shares. These point to various obscure companies allegedly absurdly undervalued and about to increase dramatically in value. The punchline invariably is: get in on the ground floor.These are known as 'pump and dump' scams. The spammer sends out an email touting a penny stock with low trading volume in the hope of convincing a handful of people to buy shares. If the ruse succeeds, the buying activity boosts the price just long enough for the spammer or his client to unload his own shares at a profit. The stock subsequently plunges and the suckers are left nursing a loss.As with more conventional 'pharmaceutical' spam, one's first reaction is incredulity that anyone could fall for such an obvious ploy. But clearly there are enough half-wits around for it to be worth doing. Three years ago, Wired News ran a fascinating story about a security lapse on a site (Amazing Internet Products) which left its customer logs exposed for a brief period. The logs revealed that, over four weeks, some 6,000 people responded to email ads and placed orders for the company's Pinacle herbal supplement. Most ordered two bottles of the pills at $50 a bottle. 'Since 4 July,' continued the Wired report, 'Amazing Internet Products would have grossed more than half a million dollars from Goringly.biz, one of several sites operated by the company to hawk its penis pills.'So who were the schmucks buying this stuff? It seems that among those who responded to Amazing's spam - under the subject line, 'Make your penis HUGE' - was the manager of a $6bn mutual fund, who ordered two bottles of Pinacle to be shipped to his Park Avenue office in New York. A restaurateur in Boulder, Colorado requested four bottles. The president of a California firm that sells aeroplane parts and is active in the local Rotary Club gave out his American Express card number to pay for six bottles. And so on.So pharmaceutical spamming is profitable. What then of the 'pump and dump' variety? A new study by Jonathan Zittrain of the Oxford Internet Institute and Laura Frieder of Purdue University in Indiana provides persuasive evidence that it, too, is profitable - though probably less so than penis-enlargement spams. They analysed more than 75,000 stock-touting emails between January 2004 and July 2005. The date and estimated size of each campaign was compared with the price and trading volume of the company shares being promoted over several days, including the day immediately preceding the campaign. They found that if a spammer or his client bought a stock a day before beginning heavy touting, then sold the morning after the first day of spamming, the average return was 4.9 per cent. More effective spammers saw a 6 per cent return.According to Zittrain and Frieder, if a victim were to invest $1,000 in a stock on the day of heaviest touting, it would be worth, on average, $947.50 in the two days following the campaign. For the most heavily spammed stocks, the same investment would fall to $930. The study also confirmed that the volume of touted stocks responded 'positively and significantly' to spamming campaigns, which meant that trading activity in those stocks intensified.'Our analysis shows,' the researchers gloomily concluded, 'that spam works.' There really is one born every minute.
AsEngadgetpoints out, America's FCC Web site has revealed a Toshiba 1089 portable media player that looks like, and has the same specs as, Microsoft's Zune.According toGadgetnfo:Crunchgearhas a scoop from a source that confirms the first generation Zune is an OEMed Toshiba Gigabeat, combined with some added on features and functionality made just for Microsoft. Microsoft had to contract Toshiba to build this first unit so they could rush the player out in time for Christmas 2006, probably before the next generation iPods are due.After this first model, Microsoft is going to handle all production in-house, making add-on players to the Zune line in the iPod Nano/iPod Shuffle fashion. Also, coming somewhere down the line is a high-end Zune that supports gaming, video and music. - Jason ChenComment: This has to be good news, for two reasons. First, Toshiba's Gigabeat is one of the best ranges of MP3 players and theGigabeat Sis outstanding. Even if Microsoft didn't have a clue about the market, a Gigabeat design plus Microsoft marketing money would at least have some chance.Second, the idea that Microsoft is trampling on its PlaysForSure partners may not be a problem -- if these partners have the chance to be design and manufacturing partners. In other words, the Zune brand could provide a unified front that would enable individual suppliers to sell more than they would if they stood alone. But even if not, one really successful wmv-based product would increase the chances of all wmv-based products.
"Marissa Mayer, Google's VP of Search Products, User Experience, and Puff Pieces," asValleywagstyles her, wasinterviewed in the Guardianlast week.Valleywag has a "summarised" version, such as:Marissa says she can't think of any mistakes Google has made. She thus joins Bill Gates and George W. Bush among the ranks of people with no memorable slip-ups.Marissa stars at theMediaGuardian Edinburgh International Television Festival today(Saturday) where the blurb says: "She'll lift the lid on Google plans to position itself in the new world of internet TV."Comment: It would be much more interesting if Marissa lifted the lid onGoogle's plans to take over the advertising business for ordinary (non-internet) TV, as well as radio and magazine advertiing ... at least in those cases where it can't simply carry the ads on Google instead.As Google chief executive Eric Schmidt said: "But ultimately our goal at Google is to have the strongest advertising network and all the world's information, that's part of our mission."Not much to ask, is it?
Microsoft will tweak the interface in the new Office System 2007 so that "users can set the ribbon to automatically minimise whenever it is not being used, effectively making the ribbon headings look like traditional menus," according to a story headedMicrosoft winds back Office ribbonat ZD-Net Australia.Microsoft Australia technical specialist John Hodgson said the change came about after complaints from some customers. "One of the feedbacks we got is that it takes up too much room," he said during a presentation at Tech.Ed 06 in Sydney.Comment: Some customers are not very bright, of course, since the ribbon may well take up less space than the old menus. Microsoft UI designer Jensen Harris haspointed out on his blogthat the new UI takes up 5 pixels less vertical space in Word 2007 than in Word 2003, as well as 230 fewer horizontal spaces (ie without the Task Pane).And, you don't have to spend extra UI space to put up the Picture toolbar, the Table toolbar, the Mail Merge toolbar, the Reviewing toolbar, the Word Count toolbar, the Drawing toolbar, etc., etc. All of this is built into the 135 vertical pixels already allotted to the UI.Certainly there's an education job to be done. I've noticed that a lot of people have not managed to discover that by double-clicking any tab* you can minimise the ribbon so the UI takes up almost as little space as it does in Notepad. If the tweak makes this obvious then it will help.* there are other ways to do it, too, like right-clicking and selecting MinimizeAnd if it's just a case of allowing auto-hide, then Nathan Weinberg's headline (Microsoft Caves On Ribbon Complaints) at Inside Microsoft is, frankly, silly.Microsoft is not going back to a menu system at this stage because (a) the Ribbon works a lot better and (b) it's far too late in the beta process to make such a radical change. The old menus have gone.
Catch up with a whole week's posts in a single page by clickinghere. Highlights include:Microsoft offers to help Firefox run on VistaBlogging for DollarsApple pays $100m to settle Creative lawsuit over iPod menusFirst Dell, now Apple has to recall millions of notebook batteriesDipping into the River of News
There are lots of people onMyspace. Famous faces (myspace.com/Madonna), the deceased (mydeathspace.com), freaks (myspace.com/valeron) and people with repellent hair (demonbabysecond-annual-myspace-stupid-haircut).But if you're one of the many people who fall into none of these categories, here are some fancy places you can go to, to make your page look less 1997:myspacehacks.blogspot.comcontains links to lots of interesting stuff, likefotodunk.com, which lets you transfer pics from your phone;r4wr.com/friendslets you monkey around with friends' settings (so you can look more popular);skem9.comhosts strange designs andmyspacenow.comhas free images, backgrounds and icons. Don't overdo it, though -myspace.com/cowboy007bpossibly has one too many pictures of Jesus.
It was an invitation in the style of the most pernickety celebrity. Not only were the select few who were emailed about the birthday party at the Ritz Hotel told what to wear and what to say, they were also given a 15-minute slot in which they must arrive.Bridling at the fact that the instructions were not for an Elton John charity ball or dinner at Beckingham Palace, but an invitation to the 21st birthday of a financial services trainee, one of the 39 guests forwarded Lucy Gao's message.Her helpful advice "that the more upper-class you dress, the less likely you shall be denied entry", and her insistence that all queries should be directed to her personal assistant "between 8.30pm to 10pm", has now become the latest excruciating personal email to be dispatched around the world. Ms Gao, an engineering graduate of Oxford University who works at Citigroup in Canary Wharf, east London, wrote that colleagues should announce to hotel staff "I am here for Lucy's birthday party at the Rivoli Bar" on arriving at the Ritz in central London.Marvelling at Ms Gao's delusions of grandeur, one unkind colleague praised her email as the "best yet", while another wrote in the forwarded email: "As previously discussed ... maybe we need to revisit the intern selection criteria. I think the emphasis on control may be too high!"A spokeswoman for the company, one of the world's biggest financial services firms, refused to comment. But a colleague was amazed at the attention the invitation has drawn. "It's very unfortunate. I can't believe people keep calling."Ms Gao is only the latest in a procession of employees whose cringeworthy personal emails have been sent around the world. Last year legal executive Richard Phillips resigned after insisting his secretary pay a &pound;4 dry-cleaning bill for a ketchup stain on his trousers. Perhaps most famously, when the boyfriend of Claire Swire forwarded her email praising his sexual prowess to his mates, it soon ended up across the world. The chastened boyfriend and his lawyer mates were disciplined; Ms Swire went into hiding.
Manufacturers were last night trying to quell public fears over millions of potentially unsafe laptop batteries which have sparked two of the biggest consumer electronics recalls in history.Last week Dell, the world's biggest computer manufacturer, recalled 4.1m laptop batteries after reports that some machines had short-circuited and burst into flames.Apple followed this week by recalling a further 1.8m batteries, resulting in concerns over the wider safety of laptops.At the centre of the storm are lithiumion batteries manufactured by Sony, the Japanese electronics giant, at a plant about 150 miles north of Tokyo. Although the defect was initially identified in Dell's computers, the Fukushima factory supplies batteries to dozens of electronics manufacturers, and they are used in millions of devices worldwide.But despite initial worries that other computer manufacturers, including Hewlett Packard and Lenovo, and Sony itself, could be affected, the American safety watchdog which issued both recall notices has said it does not expect any further developments.The Consumer Products Safety Commission (CPSC) said it did not believe the problems would arise elsewhere.Sony confirmed it would be shouldering much of the cost of the recalls, which it estimated would be between &pound;91m and &pound;136m.
MondayLove-hate relationship with WoWPink PS2Sony have busy day/a&gt;Mobile games to outsell console games by 2010 says mobile game publisher"TuesdayHow to break free of elitismWill Wright personal appearance in London next TuesdayBrains win over braun at EdinburghMobile gaming meets TVWednesdayIt's not just the games industryNintendo go pink againOne day in LeipzigNext-gen footy exclusive to 360PS3 launching in numbers... with lots of gamesThursdayReservoir Dogs viral campaignPeer inside Valve's PortalFridayGuardian parodies gamers but shots are off targetPolitics and games: a historyThe most joystick-unfriendly games in historyLeipzig show
"UK retail has confirmed to GamesIndustry.biz that Microsoft has officially dropped the RRP of the Xbox 360 Core pack to £199, effective from today," reportsGamesIndustry.biz.Comment: It's not much of a drop -- £10 -- and as with Sony's recent price cut on the PS2, more a recognition of the status quo: some retailers were already selling the Core pack for £199.99. However, it does publicly bring the first of the next-gen games consoles under the pychologically important £200 mark.
It was flight of the living dead on the 6am Leipzig to London shuttle this morning, with the remnants of the UK games press arriving back from the Games Convention. But was the trip worth the lack of sleep? I'd say the positives outweighed the negatives - I got a very interesting interview with the boss of Blizzard - but read on for my impressions from a hectic day on the showfloor.The cancellation of E3 has thrust Leipzig show into the limelight but lacklustre press conferences - the best was Microsoft announcing, er, some peripherals - and a host of no-shows - PS3, Gears of War - suggested Leipzig wasn't quite ready to take on the mantle of the LA behemoth. Having said that the event was far more impressive than anything ever seen in the UK and the big games that were on show - Pro Evo 6, Lego Star Wars 2, Burning Crusade - didn't disappoint.Out of the three hardware manufacturers Microsoft came out on top, with the 360's next batch of releases looking reliably solid. There was no Gears of War of Piñata, as far as I could see, but the likes of Splinter Cell: Double Agent showed up well. Ninety-Nine Nights and Timeshift were the only real disappointments on the stand.Elsewhere next-gen software was hard to find. There was no Wii on the showfloor, which seemed like a wasted opportunity with such a willing audience in attendance. But Nintendo had the largest variety of people - from young to mum - on their stand which at least confirms their universal appeal. DS Lite was everywhere, with Starfox DS and Zelda proving that no-one regurgitates their franchises with the consistent quality that Nintendo does.The PS3 was absent too - the Tokyo Game Show at the end of September is the next showing - so PSP took centre stage for Sony. But the lack of a console due to launch in just over 3 months was a further sign of the PS3's troubled gestation period. The stand's most popular title appeared to be Singstar German rock/pop - surely a cult classic in the making. Or perhaps not.Away from the format holders, it was the games that took centre stage. PES6 on the 360 was resplendent in shiny hi-def widescreen glory. But, to be honest, it wasn't a huge leap forward graphically. Anyone who, like me, is used to playing Pro Evo 5 on a hi-def screen will feel slightly underwhelmed by the graphics. But how it plays is what counts and an initial go suggested a looser game than PES 5. Unfortunately the hordes of fans meant it was impossible to play more than one game without getting turfed off. PES6 is a hugely exciting release, mainly because of the online and gamerpoints - details of which we still wait for.Lego Star Wars 2 was as enjoyable as expected. What did surprise was the graphical difference between the PS2 and 360 versions, which were running side by side. The latter was full of tactile detail - feel those grooves in Chewie's coat - that added far more to the game than you may expect. Expect Lego Star Wars 2 to do the business when released next month.PC gaming may be unglamorous and unsexy but the format played host to three of the top games on show - Crysis, Spore and Burning Crusade.Visually Crysis is probably the best looking game around - foliage never looked this good. Focussing on the PC only as obviously helped, with none of the compromises normally made to accommodate console development. And much like Far Cry - Crytek's lush island-based breakthrough hit - Crysis' tropical paradise engenders a warm feeling of virtual tourism. A sunbathing mod is required.Spore, EA's other PC biggie, was playable on the showfloor and was always busy. Of course, a noisy and crowded booth is no place to experience Will Wright's opus so I'm reserving judgement until I get some hands-on.Burning Crusade had the biggest queues throughout the show, with a grindingly long wait needed to get a go on the WoW expansion pack. I didn't get to play but with flying mounts, new races and a stack of other stuff looking set to only increase my addiction, it was probably for the best.Other notable titles on display included F.E.A.R. on the 360, the mightily impressive Medieval II: Total War and the popular Guild Wars: Nightfall.So Leipzig then? Well, it was no E3 - there was more bum fluff than big announcements - but there was enough here to justify the trip. More thoughts and interviews next week.
Okay, we haven't done one of these for a while so here goes...Most videogames are designed with the limitations of the hardware in mind. Most... but not all. Sometimes, game designers - for whatever reason - just don't consider the delicacy of the average joypad. In fact, a few titles seem to have been designed with controller destruction as a key priority.So what games have you found to be the most openly hostile to your control pads? Maybe your joystick broke apart in your hands as you played, maybe frustration forced you to smash it continually against an antique fireplace? However it got broken, what was the game that brought about its demise?Here are five to get you started...Track &amp; Field (Konami, coin-op, 1983)The original 'joystick waggler' had players slamming the stick left and right as quickly as possible to compete effectively in events such as 100m sprint and long jump. That was fine with sturdy arcade hardware, but when the game prompted dozens of home computer variants such as Daley Thompson's Decathlon and Summer Games, our plasticy peripherals couldn't cope. I once wrenched my Quickshot II joystick clean in two while playing Hyper Sports.Street Fighter II (Capcom, SNES, 1991)All those quarter rotations on the d-pad combined with furious stabs at the fire buttons quickly wore down the brittle Super Nintendo joypads. Built like after dinner biscuits, these cute slabs of plastic could not cope with our grim determination to pull off at least five dragon punches a second.Mario Party (Nintendo, N64, 1998)The original party game collection featured several mini-challenges which required you to bash buttons as quickly as possible. Even worse, these were interspersed with tasks that involved moving the analogue controller around in circles. It was a vicious double whammy that tested this innovative but essentially fragile stick to the maximum.Soul Calibur (Namco, Dreamcast, 1999)The ground-breaking, utterly gorgeous Namco beat-'em-up put the most devastating yet easily accessible special moves on the Dreamcast pad's trigger buttons. These delicate protrusions had all the lastability of butterfly wings and were often rendered insensible by just a couple of bouts of Voldo-bashing. When I was working on a Dreamcast mag we managed to destroy every pad in our games room playing this.Pro Evolution Soccer (Konami, PS2, 2000-)Not exactly physically demanding like the other games - instead, PES is utterly and uncompromisingly voracious, using every button on the pad in innumerable different ways. For days, new players can be heard shrieking 'What button is shoot?! What button is.... argh! Too late!'. Like chess, new combinations are being discovered everyday. I will not be surprised if a Nobel prize is awarded to the first genius who figures out the exact button combo needed to stop your player running toward a ball that's already going out of play and then giving it a little kick so as to concede a corner...
Dell has recently recalled millions of notebook batteries with Sony cells, andApple has just followed. Its Web site says: "certain lithium-ion batteries containing cells manufactured by Sony Corporation of Japan pose a safety risk that may result in overheating under rare circumstances."This is not a new problem: Apple, HP/Compaq, Dell and other companies have all recalled batteries before. Also, it is not exclusive to notebook computers: other products also use lithium-ion batteries. However, the risk is very small. Hundreds of millions of li-ion batteries are shipped every year, so I'd guess the number that cause problems is less than one in a million.You can minimise the risk of overheating and improve battery life by removing the battery when you use your notebook on mains power.As iPod owners know, li-ion batteries already suffer from short lifespans, typically of two to three years. TheBattery Universitynote adds:The worst condition is keeping a fully charged battery at elevated temperatures, which is the case with running laptop batteries. If used on main power, the battery inside a laptop will only last for 12-18 months.Nobody has asked this question yet, but I expect they will, so please comment if you can add useful information.
Dave Winer has implemented a"river of news"RSS feed forBBC stories, to go with theNew York Times river.This isn't a new idea, but it works particularly well with mobile devices, asEwan MacLeodexplains.Winerwrote about the idea recentlyin the context of reading news stories on his BlackBerry:I've not been so excited or so sure about a new direction for mobile technology since podcasting in June 2004. I'm sure we'll look back on this as a turning point for mobile news.Where does it make sense? Certainly for urban bus and rail commuters where there's good cell coverage. And for people who travel by air, many of whom have devices that are capable of reading news, but they may not know it yet.The key featue is that the set-up time is zero.Winer commentson the "predictable backlash from people who say that reading news on a Blackberry is nothing new, they've been doing it for years. I'm sure they have, and people were listening to MP3s on Macs and PCs before podcasting, but that doesn't mean podcasting wasn't a turning point for audio on the Internet."Comment: Not everyone wants to dip into whole rivers of news, of course, so there's room for selective feeds, and it would be useful to have a guide to all the rivers available. Someone should buynewsriver.comand do one. Otherwise, Winer has a site atnewsriver.orgNews Dribbleshas just started doing feeds for Premiership footie clubs, using the club's initials plus FC. Examples includemufc.newsrivers.com(Manchester United FC) andWAfcriver.com(Wigan Athletic FC). The content comes from the BBC.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
TheMichael Arringtonempire grew a bit more this week with the launch ofTechCrunch UK, which will cover UK-based internet startups, particularly in the Web 2.0 and mobile areas.The UK blog is being run bySam SethiofVecosys.Arrington says: " first met Sam back in May at a TechCrunch event we held in London. We immediately hit it off and have been conspiring to launch this blog ever since."
The political handling of computer games in the US is a constant connundrum. Chaotic, shambolic and often downright despotic, it takes a PhD in lunacy to figure out what's going on over there, and how it may have an impact on the situation over here. Thankfully,Joystiqhas introduced a weekly column from the creator of gamepolitics.com, and he's kicked off his coverage on the general purpose gaming blog with an excellent brief history of video game legislation in the US. See if you can follow the thread and make the connections. History certainly does repeat itself:If legislators have learned anything from these courtroom losses, they're not showing it. Three more states - Oklahoma, Minnesota and Louisiana - passed video game laws this year. The sponsor of Oklahoma's bill, Republican Fred Morgan, told a local newspaper in 2005 that he wanted to pattern his bill on the Illinois law - three days after the Illinois law was ruled unconstitutional. Minnesota passed the most bizarre law so far, a measure that would have fined underage buyers $25 for trying to purchase M-rated games. The bill's author, Democrat Sandra Pappas, rather famously told GameSpot, "Legislators don't worry too much about what's constitutional."I fear them.
Don't know if you noticedthislittle piece in the G2 section of yesterday's Guardian. Entitled, The new junkies, it's a side-swipe at modern day tech freaks, hammering away on Blackberries and blocking out the world with 24hour iPod soundtracks. Of course, gamers were among the writer's six catagories of gadget geeks..."Inevitably more a male demographic than the female-skewed MySpace junkies, gamers can be divided into two subsets: the portable pains and the stay-at-home wasters. Wasters while away nights and days welded to their sofas and playing the likes of Doom, Championship Manager and Pretend You're An Elf."This piece is interesting because its references are so ridiculously out of date. Like the right-wing zealots who like to aim a potshot at games whenever there's nothing more interesting to blame the collapse of civilisation on, mainstream journalists tend to recourse to titles ten years out of date when they're having a dig.This could of course be all about writing for a general public that is hopelessly behind with technology. No matter how much we carp on about the way videogame culture has finally crossed over into the mainstream, my mum and everyone she knows would find it easier to name the cast members of Eastenders, or every grunting idiot from Love Island, than they would one character from Grand Theft Auto. In this context, videogame satirists have to aim low - and aim backwards in time. Which is difficult.Speaking of GTA, at least this more modern cultural benchmark has filtered deep enough into the mainstream consciousness to be considered suitable material for parody. I wrote about the Coke advert earlier this week - a witty reversal of the game's misanthropic world view. But as a colleague recently pointed out to me, Spike Lee makes an accurate dig at the mostly loathsome gangsta adventure genre in his movie, Inside Man. In one scene a child is playing some kind of gangland romp on his PSP - the display shows a mass shootout between black gang members culminating in the lead character shoving a hand grenade into an enemy's mouth. As the victim's head explodes, the words "Kill dat nigga!" flash on the screen. This is wickedly accurate and timely stuff - as anyone who's downloaded the lamentable Saint's Row demo will attest.There is much to address in contemporary gaming culture, much to be prized out by enquiring comic minds. Continually falling back on Doom is parochialism for its own sake. We gamers are much sicker now.
Wesaid things weren't going well for Apple, and they just got worse. Following Dell's recall of 4.1 million notebook batteries, Apple says it will swap 1.8 million (1.1m in the US, 700,000 outside it) batteries - also made by Sony - which are prone to catch fire.As Cnet notes,bloggers saw it coming: there werealready reports of Apple laptops catching firein a just-like-Cell manner.You can find out if your machine is covered athttp://support.apple.com/batteryprogram/(it may take a while to come up, and then shows a secure page). Look at it this way: if your battery is of any age at all, then you're getting one which (a) won't burn down your house (b) will have a longer life than the one being replaced for free.Sounds good for everyone except Apple. Oh, and Sony. From Bloomberg News: "Battery replacements for Dell and Apple notebooks will cost Sony 20 billion yen to 30 billion yen ($170 million to $257 million) [about £85m-£130m], the Tokyo-based company said in a statement. Apple doesn't expect the recall to have a "material financial effect," company spokesman Steve Dowling said in an interview."And another interesting point: Dell initiated the recall after six incidents of spontaneous combustion. Apple said it heard of nine cases.Writing on Dave Farber's list, Tim Onosko says: "A little historical note. In the 1990s. when Apple had a similar notebook problem -- Powerbooks caught fire and damaged the company's reputation at the time -- the problematic Powerbook acquired a funny nickname inside the company: "The Hindenbook." Inside of Apple, I was told at the time (thought it may be only part of the Apple urban legend), the code name for the follow-on laptop model was "The Apology.""If you want to know which ones, here are the details (as the page is a bit busy just now):Computer modelBattery model numberSerial number range12-inch iBook G4A1061ZZ338 - ZZ4273K429 - 3K6116C519 - 6C55212-inch PowerBook G4A1079ZZ411 - ZZ4273K428 - 3K61115-inch PowerBook G4A1078 and A11483K425 - 3K6016N530 - 6N5516N601Apple will send the replacement battery first; you then send the bust one.Now, about those stock options...
Panasonic's D-Snap and D-Dock form an integrated system from a portable MP3 player and a base station that comes complete with stereo speakers. The point about the D-Snap players is that you can plug in whatever size SD card you like -- up to 4GB -- or carry several cards around. However, you only get a 128MB card as standard. The point about the D-Dock is that you can store your music files on the 80GB or 160GB hard drive and transfer them to the player, without ever needing to go near a PC. Also, the dock includes details of 350,000 CDs so you don't have to download them from the net.The D-Snap's use of SD cards is interesting because you can use the same cards in mobile phones and other devices such as PDAs. That should make it easy to share, say, an affordable 512MB or 1GB of music with a friend.The D-Dock gives the D-Snap a 10-minute charge that provides three hours of playing time, while a fully charged system plays for "up to 30 hours".Panasonic says:The four new SD audio products will be available on September 8 in Japan. Panasonic plans to produce 20,000 units of the SV-SD800N, 30,000 units of the SV-SD400V, 5,000 units of the SC-SX850 and 10,000 units of the SC-SX450 each month.Digital World Tokyohas a short report with pictures.Akihabaranewshas a video showing the systems at the Japanese launch. The site says: "here's the HD video... starring Ayumi Hamazaki... (A Girl which launch a New CD album like like a Dog bark after the mailman, a LOT!) Enjoy!"Comment:Ayumi Hamazakiis "the queen of J-Pop"&gt; She's had 27 consecutive No 1 singles and seven consecutive No 1 studio albums. However, she doesn't actually do anything in the AHN news video. (Anyway, I'd have preferedSonim. Her Asunaro Ginga is the best weepie since the Shagri-Las.)
