There's an explosion of interest in the use of "contactless" smart cards, which have a computer chip, but use radio waves to communicate with devices (such as tills or London Underground gates).MasterCard and American Express have announced their first roll out of radio frequency identification (RFID) contactless payment cards ("payment tags"). Local schemes are already running. In Canada, the Dexit contactless tag went live last year for merchants in downtown Toronto. In many cities around the world, the tags used for mass transit are expanding their remit to other retail outlets.This wave of innovation seems different from other recent attempts to bring new technology to retail payments, such as the   electronic purse, chip-and-Pin and mobile payments. Merchants and consumers are pulling the new technology into the marketplace, as opposed to banks pushing new technology.Consumers find the tags easy to use. Says one who has been trying American Express's ExpressPay (a tiny Amex card that goes on your key ring) in Phoenix: "I wave it rather than get my card out. It's more convenient." Merchants like this speed: no fumbling for change or waiting while consumers find the right card. MasterCard's trials of its PayPass scheme show significant savings. In some locations, PayPass reduced purchase times so substantially that it enabled the merchant to handle a great deal more transactions. The biggest savings were in drive throughs, where contactless payments cut   from 12-18 seconds off the purchase time compared with cash.Some merchants would be happy if cash were completely replaced by them. Even industry observers historically bullish about using tags have been surprised by the speed of deployment. One reason might be that while the rational reasons for choosing tags for payments (speed, lifetime cost of ownership) are good, the irrational reason is better. They're interesting, because they end the tyranny of form factor. The chips and antennae don't have to be mounted on plastic cards: anything can become a payment device.This factor is so strong that the traditional card has probably reached its zenith. Banks will this year begin the mass issuing of tags and many will use the transition to differentiate their products. This   will increase the pressure on technologists to develop watches, hats, badges and so on. Of the various form factors, two stand out: the key fob and the phone cover. Whether at a petrol pump or in a fast-food restaurant, waving the keys or phone in your hand instead of getting out your wallet makes this a good proposition.With phones, NTT DoCoMo and Sony have formed a joint venture (FeliCa Networks) to develop a version of the Sony tag for embedding into mobiles and to operate the platform for m-commerce. For many consumers, this will be the ultimate in convenience because the phone provides the communications link for managing payment as well as the physical payment device. Thus, the cards in your pocket may soon not just go contactless, but go away altogether.
DoH!The Department of Health failed to move to its new domain name,www.dh.gov.ukwhen planned on Monday. But when it does, it will cause the failure of thousands of external links, as there will be only a limited number of redirections from the old addresses startingwww.doh.gov.uk, according to email newsletter E-Government Bulletin. Anyone using a dead link will be redirected to a search engine. The department says the new site will use a thematic structure and have better navigation and search facilities. It employs the office of the e-envoy's new "DotP" content management system, which aims to make government websites fully accessible to the visually impaired.www.headstar.com/egbInaccessible.gov.ukThe Local E-Government website, which provides support for local authorities in developing online, is leading by example, according to research suggesting it is the best of 61 central government websites. Site performance analyst Business2www looked at areas including accessibility, lack of coding errors and use of meta-data, and found that many .gov.uk sites are of poor quality. Only seven complied with the web accessibility initiative guidelines, with 14 failing on virtually all pages and three on every single page. The worst site overall was UK Sport's, which notched up the highest number of warnings for poor HTML code and the slowest download speed.www.localegov.gov.ukwww.w3.org/WAIwww.uksport.gov.ukSmall wondersThe Department of Trade and Industry is investing &#163;50m in nanotechnology research next month. The ultra-miniature technology will become a major growth area and could revolutionise computing. Disk drives already use nano-sized particles to offer higher density storage and Intel's forthcoming Prescott Pentium 4 processors incorporate nanotransistors. Next year will see televisions using nanotube displays that promise the same high quality as plasma screens at a much lower cost. In addition, the Mazur Group at Harvard   University announced a nanofibre that could be used to carry data as laser light in and around a new generation of computer chips, speeding up data transfer which is the current bottleneck.www.dti.gov.uk/nanotechnologye-Gov intelligenceLocal authorities are being urged to offer real intelligence gathering to future users of their websites. At IDC's eGovernment Conference in London, Jim Irving, Information Builders' managing director, told delegates that just allowing a web presence to be a conduit of two-way communication would not be enough. He believes that businesses and certain sectors of the public will soon be demanding real-time information sharing, collaboration and analysis. For example, using analytical tools would allow recent crime figures to be examined down to street or even postcode level, he said - which would be useful when moving house.www.idc.com/getdoc.jhtml?containerId=IDC_P7347&amp;selEventType=LOCALCONFGrowth ariaOpera Software, a web browser developer, is planning to launch on the Oslo Stock Exchange next month. The survival and growth of Opera seems to belie the claim that Microsoft has stifled the market, but the success is down to support for platforms other than Windows. Opera only has a small sliver of the Windows market but is a major player in the Linux, Macintosh and Solaris Unix markets. The company is also making ground on mobile phones and handhelds, with Nokia supplying the company's widely praised mobile browser as the default software on the 6600 phone.www.opera.comBallooning conceptAleph One is jumping aboard the growing Balloonboard project, aimed at developing a basic computer component as a building block for other projects. The circuitry and components are part of a free specification and the project's supporters plan to emulate the open source software. Boards based on the basic spec are being sold by Aleph One to save developers having to assemble complete prototypes. By attaching their own boards to the Balloonboard's pins, developers can quickly add the power of a computer to their projects. Anyone can help develop the Balloonboard spec and anyone can use it, or part of it, to create control systems, portable devices and computers, or instrumentation.www.balloonboard.org
Sometimes revolutions happen quietly. Ideas percolate for a few years, turning into concepts and then into full-blown ways of working. One such revolution is the idea of the service-oriented architecture, which takes the open nature of the web and turns it into a way of developing business applications.Instead of thinking of individual applications, service-oriented architectures look at software as a tool that supports a whole business process. Each service is a component that can be used many times across a business's functions.Working with business services rather than applications will help business work more effectively. All the components of a traditional IT infrastructure remain, but they become available to the entire business. Databases become common resources, while IT infrastructures become closely linked to the business process they assist. This makes it easier for IT managers to see which components are critical to business operations, and explore the effects of IT investment on the business as a whole.Thinking of your applications as a collection of services tied to a busi ness process isn't new. Netscape's Process Manager tried to help build workflow-driven web applications, and specialised supply chain technologies linked businesses. At a lower level, Corba and Com promised to be general purpose component frameworks. The first Enterprise Application Integration toolsets, such as Forte's Fusion, used XML to link applications, through their own APIs. However, none of these approaches changed the world. They were all either complex or proprietary technologies, which needed significant amounts of integration work just to hook a single legacy application into the new framework.The modern approach to service-oriented architectures takes its cue from the internet's web of open standards. XML becomes a lingua franca that links new tools to legacy applications, and ties businesses to businesses around the world. Business processes are described by XML documents - either using high-level business-to-business languages such as RosettaNet, or low-level process orchestration languages such as Microsoft and IBM's BPel (being developed in the Oasis standards body).Information is handled as XML messages, defined by XML Schema,   while application interfaces can be XML web services. XML and web services technologies are built into common frameworks such as .Net and Java, and are starting to be supported by many applications.You might think service-oriented architectures are tomorrow's technology. Oracle's enterprise grid is just starting to ship, and Microsoft's Indigo frameworks are still a year or so away. But both organisations have tools you can use to build service architectures, with new versions arriving.There are two ways to approach   building a service-oriented architecture. You can define the data model your business will be using, and then use this as a hub for the information flowing through your processes. Alternatively, you can define your business processes, and use them to control how information flows link your service components.Microsoft's BizTalk 2004 is at heart an enterprise application integration tool. It gives you tools to link applications, using XML messages. Analysts can draw up a business process in Visio, pass the document to a developer, who can use BizTalk's develop ment tools to link various application components into a workflow.The resulting orchestration manages the flow of messages, handling decision points and processing information, while applying appropriate business rules. Other tools allow developers to translate XML Schema, graphically building these translations that help convert one XML business language to another.BizTalk's ongoing collaboration with business analysts and developers is important. Process orchestration implementations need to be flexible and able to handle changing business needs. Business analysts can define rules that can be updated, without requiring new code to be written. Microsoft will ship adapters that allow BizTalk to connect to existing message queue technologies, as well as SAP systems. An add-on will allow it to work with more advanced web service technologies, to help link businesses.If applications are services, then so is data. Oracle has been shipping its E-business Suite for some time, but it has required a considerable commitment from businesses. If you have a lot of legacy applications, or a rival framework, it's difficult to integrate Oracle's tools with your business processes. At the recent Oracle AppsWorld conference, Oracle launched a new strategy concentrating on integration technologies.A key component is the Customer Data Hub. This is designed to be a single customer repository, where all the information about your customers can be stored. This shouldn't be confused with a data warehouse consolidating information from multiple company databases, as this is also your transactional database. Instead of operating inside Oracle's applications, the Customer Data Hub will link to third-party applications and legacy systems, using integration technologies and web service interfaces built into the latest release of Oracle's Application Server.Service-oriented architectures give businesses the tools they need to run more effectively, and better plan IT investments.
The local public library seems an unlikely place to start a software revolution, but that's where one man has begun his campaign to encourage the use of open-source software.Bob Kerr, a member of the Edinburgh Linux Users Group, has convinced more than 80% of Scotland's public libraries to stock OpenOffice - the free, open-source alternative to Microsoft Office.Kerr has put together a CD package containing versions of the software for Windows, Linux and Mac OS X. Once accepted by libraries, borrowers can take it home, copy it and use the programs free. In return, they get word processing, spreadsheet, graphics and presentation software that is broadly compatible with Microsoft's Word, Excel and PowerPoint.It's a perfect match for public libraries, concerned as they are with free access to knowledge. And with no copyright restrictions, it's one of the few areas where Microsoft's proprietary software can't compete.Kerr is keen for others to follow his lead, but warns that it's not as simple as downloading the CD image off the net and firing off discs to local libraries. "Libraries can't trust public donations because of the risk of viruses and the CDs need to be packaged properly," he says. "I attach a big   liability statement on the back of the CD cover so librarians know they're not responsible for any technical support and that they can't be sued."The City of Edinburgh Council, which now stocks OpenOffice in all its libraries, says Kerr's initiative promotes social inclusion."It allows public access to a large, copyright free, software package without having to pay for a broadband connection to download it," said a spokesperson.Kerr is so committed to the project that he's spent &#163;5,000 of his money distributing the CDs throughout the UK. "I passionately believe people should be given a choice. Because there's no real marketing for OpenOffice, I decided I'd do some myself."With volunteers taking the lead, many are beginning to question the level of Britain's public sector commitment to open source."Other countries are realising that open-source alternatives often provide more security, more flexibility and much greater value for money," says Patrick Harvie, Green Party member of the Scottish Parliament.Last year, Munich's local government voted to move 14,000 computers from Microsoft software to OpenOffice running on Linux. Harvie believes it's time we saw similar initiatives in the UK."By building an open-source preference into public procurement policies, we could reap the benefits, and help build our indigenous IT skill base. If we just buy in technology from Redmond, then only Microsoft will benefit."In October, the OpenOffice.org community launched an educational project to increase the awareness of OpenOffice in schools and get it in the hands of students."All it needs is for volunteers to contact schools and provide factual information," says Ian Lynch, the Education Lead forOpenOffice.org."Schools are initially quite sceptical because it's free. But once they see how similar it is to Microsoft Office, they change their mind."A group of enterprising students at Wilmslow High School, Cheshire, has produced OpenOffice CD packs and donated them to less wealthy students in Malaysia. Costs are met by selling CDs to fellow pupils and parents."Our students are learning about more than just IT," says business and IT teacher Paul Burgess. "They're learning about citizenship, cooperation and working to tight deadlines. Because we've tried to make our project self-financing, they're also learning about the economics of production. We couldn't do it with proprietary software."However, convincing schools and education authorities to use open source appears to be more difficult than in the developing countries.Most UK schools have a licensing agreement, where they pay an annual fee of around &#163;28 per computer to use Microsoft Windows and Office. However, Microsoft levies the charge on all computers owned by a school - even those that might be running Linux. This gives some schools less of an incentive to try open source.Ian Lynch believes it's a restrictive practice and has complained to the Office of Fair Trading, which is investigating.In the meantime, Bob Kerr suggests volunteers target school libraries. "Donating CDs will get more mileage as it will encourage staff and students to install the software on their own computers."LinksContact Bob Kerr:lendingcd@yahoo.co.ukOpenOffice homepage:www.openoffice.orgISO CD images of OpenOffice for download and distribution:http://distribution.openoffice.org/cdrom/OpenOffice.org educational project:http://masl.to/?D5C422C57Schoolforge-UK, promoting the use of open source in UK education:www.schoolforge.org.ukGNU General Public Licence:http://masl.to/?A3B421C57
Has online dating usurped more traditional forms of dating agencies?Online dating has become much more acceptable. Match.com now has more than 1m members in the UK and we're acquiring 60,000 new members every month. One third of singles know a friend or family member using such services. The demographic is urban, educated professionals. Often these people have 24/7 lifestyles and use the net for many aspects of their life, so it makes sense for them to apply the net when looking for love.Are people prone to being more economical with the truth in cyberspace?A recent member survey reports that 92% report their true body type, but women are more likely than men to report a size smaller than their own. Ninety-five per cent report their true height, but men are more likely to add an inch to their height. Of the photos posted, 86% are one year old or less.Have you ever used instant messaging?I lived in Manhattan for eight months and usedMSN Groupsto meet people. I established a social network in no time. I use Messenger religiously for business and pleasure. It's interesting that email is no longer immediate enough. I wonder what will supersede Messenger?MyDoom or other viruses?MyDoom hasn't affected our site, as it's an email-based virus. I receive lots of spam and have, over the years, learned to identify    it. I never open an attachment from an unknown sender. Unfortunately I've learned to deal with spam every morning. I useHotmailwww.hotmail.comto keep in touch with friends and family and have paid for the premium features ... the junk mail filter is excellent.PDA/3G mobile?I have aSony-Ericsson P800, which is great for allowing me to sync my emails etc. The only downside is that it's rather large. As I live in Derbyshire and London, I spend a lot of time on trains so I have just a Vodafone wireless card for my laptop. It's fantastic - all the usual protection measures have been put in place such as encryption and MAC address protection.Has a laptop replaced your desktop computer?I haven't used a desktop since 1996! I have two laptops: one for work and one at home.Do you have broadband at home?Yes, thank goodness. I have up to 20 sites open at any point and I'm quite impatient, so it makes the whole experience much more enjoyable. I spend more time online at the weekends and the computer is always on.What's the longest period you've spent online?When I lived in New York, I worked from my apartment. I would switch on my wireless laptop at 7am and often switch off at midnight. In the UK, 12 hours is average for me.Gadgets?I adore mySony Network Walkman. I love the iPod but the Network Walkman is so tiny it fits comfortably in the pocket of my running shorts.Visit:www.uk.match.comSamantha Bedford's bookmarkswww.google.co.ukI can't imagine life online without it! I love its simplicity and relevant results.www.bbc.co.ukI'm a news and weather junkie. The Met office content is fantastic.www.popbitch.comI look forward to my weekly email of salacious gossip.www.amazon.co.ukFor books, CDs and, recently, a Dualit toaster (www.dualit.com) as they were offering the best price.www.net-a-porter.comto window shop for beautiful things from my desk.
CamerasCanon attackIn a major overhaul of its product range, Canon has unveiled seven digital cameras and a trio of camcorders. Due to launch next month for &#163;1,000 is a new flagship camera - the PowerShot Pro 1. The eight megapixel model is Canon's first compact digital camera to be fitted with a professional L Series lens.Also scheduled to arrive next month are three cameras in its ultra-compact Digital Ixus range including the &#163;339.99 500 - a five megapixel camera with a 3x optical zoom and VGA movie recording facilities. Following in April are three digital camcorders; the MVX250i, MVX200i and MVX200. All are significantly smaller than the models they are replacing, record video on to DV cassette and feature Canon's Digic digital video processor. Price details will be available nearer to the launch.www.canon.co.uk3GPhone polesCheshire county and Chester city councils have agreed to allow BT to install miniature, low-powered mobile base stations on lamp-posts, signs and CCTV camera poles in and around Chester. BT says this is the first deal of its kind, and will improve mobile coverage and capacity in the area without constructing large new antennae. The Microconnect transceivers used are 2cm in diameter and 15cm long, and will be installed at least 4m from the ground. BT, which, through its wholesale division, builds base stations for the mobile networks, is already talking to the operators about use of the Chester stations for both 3G and standard mobile use.SmartcardsAway supportBolton Wanderers FC is using its smart-card season tickets to compensate holders who cannot attend big games.   The club is offering &#163;10 in TeamCard loyalty points - valid for tickets, merchandise and even club catering - to those who give up seats for any of four games. If successful, the scheme may be extended to all matches. Season ticket holders use their smartcards to get through the turnstiles, so the system can check for abuse.Bolton Wanderers, which benefits as it can resell seats, says "a couple of hundred" of its 20,000 season ticket holders took up the offer on its first outing, for the January 7 match against Manchester United.Mobile phonesGlam clamPanasonic's X70 clamshell is lighter and better than the earlier GD87 model and has the added benefit of Bluetooth connectivity for sending photos to other cameras or computers. Bluetooth also offers hands-free talk, though you have to buy a compatible earpiece.The keypad is an impressive size for such a compact phone, although the main button on the five-way navibar is so big it forces the use of a thumbnail to activate the other four directions. It has a good one-button weblink to Vodafone Live!'s menu of (mainly paid-for) content such as games and news.The design is attractive - including the analogue clock on the front - and a    phone with such facilities can't get much lighter (under 95g) or more compact. It is a very impressive model. The only downside is that there are so many other phones with similar facilities around now that it doesn't stand out much from the crowd. But when the crowd is as good as it is now that may not matter.InternetSeeing the sitesThe Department for Transport will open a UK journey-planning website for most forms of transport by early summer, finally fulfilling a promise made in Labour's 2001 manifesto. The site will cover public and private transport, including walking and cycling, and link to booking and hire services where relevant. "The idea is to take all modes of transport, and give you an objective way of getting from A to B," says a spokesperson. Only air travel will be excluded, but this should be added next year. The &#163;50m system, which will take account of delays such as road or rail work, is testing its software and data sources.Political outlookBill Clinton did not have email relations with anyone ... on this planet, anyway. The US president who governed during the dotcom boom sent just two emails during his time in office, according to the Clinton Presidential Foundation, which is raising money for a library containing records of his presidency. Of the two Clinton emails, one was a test message,   and the other was to astronaut John Glenn, who was in a space shuttle, almost 40 years after becoming the first American to orbit the earth. Staff in Clinton's administration made up for their boss, sending about 40m email messages.ConsolesBlue for 2Sony is adding a splash of colour to its PlayStation 2 console by offering a version in aqua blue. Set to go on sale next month for &#163;139.99, the console will be accompanied by an aqua blue stand and accessories. The move follows the successful launch of the silver PlayStation 2 before Christmas. Sony also sells more expensive (&#163;279.99) yellow, red and dark blue PlayStation 2s via itswebsite. Not to be outdone, Microsoft has announced it will debut a Crystal transparent version of its Xbox console. It goes on sale next month for &#163;139.www.xbox.com/en-GBStat of the week Wap:alive and kickingSome people still insist "wap is crap", but, as the Mobile Data Association's figures show, it's pretty popular. After a year of growth, December saw more than 1,000 million tiny pages of text served up on the UK's mobile phones, aided by services like Vodafone Live!
As a geek, I consider it a matter of personal pride that nobody can rip me off over the internet. I laugh at my parents' paranoia about buying online. After all, what's the point of being a clever dick if it doesn't save you money? So it hurt pretty badly, last week, when someone came very close indeed to working me over for &#163;1,100.eBay was made for procrastination. It's not actually a very good place to buy anything collectable, because the prices are always too high: nobody likes to lose, I guess, and I can tell you from personal experience that there is a slightly sinister satisfaction to be had from outbidding a stranger at the very last minute. But when I saw a vintage ARP 2600 synthesiser from 1973 for less than a grand: you'll just have to suspend belief and empathise with my colossal excitement. I've been after one for years.So I bid, and straight away, the guy contacts me. He's in a hurry to sell. Make me an offer, he says, and we'll do business. My avarice goes into overdrive, and I do the maths. They usually go for &#163;1,800 at least, and this one comes with the original keyboard, but the guy's in a hurry; I offer him &#163;1,100. He goes for it. Then he starts talking about payment and I step back.He's using an eBay membership number with no feedback, which is weird. But I really want my synth. Strangely, the same item seems to be listed five times by people who all have no feedback. Maybe he made a mistake. He's obviously some kind of fool to sell an ARP 2600 for &#163;1,100. But he's telling me our transaction   will be protected by eBay, which I guess it will be, and he does have a very professional-looking website.But the postcode on his website is for Thornton Heath, just down the road from me: why don't I come and pick it up, I ask? Oh no, he says, it all gets shipped from the warehouse. I call the phone number, a UK mobile. No answer. I look up the number on the internet. As a long shot. And it turns out he's been ripping people off for a long, long time.Now what's interesting about this is, he's a clever guy, so this is a pretty lame mistake to make. Like most scams, he relies on social engineering, and being plausible, rather than the kind of hacking that lets you take over the Pentagon. I get on to the entertainingwww.empiresecurity.comwhich has been looking into him already, and discover a world of scams.The most common is that the criminal gets hold of a legitimate eBay seller's account and starts taking people's money, before disappearing. So far, so predictable. There's even a fantastic variant where they set up an 'escrow' company, one that takes a cut and holds the money until the recipient is satisfied, but when you set up an account on the criminal's escrow company's website, they save your password, on the off chance that you're stupid enough to use the same one there as you do for your email and eBay accounts, so they can steal your identities too. Nice.So what about the toad trying to rip me off? I report him to eBay, and the best they can do with this guy, who's been ripping people off for months, is suggest that they might consider erasing his eBay identity. Not very scary, given that he can set a new one up in 10 minutes.But how cheeky can he get? Jeff at empiresecurity sets up a deal with him. Jeff is posing as a blind guy who needs a laptop to run his dialysis machine. It's a real tear-jerker, and I can't help feeling it's not holding together very plausibly. Soon enough, my scammer calls his bluff. These are his parting words (you can read the whole exchange atwww.empiresecurity.com/displayarticle151.html)."Hello Jeff," he says. "I must admit, you are good at it, you made me feel terrible with the blind-man failed-kidney stuff, I bought it and felt bad about scamming such a poor man... then I was at empiresecurity.com and saw what an ass I was. Anyway, it will be my source of inspiration in the future, thanks for it... I really hope I will drop this one day, when eBay will take serious steps to protect the buyers from scammers... You may ask why I am scamming - I guess I like other people's money."
'Woof!" It might sound like a meaningless bark but, in fact, the dog is saying "Ya ne! Soba ni konai de!" (Hey! Don't come near me!). And while a European might make the mistake of approaching the diffident hound, Japanese dog owners would know to steer clear. Why? Because their phones would translate for them.Bowlingual, a mobile application available to Vodafone subscribers in Japan, has a repertoire of about 200 dog phrases. It's just one of the many strange but innovative mobile products available in the Far East - and another reminder of how far ahead the Japanese are in non-voice applications.Of course, they did have a head start. NTT DoCoMo's data service i-mode was launched in February 1999 and now has more than 40m subscribers. Meanwhile, Vodafone KK, the British company's Japanese subsidiary, has 12.8m Live! customers. Compare that with the 4.5m Live! users across 15 countries in Europe.These huge user-bases have given developers free rein to think laterally and create products that capitalise on the personal, ubiquitous nature of the phone. Hence Inu Tomo, a virtual dog that sniffs out other virtual dogs (via a local area network link) and prompts an introduction to its "real life" owner. Or Panasonic's virtual pet which demands a banana and is only satisfied when its owner takes a photo of something yellow. Or how about NEC's Phone Battler, a game that ascribes fighting properties to faces captured by   the camera phone and pits them against each other.The latter is a good illustration of the way handset manufacturers use games to show off the features of their devices. In Japan, unlike here, the functions of phones are specified to ensure that new models come on to the market at the same time. This means that, for manufacturers, bundled content is the best way to differentiate their products. The Fujitsu   505 has a fingerprint reader. And, you've guessed it, it can be used to pet your virtual dog.Phone standardisation also makes life easier for developers. With the networks dictating basic phone specs, they can code games they know will run across virtually all devices. On i-mode, for example, phones run a cut-down version of the mobile games engine Java called DoJa, which standardises important factors such as input processing and the user interface.It's not the same in the UK, to the frustration of domestic game makers. With Nokia, Motorola, Siemens et al pursuing disparate strategies, developers find themselves tweaking the same game dozens of times. And, usually, the exciting angles attacked by the Japanese are out of reach, too. Matt Spall, director of UK studio Morpheme, says: "I'd love to put a phone camera element into one of our games. But at the moment, it's not possible because of the way Java works on most European handsets. That's why, if you want your game to be widely available, you have to go for the common denominator."Morpheme is trying, at least. Its Fartbox application (like a phone-based whoopee cushion) is a laudably tasteless departure from the retro games and cut-down Playstation fayre that have established mobile gaming without defining it. If it could just create a virtual Fartbox pet, you'd be able to blame the dog.
"The Mozilla Foundation released a new version of its open source Web browser this week, with improvements to its download manager, extension, and bookmark handling, along with a new name aimed at skirting trademark complaints from another open source project," reportsIDG News"The browser has lost its previous Firebird moniker and become the new Firefox 0.8 software, a preview of the group's upcoming 1.0 release. The group dropped the Firebird name to avoid a scuffle with the Firebird relational database development project."
Comcast's hostile bid for Disney marks the most audacious move yet for Brian Roberts, the cable operator's president.Mr Roberts is already on a high. Institutional Investor magazine last month named him as America's best chief executive officer, the man who successfully guided Comcast to its successful $47bn (£25.1bn)  takeover for AT&amp;T broadband in 2001. That deal made Comcast the largest broadband provider in the US.That deal was a coup for the ultracompetitive Mr Roberts, a keen squash player who has made it his mission to transform Comcast into a media giant along the lines of Viacom or News Corporation.Mr Roberts' ambition is to make a reality of Comcast - the name is an amalgam of the words "communication" and "broadcast". He wants to dominate both, through the 22 million cable subscribers the new AT&amp;T Comcast serves, plus media holdings such as shopping channel QVC and, of course, with broadband. Should he tuck Disney under in his belt, Comcast would become a media giant.Mr Roberts is a case of nepotism come good, having worked at Comcast - founded by his father Ralph 20 years ago - since 1981. He worked first as a local station controller in Trenton, New Jersey, then as an assistant general manager in Flint, Michigan. In 1990, when he was 30, his father appointed him president.He has hardly put a foot wrong. In 1999 he walked away from a deal to buy another cable operator, MediaOne, when AT&amp;T bid up the price, retreating with a $1.5bn consolation fee and 2 million AT&amp;T subscribers. Just two years later, he picked up the remainder of the subscribers - at a much-reduced price - when he won control of AT&amp;T's cable operations.These are heady times for Comcast, which started out as regional cable operator with just 1,200 TV subscribers in Tupelo, Mississippi. Headquartered in Philadelphia, Comcast serves more than 21 million US customers and has a major presence in 17 of the top 20 largest metropolitan areas.Mr Roberts' timing in swooping on Disney is impeccable as Michael Eisner, Disney's chairman and chief executive, is coming under intense pressure from shareholders, in particular Roy Disney, who resigned from the board two months ago.Disney's share price is at lows not seen since 1996, and the much ballyhooed merger with ABC, the television network, has failed to live up to expectations. In the most recent setback for Mr Eisner, Pixar, the computer and animation company, declined to renew a distribution deal with Disney. Pixar contributed significantly to the success of Disney's film arm with hits such as Finding Nemo and Toy Story."This would certainly resolve the Michael Eisner succession issue, which is the biggest stumbling block facing the company and a large part of the reason that the stock has been underperforming the last five years," Barry Ritholtz, the chief market strategist at the Maxim Group, told Reuters.Even if Mr Roberts pulls off this bid, making it work will be a difficult proposition. The marriage of distribution and content is the golden grail of the media world, but several companies have come a cropper. The Time Warner/AOL blockbuster merger proved to be a dud and Disney itself failed to realise the potential of marrying its content to the distribution network of ABC TV.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
FOAF or Friend Of A Friend is an attempt to tackle two of the problems of the "social network" systems such as Friendster and Orkut. One problem is that the personal data isn't machine-readable, and the other is that it is probably not held in a standard format, such as vCard. FOAF provides a format for putting the data on the Web in RDF/XML. It was the subject of two lively sessions at ETech, where it got enthusiastic support. You can read more about it here:http://www.foaf-project.org/Ben Hammersley mentioned FOAF a year ago in Online,here
Today's agenda looked great on paper, starting with Microsoft researcher Marc Smith, followed by Nokia's chief technology officer, Perti Korhonnen, as the day's two big keynote speeches. Marc Smith was outstanding last year, which is no doubt why O'Reilly brought him back and promoted him to the top of the order. Unfortunately, this year's speech was pretty much the same a last year's. As for Pertti Korhonnen, I'm not sure what he said: my eyes and ears glazed over after about five minutes. Danny O'Brien of Need To Know saved the morning with a very funny talk on Tech Secrets of the Overprolific Alpha Geeks. Briefly, they do most things via command lines (shell, shell) and keep all their notes a in plain text to-do list. My alternative explanation is that perhaps most Alpha Geeks learned their computing 20 or more years ago and have never adapted to anything newer....
Microsoft warned customers yesterday about unusually serious security problems with its Windows software that could let hackers quietly break into their computers to steal files, delete data or eavesdrop on sensitive information.The company, which learned about the flaws more than six months ago from researchers, said the only protective solution was to apply a repairing patch it offered on its website. It assessed the threat as "critical", its highest rating.Security executive Stephen Toulouse said the flawed software was "an extremely deep and pervasive technology in Windows," and urged customers to apply the patch immediately.The disclosure comes just weeks before Microsoft chairman Bill Gates delivers a keynote speech in San Francisco at one of the industry's most important security trade conferences. Microsoft has struggled in recent months against a tide of renewed criticism about security risks in its software, the engine for computers in most of the world's governments, corporations and homes."This is one of the most serious Microsoft vulnerabilities released," said Marc Maiffret, of eEye Digital Security in California, which discovered the flaws. "The breadth of systems affected is probably the largest ever. This is something that will let you get into internet servers, internal networks, pretty much any system."Mr Maiffret said systems that control important power or water utilities were vulnerable. He predicted hackers will try to unleash an internet infection within weeks.AP
Health and social care workers in Scotland will be able to access a patient's full medical history with a click of a button once ministers kick-start a programme of NHS modernisation.For the Þrst time, details of visits to the GP, immunisations, medication and test results will be available on a single electronic record, jointly managed by health workers and patients themselves.Social workers and other social care staff will also have access to the records, provided the individual consents, under a pioneering initiative due to be put into operation this year.The initiative, known as "national integrated care records", forms a major plank of Scotland's drive for a healthier nation. It runs ahead of similar plans in England. Scottish ministers hope the system will cut the country's high rates of death from cancer and heart disease by enabling easier access to patient data, allowing quicker exchange of information between professionals - particularly important in a region where clinicians may work in isolation - and involving patients in their care.Under the project, which is being led by health minister Malcolm Chisholm, letters from hospital  specialists will be available electronically from this spring. By the end of the year, GPs should be able to use their computers to access patients' test results. A summary of patient notes, including details of medication, should be available to GPs working out of hours, and to emergency departments by early 2005.Information on children's health - with details of immunisations, screening and special needs - will be available online by September. And work has already started on sharing electronic records with local authorities. It is hoped that nine local authorities will be online by the end of March, with the remainder joining over the following 12 months.ConÞdentiality safeguards are being built into the system to ensure records are only accessed by authorised staff. As a consultation paper notes: "Many professionals in many settings hold fragments of the record, but none have access to the whole record. This does not mean that all information about a patient will be held in one place, but it does mean that health professionals can access the information they need about a patient. Such access will be within a secure environment and deÞning access rights of users will ensure that it is limited to what any given professional needs to know."Ministers believe the new system is fundamental to the modernisation of healthcare in Scotland. "We must replace outdated processes that in some cases are as old as the NHS itself with streamlined, patient-centric processes," Chisholm says. Patients' needs will only be met if staff have access to "the right information at the right time".For more on healthcare in Scotland:www.show.scot.nhs.ukFor more about devolved government in Scotland:www.scotland.gov.uk
I just bought a copy of Donald Norman's new book, Emotional Design: Why we love (or hate) everyday things (Basic Books). This is the long-awaited sequel to the immortal classic, The Design of Everyday Things, which everyone should have read. Don Norman is due to give a talk at ETech, so I'm hoping to do a story based on that and an interview I did with him (mainly about the book) late last year.I've always found it hard to buy books in ones, so I also picked up Owen Linzmayer's Apple Confidential 2.0 (since the first one was a terrific book) and Andy Clark's Natural-Born Cyborg's: Minds, Technologies and the Future of Human Intelligence. Both of those were the last available copies at the ETech "bookstore", which suggests other delegates have also been buying them at a rapid rate....
Computer experts today alerted PC users to a powerful new version of the Mydoom virus, which has already caused an estimated $20bn (£10bn) of damage to businesses worldwide.The Doomjuice, or Mydoom.C, worm was first detected yesterday. According to researchers at F-Secure Antivirus, a Finnish software company, it has already spread to "tens of thousands" of computers.The virus is not spread by email, but targets Windows machines already infected with the original 'Mydoom.A' virus.It works by scanning random internet addresses until it identifies computers containing a special programme, known as a backdoor, installed by Mydoom.A.When Doomjuice finds a machine that is infected by Mydoom.A, it begins to download itself onto the PC.According to F-Secure, the worm will infect the computer "totally automatically - the owner of the computer can be sleeping and still get Doomjuice".The main aim of the virus, as was the case with its predecessor, is to attack the websites of major software companies by bombarding them with messages from thousands of infected PCs.This "denial of service" attack against www.microsoft.com - one of the largest in the world - began on Sunday.It is programmed to go on indefinitely in an attempt to overload the site by repeatedly reloading its front page. The website still seemed to be operational today, but a disruption in service was noted yesterday.Mikko Hypponen, the director of antivirus research at F-Secure, said that Doomjuice drops the original source code of the Mydoom.A worm in an archive to several folders of infected computers."This proves to us that Doomjuice and Mydoom.A are written by the same people," he said. "The source code of Mydoom.A has not been seen circulating in the underground before."The hackers could be distributing the sourcecode in an attempt to cover their tracks, he added."The authors know the police are looking for them," Mr Hypponen said. "And the best evidence against them would be the possession of the original source code of the virus."Before the Doomjuice incident, only the authors of Mydoom.A had the original source code. Now, probably tens of thousands of people have it on their hard drive without knowing it."Last month, Microsoft promised a $250,000 reward to anyone who helps track down the author of the Mydoom virus.F-Secure was one of the first companies to warn of the dangers of the original self-replicating Mydoom worm - also known as Novarg - which spread across the globe through spam email last week.Doomjuice's ability to spread is limited because it will only attack computers infected by Mydoom, said Mr Hypponen. He added that "lots of" computers were already being cleaned up "at a quick rate".However, he warned that, unlike Mydoom - which is programmed to stop spreading on February 12 - Doomjuice could run forever. "&#91;It could run&#93; at least until all computers everywhere infected by both worms have been cleaned up, and that could be years," he said.F-Secure said that it was difficult to fully assess how destructive Doomjuice has so far been, but added that one sensor monitoring one fifth of the world's internet traffic yesterday had found 30,000 hits.
People who download child abuse images from the internet should face the  same punishment as those who produce the material and abuse the victims, an  adult survivor of child sex abuse said today.Marie Collins, who was photographed by the man who sexually abused her when  she was 12, told an international child protection conference that people who collected child pornography were complicit in the abuse it portrayed."Those who collect the images might as well be in the room next to the  abuser saying 'Go on, take the picture' as the child is being abused," she told the Just One Click conference organised by the children's charity, Barnado's, in London.The recording of sexual abuse in photos and on film by paedophiles makes their victims' ordeals last a lifetime, she said.Mrs Collins, who was abused by a chaplain at Our Ladies Children's Hospital in Dublin, said having her photograph taken by her abuser "led to a lifetime of psychiatric problems."She said: "&#91;my abuser&#93; convinced me he wasn't doing anything wrong, but I felt bad and dirty. I felt somehow that I'd allowed it to happen. It changed my life totally. I became withdrawn and depressed."Her abuser, who was eventually jailed in 1999, sent her the first photograph he had taken of her: "That &#91;photo&#93; looked quite innocent but I feared he'd  send more and my parents and friends would find out."I'd see friends laughing at school and think they'd seen the photos. I became agoraphobic. I avoided boys and had to be hospitalised after a severe  panic attack soon after starting to see my first boyfriend when I was 17."Mrs Collins, 56, said that as she got older her feelings of humiliation grew stronger. "As I got older I realised what the photos were used for - self-gratification, masturbation. I had to give up work in my twenties and couldn't go outside for years", she recalled.Mrs Collins said her family was also affected by her ongoing ordeal: "My husband was very supportive, but I felt my son had been deprived of his childhood because I couldn't go out."Mrs Collins said she had managed to come to terms with her abuse after a  course of psychoanalysis.She called on ministers, the police and social services to prioritise the tracing of children whose abuse was posted on the internet to spare them the lifetime of trauma she had endured.The conference also heard calls for police and social workers to receive psychological support when investigating online paedophile activity.Annie Mullins, global content standards manager at Vodaphone and a former children's social worker, said she had been deeply disturbed by the child abuse images she investigated for the mobile phone company.She said: "I just wanted to cleanse myself. I felt complicit in the abuse. Some of the images stayed with me long after I saw them."Ms Mullins said the nature of online abuse posed serious implications for child protection workers."Previously, social workers went into a family to investigate abuse or dealt with the aftermath. Now we're confronted with the crime scene in an horrific  way."
The internet entrepreneur who "sexed up" the US government is to clean up his act.The owner of the pornography website Whitehouse.com, one of the internet's most accidentally visited addresses, is selling up and shutting down.After years of fielding complaints from parents angry that innocuous school assignments have led their children into the clutches of smut-peddlers, Dan Parisi is moving on out of concern for his own young son.Mr Parisi, 44, started the Whitehouse.com website in 1997 as a web-based home for political discussion and satire. As interest in the internet mushroomed, he transformed the site into a slick porn hub in an effort to generate income.Now, though, with a young son soon to start attending nursery school, Mr Parisi has admitted he does not want to cause trouble in class."I ultimately decided to add adult content to make it a profitable venture and it proved to be a highly successful formula," he said in a statement posted on Whitehouse.com."Since launching the site, I've become a father and no longer care to be involved in the adult content world."Given that the internet is a powerful venue for governmental bodies, I believe it is time to give the Whitehouse.com domain back to the people."With an address that is very similar to the official White House site at Whitehouse.gov, millions of web users looking for information about the US president have found themselves staring at pictures of "hot interns" and bare-naked "first ladies".The site currently features a picture of the Democratic presidential hopeful John Kerry and a swimsuit-wearing model on its front page, alongside the message: "Our candidates are better looking - and probably know more about the economy."A prominent banner boasts that more than 85 million people have visited Whitehouse.com since 1997. Another reports that almost every American television network has featured the site during its lifetime.And with one more click visitors to the site are offered an array of internet pornography, including a "Teen Buffet", "Hollywood Hooters" and the option to view "Whitehouse TV" - a members-only service.To the delight of internet watchdogs, this is all set to change. Mr Parisi, who claims that Whitehouse.com receives 2 million visitors every month and brings in seven-figure sums in revenue each year, intends to sell the domain name but will prevent the new owners operating an adult website."Every time our kids were doing homework about the White House or the presidency, they would type in dot-com," Parry Aftab, who runs the WiredSafety organisation, told the Associated Press."It's always been the poster child for where our kids can get into trouble with porn by accident."Others are welcoming Mr Parisi's decision to close the site. Bob Roberts, vice-president of the Virginia-based National Fruit Product company, hopes the move will make it easier to market his company's Whitehouse apple sauce and apple juice.Currently the products are marketed online at the web address whitehousefoods.com. But many customers inadvertently click through to an entirely different kind of sauce."We just feel bad when our customers type in the address and they get hit with these pictures," Mr Roberts, who has tried to shut down Whitehouse.com in the US federal courts before, said.His company plans to contact Mr Parisi about buying the domain name in the near future, he said.Despite his apparent concession to the establishment, Mr Parisi will remain an internet maverick long after his pornography site has closed down.He still owns and operates hundred of sites in the well known Sucks500.com network, a matrix of online messageboards and websites devoted to lampooning major corporate and political figures.Under the banner "A place where people can get together and vent", web users are offered the chance to post messages on messageboards including "George Bush sucks", "Terrorism sucks", "Corporate America sucks" and "Everything sucks".Perhaps mindful of the reputation he gained during his years as a pornographer, Mr Parisi even owns a very personal website: Danparisisucks.com.
Hundreds of British children are being left to suffer sexual abuse because police efforts to tackle internet paedophiles are "completely inadequate", according to the former head of a special crime squad that pioneered investigations into online child sex offences.Terry Jones, formerly detective chief inspector of Greater Manchester police's abusive images unit, said police forces were funded to investigate local crimes and will not track down children forced to pose for abusive images posted online if they are not sure where the pictures or the victims come from.In a speech to a conference today organised by the children's charity Barnardo's he will say that the situation is being compounded by the failure to make child protection a key priority for the police, and the omission of internet crime from the Home Office's national policing plan.This often meant that officers could only watch as victims of internet child abuse grew older and continued to be abused, said Mr Jones."The current police approach to tackling internet child abuse is completely inadequate," he said. "Resources are not available due to the structure of the police service and its political priorities. The number of children we've identified from abusive images is pathetic."A report by the Association of Chief Police Officers and centre-left thinktank the Institute for Public Policy Research, due to be published in two weeks, will call on ministers to make combating internet paedophilia a police priority.In a study published today, Barnardo's called for a comprehensive review of internet child abuse inquiries to ensure that police sought out the victims as well as the perpetrators.The charity revealed it was helping 83 children adversely affected by internet child pornography and abuse, including 27 forced to pose for abusive photographs and films posted online, seven sold online to paedophiles, one raped live on a pay-per-view website, and 22 teenagers who have downloaded child abuse images.Tink Palmer, Barnardo's policy officer on the sexual exploitation of children, said: "Police forces across the globe have gathered tens of thousands of images of child sex abuse victims from the internet. The children are often identifiable and seen in their own home or the home of their abusers. However, only about 250 have been traced worldwide."It is now time to put this right. We need to establish a national unit dedicated to tracing and protecting the child victims."Jones said a lack of forensic expertise meant that the police were dumping vast amounts of child abuse images gathered in internet trawling operations."Common practice is to scrape off the first 200 images on the suspect's computer in order to prosecute them, but the rest are effectively put in the bin," he said.Rachel O'Connell, director of the cyberspace research unit at the University of Central Lancashire, said this meant that vital evidence of where and when abuse was committed was being ignored.She said: "The pictures on the wall and the victim's and offender's clothes help you to tell how recent the image is. And the language on the spines of books, or on toiletries, and the type of plug socket, etc, may reveal the country where the abuse took place."The Combating Online Paedophile Information Networks in Europe (Copine) project at Cork University, Ireland, discovered a 300% increase between 1999 and 2002 in the number of new children seen in photos or film clips posted in online child sex newsgroups, where members swap abusive images and discuss strategies to target their victims.Professor Max Taylor, director of the Copine project, said: "The criminal justice system's response to internet paedophilia has tended to focus on the offender at the expense of the victim. At its worst the victim becomes an object around which adults, from abusers to the police, prioritise their own vested interests above those of the child."The German national police established an internet monitoring squad in 1998. Around 90% of the squad's work is dedicated to tackling child pornography, and it works with the national paedophile unit to identify victims. Around 10 children have been traced in the past four years.Detective inspector Holger Kind, of the German paedophile unit, said they had broadcast censored pictures of internet child pornography on the country's equivalent of Crimewatch, which led to three victims being rescued.He said: "We went public with a series of child abuse images, showing them on national TV. The public response helped us to trace three victims between 1999 and 2003, two in Germany and one in Austria. It was a bold move but we decided to concentrate more on the victims as it was clear from the abusive images we found that this material was not just being produced in the US and Asia but also in Germany."A Home Office spokeswoman said it was up to individual police authorities and forces to decide how to address child safety on the internet.Last year the National Crimes Squad (NCS) established the paedophile online investigation team (Polit) to co-ordinate investigations by UK police forces and international law enforcement agencies.An NCS spokeswoman said Polit focused on identifying offenders. She added: "We recognise the need to do more to identify and protect child victims."The NCS set up an image recognition programme in July called Childbase, which allows officers to match children to abusive images found online. But the spokeswoman said she did not know how many child victims the system had identified.
An electronic green cross code, providing advice on how to safely use the internet, was launched today by British Telecom in a bid to improve public awareness of the risks posed by paedophiles online.The code, which is endorsed by the Home Office and children's charities, provides a simple but comprehensive guide to young people about how to deal with the potential dangers they face online.The guidelines advise children not to give out their personal details, consider carefully why people may be requesting personal information from them, and to tell their parents or teachers about what they get up to online, particularly if they have a bad experience.Nick Truman, head of internet security at BT, devised the code after discovering that internet users were ignoring the plethora of guidelines published by the government, children's charities and internet service providers (ISPs).Last week, a report by the cyberspace research unit at the University of Central Lancashire revealed that children were increasingly aware that internet safety guidelines existed, but more were meeting up with people they befriended online in the real world.Mr Truman said: "It is clear from the growing number of high profile cases of children being abducted by adults they met online that the advice has not been heeded. Our own research suggested a complete lack of knowledge of safety messages."So I came up with an internet green cross code that covered all the basic safety issues, rather than addressing specific problems such as chatroom dangers and spam. I hope this will prove more user friendly."The code, which is being launched today at a conference on internet child abuse organised by the children's charity Barnardo's, will be distributed by BT and the Home Office, and be available online.The guidelines follows the publication last month of a code of practice barring the sale of mobile phones with access to adult internet services, including pornography and chatrooms, by the six largest mobile operators in the UK: Orange, O2, T-Mobile, Virgin, Vodaphone and 3.Mr Truman said that the mobile phone companies had benefited from the ISPs' "bad experience" of internet paedophilia.Fixed internet service providers could not introduce similar safeguards now when millions of people already had internet access, he added.But Mr Truman, a member of the Home Office taskforce on internet child protection, admitted more could be done if the internet industry made the effort.He called on Microsoft to incorporate the Internet Content Rating Association's software into its Internet Explorer browser, which would enable parents to check how suitable websites were for children.
Over the past few years in my post as principal policy and practice officer for the children's charity Barnardo's, I found that a growing number of the young people we are supporting have been sexually abused by men they met via the internet. This prompted my survey of 160 Barnardo's projects, published today, which reveals we have helped 83 children adversely affected by pornography and child abuse involving new technology.The study, Just One Click, outlines the ways in which sexual abusers can exploit the internet and mobile phones to gain access to children who would previously have been beyond their reach. It also shows there is a disparity between current child protection practice, procedures and policies and the needs of "hi-tech" child abuse victims.Of the 83 children we identified, 15 were sexually assaulted by adults who befriended them online by pretending to be children, seven were sold for sexual abuse via the internet, four were ensnared into using the internet and mobile phones to prostitute themselves, one was subjected to a sexual assault broadcast live via a pay-per-view website, one had a parent who downloaded and distributed child abuse images, 27 were forced to pose for abusive photographs and films posted online, and one was shown child abuse images but rescued before being photographed themself. Another five regularly viewed adult pornography online. More disturbing was the discovery that 22 children had downloaded child abuse images.The children forced to pose for child abuse images represent the largest group of those sexually exploited via the internet. This reflects research by the Combating Online Paedophile Information in Europe project of Cork University in Ireland, which discovered a 300% increase between 1999 and 2002 in the number of new children seen in photos or film clips posted in online child sex newsgroups, where members swap abusive images and discuss strategies to target their victims.Worldwide, police forces have gathered tens of thousands of child sex abuse images from the internet. But only a tiny fraction of these victims, between 250 and 400, have been traced.Little research has been done into the impact on victims of being made the subject of sexually abusive images. But two girls who were interviewed following Operation Ore, which targeted 7,200 Britons who had accessed a Texas-based child pornography website, categorically denied having been abused, even when police officers made it clear that they had seen some of the abusive images taken of them.Being filmed or photographed by their abusers makes children even more reluctant to reveal their ordeal. Probably the greatest inhibitor to children disclosing their abuse is the humiliation of it having been recorded, and the fear they will be recognised. And as children are frequently forced to smile by their abusers in abusive images, sometimes they feel it looks as though they are enjoying the abuse or "let" it happen. Some victims also innocently introduce other children to their abusers, so feel guilty for "letting" others be harmed. Sexual abusers realise that instilling such guilt in their victims is an effective way to silence them.The management of such cases should be reviewed: in particular, how the child is informed of the discovery of abusive images of them, and the way in which interviews intended to encourage victims to disclose their abuse are carried out. Police officers interviewing children to gather evidence will already know what has happened to them. This casts doubt on the need for such interviews, which despite great care can be traumatic for the victim, especially if the perpetrator can be identified in the abusive image. Indeed, the police have a 100% conviction rate in such cases.The use of video-links in criminal proceedings is intended to spare child victims the trauma of being cross-examined face-to-face in court. However, in cases where the child has been the subject of abusive images, this could remind them of their ordeal. The recording of interviews by the police should similarly be reviewed.Therapists working with this group of victims should also be aware that the nature of the abuse will make it far harder for children to put their trauma behind them. These children will, in one sense, be unable to get resolution and move on because their abuse will always be on the internet. We need to think how best to help victims live with this awful knowledge.The second largest groups of children identified in the survey were teenage boys who have downloaded sexually abusive images of children. From a purely legal perspective, they are criminals. But Barnardo's has found that this behaviour is not as straightforward as it first appears.While some of the teenagers planned to and purposely downloaded child abuse images, others were guided to such material by predatory adults whose aim was to ensnare them into meeting up offline. This grooming process often starts with an abuser posing as another teenager in a chatroom and pointing real children towards adult pornography.These factors should be taken into account when assessing whether it would be better to refer these young people to child protection services rather than the criminal justice system. Unfortunately, in a number of cases, teenagers have been convicted and placed on the sex offenders' register before such an as carried out. This cannot be an acceptable way of managing such complex cases and calls for urgent redress.&#149; Tink Palmer is the principal policy and practice officer at the children's charity Barnardo's, and a member of the Home Office taskforce on internet child protection.
Child protection must be reviewed in order to help the victims of internet paedophilia because traditional policies and practices could distress them further, the children's charity Barnardo's said today.The charity warned that the use of video cameras during police interviews and court proceedings could remind children, who have been forced to pose for child abuse images posted on the internet, of their ordeal.Its principal policy and practice officer, Tink Palmer, said: "Police officers interviewing children to gather evidence will already know what has happened to them. This casts doubt on the need for such interviews, especially if the perpetrator can be identified in the abusive image. Indeed, the police have a 100% conviction rate in such cases."The use of video-links in criminal proceedings are intended to spare child victims the trauma of being cross-examined face-to-face in court. However, in cases where the child has been the subject of abusive images, this could remind them of their ordeal. The recording of interviews by the police should similarly be reviewed."Her call came as the charity revealed that it had helped 83 children adversely affected by pornography and child abuse involving the internet and mobile phones.In a report published today, Barnardo's warned that sexual abusers were exploiting new technology to gain access to children who would previously have been beyond their reach.Of the 83 children in the study, 15 were sexually assaulted by adults who befriended them online, seven were sold for sexual abuse via the internet, four were ensnared into using the internet and mobile phones to prostitute themselves, one was raped live via a pay-per-view website, one had a parent who downloaded and distributed child abuse images, 27 were forced to pose for such images, and one was shown abusive images but rescued before being filmed or photographed themselves."One 12-year-old boy was sexually abused after he arranged to meet a 14-year-old girl he'd befriended in a chatroom, only to discover 'she' was a 40-year-old male sex abuser. Another two young girls were forced into a hotel room and abused by their online 'friend'," said Ms Palmer, also a member of the Home Office taskforce on internet child protection.She called on the government to fund special therapeutic programmes to help the victims of internet child abuse put their lives back together."The children are forced to live with the fact that millions could have seen their abuse and those abusive images may always be available," she added.One of the children in the study, a 13-year-old known as Pete, had dozens of nude photographs taken of him and placed on the internet by a paedophile. He said: "Now I can't walk down the street without wondering who's seen them."Another five of the children in the survey regularly viewed adult pornography online. More disturbing was the discovery that 22 teenagers had downloaded child abuse images.Ms Palmer called for children who viewed online child pornography to be thoroughly assessed, as they had often been exploited by adult abusers."Some were guided to such material by predatory adults whose aim was to ensnare them into meeting up offline," she said."&#91;This&#93; should be taken into account when assessing whether it would be better to refer these young people to child protection services rather than the criminal justice system."The Barnardo's report recommended the establishment of a national centre, manned by police and child welfare staff, dedicated to tracing children whose images are posted on the internet and the development of new therapies to help victims.
The first day of the O'Reilly Emerging Technology conference was devoted to Digital Democracy, with minimal technology content. It began with a bang, and a standing ovation for Dean organiser Joe Trippi, and ended on a high with Joi Ito (Neoteny) and Ethan Zuckerman (Geekcorps). Inbetween it mostly sagged, except for the presentation by MoveOn.org's Wes Boyd, who got the other standing ovation, and NYU prof Jay Rosen, who brought some welcome historical perspective. It wasn't that the others didn't have anything interesting to say, but putting four or five on stage together for 45 minutes generally turned out to be counterproductive.As usual there were people blogging in the audience and perhaps even from the stage, with an IRC channel providing space for a continuous but very low-quality commentary. You could spend a long time tracking down the numerous posts, but someone has done the smart thing and launched aBlogging ETechblog. Goodness knows why O'Reilly hasn't done this, because it would have been able to provide a reasonably comprehensive set of links.Online favourite Tom Coates has blogged DDD atPlasticbag.org.
Nintendo has toldReutersthat development of the next version of its GameCube console is proceeding as planned. "Other companies aren't expected to come out with next-generation consoles until late 2005 or 2006," said Nintendo spokesman Yasuhiro Minagawa. "Our machine will be ready at the same time as the other new consoles."Comment: Both the SNES and the GameCube were very late, so being on time will be a big break with Nintendo tradition.
Extreme Techhas a comprehensive guide to what's expected at next week's Intel Developer Forum in San Francisco. "CT" was formerly known as Yamhill....
A small Norwegian company is planning a stock market listing as part of its plans to go head to head with Microsoft.Oslo-based Opera Software is expected to be floated with a market capitalisation of about $140m (&#163;75.3m), which compares with mighty Microsoft's near $300bn valuation.But the competition in the market for internet browsers that can be used with mobile phones is not as uneven as it looks, according to Opera's chief executive, Jon von Tetzchner.Microsoft dominates the global market for desktop browsers but Mr Von Tetzchner reckons that "in the new markets, like mobile, Microsoft is not as significant a player at this moment". He says that Opera's ability to use the same core internet browser technology for mobile phones as for desktop computers gives it an edge over its rivals, including Microsoft.Mr Von Tetzchner and a colleague, Geir Ivarsoy, set up Opera in the mid-90s and their original two-man band has now grown to a company that employs about 140 people. The flotation is expected to raise between $10m and $20m.The two men, who each own more than 20% of the company, resisted the temptation to cash in on the dotcom boom because the company was not then ready for a stock market flotation. They say they do not regret the decision."If we had gone public then we would have followed the market down. We would much rather be on an upward trend," Mr Von Tetzchner said.
"The purchase of Psion's 31% stake in Symbian, an operating system for 'smart' cell phones and handheld devices, will nearly double Nokia's interest to 63.3%. The transaction announced Monday calls for Psion, a London-based maker of mobile device software, to be paid 137 million euros ($172 million) plus 1.23 euros ($1.54) for each Symbian-based device sold during the next two years," reports theMercury News
I wonder how significant thistie upbetween MS and Disney is? On the one hand, it looks like a typically dreary "non-exclusive" corporate marriage, the kind of thing that promises much and delivers little. On the other it looks like a huge boost for Microsoft's Windows Media format; one that guarantees some of the most loved cinematic content around is encoded in that format.Once people had talked of Apple one day selling Disney's content, presumably using a version of QuickTime, through a kind of iTunes music store for film - an iMovie video store? That looks much less likely now. I wonder if Apple lost any hope of that deal, albeit indirectly, when Steve Jobs'othercompany - Pixar - decided it was going topart companywith Disney? If so, it's Apple's first mis-step in the digital media race - and potentially, it's quite a serious one, given the company is essentially betting its future on it.
Blogs by MPsBoris JohnsonTom Watson MPAustin Michell MPJohn HemmingLynne FeatherstoneSir Menzies CampbellPolitical BettingBlogs about Northern Ireland:Slugger O'TooleBlogs by the left:LabourHomeBloggerheadsThe Yorkshire RanterBlogs by the right:Iain Dale's diaryGuido FawkesNatalie SolentCentrist blogs:Liberal EnglandLibDem BlogsWhat You Can Get Away With
It's 10 am on a Monday morning and your boss thinks you're attending a conference in Whitehall. Actually, you're at a job interview on the other side of London and won't get to the conference until midday, but she doesn't know that. Or does she? If your company has signed up to any of the new mobile-phone tracking services, which can pinpoint a user's location (to within 300 metres in some cases) your real whereabouts might be discovered.Businesses have been tracking their non-human assets, usually with some form of vehicle-tracing technology, for years. These days, however, it is possible to track people through their mobiles and, after a couple of years of increasingly substantiated hype, the practice has finally taken hold. Paolo Pescatore, senior analyst at IT analysts International Data Corporation, thinks the trend will increase. "Over the next two years, there will be a greater need for location-based services," he says. These include ones you have heard of, such as GPS (Global Positioning Satellites), but there is also a new technological procedure on the market, called triangulation. This is a method of determining a person's locality by bouncing signals off three different telephone masts.Mapminder.co.uk, a personalised mapping and navigation service, recently launched a phone location service called MapaPhone. With MapaPhone, employers can log on to the internet and track their employees online. According to Mapminder's MD, Emma Hardcastle, there has been a lot of interest from smaller companies. She says demand has partly been driven by the legislation introduced in December last year, which banned people from using their mobile phones while driving. "Phoning drivers is not practical now as they have to pull over to answer their phones," she says. That is what prompted Peter Smith, CEO of hearse supplier Binz UK, to use MapaPhone. Six weeks into the new service, he says it has already been very useful, enabling office based workers to keep track of where the sales team are and set up meetings with new clients. Despite some initial resistance from staff, he thinks they too now see the benefits. The office manager, Roberta Smith, is one of the people in charge of tracking the sales team and she finds it much more useful than she expected. "It means a bit more work for me in one sense, tracking the phones," she says. "But it also saves me time because I can find out where people are much more easily."She doesn't have to keep calling sales people and leaving messages for them if they don't answer to find out where they are. She also thinks the technology makes her and the business look more professional because when customers ring up to ask the locality of a particular salesperson, she can tell them immediately.Paul Toyne, director of Article 13, an organisation that focuses on business ethics and corporate social responsibility, thinks the technology could be a useful security measure. "Say, for members of staff working in areas of conflict," he says. "Or for people working for oil and gas companies in areas where there's a threat of kidnapping."There are concerns, however, about the potential for abusing tracking devices. Employers will have to be careful how they implement the technology or employees could see it is an infringement of their rights. Human rights groups have warned that employers must inform any staff they wish to track that this is what they are doing or they could be acting illegally."There are issues of conflict with people's basic human rights. Sometimes people have a right for others not to know where they are."Toyne recommends that anyone who is considering introducing such technology consult with employees first. Ground rules should be set stating what the tracking is to be used for and - just as importantly - what it is not to be used for.The technology providers and mobile phone operators are fully aware of these issues. Vodafone has drawn up a code of conduct for users and Hardcastle says her company will not activate the tracking technology on an person's phone until they have their written consent. One of her own salespeople has expressed an unwillingness to be tracked as he goes about the country and Hardcastle has respected his wishes.Roger Jones, business development manager at telephone company Avaya Communications, agrees with the salesman. "I don't think my exact location needs to be tracked," he says. Avaya has just started using "presence technology" whereby users can see when other fellow users are in work and available. "For example, as soon as a salesperson comes out of a meeting with a customer and switches their phone on, you can see they are available," explains Jones. He thinks it will soon take off in the business market.The success and popularity of such devices is not just down to business leaders, though. Technology only works as well as users enable it to. Sometimes people do not want to be traced and not necessarily because they are somewhere they shouldn't be or doing something they shouldn't do. Many people feel technology has already made them too contactable, and that anything that makes them even more so will make working life unacceptably stressful. Which is when they can take matters into their own hands and simply switch their mobiles off.
Walt Disney yesterday agreed to use Microsoft software to block the illegal distribution of film and audio over the internet in a deal that moves the computer giant closer to Hollywood.It means that Disney, last year's top-earning Hollywood studio, will license Microsoft's digital rights management technology in a bid to prevent a recurrence of the piracy that is plaguing the music industry.Microsoft is already a leading supplier of technology for downloading music and movies, but it wants major entertainment companies to do more with software such as its Windows Media format for high-definition pictures.The deal underlines the company's determination to gain a foothold in the home entertainment market as digital media replaces analogue content.Disney plans to start selling its movies on the internet later this year or in early 2005, but Hollywood is keen to avoid the unauthorised copying and distribution of music that has hit sales of CDs.The non-exclusive agreement between Microsoft and Disney is similar to a deal between the former and Time Warner in May 2003.Under that arrangement, part of a $750m (£403m) settlement between Microsoft and Time Warner's AOL business, Time Warner - which owns the Warner Brothers film studio - agreed to work with Microsoft to promote the creation and distribution of digital content.Disney said that the shift to digital was "a form of consumer empowerment" because it gave people more choices over how, where and when to be entertained.A new range of pocket-sized devices that can store dozens of hours of movies, television programmes and music, playing the material on built-in screens, is coming onto the market.Media companies have been reluctant to ally themselves with Microsoft because of the company's reputation for wanting to dominate markets.Its chief rival in visual and audio software, Real Networks - once the market leader in delivering sound and video over the internet - has complained that Microsoft is using its monopoly in operating systems to push its own audio and video software.Microsoft has more than 95% of the market in operating systems, and its "bundling" of sound and video software with Windows is a major bone of contention in a long-running EU antitrust suit.Will Poole, a senior vice president at Microsoft, said that the company and Disney would work together on three fronts: the creation and secure delivery of digital media in better-than-DVD quality, the flow of digital media to the public, and the distribution of media from computers to portable devices and home entertainment systems.He said that the deal, along with the one with Time Warner, reflects the company's "very substantial and sincere effort to eliminate any barrier between Hollywood and Microsoft for doing business".The Disney-Microsoft announcement comes less than two weeks after the public demise of Disney's partnership with Pixar Animation Studios, led by longtime Microsoft rival Steve Jobs, the founder of Apple computers.
"The new phone, which is still in the development stage, is expected to be compatible with a new satellite broadcasting service that is planned to launch in South Korea and Japan later this year," reports theIDG News Service."The planned handset will be based around a new chip developed by Samsung which was announced this week. The chip includes an Arm Ltd. processor core and can decode the satellite broadcasts as well as functions such as billing for pay-per-view services, the company said."Comment: Theres also a discussion atSlashdot.
At the moment I'm in San Diego for the O'Reilly Emerging Technologies conference, which starts tomorrow. I should be staying at the expensive Westin, where the conference is being held, but booked into the cheaper Comfort Inn since its Web site said it had broadband in the room. Which I need. Desperately.Today, I tried to connect, only to find it didn't work. (It connects and gives me a DNS but doesn't find a server.) I rang the help number given on the modem, to be answered by someone who was offering a wireless service, knew nothing about the connection I was trying to use, but would get someone to ring me back. (They haven't, yet.) So I asked the hotel, to be told: "the broadband doesn't work, the company that we work with went bankrupt." I've already paid for the room upfront, so now I'm stuck -- unless someone out there has a better idea!No wags suggesting Ask Jack, please ;-)More bad news: I tried three of my corporate iPass numbers for San Diego and only got "busy". Not for the first time, iPass fails. [Update: tried iPass again and it worked first time, though only at 26.4, so AOL still edges it.]The good news: AOL worked first time. It almost always does. I've been travelling with AOL for almost a decade and it has saved my bacon more times than I care to remember.
Haven't we been here before? America's technology-laden Nasdaq index doubles in the space of months. On both sides of the Atlantic, big-value flotations - Google, Virgin Mobile, Eircom - are announced or strongly rumoured for the summer. And all just four years after the catastrophic collapse of technology stocks. Are we about to witness another cyber bubble?To find out, we naturally turned first to Martha Lane Fox, co-founder of Lastminute.com. But Britain's 'Queen of the Dotcoms' recently left the online travel agency and was uncharacteristically reticent: 'I have purposefully stepped out of everything for six weeks now, so I don't think I'm the person to comment.'If Lane Fox is feeling fatigued, few could blame her. New media shares fell off a cliff just after Lastminute came to market in March 2000, turning the company from entrepreneurial pin-up to a symbol of dotcom excess.That was unfair, because while the likes of Boo and ClickMango sank without trace, Lastminute weathered the storm, has recovered most of its float price and spent &#163;30 million on acquisitions in the past few months alone.But Lane Fox isn't the only once-garrulous guru reluctant to talk up the market these days. John Chambers, chief executive of Cisco Systems, wobbled the markets when he declared last week that future demand remained uncertain.Yes, all the IT giants are reporting enhanced revenues. Yes, venture capitalists in Silicon Valley have an estimated war-chest of $100 billion to invest. But last time round they were forced to write down $25bn spent on fledgling companies, and their European counterparts $10bn. So, in contrast to the goldrush of the late Nineties, seriousness and sobriety are the order of the day.'I'm sure most of us would like to think we were smart back then and that we haven't changed our view of what makes a good company,' says George   Coelho with a smile. 'But of course we have.'Coelho is European founding partner of Benchmark Capital, for many years one of the most active investors in technology start-ups. 'We've gone back to the basics of understanding businesses. We look for business models that will stand the test of time and provide things that people really need, we want management who have done it before, and we look at whether or not the new technology advantage is really relevant.'We want businesses that are financed properly and are selling things at a profit in real money. Above all, we don't view them as different from other businesses just because they are dotcoms.'In the new climate, says Coelho, the ideal company - and one Benchmark has invested is - is Kalido, a data storage software outfit originally created by Shell then spun out of the oil giant. Based in London and Boston, it already serves the likes of BP, Unilever and Philips. 'The thing I'd like to tout about Kalido is that we already knew it had   worked for Shell, that it had worked for real customers and would adapt when you changed data models,' Coelho says.He admits that the pace of work is quickening: 'Six months ago, if you looked at a good proposal it would still be there six weeks later. If you look at it today, you have to jump on it or it will be gone.' But he is cautiously optimistic that valuations will be more sensible from now on. 'The downturn was so traumatic, I think the upturn will be rational. Although it's very hard to tell if it's a bubble until you're in it, and everyone loses their mind and forgets history again.' He confesses to some concern about 'a few companies floating in China and Asia that are extreme valuations'.It's worth remembering that quite a few of the most famous dotcoms have thrived despite a slumping share price. Some still had cash to spare when the fundraising climate froze, which gave them a great competitive advantage; others just had good business models. Ebay, the auctions website, and the online bookseller-turned-shopping mall Amazon are reporting dramatic increases in sales, especially outside the US.Meanwhile, those redundant broadband cables laid down a few years ago are finally being put to use as high-speed wireless networks evolve, and with ever-growing usage the internet is finally fulfilling many of those grandiose predictions of old. 'Old media', from Kodak to music labels, will testify to the number of people sending digital photos to friends or downloading music to iPods.Microsoft, IBM, Dell, Cisco, Intel, Nokia and Apple are among the US com panies to have reported strong revenue growth in recent months. Industry cheerleaders can even rejoice at an old-fashioned takeover battle, with Larry Ellison of Oracle upping his hostile bid for Peoplesoft to $9.4bn. On a smaller scale, British companies such as chip-maker Arm Holdings and NTL, the once-stricken cable firm, are also resurgent.In the case of the American giants, there are a couple of provisos. The first is that their results have been flattered by an exceptionally weak dollar, which makes non-US sales look better than they are likely to stay. Factor that in, and IBM's 9 per cent revenue growth, for example, is less impressive.But more important is that the crucial 'business-to-business' market remains depressingly flat. 'The green shoots are there, but all this demand, whether in computers, notebooks, mobile phones or online retailing, is consumer-driven,' said one analyst. 'When there's an upswing in corporate demand, that's when we'll  know the recovery is in train.'Companies still account for the majority of technology spending, and sustained double-digit growth in the IT sector is probably impossible until corporate clients start spending money on computers again. The long-awaited 're-equipment cycle' predicted for blue-chip companies has yet to materialise. Most are forecasting only modest increases in their technology spending or research and development budgets.So Wall Street and the City are trying not to get too excited. Meanwhile, audiences Stateside are being treated to the daily spectacle of their 'domestic goddess' Martha Stewart on trial over her controversial 2001 sale of shares in biotech firm ImClone. Still suffering from its dotcom hangover, America may not be ready for the next bout of irrational exuberance.
The man shadowing the internet activists on the street was either spectacularly incompetent or deliberately trying to intimidate. Each time they stopped, he stopped. When they ate at a restaurant, he waited outside. When they doubled back on themselves, he gazed down at his shoes until they walked past and then continued following them.The sight of the public security agent clumsily pursuing three students, a monk and an old woman was almost comically out of step with the times. But there was nothing funny about the risks they were taking. Ducking into a tatty old dormitory in one of Beijing's most prestigious universities, the activists got to work on a project that could have led to their arrest and imprisonment.In a tiny student room, one of them had connected three computers and linked them to the internet. From here they run a weekly chatroom for the most talked-about - and sometimes politically sensitive - issues of the day.On this occasion, they were taking their greatest risk yet by inviting 77-year-old Gao Yaojie, a prominent Aids campaigner who is under constant government surveillance, to discuss the HIV epidemic caused by a state-backed blood collection policy.While one of the students acted as the host, another fielded email questions, and the third worked full-time to fight off attacks on their server.They don't know where the attacks are coming from, but they suspect the government. It is reminiscent of the days of pirate radio stations."We just want people to talk and think about important issues facing China," said the 23-year-old technician. "It's not illegal in any way, but there are people in authority who don't like what we do. They would like to bring our system down."As an Amnesty report revealed this week, the Chinese government is using an increasingly heavy hand to try to silence the growing whispers of opposition on the web. The group says 54 people had been arrested for disseminating their beliefs through the internet by December - a 60% increase on the previous year.Their alleged crimes include organising online political petitions, proselytising for the outlawed Falun Gong movement, and spreading "rumours" about Aids and Sars. They face sentences of between two and 12 years in prison. Four have died in detention and there are reports of torture.In part, the increase in arrests reflects the explosive growth of internet use in China,   where the number of surfers rose by 32% last year to 78 million. But it also reflects the government's quandary in trying to promote the economic, modernising side of the web, while suppressing its political and subversive nature.The flexible boundary between what is permissible and what is prohibited was all too apparent in the case of Liu Di, a 23-year-old student who went by the alias Stainless Steel Mouse.After posting several essays online criticising government control of the internet, she received a warning from her college tutors: "People in high places have told us that you hold radical views. Stop what you are doing."A month later, she was arrested and held without trial. "The way I was treated was absurd," Ms Liu told the Guardian, after a huge outcry in China and abroad secured her release."I was in prison for a year, but they didn't show me a single piece of evidence regarding the crime I was suspected of committing.""I write in a more roundabout way now," she says. "It's like a game. One word can be totally illegal, but you can get away with alternative phrases that mean almost exactly the same thing."Like many members of China's online community, Ms Liu believes the government has established an "internet police" - rumoured to be 30,000 strong - which monitors websites and chatrooms. This has never been confirmed, but the authorities have certainly developed technology to block access to some websites, such as those of the BBC and Amnesty International. Even search engines can be filtered so that no results are returned for certain searches, such as "Falun Gong".Internet cafes and internet service providers are also under increasing pressure to join the government crackdown. The police have told Netbar, an internet cafe with more than 100 computers in central Beijing, to keep a record of the names and identification numbers of every user, as well as a record of every site visited in the previous 60 days.The cafe, owned by a subsidiary of the internet giant Yahoo, has complied with the censorship to the point of installing site-blocking software.Many foreign hi-tech companies have been accused of sacrificing principle for profit by colluding with the Chinese government's efforts to restrict access.Last month, Reporters Without Borders appealed to the chief executives of 14 technology multinationals to put pressure on Beijing to lift internet censorship and free jailed internet dissidents.Web solidarityBut the list of prisoners is growing. Some have been detained for expressing democratic views, such as the "New Youth Association". Its four members, Jin Haike, Xu Wei, Zhang Honghai and Yang Zili, were sentenced to more than eight years after their arrest last May.In many other cases, the authorities have given no justification for taking internet activists into custody. The tough measures sometimes seem aimed simply at breaking up any sense of web solidarity.Du Daobin was arrested in October shortly after he started a petition calling for the release of Stainless Steel Mouse."He left for work, but never came back," said Mr Du's wife, Xia Chunrong. "Two days later, the police searched our house and took our computer. I haven't been allowed to see him since."Three months on, she has not been told whether he will stand trial. "If he did something illegal, they should at least let the public know and let the people judge," she says.Unfortunately, that appears to be exactly the opposite of the intention of those who seek to clamp down on the internet.
Valve's keenly anticipated first-person shooterHalf-Life 2seems to be experiencing something of a curse.Originally scheduled for release on September 30 last year, the game received its first setback when unfinished code was leaked and appeared on the internet. The game did manage an unofficial release at the start of this year when pirated copies of the unfinished, but playable, code turned up in the Russian city of Novosibirsk, having been apparently tidied up by enthusiastic hackers.Later in January news arrived that the FBI had been enlisted to hunt for the missing code. The bureau raided the home of a San Francisco computer programmer, Chris Toshok, and seized software and hardware. Toshok gave his own account of the dawn raid via hisweblogand posted scans of the FBI search warrant.Half-Life 2 is now scheduled for a summer release, assuming the code doesn't get abducted by aliens in the meantime.Equally irritating for gamers is the slippage of  the action-shooterHalo 2, which many fans were expecting to see in April. They will now have to wait until the autumn for this  much-hyped sequel.In the meantime gamers have the promise of a new handheld console to look forward to.Nintendohas ambitiously scheduled the launch of its newly-announced Dual Screen for the end of 2004.The DS will feature two 3-inch TFT (Thin Film Transistor) LCD monitors, which is reminiscent of the old Nintendo Game &amp; Watch systems. They will be powered by separate processors, allowing players to enjoy different visual perspectives without interrupting play.For example, Nintendo says it will be possible to move from a wide shot to a close-up, or alternate between a character's ongoing battle and a map of the environment."Nintendo DS makes it possible to perform the tasks in real time by simply glancing from one screen to the other," the firm's press statement boasts.Until more details are revealed, the DS feels rather like a gimmicky concept and a knee-jerk reaction to Sony's upcoming PlayStation Portable (PSP). But if Nintendo's previous success with the Gameboy Advance is anything to go by, its potential should not be underestimated.Meanwhile at Microsoft, there are rumours that the Xbox 2 currently in development may be released without a built-in hard drive. If true, this would mean extra expense for users obliged to shell out for a separate hard drive. At Sony developers are lining up to produce games for the PSP.One of the most surprising of the console stories dominating the news has been about an unlikely candidate, Infinium Labs' Phantom. The console, once dismissed as at best vapourware and at worst a hoax, is envisaged as working more like DirecTV, delivering selected game content direct to users via broadband.Much of the renewed interest surrounding the Phantom centres on the appointment of Kevin Bachus as president of Infinium Labs. Bachus, a key figure behind the original Microsoft Xbox, certainly adds credibility to the project, but the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) in May will prove once and for all whether this ghost has substance.CHARTS - FULL PRICE SOFTWAREOfficial UK Leisure Software Charts (c) ELSPA compiled by Chart-Track1) Need for Speed Underground (PS2, Xbox, GC) Electronic Arts - £39.992) Norton Internet Security 2004 (PC) Symantec - £29.993) FIFA 2004 (PS2, Xbox, PC, PL) Electronic Arts - £34.994) The Simpsons: Hit &amp; Run (PS2, Xbox, GC) VU Games - £37.995)	LOTR: Return of the King (PS2, Xbox, GC, GBA) Electronic Arts - £34.996) Eyetoy: Play (PS2) Sony - £24.997) Mafia (PS2) Take 2 - £39.998) The Sims: Bustin' Out (Ps2, Xbox, GC, GBA) Electronic Arts - £37.999) Grand Theft Auto III: Double Pack (XB, PS2) Take 2 - £39.9910)	Medal of Honor: Rising Sun (PS2, Xbox, GC) Electronic Arts - £37.99
After a year in which the S companies - Siemens, Samsung and Sharp - have  significantly eaten into the market share of Nokia and Motorola, the two original giants of the  GSM mobile phone handset industry are finally hitting back.Nokia's scattergun approach of delivering a huge variety of handsets to  the market has yielded at least two or three classic mobiles.Now it is Motorola's turn to restate its design credentials. After a quiet  year in 2003, characterised by camera phones that just weren't as flashy  or as well-featured as their rivals, and interesting but rather bulky 3G  phones, the American company has set its sights on the mainstream market.In Krakow, Poland, this week it took the wraps off a trio of handsets; one  of which could well become its most high-profile phone in years.The handset, the V80, takes its design cues from a fashion phone dating back two  years - the V70. Although shorn of all but the most basic features, the  V70 became a cult hit, with fashionistas loving its unique rotating head  cover and compact size.In reality, the only thing the V80 takes from the V70 is its spinning cover,  though even this has been tweaked so it flips round automatically rather  having to be pushed. The rest of the phone is teeming with features,  from Java for downloading games to the ubiquitous camera.The shape of the phone is also very different. With the screen closed, its  oval shape is reminiscent of one of those large tins that contain old-fashioned mints.Taking up much of the phone is a large 176x220, 65k colour screen. This,  like much else on the handset, can be customised so a favourite image can  be displayed as a screensaver. The quality of the screen is a leap ahead  of Motorola's recent models, such as the V525/V600, and is approaching the industry  standard on camera phones; the Sharp GX20's screen.Above the screen is a four-way nipple-style rocker switch that controls  the handset's interface in conjunction with the fiendishly small soft keys  that surround it. Motorola has finished the handset in a very contemporary  shade of black.The fun begins when you give the rotating cover a nudge. It then flips round  180 degrees with the screen now at the top of the handset and the number  keys, which are tucked away under the screen, now accessible.Cleverly, if  users stop the screen at 270 degrees, it automatically fires  up the handset's integrated camera, thereby revealing the V80's first trump  card - the ability to take images in landscape as well as portrait modes.In terms of features, the V80 is in line with other high-end camera phones  such as the Sony Ericsson T610 and the Nokia 3650. There are plenty of facilities  and users can customise everything from the pictures on the screen to the  noise the handset makes when the screen flips round. Whether customers will  use all the facilities is a moot point.For the record, the phone is triple band, features Bluetooth for connecting  up wireless headsets and car kits, boasts a connectivity suite including  compatibility with POP3 email accounts, Java for downloads, WAP and a video  player. Battery life is also good for a phone of this type, though Motorola's  estimation of the handset's talk time of up to 240 minutes is a little generous.Then of course there's the camera. As cameras on phones go, it's a reasonably  good one. It takes VGA (640x480) quality images that are reasonably detailed  and boast fairly vivid colours.The camera works better in low light conditions,  such as inside bars, than many of its rivals. Users can tailor the exposure  to suit the conditions of the room and home in on their subject via a 4x  zoom. Being able to shoot landscape images is a neat touch - they don't  look too hot displayed on the phone, but do have more presence when sent  via email or viewed on a PC.I suspect the only real quibbles users will have with the V80 revolve around  its usability. Motorola has significantly improved its interfaces and menu system  so the phone is relatively simple to use. Accessing those menus, though, involves  pressing soft keys that are too small and tricky to use. In common with  other phones, the joystick is a little overeager too, and it is easy to end  up cycling through a menu that you didn't actually want to access.Still, these are minor quibbles. Overall the V80 is an impressive handset  and is sure to be among the most coveted phones of the first half of 2004.  Sure, there will be phones with better cameras and more advanced features  arriving very shortly: few, though, will be as stylish and as fun as the V80.&#183;The V80 will be on sale in March or April for around £150 with a pay monthly  contract.
An increasing number of primary school children are taking risks by meeting strangers they come into contact with in internet chatrooms, according to research published yesterday by the University of Central Lancashire.One in four child chatroom users attended face-to-face meetings of this sort in 2003, compared with around one in 10 in 2002, the university's cyberspace research unit said.The survey of 8-11 year olds found that 60% did not know about the dangers of fake internet users in 2003, compared with 30% in 2002.The unit voiced fears that the government's &#163;3m internet safety awareness campaign may have backfired by appealing to children's sense of risk.Rachel O'Connell, author of the report, said: "They hear about something they shouldn't do and go and do it. What the government is doing isn't working."Children understand this technology a lot more than we think and we need to give them more credit."The report said that nine out of 10 children were aware of general internet safety guidelines, such as never giving out their address or telephone number. The proportion experimenting with chatrooms remained stable at three out of 10.The results were disclosed to delegates at one of the UK's largest internet safety conferences in London.Paul Goggins, the home office minister who chairs the government's task force on child protection on the internet, said it was important to raise awareness among the public of the latest internet safety guidance."This will ensure that our children are able to use the internet to its full potential in safety," he added.
Earlier this week, Graham Coutts was sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of teacher Jane Longhurst after his obsessions with strangulation and necrophilia were apparently fuelled by internet sites containing violent and pornographic images.With Jane's mother now calling for such sites to be closed down, the case raises fresh questions about how the internet can or should be policed. For all it gives us, the internet, it seems, cannot escape being portrayed as a terrible curse as much as a blessing.The complexity of the issues involved in such pleas for content control should not be underestimated: safety and protection for internet users, censorship of content, international relations, global legislation, and individual responsibility and compliance.Millions of people use the internet every day and enjoy the freedom and access it gives them to information from all over the world. But when the "bad stuff" is contextualised in such an extreme way as in a murder case, finds themselves asking why we are not able to stop such content.In the UK, we actually have a high awareness of internet content issues. The Internet Watch Foundation works closely with the country's internet service providers (ISPs), police forces and central government to ensure that we are doing all we can to control the online availability of illegal or potentially illegal images.There is a clear divide in legislation covering images of child abuse and  adult content. Child abuse images are deemed globally unacceptable and international laws reflect this. Attitudes to adult content, however, vary enormously around the world, a fact reflected in less precise laws determining what it is and how it should be controlled.In either case, much of the content comes from sites hosted outside the UK. These are governed by the country of source, so cannot be controlled by the internet industry, regulators or law enforcement agencies in Britain.Ongoing international discussions between governments, police departments, regulators and industry bodies as well as safety and protection organisations, hope to reach a more cohesive position on how illegal internet content should be managed.The model in the UK works. The ISPs are responsible and compliant, and since 1997 the percentage of content categorised as potentially illegal has dropped from 18% to 1%.The rest of the commercial internet industry, such as software vendors, continue to develop new filtering mechanisms which allow individuals to protect themselves. Search engines have their own means of filtering and regularly review new ways to protect users.It is acknowledged that the internet has allowed images of this type to be more accessible to a wider audience than ever before and that all types of pornography   in many different media formats, such as pay-per-view websites, can be a lucrative business.Efforts continue to find new ways to combat the availability of potentially illegal images online, with organisations both at home and abroad building relationships to this end.In the meantime, we encourage internet users to be vigilant and proactive if they have any kind of exposure to obscene and potentially illegal images, and report it.Please also support what is being done in the UK, so we can set an example by leading the way and move towards a more widely adopted international model of monitoring what's out there.&#183;Fay MacDonald is communications coordinator for the Internet Watch Foundation
The Labour party is considering giving Tony Blair a weblog as part of its attempt to make its general election campaign an "engaging dialogue with the British people".Douglas Alexander, Labour's election coordinator, told Guardian Unlimited he is considering "all means to communicate with the voters directly" for the campaign, including an election blog.The Cabinet Office minister also confirmed he had discussed the campaigning possibilities of the internet with Democratic strategists and Britain's first blogging MP, Tom Watson.Democratic presidential hopefuls John Kerry, John Edwards and Howard Dean have all used the internet to motivate and organise their supporters and raise funds.Mr Alexander was particularly impressed by how the Dean campaign translated "virtual activism into real activism" in the early stages of the primaries.But he stressed that Mr Dean's failure to win a single primary, despite being once seen as the frontrunner, shows that the message is more important than the media in an election campaign.Mr Dean's earlier success and imaginative use of the internet prompted his rivals, Mr Kerry and Mr Edwards to copy many of his campaign innovations, including having a blog.Mr Alexander said he would be "fascinated to find out in due course how effective it has been in the successes they have enjoyed this week".And he added that he had been impressed by how Mr Watson's blog had "opened up a political dialogue with a far wider range of people than he would have previously managed".Asked if that meant he was considering persuading the prime minister to have a blog, he replied: "I'll be interested to consider all means to communicate with the voters directly."Mr Alexander said that he believed "new forms of dialogue and communication between politicians and the public" were essential to sustaining the Labour project."If we wish to be a progressive government - not just securing two terms but securing three terms - then we need to be sustained by progressive political conversation."He added: "The idea that elections are now decided simply by historic alignments of voters to political parties is breaking down."The challenge for politicians now is to make the case for why their values, their political party and their vision of the country's future meets the aspirations of the people they discuss politics with."&#183;Douglas Alexander MP is one of the speakers at the Guardian sponsored Fabian Society conference onThe Way We Live Nowon Saturday February 7
Safety campaigns warning about the dangers of internet paedophilia have led to a reduction in the number of children taking risks online that could place them at risk of abuse, according to a report published today.Fewer schoolchildren are giving out personal information - including their name, address and phone number - on the internet, and the proportion talking with strangers in chatrooms has fallen by more than a quarter, said the cyberspace research unit (CRU) at the University of Central Lancashire.Its report, Emerging Trends Among Primary Schoolchildren's Use of the Internet, found that the proportion of children who chat online to people they do not know fell from 40% in 2002 to just 13% last year.The study found children recognised the importance of safety guidelines when chatting online, with 72% regarding the advice as "very important".The proportion of children reporting that they had never been told anything about internet safety fell from 10% to just 2%. More than three-quarters of children were aware that they should never meet up with people they only knew online, and 91% were aware they should never give out their phone number or address.But the director of the CRU, Rachel O'Connell, warned that safety messages were still not getting through to a hardcore of young internet users who are increasingly engaging in risky behaviour, such as meeting with people they befriend online.The research found that these children spent the most time online but were least aware of safety guidelines.Ms O'Connell said: "The findings of this study suggest that the users who have lower levels of knowledge also have higher levels of experience of using the internet, spend longer online and also engage in more risky activities."These factors are of equal importance to academic ability with regards to education programmes, and those that continue to disregard this place children at increasing risk."The CRU research found there had been a 15% decrease in the number of children aware that people they talk to in chat rooms may not be who they say they are.There was a slight increase last year in the proportion of children who met cyber-friends face-to-face, although none went to meetings on their own - compared to 24% in 2002.The report is being launched today at a CRU conference at the British Library in London, to mark European Internet Safety Day.The conference will bring together representatives from the police, children's charities and the internet industry to draw up strategies to improve internet safety.
Provisions for computer-derived evidence have been part of English law since 1968, but it was not until last year that the potential impact of information technology on court proceedings became widely apparent.The two most notorious judicial processess of 2003 - the Hutton inquiry and the Soham murder trial - both depended heavily on the intricate analysis of such material (email and mobile phone records respectively), and blow-by-blow coverage of each flagged to the public how effective computer forensics has become.The mathematical precision of digital evidence is perfectly suited to the "who, where, when and what" requirements of judicial proof, and such is the proliferation of IT technology that it would now be unusual in a major investigation for no evidence of this kind to be submitted.However, one of the problems facing courts is that the inner workings of computers are still a mystery to most people, including judges and juries. In most cases involving computerised records, the evidence has to be interpreted by an expert witness.Neil Barrett is one such expert, a former computer science lecturer (he   was appointed at the age of 22) who now works with the police to examine and recover "deleted" information from suspect computers, verify its accuracy and interpret it for the courts."The use of computer evidence is growing at an exponential rate," he says. "Mobile phone call locations and times, evidence related to emails that have been exchanged, or research carried out on the internet planning say, a jewellery shop robbery, all involve computerised records - and then there are out-and-out computer crimes, such as downloading paedophile material or hacking."Barrett says that in his experience, judges and juries are unprepared for that type of evidence. For example, in the Harold Shipman case, the doctor had modified evidence on his computer but was caught out by the date time stamp on the records. "That obviously requires a jury to understand what a date time stamp is and how it can and cannot be modified. That requires someone who is an expert in computer technology to provide and interpret those contents for a jury."Increasingly, computers seized from suspects act as a virtual crime scene. Many offenders remain unaware that internet usage leaves footprints that can be traced, and that   files, emails and images can be recovered even after they have been "deleted". The diffiicult part of Barrett's job is not recovering the evidence, but wading through the material to find what is relevant. "We're looking at the whole contents of the hard disk - all the existing files and all the deleted files, and when you consider that one 1.4Meg floppy disk produces 500 sheets worth of A4 - a Jeffrey Archer, we call it in the business - you can imagine that a 20 or 30 gigabyte computer disk would produce several lifetimes of reading material. You've got to know how to express the search terms to find just what you want."Barrett's evidence has helped convict murderers, armed robbers, hackers and paedophiles: his highest-profile job was investigating the contents of a laptop belonging to Paul Gadd (aka Gary Glitter). "The question we had to answer there was: 'Could the material found on his computer have been put there by someone else?'. To do that, we used what's called 'evidence of habituation'. That is, we showed that emails he sent that were not criminal, such as organising a concert, had exactly the same characteristic features as in the criminal material that was recovered."The importance of computer forensics was recognised by the government in 2001, with the establishment of the National High Tech Crime Unit. The danger that computer crime, along with providing the means to catch the guilty, also provides the excuse to create a Big Brother infrastructure to monitor the innocent, is a widespread concern.Barrett believes that this scenario is unlikely. "My response to people worried about government agencies snooping on their emails is to say,   firstly, look at the volume of stuff that gets sent; and secondly, look at the levels of manpower available to cover it. There are about two dozen police officers in London responsible for computer crime of any kind, and it requires a minimum of two of them for each prosecution."It's true that most of what you do on the internet leaves some form of footprint, but for most of us it's going to be a very dull footprint. To analyse all the email that came out of your computer to suggest some criminal motive would take me several days of very, very close analysis - I'm not going to do that unless you've come into the sights of an investigator for a good reason."&#183;Traces Of Guilt, Neil Barrett's book detailing his investigations into computer crime, is published today by Bantam Press, £16.99.
GadgetsBeats in timeAustrian company Laks is reviving an idea pioneered a few years ago by Casio. Next month it will launch a series of watches that can store and play MP3 and WMA music files. Users transfer the tunes to the watch via its USB 1.1 interface and then listen on earphones. Also on board is a microphone. Power is supplied by a rechargeable Lithium-ion battery, with a playback time of around five hours. Four versions offer 32, 64, 128 and 256MB of storage. The top model is to retail for around &#163;200.www.laks.comWi-FiCruise controlThe Queen Mary 2 has a series of Wi-Fi hot spots to enable passengers to surf the net wirelessly on their own computers. Text messages can be sent for $1.50 each via TV monitors in cabins. The ship maintains its vast array of telecommunications via satellite links.Route finderGPS specialist Navman is to launch its first GPS add-on for Palm PDAs. Compatible with Palm's Tungsten's range and several Sony Clies, the GPS4460 is a GPS receiver that connects wirelessly to the PDA via Bluetooth. It uses a combination of 3D colour maps and voice instructions to guide drivers to their destinations. It goes on sale this month for &#163;300.www.navman.co.ukCamerasEnthusiast modelPanasonic is ramping up its digital camera range by introducing a top-end "enthusiast model" with an innovative    12x optical zoom. The four megapixel Lumix DMC-FZ10 features a Leica Vario Elmarit lens and Panasonic's latest Venus Engine image processor. The DMC-FZ10 is also the first to feature Panasonic's Mega OIS image stabilising system. Images can be reviewed on a 2in, 130,000 pixel LCD screen and stored on a Secure Digital card. It goes on sale next month. Also on sale next    month are the DMC-FX5 and FX1, compact cameras that take four and three megapixel images respectively.www.panasonic.co.ukCamera phonesSlide and snapSamsung's German wing has taken the wraps off a top-end camera phone due to arrive in the UK in summer. The key feature of the ultra-compact SGH-D410 is that its bottom half slides down to reveal the number pad. The handset takes VGA pictures, features a front-mounted 260,000 colour, 2in display, has a POP3/IMAP4-compatible email client and includes Java for downloadable games and content. Other notable   features include 10MB of storage and 30 seconds of MPeg video capture.www.samsungelectronics.co.ukRich pickingsWith an MP3 player, FM radio, video-enabled camera phone with 4x zoom, personal organiser and a few excellent games, the Siemens SX1 is very feature-rich. It uses the Symbian Series 60 operating system, is stylish and weighs a mere 116 grams. The phone also features an unusual keypad that is split into two vertical rows and placed either side of the screen. The handset also comes with three games. It costs &#163;250 with contract, &#163;450 without.www.my-siemens.comStat of the weekLogging off the internetNielsen//NetRatings survey of active internet users says Europe's online population is falling. The UK lost 279,268 users in December - although the world's biggest fall was in Japan, where 764,446 users vanished. Modest growth continued in the US, however.
Fast and the FuriousDigital bridges/Morpheme&#42;&#42;&#42;Driving games have been particularly unsuccessful on mobile phones so far, with designers continually unable to recognise the limits of the devices. But Morpheme, a developer    best known for its quirky puzzle games, has gone back to basics for this licensed Java title, drawing inspiration from Atari's classic Sprint   series of arcade racers - even down to the oil-slicks and puddles.The idea is to grind your Boy Racer-style street car through a series of illegal races, picking up cash to spend on new parts. It's rudimentary stuff, but that's why it works. Before long, you'll be unable to switch it off until you've saved up for Nitro canisters. Very sad. Could have done with some kind of two-player mode, though.Splashdown: Rides Gone WildTHQ Wireless&#42;&#42;&#42;This attempt to transport the console jet ski (sorry, SeaDoo) series to mobile phones is admirable, but not entirely successful. You can race, or take    part in a freestyle mode - essentially Tony Hawk's Pro Skater on water. The isometric perspective works quite well, and the water physics   model is surprisingly authentic.But it is too easy to get disoriented in the race section, and a lack of variety in freestyle means you quickly exhaust the range of tricks. There appear to be some sprite-sorting issues, too, so when you ride behind an object, you actually over-lay it. We haven't seen that since the Spectrum days! Still, an ambitious project, and certainly worth a look if you are tired of puzzlers and platformers.
Ashley Norris replies:Mention scanner pens to some PC users and they will turn their eyes skywards. Most   people who have used one seem to be able to recount a tale of how they scanned a sentence of the Queen's English and turned it into gibberish.Yet writing handheld scanners off is a little unfair. Since the turn of the century, the models have become simpler to use and their OCR (optical character recognition) systems more efficient. They are significantly cheaper, too, with budget models retailing for less than &#163;100.So how do they work? Scanner pens are handheld devices designed to read lines of text from documents or books and then convert the text into files, which can be transferred to a PC. Most are a great deal bulkier than actual pens, but they are in effect mini-PCs with a real operating system. They also have storage facilities and come with a screen to display what has been scanned.Who is buying them?According to Mark Needham, managing director ofWidget.co.uk, most of the sales are to students for cribbing from reference books. Anyone involved in research, especially those in the legal and medical professions, is likely to have a scanner pen.Are today's pens more accurate than their predecessors?If the manufacturers are to be believed, the scanning horror stories of yore are now distant memories. Most claim their pens to be around 95-99% accurate. However, much depends on how they are used. Holding the pen at the right angle, between 75 and 80 is important, as is ensuring you have a finger leaning against the paper to provide stability. First-time users tend to make the mistake of trying to scan too quickly, so go slowly and keep the scanning head firmly on the page.How do I get the text on to my PC?Most scanning pens have built-in memory - from between 1MB to 6MB (a large book uses about 1MB) so you could use them all day in a library and then transfer the information to your PC on your return home. The easiest way to transfer the data to a PC is by using a USB connection, although some older scanners only feature serial connectors. Users can however scan directly to a PC, or in many instances a PDA, via an infrared connection. Once stored on the PC, the data is compatible with Microsoft applications such as Word and Outlook.Are there any new features that have emerged in the past few years?More expensive scanner pens feature an integrated dictionary to help out if the scanner finds a word   it isn't sure of. Many scanner pens also offer a language translation service, with foreign words turned into English. This is often via additional software transferred from a PC to the pen. Specialist translation scanners will display the foreign words in English or speak them out loud.So which are the best models?A good, all-round budget pen scanner is the Wizcom Quicklink (&#163;90). For a top-end model, try the C-Pen 800C (&#163;220). If you want a scanner pen for your laptop (PC or Mac), the IrisPen Express (&#163;100) uses a USB connection. For scanning whole pages at a time, consider the Docuport Docupen (&#163;140).Where to buy?www.widget.co.uk,www.datamind.co.ukandwww.amazon.co.uk
"In anticipation of a full-blown launch this summer, Microsoft has released trial software to the public for its Windows XP 64-Bit Edition for 64-Bit Extended Systems," reportsInternetNews.com."The software, which can either be ordered via CD or downloaded (approximately 450 megabytes), is only compatible with AMD Athlon 64 powered desktops or Opteron processor-powered workstations. The trial version will not work on 64-bit Intel Itanium-based systems, the company said."Comment: The AMD download ishere. The64-bit Itanium versionhas been out for about a year, and you can buy it running on anHP workstation.
"IBM Corp will unveil the new ThinkPad X40 next Tuesday as the lightest notebook ever built by the company as well as the first to incorporate file recovery technology," reports theIDG News Service."The new notebook weighs just 2.7 pounds (1.2 kilograms) and measures 26.8 centimeters long by 21.1 centimeters wide by 2.7 centimeters thick, but comes with a full-size keyboard. A base configuration costs $1,499 with a 1.0GHz Ultra Low Voltage Pentium M processor from Intel Corp., 256MB of memory, a 20GB hard drive, a 12.1-inch display, and Intel's Pro/Wireless 2100 802.11b chip."The base configuration comes with a four-cell battery that provides up to 3.5 hours of use under normal circumstances, but an eight-cell battery that lasts for up to 7.5 hours is also available, Shenk said."Comment: It's still heavier and thicker than the old but still seductiveToshiba R100, which is 2cm thick and weighs 1.1kg. However, that's listed as having an average run-time of 2 hours, which is not enough for someone who usually carries two 4.5 hour battery packs ;-)Update: Walt Mossberg has reviewed the X40 today in the Wall Street Journal (paid sub required) and on CNBC Dow Jones Business Video. "I have been testing the X40 and have been impressed. It's a terrific little computer."
Oracle's bid for PeopleSoft looked rather like an attempt to undermine a competitor and confuse the market, and PeopleSoft filed a lawsuit against Oracle, accusing it of trying to destroy its business. But the Californian database company has just increased its bid by a third, and it's now offering to buy shares for more than the stock market price.CNetreports: "Oracle's increased bid of $26 a share represents a 15% premium over the $22.70 closing price of PeopleSoft's shares on Wednesday. It's also ... in the range of where several Wall Street analysts are forecasting PeopleSoft's share price to be trading in the next 12 months, strengthening Oracle's position as it seeks shareholder approval to replace half of PeopleSoft's directors in a March 25 election.""This completely changes PeopleSoft's strategy. This now puts PeopleSoft on the defensive and its board nominees at risk," said Rick Grubaugh, a senior vice president at proxy solicitor D.F. King &amp; Co. "Because the stock used to trade above the offer price, it eliminated the need for the board to accept the offer. Now the board can't hide behind the fact it is not a credible bid."However, both the US Justice Department and EU regulators are still examining the deal to see whether it is anti-competitive, and decisions are not expected until next month.
CastlevaniaPlaystation, &#163;39.99 Konami,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Castlevania, a defunct 1980s classic, has been exhumed. It was an action-platform game that combined a wonderfully gothic castle setting with a succession of challenging bosses. Konami's modern-technology take on Castlevania wisely refrains from messing with the basic concept: armed with an enchanted whip, you work your way through a creepy castle, taking out all manner of skeletons, ghouls and seemingly impregnable bosses, while solving physical puzzles and, in a nod towards role-playing games, building up your character's strengths. The process may feel old-fashioned, but it remains surprisingly satisfying.Castlevania has migrated from two to three dimensions - which has removed the fun from many a game, but not in this case (despite a fixed camera that sometimes dictates that you have trouble seeing far-flung bits of whatever room you are in).The combat - always the crux of Castlevania - is nice and responsive and, as you progress, you acquire large amounts of helpful special moves. Leon, the character you play, moves well, too. When attempting seemingly impossible jumps, he can swing on things using his whip. Initially, you depend on an unhelpful arrow system, but once you begin to acquire maps, everything becomes much clearer.The end result is an old-fashioned but satisfying and stylishly executed game, which will catch the imagination of adults and youngsters alike.Steve BoxerStar Wars GalaxiesPC, &#163;29.99 (&amp; &#163;10 per month subscription, reviewed with an Asus Radeon 9800XT graphics card) LucasArts,&#42;&#42;&#42;Broadband? Hi-spec PC? If you have ticked these boxes and are also keen on Star Wars, then this may be the game for you. Star Wars Galaxies is a massively multiplayer online role playing game (MMORPG). The most famous is Everquest, and Galaxies, initially at least, doesn't veer too far from this template.It is all about creating a character, entering a virtual world and seeking fame and fortune. This can be done by hunting local wildlife, in groups or alone, and running errands. Crucially, though, Galaxies adds more scope. Players can become entertainers, chefs and politicians, advancing their characters in non-combat roles.Initial professions, such as artisan and scout, throw up numerous career paths. The committed can even attain Jedi status, although whether the attendant loss of job, partner and friends is worth the Herculean effort is open to question. And this is the real crux with this kind of game. Lots of time is needed to get anywhere. But get attached to your character and it becomes difficult to separate.Greg HowsonArmed &amp; DangerousXB, &#163;39.99 Planet Moon/LucasArts,&#42;&#42;&#42;It's always a shame when original and challenging games perform badly at the tills. Planet Moon's Giants was just such a game, bursting with good ideas and great gags, but cruelly snubbed by punters. Armed &amp; Dangerous is another slice of unique, and occasionally bizarre, gaming - but will it fare any better?With a weapon that causes sharks to spring out of the ground and eat nearby enemies, no one can accuse A&amp;D of being derivative. For 21 hectic levels, you and your three cohorts storm every map with the same   intention of wiping out anything in sight (including half the scenery). Played in third-person perspective, it initally feels a bit imprecise, but the first-person view comes in handy when you discover sniper rifles. And then, of course, there are the cut-scenes - 30 minutes of excellent storyline that combines Douglas Adams with Monty Python in moments of inspired banter. For once, you are well advised not to skip them.However, you can't help feeling that the varied gameplay of Giants has been sacrificed to keep console owners happy. The graphics are blocky and repetitive, and enemy AI seems to have only one gear, running straight at you in large numbers.Your team-mates, meanwhile, can be given simple orders but are generally best at soaking up bullets, shooting you accidentally in the back, and rebuking you when they die. Fortunately, they are reborn every level - proving, again, that this is not the deepest of games. So enjoy it for what it is - a fast, furious and funny shoot-'em-up with a very British flavour. Perhaps if we rewarded Planet Moon with some well deserved cash, they might show us what they can really do.Mike Anderiesz
The family of a teacher who was murdered by a man obsessed with websites showing graphic images of extreme violence against women yesterday called for the internet to be more closely regulated.Relatives of Jane Longhurst demanded new laws to control pornographic websites after part-time musician Graham Coutts, 35, was jailed for life for her murder.During a harrowing trial at Lewes crown court, the jury had heard that Coutts, who kept Ms Longhurst's body for almost a month and visited it frequently while it was in a storage unit, was an avid user of sites devoted to snuff movies and necrophilia.The court heard he had been examining such sites the day before he strangled the special needs teacher with a pair of nylon tights. He was back at his computer screen minutes after one visit to Ms Longhurst's body.The prosecution said he had killed Ms Longhurst and kept her body as a "trophy" to play out a "bizarre and macabre" sexual fantasy.Speaking after the verdict Ms Longhurst's mother, Liz Longhurst, 72, said: "I feel political pressure should be brought to bear on internet service providers to close down or filter out these pornographic sites so that people like Jane's killer may no longer feed their sick imaginations and do harm to others."Ms Longhurst's former partner, Malcolm Sentance, 34, said: "I think Jane would have been here now if it were not for the internet."Detectives have investigated the websites which Coutts logged on to. But because they were not hosted by British internet service providers, they have no power to take action.The disappearance of Ms Longhurst, 31, a music teacher at Uplands special needs school in Brighton and a talented viola player, sparked a massive police search in March last year.More than a month later, on April 19, her body was found ablaze in woods near Arundel. Police were puzzled that the remains were so well preserved and deduced that the body had been stored carefully.The revelation chimed with staff from the Big Yellow Storage Company in Brighton, who became suspicious about a man who had hired a unit after Ms Longhurst vanished.He had deposited a large white box sealed with tape in the unit and been given a pin number which allowed him access to his unit after hours. He had visited the unit 10 times.Police identified the man as Coutts, whose girlfriend Lisa Stephens was Ms Longhurst's best friend.When police opened the unit they found Ms Longhurst's mobile phone and purse as well as a blood-stained rope and a condom containing traces of Coutts' semen, and samples which matched the teacher's DNA.This suggested Coutts might have had sex with his victim after her death.Police investigated Coutts' background. He was a part-time salesman and guitarist with mod bands and a Who tribute group called Substitute, who lived in Hove. At the time of Ms Longhurst's disappearance, his girlfriend was pregnant with twins.Police also found that Coutts was a frequent visitor to web sites depicting extreme violence on women. They traced former girlfriends, who described how he liked to tie them up and apply pressure to their necks during sex until they almost passed out.One, Sandra Gates, told officers Coutts had once admitted: "I get the most awful feelings that I am going to strangle, kill and rape a woman."Ms Gates also revealed she had discovered a stash of pornographic pictures of women. Around their necks Coutts had drawn nooses.In the witness box, Coutts conceded that surfing the net for pornography had become an "addiction", and said that since he was 15 or 16 he had a "fetish" for women's necks.But, to the fury of Ms Longhurst's family, he claimed the teacher's death had been a tragic accident which happened while they were having consensual sex.Coutts denied there was any "sexual activity" in the storage unit, insisting he returned repeatedly because he wanted to check if the body had been discovered.Ordering that Coutts must serve a minimum of 30 years, Judge Richard Brown said: "In seeking perverted sexual gratification by way of your sordid and evil fantasies, you have taken &#91;Ms Longhurst's&#93; life and devastated the lives of those she loved and of those who loved her."By persisting in your denials, you have put those loved ones through through the ordeal of this courtroom and have forced them to relive the last moments of her life and the unbelievable degradation of her body. You have shown not one jot of remorse."
