Sent to investigate the drifting hulk of the USG Ishimura, your shuttle crashes separating you from your companions and leaving you alone in a spaceship full of aliens bent on killing and eating you. At this point, rather than arm you to the teeth, Dead Space gives you stasis (which freezes enemies) and kinesis (that lets you pick things up) and very little ammunition. The result is a stressful game, but one that actually isn't all that much fun to play - it sacrifices spooky atmosphere for relentless action and the usual run-and-gun antics for repeated hammering of shrieking mutants with your bare hands. You have to chop aliens' limbs off rather than go for head shots, there are bits played in zero gravity and it's never as satisfying to play as Resident Evil 4.• Electronic Arts, &pound;34.99-&pound;49.99
•The biggerthe hair, the closer to heaven•Lions lovehippies•10 moviesit's OK for guys to cry at•The differencebetween a cheetah and a leopard•Chris Morrisneeds you to give him &pound;25•Sylar's powersare logical captain•Golfers have nosense of humour•Part-time veggiesare now called flexitarians•Novelty topiaryhas its own website, at last
As a mercenary in an unnamed war-torn African country, your mission is to hunt down an evil arms dealer, the Jackal, while helping both sides in a bloodily internecine local conflict. The essence of this job is tooling around the exquisite and evocatively dusty African savannah in jeeps with heavy machine guns or grenade launchers on the back, taking out similarly armed locals and fellow hired guns. Looking staggeringly realistic - from the brutality of the violence to the way ferns and bushes part at your approach and retreat - you'll find that old weapons jam more regularly,  Molotov cocktails start wild fires and suffering from malaria can be very distracting in the middle of a gunfight. Packed full of ideas, from the way you map-read behind the wheel to the buddies you meet and help, plus subtle audio cues to tell you're in trouble, this is a wonderful and expansive experience.• Ubisoft, &pound;34.99-&pound;49.99
MondayLittle Big Planet delayed: Quran references in soundtrackTuesdaySpore design competition winersWednesdayVirtual Worlds Forum 08: Habbo HotelThursdayFriday
Today in Chicago, and on TV screens across the USA, Oprah Winfrey is going to recommend her new "favorite gadget," which is Amazon's Kindle ebook reader. A brief video has appeared onAmazon's websiteto plug the show -- as spotted byChris Nuttallat the Financial Times -- which will also feature a guest appearance by Amazon founder Jeff Bezos. (Not his first, by the way.)Oprah has had a powerful effect on US book sales. According toTime:It's not true that Oprah Winfrey's book club was the most important development in the history of literacy. For instance, there was the invention of the written word. Then there was movable type. So Oprah comes in third.The article adds that: "Oprah's endorsement of any title meant a minimum of 500,000 additional sales, says Jim Milliot, the business editor at Publishers Weekly."I don't expect Oprah's endorsement will sell half a million Kindles, or not immediately. But over the long term, it could be a huge boost for Amazon's ebook business.Update: The Oprah Winfrey Show site now has a slideshow,Oprah's Favorite New Gadget. It says:As a special offer for Oprah Show viewers, Amazon.com is giving $50 off the price of Kindle. Enter the promotional code OPRAHWINFREY during the checkout process at Amazon.com to receive the discount. This offer is valid through November 1, 2008.
It is a delight to have Fred Pearce'snew Greenwash columnstarting over on the environment site. Not just because Pearce (who I've known for about 20 years) always brings a forensic, perception-changing approach to environmental matters; but also because there're so many rich pickings for us to provide him with from the computing industry. Hell, on our own we could probably give him enough claims to fill the column for the first year.What sort of things? Well, first of all there's the underlying assumption that chucking away your old computer or data centre in favour of something newer is going to be more "environmental". Thus Appletouted its new portable computers last week as its greenest-ever– "highly recyclable and even more energy efficient". OK, but that's relative, isn't it? Carved from a block of aluminium they may be (watch thevideo), but that aluminium probably wasn't made by collecting discarded kitchen foil; it'll have been extracted as bauxite, andthen turned into aluminium blocks, which in energy-intensity rivals running a particle collider. So they're "greener" if you don't mind all the fossil fuels burnt to extract the contents and put them together. (I'm assuming the bauxite mines and smelters aren't powered by windmills – though Norway is afavoured location for aluminium smeltingbecause of its plentiful, and green, hydroelectric sources.)I've also enjoyed the past 18 months or so in which Dell has tried to transform itself into a "green" company. The most amusing part has been its "Plant a tree for me" plan, which tries – apparently not hard enough – to persuade people buying a new computer to purchase carbon offsetting, in the form of one-third of a tree planted per machine, for its first three years. The prices aren't high – £1 per laptop, £3 per desktop – but people aren't biting. The best numbers I can calculate, based on what the company doles out, is thatless than 1% of purchased machines are offset.The point is that Dell does seem to me to understand the need to reduce its impact on the environment. Todd Arbogast, its director of sustainable business, explained that Dell's headquarters in Round Rock, Texas, is powered by a mixture of wind, solar and "methane capture" sources, and it is pushing its suppliers to use more renewable sources of energy, and recycle more. All laudable aims; it's only a pity that its customers don't seem to share them.There's plenty more, of course. Is it really "green" to use cloud computing? You might think so – after all, it's all happening somewhere else, isn't it? – but if you consider that it means your computer is running, as well as lots of other computers all over the world, then it doesn't. Nick Carr, author ofThe Big Switch,calculateda while back that each avatar in Second Life, for example, has a carbon footprint as big as the average Brazilian – and that's inadditionto their real-world personae, who probably aren't Brazilian, but American.Or the more recent case,notedby technology journalist Chris Edwards, of a company spotted by the consultancy Ovum which, in Edwards's words, found that "when it came to their [carbon] footprint, some were forced to wear supersized carbon clown shoes: 'One of the delegates, who had travelled from Düsseldorf to Amsterdam, had been told that he had to fly there as it was not company policy to reimburse train fares – despite the fact that in this case there is no direct air service and flying was both considerably more expensive and slower! As this journey involved two relatively short flights, the fuel consumption per passenger was probably about 10 times that of the rail option.'"Ah, yes, the manifold ways in which we can be tripped up by our own good intentions.But the question behind it all – and which thelatest economic newsmight make us consider even more carefully – is: why do you need a "new" anything? Isn't there enough computer equipment in your home or business to do what you need? Isn't the real solution to speeding things up or making work easier actually in the software, not the hardware? I suspect that the coming year is going to see some dramatic slowdowns in spending (Gartner has alreadyslashed its forecastsfor 2009) and a lot of reevaluation. The question, "Why do you want that again?" is a good one when it comes to hardware. Because the nice thing with software is that it's completely green: you're just reusing the electrons in the wires and magnetic domains on the hard drive. Now that's what I call green.
It is a problem that has taxed the world's leading scientific minds and its greatest doctors; some of the richest people on the planet have pumped billions of pounds into finding a solution.But a new project aimed at curbing the spread ofHIVin Africa has discovered that one of the most effective weapons is the humble text message.Faced with 1,000 HIV-related deaths inSouth Africaevery day, a global group of organisations has teamed up to createProject Masiluleke, which aims to increase HIV awareness, testing and treatment across Africa using mobile phones.The first stage of the project – which has already shown remarkable results in early trials – involves sending out free text messages to millions of people every day urging them to call a confidential phone line if they have any concerns about HIV and Aids.Pilot projects have seen immediate results, with a four-fold increase in the number of calls to the country's National AIDS Helpline and a significant response from target groups.Future plans still under development include offering free home HIV testing kits, and using text messages to remind patients about their hospital appointments and keep them informed about their medical treatment."This is a critical effort," said Dr Krista Dong, an HIV and tuberculosis specialist and director of education group iTeach, which is one of Masiluleke's backers.Speaking at the launch of the project at thePop!Techconference in Camden, Maine, Dong said that the need for innovative approaches to the crisis was urgent."With hundreds of thousands of people suffering and dying, it's no longer a question of 'should we do this?' or even 'how should we do this?'. It's 'how fast can we do this?'."Finding new ways to educate the public about HIV and Aids is an important issue for a country that has failed to stem the rapid growth of infection.South Africa has a huge problem, with infection rates averaging almost 11% across the country. In areas such as the eastern province of KwaZulu-Natal, where Project Masiluleke is based, the numbers are even more shocking: one in six people has HIV, and up to 40% of pregnant women carry the virus.Despite the high prevalence of Aids, only 5% of people in the country have ever been tested for the virus – mostly when they were already in the advanced stages and close to death. Men in particular are a problem group, because the powerful social stigma associated with being found HIV positive means they refuse to visit clinics.The organisations backing Project Masiluleke said text messaging was being used because mobile technology is so pervasive in South Africa and remains private. At least 90% of people carry a mobile there, and phone adoption is also growing rapidly across the rest of the continent, potentially allowing similar schemes to be rolled out easily in other Aids-affected countries."Because there's a phone in almost every family, we really have almost universal coverage, so it's an ideal opportunity for us to drive testing." said Gustav Praekelt, director of the Praekelt Foundation, a South African non-profit organisation involved in the scheme."The other important thing is because of the scarcity of other services in Africa and South Africa, it's become a central component for people to get access to information, entertainment, medical care and banking services."The scheme has support from a wide group of organisations, including the Pop!Tech conference organisers, American innovation group Frog Design and African phone network MTN. The scheme's backers hope that Masiluleke, which means "lend a helping hand" in Zulu, will eventually start to have a noticeable effect on infection rates because it offers a combination of intimacy and privacy."In a country where it is so obvious that we are challenged by HIV, you would think there would be enough knowledge to help people to either access care or change behaviour," said Zinny Thabete, an HIV campaigner with iTeach."But people do not want to go to their clinics to access care … People fear who's going to see them and what's going to be said about them."
A few years ago charities starting using basic Flash and downloadable PC games to build awareness of their activities - there have been a few really good titles that have managed to combine both playability and information about the cause. And here's a decent new example.Developed byI Sioux Game Productionsand sponsored bySPIL games,The Red Cross Game: Emergency Response Unitis an RTS, challenging you to manage the relief efforts in a series of disaster zones. Using a familiar drag-and-drop interface you farm out emergency supplies and medical aid to stricken areas, ordering in planes to drop aid, or sending your doctors over in transit vans. It's all done against the clock though, so you need to carefully prioritise your efforts.It's a well-presented game, with lots of background info on the Red Cross and the work they do. The neat overhead visuals did remind me a little of the original Commandos: Behind Enemy Lines, which meant I kept expecting to gain control of several heavily armoured soldiers with appalling regional accents. That never happened.You can play a couple of free missions online, but the full game is available for £13, a percentage of which goes to the charity.
If you're wondering why it's been quiet from me for a few days, it's because I've been trekking to Maine – that little bit of America that's almost in Canada (but don't tell them) – forPop!Tech, an annual conference of ideas and inspiring stuff.The theme this year is "scarcity and abundance", which has been the grist for a series of mind-expanding talks from the likes of neuroscientistPeter Whybrow, writerMalcolm Gladwelland conductorBen Zander- you can read in depth about them on thePop!Tech blog(where I've been keeping track of events, along with some other friends of the conference).But I thought I might just highlight a couple of tech-related talks from the day.First up yesterday morning wasSaul Griffith, whodescribed howhe did a personal audit of his energy footprint so that he could understand how to do his part in saving the planet. And he's not only done it for himself but alsobuilt a website, WattzOnto help you do the same.Wattzon allows you to track every aspect of your energy footprint; and they're using crowdsourcing techniques to make the data more accurate as more people use it. Fascinating – although you need to take some action after playing with the site, obviously.We also heard fromPaul Polak, an inventor and design guru who has decided thathe wants to try and make products that the world's poorest people would buy. These ranged from tiny electrochlorinators that can clean water on the go, to portable microscopes for screening diseases.Today is a big day for the geek squad: we've got talks from speakers including internet thinker Clay Shirky (who we interviewed back in March), Wired editor in chief Chris Anderson, and Matt Mason, the author ofThe Pirate's Dilemma.photos byKris Krug, used under CC license
It's almost the weekend! Chat chat chat.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and why?I would say hands down, bar none, myiPhone. If you'd shown this to Benjamin Franklin his head would have exploded. The user interface is incredible – if I can use it, anyone can. It's designed for the simple-minded. It's just awesome.How has it improved your life?I wouldn't say it has. It's actually a bit of a distraction, though they always say that technology will free up more of our time for us. I think I've begun to take for granted how easily information can swirl around me. I don't know what I'd be able to do if I ever lost it: it's made me more dependent on technology and it's made me lazier because you expect everything to be at your fingertips.When was the last time you used it, and what for?About four seconds ago, playing Scrabble with my wife.What additional features would you add if you could?Video. And the camera isn't that great: the images it captures are not that high quality.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Probably. But it feels so elegant that I think the design will last.What one tip would you give to non-iPhone users?Jump off a building. Nah, just kidding!Do you consider yourself to be a Luddite or a nerd?I think I'm neither. When it comes to fixing anything though, I freeze; I become a Luddite.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?It would have to be an automobile, right? The hybrid I have now is one of the least expensive cars I've ever had. I had a BMW 318i convertible once, the ultimate driving machine. Of course, it didn't have GPS in it. I sold it to Dominic Monaghan [Merry in the Lord of the Rings trilogy], before he did the TV show Lost.Mac or PC?Please! Next question, you already know the answer to that one.What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?I Will Follow You Into the Dark by Death Cab For Cutie.Will robots rule the world?They will, of course they will. I met someone the other day who's working on artificial intelligence, so I say go ahead, let them run it.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A jet, there's no question about that – then I could fly over there [to London] and we could do this interview in person. Or maybe some military-grade fuel cell technology, so I could be the next Henry Ford – I'd like to own the patent.Sean Astinplayed Samwise Gamgee in theLord of the Rings trilogyand Twoflower inTerry Pratchett's The Colour of Magic, out on DVD and Blu-ray on November 3
Cliff Harris' indie game Kudos 2Cliff Harris is a veteran game designer, with a fine pedigree of time at British gems Elixr, Lionhead and Maxis (when it had UK offices). It's not surprising, for those who know these companies' outputs, that his indie games have a taste of the god sim to them. TakeDemocracyGame, a politics game that's been used in classrooms and - as he told me - was even considered for use by the US Department of Defense.Kudos 2, his latest indie release asPositech, is a lighter offering. We put him through the game pitch process to find out more. Keep reading for his take on why Spore didn't work, and why he hopes indie games developers will never rule the world.Explain your game to my mum in 140 words.Kudos 2 is about how you choose to live your life from age twenty to thirty. You start off with a bad job and not much education, and depending how you choose to spend your time each day, you get a better job, meet new people, have a relationship, and change your personality and mood. You can end up being happy and sociable with an average job, or career minded and wealthy but perhaps a bit lonely. The game asks you what to do each day after work, and you can either go to evening classes, socialise, spend time alone or do things like read a book. How you spend each day, and what you aim to achieve in those ten years is entirely up to you, and the game is basically about balancing the pressures of life.How do players control the game?The game is in 2D, and you have some indicators which show you how your characters currently feeling about everything. During the day, a diary shows you how your days has gone, and in the evening you select different menu options to pick how you spend that evening, so there are buttons for you to select from a list of solo activities, and a mobile phone that will flash when people invite you out or have a message for you. The interface for the game is a bit unusual because there isn't really a normal genre for games like this.What is your background?I started coding age 11 on the Sinclair ZX81, but never got to finish a decent sellable game back then. I did a succession of weird jobs (guitar teacher, boat builder, stock market computer engineer...) before eventually working at Elixir studios as a game programmer, than at Lionhead doing AI for the movies. I then did a brief bit of work for Maxis and since then I've worked from home making indie games out of a bedroom. I'm a real bedroom coder, none of this having a separate office malarkey.Name your competitors.Everyone and everything. Many people would say Maxis, because of the Sims and maybe I compete with Stardock over 'The Political machine', but my games appeal to a lot of non gamers. I think people who study politics and economics are people who would play Democracy and anyone who reads those self-help and motivational psychology books would love Kudos. games don't just compete with each other, we compete with TV, Books and pubs. I'm lucky in that my games are a new '2D turn based strategy-sim' genre, so I don't have any absolutely clear competition.How many players do you have now and what's your target in 12 months?My games tend to sell a few thousand copies each, but a lot of people who buy one of my games buy all of them. I'd like to do a game that sells ten thousand copies direct from me, but I've never achieved that. Maybe this time? A lot more people buy my games through online portals, but they don't even tell you how many, which is a bit annoying.What's your biggest challenge?Getting people to try the demo. I do 2D games that are more about the gameplay than the graphics. Most people who start playing them really get into them, but I have to overcome the fact that when you see screenshots of Kudos next to Crysis, people try out the shiny looking thing first. It's also a problem to get much coverage of an indie game, because you are just one person doing everything, including the code, most of the artwork, the business side and the testing, so marketing and PR is just a tiny part of a long working day.What's the weirdest development experience you've had thus far?Feeling empathic for Tony Blair. I'm not a huge Blair fan, so it was very weird. When I coded Democracy I was trying to make as accurate a model of political systems and choices as I could, and it led to tons of emergent gameplay I hadn't even considered. I found myself making false promises to the electorate, making huge compromises and cutting spending on stuff I wanted to increase, all whilst pandering to extremist groups purely because they were swing voters. All the kind of stuff you hate in politicians. It was weird because I didn't code any of that into the game, it just emerges from accurate modeling of how and why people vote.The other weird thing was arranging for Julianne Regan (All About Eve) to record some music for Kudos: Rock legend. This was someone whose first album is in my car, and whom I went to see play live as a teenager, and suddenly she was contributing music to one of my games. I was a bit star struck by that, and it still seems a bit weird.What's your distribution/publishing plan?I sell my games direct from my website, and also through online portals such as Yahoo and Stardocks Impulse. I think in future I'll likely continue as I am, because I like having direct contact with the gamers rather than sticking a layer between us (the publisher). People who buy games like being able to contact the actual designer, rather than just ranting on a forum the designer will never read. I know that limits the extent to which my business can scale, but I'd hate to think that Positech became just like any other big games company with no connection to it's customers. I would like to get my games on Steam, but apart from that, I'm happy with how things are.Are indie games the latest killer app?Indie games are the secret weapon the consoles can never, ever beat, because they exist outside the confines of what console approval committees think are cool. All new genres and classic games tend to be those that all the people in suits at publishers thought would flop. The ability for just anyone to sit down and make a game they think is cool is a wonderful thing. Imagine a world where books had to be approved by one of three companies before being written. I'd hate to live in a world where gaming was defined purely by Microsoft or Nintendo. Plus indie gaming keeps niche genres alive. The only hardcore hex strategy games, 2D shooters and classic RPGs are being done by small indie teams. The big publishers have abandoned those genres entirely, so more power to indies for catering to those of us who don't just like Halo and Gears Of War.Are you the next big thing?No. And that's a good thing. The next big thing by definition will appeal to everyone, which waters stuff down and caters to the average. I'd much rather have 2% of the market and be making exactly what they want, and earning a nice living, than giving the other 98% something they thing is just ok, and owning a private yacht. I could make my games more mass market by simplifying them, but that would kill off the spark in them that makes them what they are. Good games only happen when people ignore the marketing department and make something they think is cool, and I'm going to keep doing that. If you have  really cool idea, but suddenly you need millions of people to like it, you end up with Spore, a potentially great game that got more and more dumbed down.
Microsoft has declared  itsfirst quarter resultsand beat expectations by a penny with sales 9% higher at $15.1 billion and profits up just 2% to $4.37 billion.The main successes were the Server and Tools division, which increased sales by 18% to $3.4 billion, and the Business Division, where sales grew by 20% to $4.9 billion. Server and Tools benefited from the sales of Windows Server 2008 and SQL Server 2008. The Business Division, which sells Office 2007, made $3.3 billion, which was the majority of Microsoft's profits.The Client division, which sells Vista and XP, increased its sales by only 1.9% to $4.2 billion, and its earnings fell by 3.6% to $3.3 billion. (Update: Windows Vista sales grew by 22% in the quarter. PC sales grew by 15%, according to Gartner, but a chunk of that was made up of netbooks running Windows XP.)Entertainment and Devices, where the bulk of the money comes from the Xbox, saw sales fall 6% to $1.8 billion, but profits climbed 6% to $178 million. However, the division came in well ahead of expectations, which were for sales of $1.45 billion. (Update: Microsoft launched halo 3 in the same quarter last year, so it wasn't expected to match that.)Microsoft also lowered future expectations, but not by as much as expected. In the earnings release, Chris Liddell, chief financial officer, said: "In a challenging economic environment, the first-quarter results exhibit the strength and diversity of our business model."According toCNBC:Guidance is where the Microsoft story starts to get interesting. Most analysts expected the company to miss its second fiscal quarter expectations because of the widespread economic slowdown gripping the globe. The shortfall against Wall Street expectations wasn't nearly as bad as some had feared with Microsoft expecting a new EPS range of 51 cents to 53 cents.
It wouldn't be fair to expect the first T-Mobile G1 phone running Google's Android software to have a lot of useful applications, but at the moment, theMarketofferings look much worse than I'd expected.Playing with a G1 phone yesterday, courtesy of ARM, I started hunting for a note-taking app so as to give the keypad a decent workout. I couldn't find one on the phone, and I couldn't find one on the Market either. Maybe I missed it, but I still got the impression that there wasn't much there that had any practical use. (Sorry about the incredibly stupid design of theMarket web page. On the phone itself, you get a sensible vertical-scrolling list.)In keeping with the fact that Gmail's contacts application is so dire as to be almost an insult, the one on the phone is also dire. Maybe there's a gaping hole there for some smart programmer to fill, but again, I can't see a replacement contacts app on the Android marketplace.Well, you can play Pac-Man and Bubble Bash, but is the G1 phone really aimed at nostalgia-prone retirees? There's also imeem music streaming for people who actually own a Nokia and so don't care if their G1 doesn't hold enough juice to make calls.According toAppVee, the only app that looks useful --Locale, which fixes some obvious deficiencies in the base software -- is also the most popular, but imeem and Pac-Man complete the top three.More Android apps are on the way, of course. And the new onesmustbe an improvement. The list could hardly get worse….
Last month I noted that Microsoft was dropping - early - its Seinfeld-inspired campaign (I'm not saying "inspired Senfeld campaign" though) in favour of a new bunch that go more towards Apple's "I'm a PC/I'm a Mac" thing,taking it on full-frontal.Iwrote:And what is Microsoft doing now? It seems that it's rolling out ads which resemble Apple's "I'm a Mac" one, in which a John Hodgman lookalike (Hodgman plays the chubby PC in those ads) says, "Hello, I'm a PC, and I've been made into a stereotype."This is a mistake. Even I can see this is a mistake. It's the error of "framing": that is, letting your rival set the ground on which you fight. (It's the error the Obama campaign keeps making whenever it focuses even the slightest attention on Sarah Palin, instead of the rival presidential candidate, which is who Obama is really up against.)What was clever about the Seinfeld ads was that it simply ignored the "I'm a Mac" campaign. It treated it as nonexistent; it went its own way. If Microsoft's bosses cannot see that taking on Apple on the very terms that Apple has set is a mistake then....And sure enough, Apple has been very quick to leap on what's going on. There's the new advert "Bean Counter":In which "PC" is allotting tons of money for advertising, and a weeny amount for "fixing Vista".Alternatively there'sBake Sale, which does much the same:Now let's compareMicrosoft's "I'm a PC" ad:OK, maybe I don't work in advertising, but it seems to me that it's still a mistake. For those wholikePCs and Windows, the PC ad is great. (For those who don't know it, it's great too - my kids love it, while having no notion of the divisions of the computer market.) For them, the Apple ads will come across as smug and annoying. And inexplicable.But if you're someone who's been a bit annoyed at any stage by Windows, especially Vista, and you're considering a Mac, the Apple ads could just be that thing that makes you consider it. The difference, then: the Microsoft ad only reinforces how you feel; the Apple ad might crystallise a change of mind. And Apple only needs to do that often enough to sell above-industry-growth numbers of computers.Like it just did. Still sure about the ad campaign, Microsoft? Only asking...
Sony's Vaio TTis one of those high-end ultraportables where if you have to ask the price, you can't afford it. (Expect to spend £1,599; or somewhere between £1,199 and £1,999, depending on the specification.) The TT uses an Ultra Low Voltage Intel Core 2 Duo with an ambient light sensor that varies the brightness of the 11.1 inch widescreen to prolong battery life for "up to 8 hours". It has 2GB or 4GB of memory, a 160GB hard drive and a read/write DVD. However, thanks to the carbon fibre body, it still comes in at just 1.3kg -- slightly lighter than a 13.3 inch MacBook Air.The UK version comes with Windows Vista Business whereasSony USAis offering it with Vista Ultimate, 256GB of Solid State Drive, and Blu-ray for $4,344.99. An extra high-capacity battery adds another $249.99.Of course, Sony has been down this road before with theultra-thin X505, which weighed only 822g, and was also very desirable. I toted a loan sample for a couple of weeks, and everyone who saw it wanted it… until I told them the price. I'm sure the TT will sell a few, but it's the kind of product that makes netbooks like the Asus S101 and Acer Aspire One look attractive … and so far there is no sign of Sony entering the netbook market.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Okay, if you're coming here to catch up on a week of sharp videogame analysis, let me save you some time and disappointment. There's none here. Instead, a quickfire discussion on how to eat meat, an argument about goats and some turning-30 angst.Once again Limni is on writing duties, so blame him if he's missed an epic conversation about something electronic and/or interactive. I'm guessing he didn't.So unroll a napkin, place a finger bowl by your computer screen and tuck-in...Part one: meatEx-vegetarian Fantomex started off the week's big topic with a personal revelation:"For the first time in my life last night, I ate meat. Chicken chow mein. Was somewhat unimpressed."The meaty suggestions piled in thick and fast:(Keef's note: Limni suggested cutting this, but I thought, what the heck - it reads like some sort of bizarre carnivorous play. I think there's a TV pitch in here...)Killerbee:First time eating meat? Get yourself a big fat juicy burger with cheese and bacon. If you're still unimpressed after eating that, there's no hope for you. ;)Olderfart:My local posh burger place does a great Kobe (Japanese style pampered beef) burger. It's £17 but to paraphrase pulp fiction: that would have to be one f***ing great burger. It is.Alimantado:Start with something like pasta Carbonara or Parma ham, pickles and cheese before working your way up.PhilosopherK1ng:Char Sui chow mein is the king. Marinated fatty pork - delicious beyond belief and much, much nicer than vanilla chicken chow mein.Lazybones:I was properly vegetarian for years, but before I stopped eating it I had this dish in Portugal, which was called, on the menu, 'Steak Portuguese'. It was amazing. It was a terracotta dish lined with salami, on top of that was a big sirloin steak, and on top of that, rashers of bacon.Smellavision:Roast rack of lamb, with minted peas and mash potatoes, or a silverside of beef Wellington with rosemary roast potatoes.Dizzyisanegg:Get a leg of lamb + roast it, covered in oil with some fresh rosemary. Also put some knife holes in it and stuff a few whole cloves of garlic in. Add mash, veg and a gravy made from the juices.CrispyCrumb:My first return to red meat was a posh sausage sandwich. Don't muck around with takeaway rubbish, you might as well have a badly-packed kebab and go the whole hog.Limni:I recommend Grill at the Hoxton Hotel on Gt. Eastern, try the Chateaubriand. Incredible.Davefalse:Bit of a jump from no meat, but a rib-eye steak cooked rare has to be tried. Couldn't live without steak and rib-eye has fat marbled throughout that just tastes so good.NickT:Has to be steak - aged rib eye - brought up to room temperature, olive oil and pepper rubbed into it, fried for a couple of mins. each side adding sea salt when its flipped over, rested for at least 5 mins. and served with fat chips fried in goose fat.I think I just came.TonyHayers:Well it's nature's gift innit. You're an idiot if you've denied yourself that particular pleasure (not to mention essential minerals and protein). Steak is the king of meats, roast beef/lamb possible silver medals. Though to choose is like picking between oxygen or water.Foom:Dear God, nearly 30 posts on and nobody has mentioned a bacon sandwich on fresh white bread yet?The only dilemma is whether you're a ketchup or an HP man.HDStanton:Bacon! Bacon! Bacon. The king!Dack:Very rare fillet steak, between two slices of buttered thick sliced white bread, (or possibly with chips). Get the blood mingling with the melted butter and being absorbed in to the bread.Roarrr:The only veg I eat is potatoes so pretty much every meal and sandwich is meat centric for me. 4 lamb skewers last night for me. Top notch.Meer:Can't go wrong with a good steak but you could also swing down to the Jade cafe in Chinatown and get yourself some of the roast duck/roast pork belly over rice, cheap and amazingly good.Sorbicol:Toad in the Hole with Onion Gravy and Mash potatoes.*Drools all over keyboard*BeardofBees:A nice rich tasty goulash with beef is what you want!Riano:After all these culinary delights mentioned today I have the sneaking suspicion you will plump for a meat ball sub.Illocon:Chorizo, Salami, Pepperoni - deli packaged meats or the stuff in plastic packs from Tesco. Perfect for a balanced breakfast.Craggyisland:Braised pigs cheeks are really gorgeous.If you say so Craggy!Part two: goatsOn Wednesday, Goatrecon joined the blog. An innocent mention of his love for Capra aegagrus hircus led to a barrage of questions and comments from fellow bloggers. In fact he had plenty to say on the subject:"I love goats in any way possible as often as possible. The majesty of their form has captivated me from an early age.""All in time succumb and appreciate the Goat for its noble posture and mischievous grin""My first Gamertag was GoatboyAK47 and I even had Goatboy as my IPOD engraving."BeardOfBees wasn't impressed: "I think I speak for many here when I say that I do want to distance myself from this rather boundless and high-spirited affection for goats". Alimantado took a more analytical approach, asserting, "You're nothing but a goat fanboy and it's blinded you to the truth". "And when was the last time you had sheep cheese or milk?" fired Goatrecon, "You will never be able to convince me that a sheep is greater than a goat!"With the gauntlet laid down, Lazybones, took up the challenge. "Roquefort is made from Ewes milk and it is the king of cheeses," he raged, convincingly. "To top it all, male goats urinate on their beards to make themselves more 'attractive', and occasionally stand on their hind legs and talk like humans. They're a bit like monsters". Yeah, he lost us a bit at the end.A last word from Alimantado: "Goat's milk and cheese is ming! Roquefort, wool, strings for violins, rack of lamb, companionship = sheep win!"Next week: domesticated pig vs wild boar!Part three: turning 30Jimbob78 gave us all some big news and a challenge:"Three days of my twenties left. I've had several months of trying out things I have never done before which I should do before the end of my youth. Any suggestions from the blog? Could even be games related."Games related? No chance.Loser was the first to offer his advice. "You could try being less of a nugget for a few days and see how that worked out for you?" Meanwhile, Smike let us know his key pre-30 achievements, "Saw Brazil play live (v. Argentina at the Emirates). Got a ride in an ambulance (to casualty after a drunken night out went wrong)."Other suggestions:Morris dancing – CheddarfrenzyBungee jumping – HumofevilWatch a cage fight – LazybonesSee a grown man in the nude – TonyHayersDo a handbrake turn – KillerbeeDo a Logan's Run – Art1eFufkinSwim with (or near) dolphins (or a seal) – CBPodgeGo to a Turkish prison – cagoolQuote of the weekVery close this week but first prize goes to Dack for getting his priorities straight:"Eating Quorn sausages and cheese &amp; tomato pizzas whilst building up Civilizations to the point where they can take over the world or fly missions to Alpha Centauri has been in no way a waste of fifteen years of my life…"Other quotes"I've got to the point where I'm starting to think the game might be broken. But then I just start feeling I've got early onset Alzheimer's..."We've been thinking that for a while, Lazybones."This week, I am mostly hating builders, flat mates, religious whackos and commuters."And next week, Gurner?"The crushing disappointment of relegation still hurts. Good thing I've got my impending financial meltdown and divorce to keep my mind off it."Alimantado looks on the bright side."I for one can't wait to knife the f**k out of Goody on CoD5. The sneaky bastard."CBPodge does his bit for the 'games don't make you violent' cause.Mentions – good or otherwise!Games: WipEout HD, Mass Effect, Linger in Shadows, Lego Batman, Tiger Woods 09, Zelda: Phantom Hourglass, CoD5 Beta, PES2009, Valkyria Chronicles, RockBand, LittleBigPlanet, Fortress Forever, Mount and Blade, Dead Space, Fallout 3, Resistance 2, Fable 2Films: Superbad, REC, The Wicker Man, Collateral, London to Brighton, There Will Be Blood, Rambo, The Darjeeling Ltd, Everything by the Coen Brothers, 12 Angry Men, The Fantastic Mr Fox, American Gangster, Carlito's Way, GomorrahTV: Stephen Fry on America, Peter Kay's Britain's got the Pop Factor and possibly a new Jesus Christ Superstar Strictly on Ice, Harry and Paul, Dead SetBooks: The end of Mr Y, Indignation, Brideshead Revisited, The Raw Shark Texts, Money
I'm being reminded every day to install the Vista Service Pack. What are the advantages, as I am quite happy with my system as it is?Barbara FullerVista's Service Pack 1 makes no visible difference to your system (or not one I noticed), and may not make any practical difference, though your PC should run slightly faster. The main problem SP1 dealt with was slow file copying. Otherwise, there are lots of minor tweaks that improve hardware and software compatibility, networking, and reliability. Many are for laptops -- such as support for n-level Wi-Fi, faster resume from sleep, and better battery life -- rather than desktops. Some changes have been made to make the core operating system the same as the one used for Windows Server 2008. Some have been made to satisfy the US Justice Department. Many of the changes will already have been made if you have Windows Update turned on, as you should. For a comprehensive list, see:Notable Changes in Windows Vista Service Pack 1.In general, it's best to install Service Packs, because all new Vista PCs will ship with SP1, and all future enhancements and all new versions of software will be tested against SP1. Since there are well over 100m PCs running Vista, some people are bound to have problems. However, the risk is fairly low, and SP1 (KB936330) can be uninstalled if necessary: seesupport.microsoft.com/kb/948537.
I have a Dell Dimension C521 running Vista Home Premium. After installing Vista SP1, I cannot access any sounds.Colin BoatmanIn some cases, for no logical reason, Vista Service Pack 1 appears to change the default setting for sound. Go to the Control Panel, run the Sound applet and check that first. Otherwise, Microsoft has a Knowledge Base article: How to troubleshoot sound problems that you experience after you install Windows Vista Service Pack 1 (http://support.microsoft.com/kb/948481).
PES is back on top. Yes, Fifa 09 is slicker and more instantly playable, but PES has the grit that makes for a more rewarding, realistic experience. Gameplay, particularly online, is much improved, and the switch to the D-pad for tricks makes them easier to pull off and more fluid. Of the new modes, Champions League is well observed, albeit just another cup competition, but the introduction – finally – of the big-in-Japan Become A Legend mode is very welcome. In it, you attempt to take a single player from non-league anonymity to international stardom – and it &iacute;s a genuinely challenging slog. There are flaws – why haven't late transfers been included? – but they're mostly window dressing which online updates will sort shortly. Fifa plays to the gallery. PES, once again, plays to the fans.
Sony dearly hopes LittleBigPlanet will kickstart a much-needed spike in PS3 sales. Luckily it proves to be a work of genius. It's a game in two parts, with a conventional (but achingly cute) platformer which combines cunning physics with a gloriously simple control system. But the most amazing element is a full-blown, unbelievably powerful yet easy to use editor, which lets you make your own levels to post on the PlayStation Network. It should, therefore, unleash a torrent of creativity – when the release finally happens next month.
Vista SP1 or not?I'm being reminded every day to install the Vista Service Pack. What are the advantages, as I am quite happy with my system as it is?Barbara FullerJS:Vista's Service Pack 1 makes no visible difference to your system (or not one I noticed), and may not make any practical difference, though your PC should run slightly faster. The main problem SP1 dealt with was slow file copying. Otherwise, there are lots of minor tweaks that improve hardware and software compatibility, networking, and reliability. Many are for laptops - such as support for n-level Wi-Fi, faster resume from sleep, and better battery life - rather than desktops. Some changes have been made to make the core operating system the same as the one used for Windows Server 2008. Some have been made to satisfy the US Justice Department. Many of the changes will already have been made if you have Windows Update turned on, as you should. For a comprehensive list, see: Notable Changes in Windows Vista Service Pack 1 (bit.ly/aj0051).In general, it's best to install Service Packs, because all new Vista PCs will ship with SP1, and all future enhancements and all new versions of software will be tested against SP1. Since there are well over 100m PCs running Vista, some people are bound to have problems. However, the risk is fairly low, and SP1 (KB936330) can be uninstalled if necessary: seesupport.microsoft.com/kb/948537.Vista SP1, no soundI have a Dell Dimension C521 running Vista Home Premium. After installing Vista SP1, I cannot access any sounds.Colin BoatmanJS:In some cases, for no logical reason, Vista Service Pack 1 appears to change the default setting for sound. Go to the Control Panel, run the Sound applet and check that first. Otherwise, Microsoft has a Knowledge Base article (support.microsoft.com/kb/948481).Backchat• Peter Medhurst wanted to keep using his ageing PowerMac G5, and I suggested installing Leopard (Mac OS X 10.5), possibly in parallel to his current OS. Karl Smith says: "If he can get hold of a copy, Tiger (10.4) may well be a better bet." He also reckons installing a faster hard drive would help. Rhodri Jones says: "I have the same model of G5 with 2GB of RAM. I upgraded to Leopard and noticed a very good increase in speed with the apps I use. No problem running Safari - or Firefox, my preferred browser." For other old Mac owners: Leopard does not support PowerPC G3 processors, or G4 processors with clock speeds below 867MHz.
Veteran game designer Peter Molyneux may often promise more than he can deliver, but Fable II lives up to the hype. This is a real treat for fans of Zelda, Oblivion and gaming fairytales. So think underground dungeons, exploring off the beaten track and digging for treasure, all in a classic fairytale/fantasy medieval setting. Fans of the original will get a nostalgic glow from the ooh-arr English accents but there is no need to have played through the first game to appreciate the sequel. The most immediate improvements are in the world, which is now much larger and demands exploration, and the wider scope of the game. Marriage, home ownership, relationships, flirting, farting – there is so much to be getting on with that the main quest can easily be deferred. But perhaps the biggest hit is your canine companion. Having a pooch at your side as you explore the countryside is a great feeling and there is a definite emotional pull if he gets injured. Two can play together offline or online, although the system is unnecessarily convoluted. More impressive is the ability to see everyone else who is playing at the same time as you, which gives a real buzz to the world. A triumph.
There's a free spirit in gaming culture that's represented in charming geekery. Nowhere is that more clear than in the ephemera that gamers produce to celebrate their culture.Despite - or perhaps because of - publishers' over-reliance on stale intellectual property, same-old blockbusters and safe sequels, we are witnessing homemade creative output of all kinds at a whole new level. Bitten by the web 2.0 bug, gamers are extracting and mashing up properties and repurposing  them for their own pleasures. But it's not just the independent game developers who are taking the lead: peel back the surface of the PlayStation generation and you'll discover a rich vein of content, from the physical to the digital, digested by ordinary people celebrating all things game.Crafts traderetsy.comteems with soft furnishings and jewellery in the theme of gaming properties; game-themed jack o' lanterns are currently clogging up RSS readers; and Little Big Planet, released next month on the PlayStation3, will graduate handcrafted game levels into a bankable, console-based social network. But my favourite ludic offshoot is something infinitely more consumable. I like to call it Bakeware.Gamers around the world are putting down the controllers that have been fastened to their hands for more than 20 years and are picking up whisks, greaseproof paper and food colouring instead, spinning sugar into the cakes of their digital fantasies.And, being technophiles, they are lovingly documenting every step before turning the whole project out on the internet.Once the preserve of plasticky pre-fabbed icing in supermarket boxes, cake designers have been working hard to remove the kiddie associations of Halo's Master Chief and his digital compadres and are creating tasty game-themed works for high class dinner tables across the country.I recently attended a wedding where the bride proudly showed off her (delicious) Portal-inspired double chocolate dessert, a sideways step from the typical gamer wedding topper, Super Mario and Princess Peach. A quick Google search turns up several million photo results, including a 2007 Wired cover story in which American epicure Martha Stewart bakes a Wii.Indeed, there's something about Nintendo that has inspired the greatest number of edible replications in flour and egg. Maybe the cakemakers' natural affinity is with a digital mascot that looks like he enjoys the odd dessert, in between saving his princess from giant apes and dragons and fixing the plumbing. Or perhaps it's due to the game publisher's output: from the surprise hit Cooking Mama to Cake Mania versions 1, 2 and 3, Nintendo has released its fair share of culinary treats.The whimsy of gamers is ascending as readily as the world economy is heading downwards. With times threatening to get tighter and the already high price tags for my entertainment continue to rise, I'll be bridging the gap between gamer and game with a carefully constructed masterpiece made out of royal icing instead.
When Stephen Fry played with Trevor Baylis' first wind-up MP3 player for this paper last November, helavished it with praise. "I love this little thing," he gushed. "It is robust, clever without being pleased with itself, useful and appealing." I was fond of the Eco Media Player (EMP) too, so it was with some excitement that I received version 2.0.Baylis' new crank-powered pocket player bills itself as the EMP Revolution (&pound;130). That's a little audacious. The man has grabbed the original, updated it to piano black, bumped the storage from 2GB to 4GB and spruced up the video playback. I'd call that an evolution, not a barricades-and-guillotines revolution. Still, in a world of Viewtys, Eee PCs and Vieras, it's hard to get too hung up about the Revolution monicker.Like the first EMP, this update takes the Swiss Army knife approach to the features it offers. It can play music, video, photos, charge phones and record via a line-in socket. It also has an FM radio, voice recorder and built-in speaker. Oh, and there's a torch too. Marvellous.The most obvious improvements over its predecessor are cosmetic. The piano-black case is nicer than the old black rubber, and the crank handle now has a cute brushed silver effect. The most obvious disappointment is the interface. It's almost identical to the old, awkward one.Like the first EMP, the Revolution is chunky. But while the depth will annoy some, it's essential so that you can grip the player firmly when winding it up. It's worth noting that cranking is loud enough that you wouldn't want to wind it on the 7.15 from Brighton.Video playback is vastly improved on the original. The resolution and screen quality is no match for, say, Apple's iPod nano, but it's OK for short videos. Sound quality is fine, so long as you upgrade from the duff earphones that come in the box. File transfer is via drag and drop.The music player supports just about everything: MP3, WMA (but not with DRM), AAC, OGG and WAV. (No FLAC though.) Video-wise, it'll play WMV and H.264, but not MOV files.One very welcome change is the move from a 2.5mm line-in socket to a standard 3.5mm one. That makes it a hell of a lot easier to record from vinyl and plug in microphones.Doubling the storage is a good thing, yet feels stingy. With the 4GB Revolution at &pound;130, the 8GB iPod nano looks a steal at &pound;110.And the rest? Well, everything else – like its ability to charge a mobile phone – is essentially the same as the original, soFry's reviewis still worth a read. He's taken one with him to Africa for his latestfilming trip.Ultimately, the Revolution is really an evolution. It's better-looking, has better video and a more user-friendly line-in socket than the first EMP. I think it's a good companion for campers, travellers and anyone who spends a long time away from mains sockets. Commuters, however, should just get a trouser-friendly iPod, which Greenpeace describes as "significantly less toxic than before". Phew.
A new startup is helping reshape the social networking landscape by using artificial intelligence to automate the process of identifying, finding and retrieving specific types of information locked within online communities.Over the past decade, social networks have become a powerful new force for attracting internet traffic. In the UK, Facebook is currently the second most popular website followed by Google, according to Hitwise, an internet research firm.It's not surprising that the names of the various social networking sites like Facebook, MySpace and LinkedIn have become common destinations for younger people as well as businesses.But finding information and expert sources of knowledge quickly within social networks is neither easy nor efficient and valuable information is left buried within online communities.To date, much of the technology focus has been on building document-based information retrieval techniques, leaving the process of identifying human sources of information, also known as "expertise identification," with much less attention.Enter a group of scientists and military officers who have helped build a new social analytics tool that identifies and automatically uncovers intelligence to help military personnel perform better in the field.SRI International based in Menlo Park, California, teamed up with military officers to build a new social analytics tool called iLink that generates models and helps streamline the process by which a specific expert in an online community can be found.In simple terms, iLink is a machine learning-based system that models users and content in a social network and then points the user to relevant content.The team developed the basic social networking technology, which combines workflow and analytics. The research and development effort was part of a five-year project called CALO (Cognitive Agent that Learns and Organizes), and funded by the US Department of Defense."They wanted a real system to be built and deployed into military settings," said Jeffrey Davitz, an SRI scientist and co-developer of the iLink technology. "What we did was connect the text mining technology that had been done in social media and connected it to the Web 2.0 applications," he added.The iLink system had several goals, including real-time learning by matching queries and communities users; adapting to user demands and directions, providing accuracy in message targeting and routing and, finally, dynamic user profile correction based on community behaviours and identification of community experts.The learning in iLink occurs by watching a natural social network, and selecting effective strategies that emerge from the system as the members try to solve problems. The system continuously monitors the real social network and it is capable of drafting from the social network's learning."We started with a lot of analytics stuff, text flow and workflow," Davitz said.The iLink software uses artificial intelligence software and message routing technology to help the system learn about the online participants and move specific questions to those who are best equipped to answer them. The SRI scientists basically build a profile of each person in the community and the iLink system starts to learn about the movement of information around the community.The US military is currently evaluating the iLink technology and how it can be applied to solve battlefield problems as well as help promote professional development, and support military families.The researchers said the military uses a Facebook-like social community to help soldiers learn from others who had been in Iraq. The SRI scientists met with cadets at West Point in early 2007 to help refine and further develop the system.Prior to the development of the iLink system, the cadets had written and developed their own software to help connect communities so various types of questions arising from counter-insurgency and battlefield situations in Iraq could be asked. Basically, the iLink system cuts across three online military communities with the expressed purpose of improving the way army platoon leaders and even wives, share critical information.Looking beyond the military, the applications for this kind of smart social networking technology are broad and diverse. The two SRI scientists are planning to spin off the technology into a startup to be called Social Kinetics. The team is currently working on a healthcare application.And with the demand for social networking growing – estimates for social networking users in the US alone by 2012 is expected to hit 92.2 million, according to In-Stat's Hitwise research service – the commercial benefits to businesses and individuals could be immense.The biggest demographic adopting and using social networking technologies are college students. In 2008, 95.7% of college students and 17.4 million people will go online at least once a month, according to a new report from eMarketer.Much of the push for social networking technologies is because students demand access to friends and information whenever they want and wherever they are.
In uncertain times such as these, it ought to be reassuring to turn to British successes. The UK video games industry – or at least its development, as opposed to the publishing side – is a rare example of Britain punching above its weight. At least, that's the popular perception. Speak to any independent British games developer and you will find a considerably more apocalyptic prognosis. Recently, the situation has deteriorated so badly that a coalition of British development studios, backed by developers' trade bodyTigaandELSPA, the publishers' body, has embarked on a campaign to lobby the government, entitled "Games Up?".Games Up? seeks two things: tax breaks for UK developers in line with those enjoyed by the film industry, and institutional change in universities, designed to re-establish a flow of graduates with skills that are relevant to the game development process. But hang on: according to Games Up?, games made in the UK between 2006 and 2008 alone are on track to generate global revenues of &pound;4bn, and the global games market is worth &pound;18bn and growing at 9% per annum. The credit crunch isn't even an undue worry: consumers are known to turn to games in difficult times, as they offer protracted entertainment for a smallish outlay. So why are UK developers looking to the government for help?Seductive benefitsThe most pressing problem is that the UK development scene has slipped down the global pecking order since several other countries decided to seduce games companies with tax breaks. Ian Livingstone, creative director and head of acquisitions at Eidos, one of the few remaining British games publishers – and not a man ordinarily given to doom-mongering – explains: "We've recently slipped from third to fourth in world development behind Canada. We're now the most expensive country in the world in which to develop. Other countries – not just Canada, but two states in the US, Scandinavian countries, France, Singapore, Korea and others – offer salary subsidies. Canada saw games as a clear opportunity to invest in the future, as traditional manufacturing was disappearing, and made a conscious decision to invest in games. They don't see it as a handout but as an investment. They have actually given out, in salary subsidies, 37.5% to every employee in games companies, and up to 40% R&amp;D tax-credit."Over 10 years, they have invested C$500m (&pound;244m). But that has actually generated $1.5bn of inward investment from companies like EA, Ubisoft, and Eidos. It's paying off, because they have a great infrastructure there: they've got great universities providing skilled students, and they are generally pro-games. The difference between there and here is that our government clearly sees any state support as a handout, not an investment. It seems to me the UK government would rather see our great industry go into decline than help it maintain its prominent position in the world, and that is madness."Livingstone paints a bleak picture of the future of UK games development. "In the past six years, half of the independent UK development studios have already closed or been bought by foreign publishers who see more value in our studios and intellectual property than we do ourselves. We'll end up being a work-for-hire nation. The inherent intellectual property that is created at those studios will be foreign-owned, and they can move that IP to be produced wherever they want in the world, if it suits them."Richard Wilson, chief executive of Tiga, is the spokesman for the Games Up? campaign. He has been meeting civil servants from the departments for Culture Media and Sport, Innovation, Universities and Skills, Business Enterprise and Regulatory Reform, Children, Schools and Families and the Treasury, among others. He doesn't, however, sound enormously optimistic that the government will heed his call for "20% production tax credit, like that approved by the EU and already found in France". Not to mention that enjoyed for many years by the British film industry.He adds that "the government understands that UK games developers are not competing on a level playing field" but is "reluctant to introduce tax breaks for games production unless it can be shown that there is an issue of market failure or that there are strong cultural reasons for supporting UK games developers".Perhaps unsurprisingly given the economic circumstances, the various government departments proved unreceptive to inquiries; the Department of Culture, Media and Sport was particularly dismissive. The Treasury did manage to produce a stultifyingly generic response although, promisingly, it says: "Following approval of a cultural tax relief for games in France, the government is now working with the UK gaming industry to collect and review the evidence for introducing such a credit in the UK."Battle for breaksDon Foster, Liberal Democrat spokesman on culture and media, points out that the games industry is competing with others for tax breaks, notably fashion and tourism. He also believes the games industry suffers from an unjustifiably poor image: "I hardly play any games – I'm not from that generation – but because of my job, I had to research the industry. The vast majority of my parliamentary colleagues are always wanting to ban the latest game, but they don't know the details of the industry. Few people in this country realise how important it is to the UK economy." Livingstone agrees: "We're still seen as the red-headed stepchild of the creative industries, one notch up from pornography in the eyes of most of the establishment. They forget that half of the world and half of the UK's population play games. Games help define who we are as human beings – they are as important, culturally and socially, as music and films."There's another problem, though, which Foster highlights: a shortage of university graduates with the requisite skills. Which brings us to the second prong of the Games Up? campaign. There are 81 videogames courses on offer at UK universities, but only four are accredited bySkillsetand therefore taken seriously by the games industry. Livingstone says: "These universities are churning out people who know a bit about games design and the history of games, but what we need are computer programmers, artists and animators: people with real skills who can start work tomorrow. It's better for us to go to somewhere like Imperial College and employ someone who has just done a computer science degree and knows how to program in C++."This problem ought to be easy to solve collectively, Livingstone says: "The government, industry and education establishments have to come together to find a way to move forward." But Wilson says the government seems to have difficulty grasping the nature of the skills needed.Bad law?Jon Hare, director of development at Ukrainian developer Nikitova (and the co-founder of legendary UK developer Sensible Software) says that legislation of a decade ago which says developers must take contractors on as full-time staff after a year, or stop using them, has been economically damaging. Previously, such contractors would be paid a fixed amount for their work on the project, whether it overran or not, which allowed small developers to control their costs. Hare argues that tax breaks would merely offset extra costs which the government has introduced by that legislation.The Games Up? campaign may not be perfect, but, says Foster, it needs to make its case "robustly". But given how beleaguered the government is by the ongoing financial and banking crisis, Livingstone is pessimistic: "The perception is 'why do we need it, as clearly we're doing well?' But do you put a new roof on your house when it's raining? Surely you should do it when it's sunny?"
Return of ApricotApricot, a well known brand in the 1980s, has returned with the Picobook Pro, a &pound;279 netbook.apricotcomputers.comUSB dongle sharing3 is offering a D100 Wireless Router (&pound;69.99) that enables users to share a USB mobile broadband dongle.threestore.three.co.uk/dealsummary.aspx?offercode=24LP5GD017Obama goes for gamersBarack Obama is the first US presidential candidate to advertise in online video games.www.reuters.com/article/vcCandidateFeed7/idUSTRE49EAGL20081017?sp=trueCosplay needs you!The London Games Festival wants everyone to dress up as a videogame character and go to the London ExCeL centre in Docklands at 12.30pm on Saturday to break the cosplay world record.www.londonexpo.com/news/world_record_attempt_the_gaming_world_needs_you.htmlITN maps out its futureITN is using Google's new geolocation interface and maps so viewers can search for the locations of stories.itn.co.uk/news/earth.htmlPocket your own cinemaFirebox has announced a &pound;299.95 Pocket Cinema that will project a 50-inch wide video from its 1GB of memory.www.firebox.com/product/2235/pocket-cinemaStuff shows stuffThe Stuff Live! 2008 show will held at London ExCeL, Docklands, from October 31 - November 2. Admission &pound;20.stufflive.co.ukNet togethernessNetworked Families, a Pew internet &amp; American Life survey, has found that the internet and mobile phones help bring families together.www.pewinternet.org/PPF/r/266/report_display.asp
Chinese internet users have reacted with fury after Microsoft launched an anti-piracy tool to combat the widespread sale of fake software. People have flooded blogs and bulletin boards to complain it violates their right to privacy - with one lawyer even reporting the firm to security officials for "hacking".Microsoft dominates the Chinese market, and even the president, Hu Jintao, has said he uses its products. But with software piracy estimated at more than 90%, the firm's profits fail to reflect its popularity.The new version of its "Windows Genuine Advantage" program turns the background black every hour if the installed software fails a validation test.But the software giant's attempt to protect its intellectual property sparked angry denunciations. " The computer is mine!" one angry blogger wrote on the web portal Sina.com. "Microsoft has no right to control my hardware without my agreement."Dong Zhengwei, 35, a Beijing lawyer, has complained to the public security ministry, describing the software giant as the "biggest hacker in China, with its intrusion into users' computer systems without their agreement or any judicial authority". He told the official China Daily newspaper he believed the measure breached China's criminal law.The China Software Industry Association said it also planned to take action against Microsoft.Critics said Microsoft was putting their information at risk by accessing their computers. But the software giant argues that counterfeit programs pose a far greater risk to information security.
It could be argued that technology is diminishing the experience of going on holiday, but enriching the memory. Having just returned from a trip to Rome, Florence and Venice it was interesting to note that for lots of people it seemed more important to get a photo or video clip of an attraction than to savour it at the moment of contact.It may be inevitable because of the vast crowds that pour into the tourist areas, making it difficult to enjoy a personal experience. Even in October, if you visit St Mark's Basilica in Venice you have to walk along a predetermined route without stopping, in order to accommodate the numbers queuing outside. In the case of St Mark's, you are not allowed to take photos, so you won't get the experience of emotion recollected in tranquillity that a photo might have allowed. Galleries and churches have yet to come to terms with the growth of digital cameras and cameraphones. St Mark's church bans them, but in St Peter's in Rome (though not the Sistine Chapel) you can use cameras including flash with abandon. The Louvre in Paris follows a laissez-faire approach, but if you try to take a snap at the Tate or National Gallery in London, attendants are on to you in a flash, so to speak.Maybe the European Commission should harmonise policy with a simple rule: everyone should be allowed to record images, as it is now part of the experience of visiting a gallery, but with a total ban on flash, which is disruptive to other visitors and can accelerate the deterioration of old pictures. The trouble with this is that turning off flash from a lot of cameras, and being confident enough to know it has been turned off, is not always easy.In these conditions I found my recently purchased Flip (flipvideo.co.uk) surprisingly effective. Flip is a sub-&pound;100 video camera that ought not to exist. It doesn't do anything your digital camera or cameraphone can't do, it adds yet another gadget to your pocket and it doesn't have flash. The reason it is becoming the latest must-have gadget for the YouTube generation is precisely because it is so easy to use. Instead of four or five moves to activate the video on your phone, you simply point the Flip at your subject and press a large red button to start and stop it. Flip now has several devices, and others fromKodak (with the Zi6)andCreative (with the Vado)are all worth looking at.Suddenly, technology gives you the chance to record the highlights of your holiday for later enjoyment. I started taking a series of short clips of everything I did on a day – from the experience in a museum to the inside of a restaurant. Taking a 15-second video sweep of the inside of the Santa Croce basilica revealing the resting places of Florence's favourite (though under-appreciated at the time) sons, Machiavelli, Michelangelo and Galileo will bring back images of the holiday later in a way that fading memories cannot. You can be your own Boswell by adding a commentary. The main holiday memories can easily be contained within the hour or so of video before plugging into the USB port of your computer for automatic uploading.Technology is also subtly changing holidays through the emergence – as the Luddite resistance of the mobile operators crumbles – of unlimited tariffs, so you are not charged ludicrous sums to download data. It makes guidebooks almost superfluous. Visiting a church, you can not only read its history but also the details of most of the paintings as well from a mobile search engine.Where all this is leading, goodness knows. If the world's tourist areas get so crowded (Venice's 60,000 inhabitants get upwards of 20 million visitors a year), the arrival of high-definition life-size videoconferencing means some people might prefer an experience at home to the energy-guzzling experience of a visit. It is no substitute for the real thing. But that doesn't mean it won't eventually happen.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
When you've just dodged a potentially lethal pothole on your bike, you want to report it there and then. Soon you'll be able to do just that. The developers offixmystreet.comrevealed last week that an iPhone interface is in the works.Fixmystreet already enables anyone with a browser to report potholes, fly-tipping and other nuisances without needing to know which public authority is responsible for them. All you have to do is click on a map and enter the nature of the nuisance, along with a photograph if you like.Although Fixmystreet was originally funded by the government, it is very much not a government web project. It is one foray in a guerrilla campaign of helpful but often disconcerting websites to emerge from the charityMySociety, which celebrated its fifth birthday last week. And there is a promise of more to come – so long as it finds a way out of what its director, Tom Steinberg, calls "deep financial insecurity".If you've been on the web to probe democracy or public administration, you've probably been to a MySociety site. The charity's best known product is probablyTheyWorkForYou, which lays bare elected representatives' personal productivity (to the alarm of some). MySociety also built Downing Street's e-petitions site, which boasts 8.9m electronic signatures – though little noticeable impact on government policy – as well as thePledgeBankgood causes site andWhatdotheyknow, a web clearing house for Freedom Of Information requests.The common theme is cheap and cheerful open web technology tipping the relationship between people and government, in favour of the people. Steinberg last week called on ministers to spend more of the &pound;13bn annual IT budget on more projects such as these, and less on giant databases. The future, he said, must lie with "technologies that empower and uplift, not depersonalise and degrade" – an implicit challenge to schemes such as the national ID register.Outsourcing 'cult'He also laid in to the "cult" of outsourcing IT work. "Government in the UK once led the world in its own information systems, breaking Enigma, documenting an empire's worth of trade. And then it fired everyone who could do those things, or employed them only via horribly expensive consultancies. It is time to start bringing them back into the corridors of power."Unlike many web activists, Steinberg has the ability to be taken seriously. As co-author of last year's Power of Information review, he has the web 2.0 philosophy ringing through Whitehall – not least in the cause of free government data.Steinberg didn't come up with the idea of MySociety – he credits that to a fellow policy wonk, James Crabtree – much less create its websites, which are mainly the work of volunteers. However, the 31-year-old former Downing Street insider's sharp political antennae and humour have been crucial in keeping doors open to the very organisations that MySociety's websites apparently threaten to subvert.Looking back over five years, Steinberg admits that he has shifted the culture of government "less than we might have hoped". On the other hand, he's pleasantly surprised by the survival rate of MySociety sites. "We were thinking in dotcom boom terms, that we'd have a 70% failure rate. In fact we haven't shut down anything at all." Another shock was the body that turned out to be most resistant to MySociety ideas. "I didn't think we'd see parliament being so crushingly slow."The new FixMyStreet site is likely to tread on more official corns. Unlike most MySociety efforts, it operates in direct competition to a central government service, the Connect to your Council function on the Directgov website. (In a perfect example of unjoined-up e-government, FixMyStreet was originally funded by the old Department for Constitutional Affairs, while Connect to your Council was run by the former Office of the Deputy Prime Minister.) It has also infuriated some local authorities by sidestepping their own electronic problem-report forms with emails that are more awkward and expensive to handle. At a recent conference on web 2.0 organised by the government IT managers association Socitm, Steinberg came under fire for increasing the number of avoidable messages flowing between citizens and councils at a time when the government's policy is to slash these by half.Some participants demanded that MySociety create dedicated links with councils' customer relationship management systems. Steinberg countered that not only would this be impractical – several hundred interfaces would have to be written – but that it misses the point of what is wrong with current e-government systems. "We want councils to understand that what they're building now is not good enough for the 21st century. This is an opportunity to recognise that they need to make their systems parts of the internet rather than little fiefdoms."Birthday warningAt last week's birthday party, Steinberg tempered his celebratory mood with two notes of warning. One was on MySociety's own sustainability – to transform political systems, it has to play a long game. "MySociety needs to work out how to be here not just in six months, but in 20 years. To do this, it needs to secure funding."The second was to the government, represented by Tom Watson, the Cabinet Office minister whose endorsement of the Power of Information programme has placed MySociety thinking at the heart of government policy. For all such good intentions, the government's recent record of IT innovation has been "a tragic farce", Steinberg said. "I hope we don't have to wait until a new government comes in to have a decent shot at slaying some of the shibboleths that stand in the way of decent reform."
How about paying MDF prices for oak? A new recession-busting idea for kitchen cabinets, doors, or flooring promises to give MDF - medium-density fibreboard, made from waste wood fibres, wax and resin, and hence cheap and cheerful but lacking the grain that we look for in natural wood - a high-tech facelift. By using a powerful scanning laser to etch grain patterns into its surface, Dr. Ken Young at the University of Warwick is making MDF look convincingly natural."The initial idea came out of the Furniture Industry Research Association. They had this idea of using lasers to turn low-value products such as MDF into higher-value products," says Young.As an expert with multiple axis machine tools, robotics, and lasers, Young is part of the University's Warwick Manufacturing Group which provides innovative solutions to industry. Thanks to funding from the Technology Strategy Board, Young and his colleagues began work on the 'LaserCoat' project three years ago.Young's team started by applying successive powder coatings to MDF and using a laser for curing. This allowed them to mimic patterns like natural wood grain or even to add lettering. "The comment was made: why are we bothering with the coating? Why don't we just try it [the laser] straight on?," he says.The new process is best described as ablation or etching. A laser beam is focused onto a small spot, perhaps 0.1mm in diameter. The trick is to keep the laser beam constantly moving because if you pause too long, the spot instantly becomes a hole. "We can go through 15mm of MDF in about one hundredth of a second," says Young. "Achieving the right effect relies on precise timing. Young has used lasers varying from 100 watts to a scorching six kilowatts. By varying the laser's speed and power, it leaves lighter to darker marks to match many natural woods.So, would you like some nice oak grain - but at a more accessible price than oak? Simply scan real wood to produce an electronic image which the laser then swiftly etches out on the MDF. The best-looking natural grain can be reproduced on MDF in a production line, avoiding the environmental or financial cost of new wood."We can operate at the same speed that your photocopier can. We just need to up the power of the laser," says Young who keeps several exterior and kitchen unit doors as examples. "I defy anyone to tell me that it's not wood from anything more than about 30cm away - you just can't tell." Thanks to laser technology, keeping up with the Joneses may become cheaper too.
On the corner of Taylorsville Road and Hikes Lane, in Louisville, Kentucky, there's a traffic camera with ears. It hears the crunch of metal as vehicles collide and the squeal of tyres from near-misses. The telltale sounds automatically trigger the camera to film the incident.It's a "listening machine" - equipment that understands sound and reacts appropriately. There's a lot of kit that recognises what it sees, from the PlayStation EyeToy to security cameras that spot people acting suspiciously, but little that can tell a child's giggles from a laughing hyena or identify a boring conversation at a party.Listen upThis, though, is set to change. Professor Mark Plumbley of Queen Mary, University of London, is one of a growing band developing digital devices that can hear. He's got five years to spend a &pound;1.2m research grant on advancing machine listening so that it can help the health, security and creative industries. Plumbley explains: "I'll be developing collaborations with the machine vision and biological sensory research communities to develop general principles for audio analysis."Vision analysis is comparatively simple, partly because nearer objects obscure more distant ones. But in the audio realm, a distant sound is still audible even when there's a lot of noise in the foreground. So Plumbley's challenge is to work out rules that can underpin algorithms for spotting any specified noise from a cacophony.He knows there's a market demand because he's already had letters of support from Bang &amp; Olufsen, the BBC, Google and hearing aid manufacturers Oticon and Phonak. However, until he succeeds, machines will only have ears for sounds to which they've been tuned.For example, the man who trained the Louisville traffic camera to hear crashes is applying his experience to the automatic indexing of movies. Paris Smaragdis, senior research scientist at Adobe's Advanced Technology Labs in Boston, USA, says: "If you have a huge database of movies, you could search for all scenes where there is gunfire, or you could identify horror movies by the presence of creepy sounds. It's easy to make classifiers that can look at the sound rather than making a video classifier that has to analyse a whole scene."Previously Smaragdis had helped Mitsubishi include limited audio search in its video recorders. Goals at football matches were identified by the crowd's roar, tee shots in golf matches were revealed by the whoosh of the club. "Now we want to be able to monitor all kinds of machines for noises that indicate they may be going to break down," says Smaragdis. In a parallel for human health, a "smart" stethoscope could listen to hearts and chests to diagnose respiratory and cardiac conditions.The surge in the quantity of audio on the web leads Dan Ellis, who runs the Laboratory for the Recognition and Organization of Speech and Audio at Columbia University, New York, to suggest that YouTube and podcasts are ripe for audio classification. Text is indexed by standard search engines but audio relies on manually added tags.Ellis also says audio indexing will help people whom, he expects, will soon be recording their every waking moment on MP3 players. "I did it myself for a few months and have a few thousand hours of audio but trying to find something you want is incredibly painful," says Ellis. "But if you remember that the event you want to hear again happened in a restaurant, for instance, the computer could find that sound clip for you."People whose hearing is impaired might benefit from carefully implemented machine listening, says Guido Gybels, director of new technology at the Royal National Institute for the Deaf. "If you could have a fairly intelligent system in the hearing aid that uses metadata to pick up only the information which is relevant to you then that would be helpful," says Gybels. Anything that screens out irrelevant announcements at, say, an airport but clarifies information about the traveller's own flight would be welcome.Other species also stand to benefit from machine listening. Professor Judy Brown at MIT is using audio analysis to automate whale classification according to their eerie submarine calls. Her colleague Professor Dale Joachim hopes to help conservationists with a mobile phone application that can identify bird songs.What's the score?Less charming is a microphone-based system that hears when vandals scratch grafitti on the windows of trains and buses, as patented by a team at Curtin University of Technology, Perth, Australia. Indeed, security is seen as a prime market for machine listening, with gunshot detectors already used by police across the US.The biggest market for machines that understand what they hear, though, is likely to be the music industry. "It would be interesting to have a laptop that could listen to a live jazz improvisation and then print out a score or even join in as another performer," says Plumbley.That day might not be so far off. This autumn Celemony of Munich expects to start selling software that can capture the music from a multi-instrument group, recorded with a single microphone, and then separate what they are playing, right down to individual notes within chords.The recording engineer will be able to "re-tune" duff notes and shift players who are out of time so that they are beat-perfect. In fact, the engineer could rewrite the entire piece to sound completely different.Just like photographs manipulated in Photoshop, we may never again be able to trust what we hear.
Oh, it's Guitar Hero for the Wii?Rob Morris is a guitarist who has hacked a Wii remote so that it will add all sorts of effects to notes he plays - bending, doubling, etc. The concert footage suggests it's a tad self-indulgent, though.www.youtube.com/watch?v=xmuggHx_H5YPhysics, coach potato-styleThis is a demonstration of Phun, a free two-dimensional physics sandbox that lets you create virtual objects and see them interact. Available for Windows, Linux and Mac OS X atphunland.com.bit.ly/youc48Fountain 'pen' makes a splashA fountain in the Hakata shopping complex in Fukuoka, Japan, uses hundreds of tiny nozzles to "print" water.www.youtube.com/watch?v=0HeUixe_Lpg• Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
No, because the "free laptops" offered with so many broadband (fixed-line or, increasingly, mobile) aren't free; their cost, and more, is amortised over the life of the contract. And that can be a long time - from 12 to, typically, 18 months and even up to 24 (the longest we've seen, by Vodafone for its mobile broadband offering with a "free" Dell Inspiron Mini 9 ultraportable, reviewed in this section last week).In the case of the Mini 9, signing up to the &pound;25-per-month (1-gigabyte data allowance) contract for two years will cost a total of &pound;600 - getting you a machine that costs &pound;299. Sure, you get the data contract as well, but Vodafone already had that; and as it will have paid the wholesale price for the machine - which, using Sir Alan Sugar's metric, is 40% of the retail cost, or &pound;120 - then you end up handing Vodafone &pound;480 for a maximum of 24 gigabytes of data, or &pound;20 per gigabyte. Oh, plus the laptop. Is that really what you'd call a good deal as we enter a period when all your household and business expenditure may come under the spotlight?But it seems some people may not have done these sums. The broadband comparison site Top 10 Broadband suggested this week that "savvy buyers" would look to 3 or Vodafone's deals, and noted that in July, broadband/free laptop sales accounted for just 4% of sales - but that they now account for 27%, in a context where overall sales have been rising."We're getting a lot of traffic on phrases like 'free laptop'," says Jessica McArdle, web editor of Top 10 Broadband. "I think people are saying that they want to be able to connect on the go, and this comes with it."Phones4U says that since it launched a laptop-broadband deal it has seen "significant growth" month-on-month and predicts that such deals will be "top sellers" this Christmas.In which case, there might be plenty of people wondering why they were in such a hurry by about June of next year. If you bought a &pound;200 laptop on a credit card and paid it off at &pound;20 per month, you would pay a total of &pound;215 (at Barclaycard's 14.9% charge on outstanding balances). That would leave you able to sign up to a service such as 3's &pound;10/1GB/month 12-month contract: after a year you'd have spent &pound;335, downloaded 12GB, you'd own the computer, and you could now look for a cheaper contract - perhaps by then it'll be 2GB of data for &pound;10/month, so in two years you'll have spent &pound;455 for 36GB and a computer.By contrast with the Vodafone, after one year you'd have spent &pound;300 for 12GB, you wouldn't yet own the computer and you'd still have 12 months to go, during which you'd be obliged to spend another &pound;300 to get the computer and 12 more GB of data.The moral of the story? However much you might hate them, credit cards have their uses - and "free" is a word to be approached with care.• This article was amended on Thursday October 23 2008. We misspelled Jessica McArdle's name as Jessica Wardle. This has been corrected.
Let's not get physicalThe internet of things (The net shapes up to get physical, October 16) won't be happening over broadband in Britain if BT has anything to do with it. The company has told my ISP (AAISP) that it has no intention of fixing bugs in its 21st-century network routers that stops native IPv6 from working because BT "does not support IPv6".Tony Green,Ipswich• Before you think the talk is getting too specialised, do not go further from our beloved cars. The time when all vehicles all have their own IP addresses is not far at all. Which means that in combination with GPS equipment our freedom of movement could be under surveillance at any time.electronrun.com• "Wouldn't it be cool if your smoke detector goes off and it told all of your gas appliances to turn off?" suggests Mulligan. Obviously Mulligan has never grilled sausages.systematicabstraction.wordpress.com• Although the idea of having a smart what-have-you is appealing, I can't imagine what the drawbacks to this technological advancement will be. Businesses, educational systems, hospitals - every industry may operate more efficiently. But certainly we will face the issue of dependency. Cellphones, computers, the web, iPods and other gadgets are already playing big roles in my daily life. Throwing physical things operating on their own unique IP addresses into the mix spells out nothing but dependency and convenience.alltechedout.wordpress.comComputers in charge• Humans no longer make some of the decisions in our globalised money markets (Newly asked questions, October 16). That might be just as well, given our ability to cock up even the simplest of tasks.grovesmedia.wordpress.com• It's not the government's fault, or the greedy trader's fault, or the incompetent regulator's fault ... it's all the machines! The computer done it, not me guv.dragonslist.comFry thrashes Murray• Lawks! Just seen Guardian piece (Andy Murray v Stephen Fry serves up a surprise winner, October 16). Thank you Charles Arthur. My backhand slightly weaker than Murray's tho.twitter.com/stephenfry• [Fry] has written 81 tweets to date, and brought joy to all of his followers by choosing to follow them too, instead of remaining on his celebrity pedestal, like others we could mention. I'm not sure he's interested in whether or not I've been to Total Print! Expo this week, but I'm very much enjoying his updates from Kenya.berkeleypr.co.uk/blog• Stephen Fry has gone all Web 2.0. His newly designed site is infinitely better than his old one and so it should be, now that he's essentially becoming The People's Gadgeteer. Oh, and he's a better Twitterer than Andy Murray.ronniebrown.co.uk• No celebrity member of the Twitterati seems to have caused as much of a splash as has Stephen Fry - possibly because his small army of web moderators ensures he follows anyone who follows him - and it's impossible to feel anything but giddy delight when an email pops up with the message "Stephen Fry is now following you on Twitter!".customcom.typepad.com• The Guardian on Britain's two most famous Twitterers, where Murray takes another beating for "not getting it". Both follow gsightseeing, of course.jamesturnbull.org• I've exchanged messages with both Stephen Fry and Andy Murray, but as the use of Twitter grows, their use of it, and probably their responsiveness, will drop off.ecademy.com• Read all this week's letters in full atguardian.co.uk/technology/blog
For those of us passionate about reducing Britain's digital divide, these are the best and worst of times. The worst of times, we all know about: a gaping hole in the public accounts means little money available for good works that don't have immediate electoral appeal.I'll come back to that, but first let's celebrate the good times. In the past few months we've seen a remarkable consensus emerge on three big points: that digital exclusion is a real social problem; that it's capable of being ameliorated; and that the government has a role in promoting attempts to do so.Tomorrow is nationalGet Online Day. The minister for digital inclusion, Paul Murphy, will use this opportunity to unveil a "digital inclusion action plan", which aims to bridge the divide between the two-thirds of Britons who are online and the one-third who are not.The draft plan – open for consultation until January – will essentially sum up the scale of the divide and take us on a tour of initiatives aimed at relieving it.There's no simple solution because there's no simple problem. People have many different reasons for staying offline. Some overlap with other measures of exclusion such as worklessness, illness or illiteracy. Often, the barrier is not physical or financial but one of attitude – the idea that there's nothing on the web for me. The action plan will propose targeted efforts to engage with digital "won'ts".One idea is that of creating digital mentors within communities. Another is to aim at what the jargon calls "seriously marginalised individuals" through intermediary bodies. A study published last month by UK Online Centres of so-called"social impact demonstrator projects"found that spending an average of &pound;163 per person made a big difference to marginalised individuals' social proficiency. This in turn made them more likely to get a job and deal with public services through online channels.Murphy's plan isn't the only sign of action. One of the lesser noticed consequences of Peter Mandelson's return to office is a revival of top-level interest in the digital economy. In the 1990s, Mandelson came up with the idea of appointing an e-envoy with a brief to remove barriers to the new economy - though the eventual incumbent was diverted into pursuing absurd e-government targets.This time round, Mandelson's first step was to commission a report from Lord Carter, the former Ofcom chief, into the future of the communications industry. Among the topics to be covered is next-generation broadband. At the very least, this suggests that another review by Francesco Caio, the former Cable and Wireless CEO, is up for some revision. When it appeared last month, commentators summarised its findings as dismissing the case for state help in building new networks.In fact, it's more subtle than that. While Caio ruled out the need for "immediate major government intervention", he left the door open in case it should become necessary for the creation of "an essential digital utility". And Caio's report was written in those innocent summer days before state intervention became fashionable again.We're now in a different world. OK, there's that gaping hole in the public accounts, but there's also a search for Keynsian investments to see us through the bad times. Few projects would meet the bill as neatly as a national effort to provide fibre-to-the-home broadband, and few would do more to promote digital inclusion. Of course, we can't predict what the newly included might do with next-generation networks - but that's kind of the point.
British engineers have unveiled plans for the world's first 1,000mph car, a muscular streak of gunmetal and orange designed not to break the world land speed record but to shatter it.Bloodhound SSC, named after the British cold war supersonic air defence missiles, will attempt to beat the existing record by more than 250mph.The &pound;12m car is to be announced today by Lord Drayson, the science minister. Working from an aircraft hangar in Bristol, the team's engineers have been working on the project in secret for the past 18 months. Calculations suggest the car could reach 1,050mph, fast enough to outrun a bullet from a .357 Magnum revolver.The car was proposed by Drayson, a racing car enthusiast, as a project to inspire a new generation of scientists and engineers, who are in desperately short supply in UK. The Bloodhound team plans to have the car built within a year, with the record attempt expected in three years.The project brings together mathematician and fighter pilot Andy Green, who set the current land speed record of 763mph with Thrust SSC in 1997, and Richard Noble, who directed that attempt. The car will be the first to meld a jet engine for a Eurofighter Typhoon with a rocket booster. Together they will produce 20,000kg (45,000lb) of thrust."It's an opportunity to do something extraordinary in engineering terms and to be part of the very best land speed record attempt in the world," said Green, 46. "It's more Buck Rogers than Wacky Races."Green, an RAF wing commander, will use an accelerator to power the jet engine up to speeds of around 350 mph and then fire the solid rocket booster. At that point, a V-12 racing car engine will start pumping more than a tonne of hydrogen peroxide into the booster, forcing the car to 1,000mph in 20 seconds."It's going to be quite uncomfortable. Where I sit will be just under the intake of the jet engine, so it's going to be acoustically quite challenging," he said, adding: "If I was worried I wouldn't be doing it, but I only met my wife last year, so it might be a scary experience for her."Slowing down will also be a significant challenge. The car will use airbrakes and two parachutes to bring it to a rest after each run.Team members are now visiting sites where the record attempt will be made. The current record was set at Black Rock Desert in Nevada. But that has been ruled out as ground conditions there have deteriorated since 1997. In the next week or two, Green will visit a site in South Africa. Other possible venues are the salt flats of the US and Australia.John Piper, the lead engineer on the project, said the team would build a full-size mock-up of the vehicle over the next month.The project is being funded by five sponsors, including the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council, Swansea University and the University of the West of England.It is an enormous engineering challenge. At speed, the car will experience pressures of 12 tonnes a square metre, similar to those experienced by submarines. The wheels will spin more than five times faster than those on a formula one racing car, generating forces that could rip them to pieces.Engineers must ensure there are no gaps around the cockpit. If there are, all of the air inside it could be sucked out as the car breaks the sound barrier.Several other teams are already building cars to challenge the land speed record. One, which was led by the late entrepreneur and adventurer Steve Fossett, is thought to be capable of more than 800mph.Drayson said that throughout the development of the Bloodhound, the team would make all of its information public, so other scientists and engineers can get involved."Having the right stuff in the 21st century means being able to understand the world about you. We don't have enoughyoung people taking scienceand maths and the real deficiency is they don't understand what careers they could do, what a life for them would mean if they took those subjects. These are difficult subjects and we have to give young people a clear reason for studying them," he said.The Science Museum in London is now holding a week-long exhibition dedicated to Bloodhound."If we produce a 900mph car and every schoolkid in the country really gets into it, and it makes a difference to how they feel, and how the nation feels about scientists andengineers, without whom we can't live in a hi-tech world, we've done something really good. If we produce a 1,000mph car and nobody gives a shit, we've failed," said Green.Other contendersNorth American EagleEd Shadle's 1960s jet fighter with the wings removed and some wheels bolted on. The project's aim is to reach 800mph.Spirit of AmericaSteve Fossett's car was close to completion when he went missing last year. The 800mph vehicle could be ready to go for the record next year if a new buyer is found.Aussie Invader 5RRosco McGlashan's rocket car is about two years away from making a 1,000mph attempt.
With the world economy in tatters, many of us will soon find ourselves unemployed – as many as two million in the UK by Christmas, we're told. As we all tighten our belts for the long, cold winter, there's never been a better time to embracefree and open source software(FOSS). This is software that you're allowed to freely copy, modify and improve, so long as you share your improvements with others.Some of the world's best, most powerful software is built on this model, including the best server operating system (GNU/Linux), the best browser (Firefox), and a host of office, graphics, video, audio, and productivity software. Some of it is built by individual hobbyists or communities of hobbyists and some contributions are paid for by corporations.Using FOSS is great in the best of times – I'm typing this on my third GNU/Linux laptop, a tiny ThinkPad that does everything I need it to, and plenty that my old, proprietary Powerbook couldn't. But in a down economy, FOSS is an even smarter choice, for a variety of reasons:* Cost: It's free. Go toUbuntu.comand download a totally free CD that'll install GNU/Linux on practically any hardware you can find. Use the built-in "Add/Remove Software" service to choose from tens of thousands of programs, all free as well.* Longevity: That old computer that won't run the latest and greatest proprietary operating systemwillrun GNU/Linux. The older your computer is, the longer the world's free software hackers have had to figure out how to make it dance to their tune. This also goes for iPods, which can be revitalised with free, powerful, alternative operating systems like RockBox, a package that does plenty that Apple left out, like high-quality digital recording.Likewise, your old wireless routers can be turned into super-powerful network appliances with the free, NU/Linux-based WRT operating system. Plenty of sealed-in, "non-modifiable" devices from PSPs to cable boxes have alternative FOSSoperating systems that can make them do amazing things.* Versatility: Any technology "appliance" that you can imagine can be cooked up from a used PC and a free copy of GNU/Linux, from a box under the telly that stores all your ripped DVDs and CDs, and plays every old video game ever conceived, to a sweet little network-aware photo-frame that keeps your less technical relatives up to date on your family photos. Your imagination is the limit.* Support: The global community of GNU/Linux users is engaged in a continuous, friendly, helpful discussion about how to get the most out of its tools. I've gotten fast, helpful, detailed tech support at every hour of the day or night, from users all over the world (and sometimes even from the original authors of the software). All free, of course.* User-centered: Proprietary software design often has more to do with some company's business model than your convenience – think of all the money Microsoft has spent to keep competitors from writing software that can read your own documents and spreadsheets, or all Apple's shenanigans in the name of controlling the way you use your music. Free software isfree from this sort of hassle: plug your iPod into a GNU/Linux machine and you can drag-and-drop music off and onto it, at will.FOSS data formats are fully documented and can be read or written by anyone who wants to make a competing product, so you never have to fear getting stuck with a bunch of critical documents stuck in an orphaned file format.* Privacy: FOSS computers are far less likely to leak your personal information to hackers. What's more, nothing can touch FOSS when it comes to privacy-enhancing tools, from whole-disk encryption to email scrambling, so even if your files leak, they're still unreadable. Take that, identity thieves!Economic downtimes have historically been hobbyist boomtimes, as families turn to their own resourcefulness to stay entertained and pinch pennies. Getting up to speed on FOSS will provide you and your kids with a bottomless pool of free, community-oriented, creative resources with which to stretch your IT budget, learn practical skills and explore your creative side.
Fed up of your wireless network? Tired of the fact that your PS3 can't seem to find your router through two walls and a radiator? You're not alone. PLC (or power line communication) adaptors utilise your home's electricity wiring to extend your broadband network and are increasing in popularity at an impressive rate. According to theHomeplug Powerline Alliance, 16 million units were sold last year, eight million more than 2006 - and numbers are set to rise again this year.I have to admit, I knew little about the technology before I put my Xbox 360 and PS3 in the attic room a couple of months ago and found that the wireless signal from the router in my living room was degrading by something like 70%. A fellow journalist suggested PLC, so I contacted D-Link and asked to borrow a couple of theirDHP-300s, a 200Mbps adaptor promising complete plug-and-play performance.Which turned out to be accurate. I plugged one in to the mains socket near my router, connected it via an Ethernet cable, then slapped the other one in the socket two floors up, using another Ethernet cable to hook up my consoles. The two adapters found each other within about 20 seconds, and the result has been reliable, Ethernet-quality broadband access, with a huge reduction in latency. At around £90 for a pack of two adaptors it's not cheap, but it meant I didn't have to install a wireless booster on the first floor, or attempt to lay an Ethernet cable between my attic and my living room.So is there anything newcomers should know about this technology? Well, yes, lots – some good, some bad. Here are eight key points to bear in mind…Maintaining standardsAh, format wars – aren't they just the best part of consumer electronics? Turns out, there are two types of PLC product: Powerline, supported by theUniveral Powerline Associationand featuring a chipset manufactured byDS2, and HomePlug, supported by the HomePlug Powerline Alliance and built around a chipset byIntellon. These, naturally, are not compatible.However, theIEEEis attempting to ratify a single standard for PLC products, with the HPA and UPA in competition to provide the specifications. Unfortunately, at a recent meeting in Madrid, the IEEE proposal failed to garner enough votes for the standard to be put in place. On top of that, theInternational Telecommunications UnionG.hn group is attempting to drum up support for a rival standard, which places greater emphasis on interoperability and according to Andrew Mulholland, Marketing Manager for D-Link UK and Ireland, has more backing from the industry.You can read morehere.This doesn't mean much at the moment, but a single technological standard could make PLC technology more understandable and accessible to consumers, and may lead to overall improvements in performance. Either that or you'll discover you backed the wrong horse in the format war and your adaptors are now obsolete….Speed counts?PLC adaptors tend to come in two flavours - 85mbps and 200mbps. There's some disagreement on whether you need to opt for the faster solution for gaming, though I know several tech journalists who say they get by just fine with 85mbps. It's when you're shifting HD video content around your house that you may want to upscale. As Andrew Ferguson ofThinkbroadbandconfirms, "The AV (200Mbps) units are needed if you are going to be using fast broadband in the 20Mbps to 50Mbps region, or are perhaps streaming HD video (20-30Mbps) from a home media server."Distance still matters"HomePlug units are range dependent, so in large houses the speeds experienced will vary," says Ferguson. "From second to ground floor should be achievable normally - but I've found the AV (200Mbps) units to have a better range".Go for a pure connectionAlways put the adaptor straight into the wall rather than an extension socket – that'll cause 'noise' which effects speed. However, D-Link reckon new adapters can cope with crowded sockets and extensions thanks to their modulation and error recovery mechanisms.It's more secure than wireless, but not completely secure…There's a possibility that you may share electricity circuitry with a neighbour, so in theory, if they plug a compatible PLC adaptor into a socket, they could hitch a ride on your broadband network. However, most units come with software that lets you secure your network, granting access only to properly configured adaptors – i.e. your own.Interfering with peopleWhen I asked Andrew Ferguson if there are any disadvantages to the technology, he simply replied, "talk to radio hams…" So I did. It turns out PLC adaptors produce RF interference, which may knock out shortwave radio reception within the immediate vicinity. Radio hams aren't happy, viewing this technology an indiscriminate and clumsy airwave pollutant. There are pressure groups dedicated to securing legislation against PLC - I contacted one namedUKQRM, which has produced YouTube videos (here's one,here's another) purporting to show the interference in action. Elsewhere, theRadio Society of Great Britainis pressuring OFCOM to take action.I asked Andrew Mulholland for a comment. He told me:"PLC devices inject very low power into the electricity lines to avoid having interference to radio services. Additionally all D-Link devices based onDS2 technologyhave all theIARUfrequencies notched out, with an average attenuation of 40dB each. This enables the devices to be radio friendly. Furthermore, the DS2 chipset has been tested and subsequently demonstrated to Radio Amateur associationssuch as ARRL in the US."Additionally to this, D-Link PowerLine products based on DS2 technology have the capability to add any other notch should the need arise, providing a completely programmable and flexible way to solve any interference regardless of the frequency. This is a unique feature that allows these devices to be 100% radio friendly."I also had a chat with Jonathan Lishawa, the managing director of Comtrend, which provides Powerline adaptors for use with the BT Vision service. He assured me the company is working closely with OFCOM and BT to overcome any interference issues.  "We had to answer lots of questions from BT, we had to go through exhaustive field trials, and we had to conform to all the EMC certifcation, as wellBS1363parts 1,2,3. I can't stress this enough, we'd like to engage with the Radio Society, but in a constructive manner. It is a concern, but we believe we've addressed and continue to address that concern".This does, however, remain a complex area with several ambiguities and uncertainties. From anecdotal evidence it seems thereareproducts available that interfere with shortwave frequencies, not just amateur bands but with radio stations like the BBC World Service. I have been contacted by an ex-BBC transmissions engineer who claims to have investigated dozens of interference problems reported by radio listeners, and has been personally affected, bringing in OFCOM to remove a neighbour's PLC adapter due to 'spectrum abuse'.While PLC adapters may allow the 'notching out' of affected frequencies, it looks like it's up to individual users to ensure they're not blocking radio reception for all their neighbours…Interfering with your keyboardOn a more local level, there have been instances of Comtrend Powerline adaptors interfering with wireless keyboards and mice. You'll find references to the problemhere, as well as some BT tech support suggestions on how to deal with it."To put this into perspective we've shipped into the UK over half a million pairs of adaptors, and we've had 20 customers who've had interference issues – and we've managed to resolve all of those," says Lishawa, who adds that the solution is often to 'notch out' or block the offending frequencies via the adapter.Interfering with your fridgeThere's also a possibility that household appliances can interfere with PLC technologies, but modern adaptors are designed to cope with this. As Mulholland states:"Despite PLC technology using OFDM modulation with FEC error recovery mechanisms, the powerline channel originally was not designed to be a clean communication medium like coaxial and there are some house appliances that could introduce some noise into the channel that vary its conditions along the time (Signal to Noise ratio). These variations are handled by the technology adapting its modulation schemes to transmit the data without losses and this can produce slight changes in the performance during the day, although continuous SW and HW enhancements are introduced into the adapters to minimize its effects in the speed and in their general performance".Get that?
Following yesterday's earnings announcement (below), Yahoo co-founder and chief executive Jerry Yang sent staff a memo, whichTechCrunchhas reproduced in full. It announces the aim to cut costs, with Yang saying: "because compensation expenses are the single largest part of our costs, we anticipate a reduction of at least 10% of our global workforce by year-end."affected employees will be notified of layoffs in the next several weeks. we understand that hearing this news now creates uncertainty, but we are moving ahead in a way that balances speed with a clear focus on accomplishing what is necessary to set the organization up for long term success. going forward it will continue to be important for us to make the right decisions to keep our business efficient and strong.Around 1,500 Yahoo staff must now await their pink slips, and I know I'd find it annoying to be fired by someone who can't use capital letters to start sentences. Doesn't Jerry know that Microsoft Word will capitalise sentences automatically?  Does he save a fantastic amount of time and energy by ignoring the shift key invi? Wouldn't he save even more energy by getting his secretary to type memos, or is that not the sort of thing efficient and strong businesses leaders do nowadays?For someone who is clearly smart and well educated, it looks like an affectation.Which is not to say that "the guardian" isn't afflicted with some of the same silly affectations, of course, but we don't expect them from the CEO.
This week,Aleks Krotoskigrills new technology evangelist and publisherTim O'Reillyabout alpha geeks, the next big thing on the internet, and the best ways for entrepreneurs to get into Web 2.0.Also, in the wake of hackers breaking intoNicolas Sarkozy's personal bank account,Jemima Kissasks Tom Elube fromGarlikhow best to protect ourselves in a digital world.Finally,Bobbie Johnsonfills us in on the week's biggest news stories, including the controversy surroundingLittleBigPlanet, andjob cuts at Yahoo.Post your comments below, or check out ourFacebook group.
It's a happy birthday to me edition of Chatterbox!
Sulake's Habbo HotelHere's one that fell through the cracks: an interview with the brains behindHabbo Hotel- the phenomenally successful social virtual world. I asked Timo Soinen, CEO of development company Sulake, how Habbo became the virtual world's leading social destination for 13-16 year olds, and why gamers should be interested.How do you think Habbo managed to become the leading virtual world for teenagers and so successful for so long?Habbo has been operating for eight years, and the user numbers around the world keep growing all the time – we still have lots of potential audience out there, we have just scratched the surface.Even in the early days of Habbo, one of the main advantages was that it is easy to access and play: you don't need to download any software; you just need an internet browser to log into the virtual world. Habbo is also a constantly evolving product as we bring new features to the service every month, keeping it fresh to our users. In doing this we listen and react to user feedback and do continuous research to understand our users' needs. Still, the most important factor is that Habbo is all about user generated content. It has so many active users who devote time and energy to create compelling content for their friends and other Habbos. After all, Habbo is a place for its users, and they are the ones who make Habbo what it is.64% of British kids who use Habbo report that they have friends they've never met offline according to your Global Youth Survey. This freaks a lot of people out. What do you think has allowed this phenomenon to become possible?The whole concept of friendship has new meanings in the online world - in many social online services, having a lot of friends on your friendlist can be considered to be a cool thing. This can also be witnessed in how adults use Facebook and other social networks. When asked about "real friends", teens' answers are usually between 4 and 10. But for online services, the answer can be over a 100, and in these, there most certainly are friends that they have never met in real life. Our mission is to teach our users to safeguard their personal information and learn to be extremely careful when meeting friends from the online world.In general Habbo is about your virtual persona and anonymity. We don't allow our users to share their true identity in the service and encourage them not to do so in other services as well.Why should gamers be interested in Habbo Hotel?This depends on what type of gamers we are talking about. As a virtual world, Habbo is a social open-ended game in itself and as such is suitable for everyone. In the Habbo world there are hundreds or even thousands of activities and quests going on all the time arranged by the users themselves. For people who like to play more traditional games, Habbo offers also a few free multiplayer games created by Sulake: SnowStorm (a virtual snow ball fight) and BattleBall, an easy to use yet in-depth strategy game where groups play against each other. There are also some casual games inside world, such as the one-on-one game WobbleSquabble, and you can also do some tricks jumping from the 100-foot high diving board.What kinds of features are you putting into place that ensures that the content of Habbo grows with the age of the consumers?Habbo is typically a teen oriented virtual world; our core user age group being 13 to 16 year-olds. However, we have older users as well. Most of the content in Habbo is created by the users themselves - our role is to ensure that this content is not inappropriate and that the users follow the Habbo Way, our rules and code of conduct for the service. Our aim is not to appeal to adult users. To put it simply, Sulake offers tools for creativity and content creation and ensures that the environment to use these are as safe as possible.You hold a lot of high-profile pop stars and branded events in Habbo (like Gorillaz' personal appearance a few years ago, etc). What do you say to parents who are concerned with the extended exposure their kids have to these messages?Celebrity visits have always been a really cool way for us to provide interesting content for our users. These are events that usually take place in a certain space inside the virtual world, and no one is ever forced to take part. Of course Habbo offers artists, athletes and other celebs a new and exciting way to meet their fans regardless of location.The way in which different brands and advertisers are part of the Habbo virtual world has always been important to us. First of all, we carefully select which brands are allowed to come to Habbo, ensuring they are a good fit. We don't belive in in-your-face advertising - we want the brands to take part in the community and not just push their commercial messages.Another type of brand/event exposure which is important to us is our cooperation with goodwill and youth organisations - we are working currently with over 30 different partners all over the world including Unicef, Red Cross, United Nations, NSPCC to name just a few.Which other online community applications are you impressed with at the moment?Some industry experts predicted last year that 2008 would be the year of virtual worlds. Looking at the amount of applications that are currently in development you can definitely say that the experts had a point. There are lots of interesting projects on the rise, but it is hard to name any specific ones. Virtual worlds are mostly based on imaginary places, but there is one interesting project called Twinity.com, which is based on realistic 3D replicas of the world's most vibrant metropolises. It is interesting to see how it grows. Another interesting area is going to be user generated virtual spaces and mobile virtual worlds.What are your future plans?Our primary focus for the future is to develop the Habbo virtual world continuously, and to listen to our users' demands in the process. We are also currently working on a few other virtual world projects, but it is too early to disclose any information on those.Check out the other interviews from theVirtual Worlds Foruminterview series:Gaia OnlineandDizzywood.
Two of the technology industry's biggest names faced wildly different futures last night after announcing quarterly results.While Apple boss Steve Jobs hailed the "spectacular" iPhone last night as the company posted a dramatic increase in profits for the last quarter, his opposite number at Yahoo, Jerry Yang, announced plans to slash 1,500 jobs at the internet company.Apple shipped more than 2.6m Mac computers, 11m iPods and almost 6.9m iPhones, raising profits by 26% and leading to revenues of $7.9bn and profits of $1.14bn for the quarter ended last month."Apple just reported one of the best quarters in its history," Jobs said, hailing the sales lead the new iPhone 3G scored over the market-leading BlackBerry."In terms of revenue, Apple has become the third largest mobile phone supplier in the world."Meanwhile, Yahoo continued to struggle, with net income down 64% to $54m despite a 1% rise in revenue."We have been disciplined about balancing investments with cost management all year, and have now set in motion initiatives to reduce costs and enhance productivity," Yang said.It has been a troubling year for Yahoo and Yang in particular, who took over from Terry Semel in June 2007, but has come under scrutiny after a disappointing tenure.This year Yahoo rebuffed a $44bn takeover bid from Microsoft, instead making a deal to sell part of its advertising through Google - an agreement that is now under investigation by America's department of justice over allegations that it is anti-competitive.
Yahoo has announced plans to cut more than 1,500 jobs after its most recent results failed to lift the gloom hanging over the internet company.The Californian web portal, which has come under increasing pressure in recent years, said that it would be cutting 10% of its workforce in order to try and cut costs."We have been disciplined about balancing investments with cost management all year, and have now set in motion initiatives to reduce costs and enhance productivity," said Jerry Yang, the Yahoo co-founder and chief executive.Yang refused to elaborate on where the cuts might take place, but they come after a round of previous layoffs which saw 1,000 workers lose their jobs last January.Yahoo's revenue over the past three months increased slightly over the same quarter last year – with a 1% rise from $1.77bn to $1.79bn. Net income plunged by 64% to $54m for the quarter.It has been a troubling year for Yahoo and Yang in particular, who took over from former chief executive Terry Semel in June 2007, but has come under intense scrutiny after a disappointing tenure.Earlier this year Yahoo rebuffed a $44bn takeover bid by software rival Microsoft, dragging out a bitter bidding battle for several months before rejecting it.Instead, the company made a deal to sell part of its advertising through Google - a deal which is now under investigation by America's Department of Justice over allegations that it is anti-competitive.Despite those concerns, however, Yang said he was still confident that the company could battle through a financial downturn."We enter this slowing market with competitive advantages as the destination of choice for consumers and a leader in providing online advertisers with the broadest set of advertising management tools and products in the industry. We plan to continue building on those strengths."
