This year'sGame Developer Choice Awards nomineeshave been announced, and while I admit in full disclosure that I'm on the Advisory Committee which helped to develop the list, it's good to see such a wide variety of excellent and innovative products on display. Head over to the IGDA site to check out the nominees for yourself.One disappointment however - and one which I voiced during the nomination process - is that there are quite a few games represented which haven't yet been released in European regions. Of course, this kind of preemptive awards strike isn't necessarily restricted to interactive entertainment; did anyone see theBAFTAsa couple of weeks ago? Most of the winners aren't even out in UK cinemas yet.Still, I felt obliged to NOT vote for games which I'd not been able to play. LikeGuitar Hero(out in the UK on 7 April),Electroplankton(out in the UK on 21 April) andAnimal Crossing: Wild World(out in the UK on 31 March).Oh the humanity.TheGame Developers Choice Awardsceremony will be held at the Game Developers Conference later this month.
My love (Live Arcade, front end, the fact I can see what my friends are playing when they are supposed to be off work ill) hate (most of the games, the cheapy disc tray) relationship with the Xbox360 continues. The latest development is backwards compatibility. Now I know I'vepreviouslysaid that this wasn't important. I was wrong - in these barren post launch days it is more important than ever. It was bad enough a couple of weeks ago when Psychonauts failed to run on the 360. But cult platformers are one thing, EA's hyped new shooter Black is something entirely different. Surely this would run on the 360? Well, anyone who bought the Xbox version of the pumped up destructo-romp and hoped to play it on their 360 knows the answer. And it isn't yes.At this moment in time my Xbox is in limbo (the spare room) which, quite frankly, is where the bulky monstrosity deserves to be. Having to dig it out to play the latest titles is ridiculous, especially when you consider the amount of people who sold their Xbox on the basis of 360 having backward compatibility. Sure, there are a pile of older titles that "work" - but there has been no update tothe listsince December. So what is going on?In the case of Black itappearsthat Microsoft were the reason behind the 360 no-show, which is bizarre considering the complete lack of anything exciting appearing on 360 untilOblivionhits. What are they scared of?Perhaps the bigger issue is the problem surrounding the original Xbox games that are supposed to work on 360. Many of them - Sniper Elite and Fable are just two I've tried - have either crashed or had glitches. Pro Evo 5, thankfully, works well, but there is a big problem here for Microsoft. Adopting their current policy - essentially keeping their head down and hoping that people will forget about all this when 360 games come out later in the year - is shortsighted. Microsoft needs to get on top of this issue or they risk losing the PR battle. In the meantime you may want to dust off your original Xbox - Psychonauts, in particular, is superior to anything currently available on 360. Backwards compatibility then - does it matter to you?
"All afternoon I've been slogging through IBM's 25-page paper on their newly released Octopiler, and now things are clearer to me. See, Cell's greatest strength is that there's a lot of hardware on that chip. And Cell's greatest weakness is that there's a lot of hardware on that chip. So Cell has immense performance potential, but if you want to make it programable by mere mortals then you need a compiler that can ingest code written in a high-level language and produce optimized binaries that fit not just a programming model or a microarchitecture, but an entire multiprocessor system. This isn't just a tall order, or even a doctoral dissertation. It's a generation's worth of doctoral research. Meanwhile, the PS3 is due out in 2006," says Hannibal atArs Technica.
This is the front line in the battle for tomorrow's Web: personalised home pages (or start pages) that enable users to bring together the applications and online sources they most value. At, ZD Net, Richard MacManus has just writtenan overviewthat takes in both "The big guns: Microsoft (live.com), Google (Google Personalized Homepage) and Yahoo (My Yahoo, which is still mostly an old-style portal) and "The little companies: Netvibes, Protopage, PageFlakes and a host of other contenders."
Talk away.
Accordingto Gamesindustry.biz, Microsoft has admitted involvement in Origami, a handheld, tablet-style PC currently in development...somewhere. Last week a video of the project started doing the rounds on techy news sites, and was picked up by the likes ofGamespotas someone is shown playing Halo in the apparently leaked footage.Over-excited online journalists have been quick to label the device, which is, 'capable of browsing the web, editing photos and playing games', asMicrosoft's answer to iPod or PSP. This followsspeculationin Business Week and older rumours going back to last year, regarding Microsoft's desire to enter the handheld market.There's already aProject Origami teaser siteand Microsoft has promised to reveal more info on March 2.Just what we all need, eh? Another multimedia gadget promising to meet all our on-the-go techno demands. At least if Microsoft is involved we know it won't betoosexy.
From a security point of view, it makes sense to stay away from the darker side of the Web -- or at least crank up your security level before going there. However, TechWeb News reports that according to a report by Henry Levy and Steven Gribble, two University of Washington professors, gaming, music and celebrity sites are the ones most likely to have malware.One in five of gaming site hosted spyware, said Levy and Gribble, the highest percentage of any neighborhood. Music placed second on the shame list, with 11.4 percent of domains infected (about one in nine).Internet districts such as news and kids, meanwhile, were much safer. No infected news domains were spotted by Levy and Gribble, and only 1.6 percent of kids' sites hosted spyware.On the good side, the number of infected sites fell dramatically between the two sweeps in May and October last year.
There's aninteresting storyon Wired about Middle America's latest moral panic: MySpace. Or more specifically how lascivious teens are using the social networking service to hook up and occasionally 'make out' with other users. Worried parents probably won't be best pleased to know that the site's creators are now looking to extend the service onto mobile phone - a move comparable to when drug boffins invented the cheaper, more easily distributed and highly addictive crack derivative of cocaine, thereby increasing their potential audience by millions. To users, MySpace is compelling, social, often goal-driven. So is it an MMORPG?On the face of it, MySpace has nothing to do with gaming, and yet it shares many characteristics with the MMORPG genre. Users create a character profile, which may or may not share similarities with their real-life identity. They then form clans and engage in quests with likeminded individuals - it's just that here, the quests spill out more readily into the real world. Also, in MySpace the quest can often be to have sex, rather than to capture the magical crystal of Sevratez.It was clear at mobile phone technology exhibition, 3GSM, that mobile phone companies have noticed the MySpace effect. Social networking apps are moving in alongside multiplayer games to claim a slice of all that delicious data revenue. Elsewhere, Microsoft is pushing the social side of its Xbox Live set-up as much as the straightforward gaming element. And then, of course, in casual gaming sites like AOL, Yahoo, and RealArcade participation is as much about the community as it is about playing chess.Clearly, the boundaries between what defines a game and what defines a social service are collapsing. Okay, MySpace has no cogent narrative, no specific goal for the user to achieve - both of these are key elements of the 'game' as it is traditionally classified. But then in World of Warcraft and other MMORPGs, many activities are user-defined, often on the fly (this is more like the RPG as it was originally found in the pen and paper version of Dungeons and Dragons - good timing, then, thatD&amp;Dis finally finding its way into the MMO sector...) - the 'plot' and the 'setting' are often merely venues for the social element - like chatting someone up in a theme bar.If you check out the latest issue ofVanity Fairand manage to get beyond the arresting cover image, you'll find a great article on how young socialites (including monstrous playboy Jeremy Jackson, the ex-child actor who played Hobie in Baywatch) use MySpace as a pulling challenge. Rules and etiquettes are emerging - the building blocks of gaming. It's like an augmented reality version of Japanese dating sims.So here's a intriguing consequence: the videogame violence that America has worried about for the last decade may well fade from the right wing agenda thanks to the new threat of social networking. Airy theories about the possible effects of game violence on impressionable minds pale into insignificance when compared to the actual, physical dangers - imagined or otherwise - that MySpace dating could lead to. Dating as gaming? Oh the horror. To the conservative consciousness, sex has always been more terrifying than violence.
"More than 60 years after the end of World War II, a distributed computing project has managed to crack a previously uncracked message that was encrypted using theEnigma machine," reportsCNet."TheM4 Projectbegan in early January, as an attempt to break three original Enigma messages that were intercepted in 1942 and are thought never to have been broken by the Allied forces."
The novel products keep on coming.1Up.comhas a news story about a forthcoming product aimed at inspiring workers to leave their jobs and to start up new companies. Titled "Business Experience Series: The Path To Starting A Company," the PSP game will take the uninitiated through a text adventure format, providing challenges which promote the creation and marketing of a new product. Also featured in the software are Brain Teaser games like those recently announced for theDSand thePSPand a glossary to teach biz-speak.From the article:The goal of this software, Kokuyo representative Akihiro Kuroda explained, was not to influence people in their late teens through 30s to quit their jobs and create new enterprises, but rather to increase creativity and work ability of those currently in the work place.I do hope this comes out in Europe.
Has EA accidentally given away Nintendo's last great secret about the Revolution console? Last week a games site named nintendorevolution.ca is alleged byseveralsourcesto have featured an interview with an EA spokesperson, Trudy Muller, in which she apparently blurted out:"The beauty of the new Revolution controller is that the possibilities for new game ideas are limitless. I'm sure that Nintendo already has a number of phenomenal design concepts built around 3D Pointing or Touch Sensitivity for their 1st party games. Our developers are inspired and excited by the new controller's features."The key phrase here is touch sensitivity, suggesting that the already near-unfeasible Revolution controller is going to be adding yet another trick to its impressive roster. The story was quickly picked up throughout the weekend by various forums and news aggregators, but currently remains unsubstantiated.As for nintendorevolution.ca - the site appears to have 'gone down' producing only a 'cannot connect to server' error message. Meanwhile,othernews sources have attributed the quote to ps3news.ca, which leads only to the same error notification. Have the sites buckled under the weight of too much unexpected traffic? Are they merely the product of an erstwhile hoaxer? Or have they been censored by some sinister higher power?And more to the point, a touch-screen controller? What on earth are we going to do with that?
Nik Cubrilovic at TechCrunch has moredetails of Google's forthcoming payments system, including screen shots of the process. He says:The checkout process is extremely quick and much faster than Paypal's (page loading times are Google fast) - it also has a much nicer interface making it easier for a user to navigate their way through a checkout and purchase. Overall with Google Base and payments the experience for a user is much nicer than what it is on eBay, a very nice interface and many search features while maintaining the very minimal yet functional interface as expected from Google.
Sony has released the full tracklisting for the next Singstar game. Subtitled Rocks! (aka Singstar: Bloke Edition) the game lets you drunkenly bawl along to Franz Ferdinand, Coldplay, Rolling Stones and, er, The Scorpions. Yup, it's like a combination of XFM and Virgin radio, with all the snobbery/dad rock you'd expect.Whether Rocks! will be as successful as office party fave Singstar 80s (aka Singstar:Guilty Pleasure) remains to be seen, but its focus on getting the lads involved does tick one of the few remaining boxes in Singstar's marketing plan. Any suggestions for future Singstar games?Read on for the full Rocks! TracklistingBloc Party - BanquetBlur - Song 2Bowling for Soup - 1985Coldplay - Speed Of SoundDeep Purple - Smoke on the waterFranz Ferdinand - Do You Want ToGwen Stefani - What Are You Waiting For?Hard Fi - Hard To BeatHole - Celebrity SkinJet - Are You Gonna Be My GirlKasabian - Club FootKeane - Everybodys ChangingKings of Leon - The BucketKT Tunstall - Black horse and the Cherry TreeMaximo Park - Apply Some PressureNirvana - Come As You AreQueen - Don't Stop Me NowQueens of the Stone Age - Go With the FlowRazorlight - Somewhere ElseSnow Patrol - RunStereophonics - DakotaThe Bravery - An Honest MistakeThe Cardigans - My Favourite GameThe Hives - Hate To Say I Told You SoThe Killers - Somebody Told MeThe Offspring - Self-EsteemThe Rolling Stones - Paint It, BlackThe Scorpions - Wind of ChangeThe Undertones - Teenage KicksThin Lizzy - The Boys are Back In Town
Over on CNet, Elinor Millsruns throughsome of Google's most high profile hires over the past few years:Vint Cerf, creator TCP/IP and former ICANN chairman Larry Brilliant, founder of The Well Andy Hertzfeld, Apple engineer and employee #435 Adam Bosworth, former BAE Systems chief architect Kai-Fu Lee, former Microsoft executive in China Udi Manber, former CE of Amazon's A9 search unit Louis Monier, former eBayer and founder of AltaVista Andrew W Moore, former comp-sci professor at Carnegie Mellon University Nikesh Arora, former chief marketing officer, T-Mobile Jimmy Chou, former UTStarcom president in China Sean Egan, open source developer (GAIM) Ben Goodger, Firefox engineer Brian Ryner, Mozilla developer Guido van Rossum, author of PythonAll very interesting, but there's not a whole lot of analysis. Of course, it's interesting to catalogue the thing... but I wonder what it actually means to go around hiring these minds and sucking them into the Googleplex?Clearly the firm's replete with money right now, and it can afford to bring in top eggheads and sharp talents in order to try and keep itself ahead of the game.But for all the experience and skill of this roster, I wonder if it is betraying its future intentions with this polymath approach. After all, the half-finished products coming out of Mountain View - presumably those part-time projects which the company is famous for - are increasingly pointed away from the core business of search and advertising.Gossip blogValleywagcontends that Google's concentrating on bringing in well educated brainiacs at the expense of talented and creative individuals who don't happen to hold multiple degrees. It also helps if you've already made your name with a product or rival. Clever as these people are, there is a slight suggestions that this kind of hiring demotes disruptive creativity in favour of Good Product from Safe Hands.Is this list living proof that Google's already stepped into its own future?
Have you done a column explaining how to turn a vinyl record collection into digital files. I tried searching on the Guardian site, with no success. Simon Pirani and othersI don't think I have. However, it's pretty much the same as converting cassette tapes, which I covered here: http://technology.guardian.co.uk/online/askjack/story/0,,1595707,00.htmlBy far the most comprehensive guide I know isTransferring LPs to CDR: Some Advice, which you should read in conjunction withClive's FAQ About Audio on a PC.CNet also has a simple guide (actually from Computer Shopper) in its Weekend Project series --Turn LPs and cassettes into digital media files-- and there's another accounthere.Extra software may also come in useful. For example, there'sLP Ripper, which "automatically splits the file [from one side of an LP] into a separate WAV file for each track".It may help to have a utility that removes pops and clicks. Some programs have one built in (eg GoldWave). There's alsoWaveRepair(shareware and written by Clive, above),DePopper($18, but the home Web site is down), andWave Corrector(£28), which has declick and de-hiss utilities, and also splits files into tracks. Comments and suggestions welcome....
Please, make yourself comfortable.
TheTeomasearch engine now redirects toAsk.com, which used to be Ask Jeeves. (Teoma means "expert" in Gaelic, apparently.) The Teoma technology lives on inside Ask, as theofficial blogexplains, but it's still a little sad to see the site go....
"It's depressing to watch a mean, lean, fighting machine of a company deteriorate into mediocracy (sic). In Silicon Valley we call this process the "bozo explosion." This downward slide seems inevitable after a company achieves success--often during the years immediately following an IPO. The purpose of this article is to prevent, or at least postpone, this process in your company," writes marketing guruGuy Kawasaki.He then provides an amusing Top 10 list of the warning signs, now up to 14 (anyone can suggest more). A classic example:6. Your HR department requires an MBA degree for any position; it also requires five to ten years work experience in an industry that is only four years old.Kawasaki did two stints at Apple and "Infinite Loop" is written all over a couple of them (10 The success of a competitor upsets you more than the loss of a customer.). However, I expect a lot of people will spot the real target. As one comment says: "Oh my God! It looks like Google! No?"
"What's the danger of not letting your internal bloggers know about your product release plans? They might not be able to help keep your announcements in proper perspective," writes Microsoft lead bloggerRobert Scoble.Kent Newsome asks "will it walk the walk?"Whenever hype gets ahead of an announcement, the answer has to be: no.But, then, you gotta realize that I totally agree with Joe Wilcox who says that the best companies underpromise and overdeliver.Maybe I should have posted that no one will want an Origami and that it sucks raw potatoes.Seriously, let's keep our hype in check, OK?Comment: Seems there will not be a product announcement on March 2, just "more details", and there probably isn't a product anywhere. Microsoft develops reference designs and samples to show manufacturers the kinds of things they could develop around Microsoft software, but that doesn't put boxes on shelves. Also, I've seen examples before, like Microsoft's Stinger smart phone at Comdex 2000, where the final products bore very little resemblance to the prototypes. If Origami is like Stinger, come back in two or three years....
Oh, if only these visionaries had been around when I was in the Orange County school system! The OCDE have released a videopodcastin theirEducational Technologyseries about the potential of including games in elementary school classrooms. It pulls in all of the usual suspects (and rightly so), includingDr. Henry JenkinsandDr. James Paul Gee, and is a welcome positive reaction of an educational system to the potential of interactivity.Game politicscovers the surrounding issues quite well, including a small overview ofMIT's Augmented Realitygame genre, echoing the workNESTA Futurelab's done on this side of the pond. In short, interactivity supplements real-world activities by encouraging students to engage with the learning process rather than being taught through a transmission model. So for example, at MIT, students are provided with palmtops and charged with solving puzzles by taking soil samples and interviewing experts. At Futurelab, oneprototype education programmechallenges pupils to explore migration and community patterns of lions in the wild. Both MIT and Futurelab have more up their sleeves when it comes to this kind of engaged learning, and it's worth taking a look at their portfolios to be inspired.The OCDE are also offering a free course on Games and Education today. You can register by following the instructionshere.The Guardian's take on games in educationhere,here,here,hereandhere, plus gamesblog's interview with Dr. Geehere.
SinceFriday, the blogosphere has been buzzing around theOrigami Project, a life-changing Microsoft device that will be unveiled on March 2. Well...."You might not have to wait a few weeks to find out what Origami truly is," writesKevin Tofel. "Marketing firmDigitalKitchenmust have the ad campaign on this one because if you hit their site and enter, click Work and then BrandTheatre, guess what you'll find. Not just pics of the device, but a Flash-based video showing the various uses."The revelation was first made by Monk ina brief comment to an Engadget post.PDA Mexico has grabbedeight stills from the DK movieand posted a 12MB mpeg version anyone can download.jkontherunalso has screen caps.The device looks similar to the ultraportable prototype that Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates showed at WinHEC, the Windows Hardware Engineering Conference, in 2005 (below). It's basically a small form factor Tablet PC so you can write on the screen. It also works as a Media Center Extender, so it provides a portable screen for watching movies etc from your main PC, as well as being a portable media player.Comment: If this is the Origami then it's beyond carelessness to leave a video of it on the Web where someone will find it. Also, a prototype/demo project would usually have a code-name different from the final product name (though there are cases where the code-name stuck, eg Xbox), all of which suggets it's viral marketing. If so,it's working.Whether the device will sell is another matter. PC users have had handheld computers since the 1980s (with the Poqet, Atari Portfolio etc), and tablet-based computers since the GRiDPad 1900 Pen Tablet in 1989. There are also several handheld/ultraportable XP machines such as theOQO(now available with XP Tablet PC Edition) and Vulcan's (Paul Allen's) long awaitedFlipStart(first shown inFebruary 2004). Numerous other handtops have been launched using the more space- and battery-friendly Windows CE (Windows Mobile) operating system, including five generations of Pocket PC devices.They all have one thing in common: none of them has sold in big enough volumes to establish a new form factor. And that's what the Origami really needs to make it different.
The Shamrock K Horse Center in the small town of Coffeeville, Kansas, has an interesting distinction: it's the centre of the world, according to Google. Well, it's where you arrive if you go to Google Maps and see just how far in you can zoom. AsWired Newsreports:The launch of Google Maps in February 2005, has helped put Coffeyville on the map. "We get e-mails from all over the world," said City Clerk Cindy Price. "People want to see how far they can zoom."From its default setting, the site zooms in from a map of the United States down to 37.0625 latitude, -95.677068 longitude, a spot that's a muddy brown pixel on Google and a "fallow, weed-filled field" on foot, said Maggie Dew, a geocaching aficionado who trekked to the location earlier this month with her Garmin eTrex GPS receiver.And Wired has Maggie Dew's photos to prove it....Of course, now everyone is busy finding the GoogleCentre of everywhere, like, for example,ChicagoorBoston.The GoogleCenter of London is the junction where Abingdon Street runs into Parliament Square, between Westminster Abbey and the Houses of Parliament.The GoogleCenter of the UK is between Tower Way and Charles Street in Crewe.
Mazda MX-5&pound;15,600Top speed:122mphMiles per gallon:39Good for:Young heartsBad for:Old fartsTo celebrate its 16th birthday, Mazda decided to give its cute and cuddly MX-5 a face-lift. As the car is already the best-selling two-seater sports car ever - sales are about to go through the 750,000 barrier - you might think this unnecessary. But Mazda's top brass obviously thought that, like hot buttery toast and Porridge, you can never have too much of a good thing.Fans of the old MX-5 needn't worry. You will still recognise your old friend. Rather than a full-blown Joan Rivers cut'n'stretch, the face-lift is a tweak in the Michael Douglas mould. Gentle modifications include such sublime improvements as 'more warm air vents' so that you can go topless when it's colder, 'more storage areas' and, best of all, a slightly deeper boot so that you can now 'store beverage cases upright'. Panic over, your wine case now fits!This softly-softly approach should be applauded. These days, no designer seems able to take a hands-off stance on anything. They are a breed of fiddlers - except at Mazda. With this third-generation model they've done, well... not much. And it's all the better for it. There's no hi-tech electronics, no turbo-chargers, no sat-nav, no voice-activated robotic lumbar massager... But there's plenty of what it's always had: charm and joie de vivre. It's a loyal four-wheeled friend to see you through the grit and grind of daily life.The MX-5 treads the perfect compromise between speed, size and price: not too slow, not too small and not too expensive. It's a basic roadster that seems to deliver more than its hi-tech buddies. The car is now slightly bigger than it used to be (aren't we all) and has lost its famous 'cola-bottle' waist (haven't we all) in favour of straighter, more boxy lines. It has also gained wider front fenders which give it an athletic, chunkier look, and a double exhaust, which always looks flash. The cockpit is still snug and the high central console gives you a warm carpety embrace when you start weaving through the traffic. Incidentally, the plastic embellishments on the dash are made of the same shiny hardstuff as piano keys. The new model also boasts much improved performance and lower emissions from its reworked engine.The people at Mazda say you can open and close the fabric roof in just six seconds using only one hand. Actually, that's a lie. Only people with an arm as strong as a gorilla's will be able to close the roof without getting out of the car. Or maybe I'm even more feeble than I feared.Much is made in the car's bumf about the Mazda enabling 'man and machine to act as one'. This has been inspired by the ancient Japanese ritual of jinba ittai - in which an archer sitting on a galloping horse had to try to hit a target. It means, literally, 'oneness between horse and rider'. The modern equivalent would be a driver being able to eat a Big Mac while talking on his phone and still managing to avoid a jaywalking teenager.Towards the end of my week roaring about in Mazda's delightful roadster, my neighbour asked if I was having 'some sort of crisis'. Probably, I thought, but in the MX-5, it feels more like a midlife opportunity...martin.love@observer.co.uk
Six Apart created Moveable Type and TypePad, and bought LiveJournal. Now it's "working on a new product, codenamed Comet, that will start beta testing this quarter," according to co-founder Mena Trott, talking to BusinessWeek Online reporter Reena Jana. There are edited excerpts from their conversationhere. Mena says:Most people think of blogs as being primarily political or tech-focused. To most people, the important things they want to learn about have to do with people they know. So I think personal blogs are really the future, and with that comes a challenge for blogs to be more friendly and welcoming.Also, blogs are all about capturing and preserving information about our lives. And that makes me think of what might be the biggest future blog-design challenge: How do we design blogs that will archive and present 20 years worth of content?
Thomas Hawk has responded to the Apple PR machine with the usual attack:Personally I've never bought an iTune and I don't own an iPod. I think Apple's DRM is awful and represents a major step back for us all. I think those that are investing in iTune digital libraries are suckers. You are basically betting that Apple's proprietary DRM laced format will be the standard for the rest of your life. You are paying too much for your music and tying yourself to only Apple products going forward. More innovative ways to play your music may indeed come in the future but unless they are marketed by Apple you will not likely be able to use these devices with your iTunes files due to Apple's tight proprietary control.Personally I want nothing to do with it. I still collect my digital music the old fashioned way, I rip it straight from CDs to crystal clear high bit rate DRM free mp3s. These files of course can be played on any device and represent better value in my opinion for today's consumer.Which has predictably been followed by the usual rubbish onSlashdot. Possibly fun if you missed this the first 999,999 times.
Getting Up: Contents Under PressurePC, PS2, XBOXLike a gritty, urban, slightly clumsy Prince Of Persia, your hoodie jumps between lampposts, clings to ledges and batters enemies around the head with an assortment of improvised hardware. He also sprays an expandable range of graffiti across New Radius City, standing in for a New York portrayed here as a derelict battle zone inhabited by graffiti painting gang members and corrupt officials. Tagging, fighting and climbing stuff, while initially appealing, rapidly pale to reveal a game so utterly prescribed and joyless in its execution that it descends into monotonous routine, punctuated by awkward fights and an unending tide of the most shameless variety of product placement. Getting Up is an abysmally tedious and lifeless game.&#183;Atari, &pound;40NanostrayNintendo DSNanostray is a 2D scrolling shoot-'em-up that takes place over a series of sparkling mock-3D worlds. As tradition dictates, your tiny ship is assailed from all sides by an enemy horde, which you shoot down with absurd volumes of fire, driven by a steady supply of power-ups left by departed foes. Despite its unabashedly old school mechanics, Nanostray fails on just about every level, with its 3D fakery making it utterly impossible to tell where larger ships start and finish, leading to an abundance of frustrating not-my-fault deaths. Phenomenally irritating invisible barriers on each side of the screen regularly and unreasonably block attempts to escape, and you have to use the lower touch screen to change weapons, something which might be viable for those with an additional hand and a third, independent eye, but that for the rest of us is simply exasperating.&#183;THQ, &pound;30
Alternate reality games (or ARGs if you like onomatopoetic acronyms) are enjoying unprecedented popularity, with Microsoft having deployed them heavily in promoting both Xbox 360 and Halo 2. Neither offered material rewards for participants, unlike Perplex City; a vast agglomeration of online and real world clues to the location of the lost Cube, the discovery of which will earn you &#163;100,000.As part of the ongoing Perplex City experience, hundreds of players will be descending on London today for a series of team-based challenges, including a competition to build the highest tower out of straws and a "dance off" in Trafalgar Square. Spectators are welcome, with specially allocated bystander areas. Festivities begin at the City Temple Church in Holborn at 12noon.
Struggling to understand what someone is saying when they put lol, aamof or imho in an email? Help is at hand over atwww.noslang.com/dictionary.phpwhich will help you sort your AOLspeak from your leetspeak.Those entering employment amid the cut and thrust of a modern office visitwww.officeslang.comto discover that a seagull manager is a boss who flies in, makes lots of noise, craps everywhere then leaves. Alternativelywww.rapdict.orgis a rap dictionary containing definitions of commonly used rap slang such as cheddar (money) and Swayze (dead).Meanwhile, to keep abreast of modern swearing developments go towww.urbandictionary.com, learn a few Victorian insults atwww.tinyurl.com/8n7wp, some hobo gibberish atwww.tinyurl.com/73qrxand detective flim-flam at Twists, Slugs And Roscoes (www.tinyurl.com/8z7ge). TTFN mouse spuds.
Blackberry users in the US can breathe slightly easier, or at least sleep: the judge hearing the case over alleged patent infringement by Research In Motion (the Blackberry parent) and NTP (which owns a number of patents - claimed patents, though the US Patent Office has been busy binning them) has deferred judgement.The International Herald Tribunenoted:Judge James Spencer of U.S. District Court in Richmond declined to rule on an injunction that would have forced the BlackBerry's developer, Research In Motion, to terminate the popular service and escalated its long-running dispute with NTP. The judge said he was disappointed that Research In Motion and its adversary, NTP, had not been able to reach a settlement. He said he would first rule on the damages in the case before ruling on a shutdown."I am absolutely surprised that you have left this incredibly important and significant decision to the court," Spencer said toward the end of a hearing that lasted almost four hours. "I have always thought that this decision, in the end, was a business decision."This strikes us as an odd thing for a judge to say - in effect, "stop cluttering up my court with your issues of law" - but we'll suppose he had his reasons.A few hours earlier, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office issued a final rejection of the third NTP patent that forms the basis of the company's case against RIM, which is based in Waterloo, Ontario. The three rulings are subject to lengthy appeals, and Spencer has said they would not influence the progress of the case he is overseeing.Translating this mentally this to a criminal setting makes the latter declaration even more bizarre. It's like DNA testing being declared wrong outside the court, but the judge saying that he'll treat it as still true. (Just to be clear, DNA testing is still to be trusted.)Judge Spencer said he would issue a decision on an injunction "as soon as reasonably possible". When? He didn't say.
It's not altogether clear what's happening at the moment, but you can nowsign up hereto get money from selling things on Google Base. This doesn't mean you can do it now, it's "so we can let you know as soon as this feature is publicly available," says Google.The Official Google blog providesmore info. It says:We're starting with a very small number of sellers and we expect to include more over the next several months. If you're a seller and you're interested in getting an announcement when this feature is generally available, let us know.In a separate post, the blog also explains that Google is already a major player in the payments business, and already lets users pay for things, and is simply expanding its service.It says:If you take a look at the history of Google's advertising programs and online services, one thing you notice is that online billing and payments have been a core part of our offerings for some time. To run our ad programs, Google receives payments every day from advertisers, and then pays out a portion of those funds to advertising partners. Over the past four years, Google has billed advertisers in 65 countries more than $11.2 billion in 48 currencies, and made payments to advertising partners of more than $3.9 billion. When one of our consumer services requires payment to us, we've also provided users a purchase option.As the number of Google services has increased, we've continued to build on our core payment features and migrate to a standard process for people to buy our services with a Google Account. Examples of this migration include enabling users to buy Google Video content, Google Earth licenses, and Google Store items with their Google Accounts. We also just began offering similar functionality on Google Base.Comment: This doesn't look like competition for eBay and PayPal ... yet, but it's heading that way. Google is continuing with its plan for world domination, and now it's doing it one wallet at a time ;-)
MondayGame movies top Hollywood's anti-OscarsHostage situation in World of WarcraftPSP fights back: PowerStone and Tekken go handheldTuesdayMGS creator's blog and podcasts now available in EnglishGuild Wars FactionsWednesdayPerplex City event in London this SaturdayPS3 delay rumours intensifyThursdayAre mobile games still hot?Getting stoned for less$4,000 artist's fellowship in virtual worldTechnologyFridayXbox 360 shortage is almost over"Baby did a bad, bad thing..." What are your guilty gaming secrets?Show your hand
What is theOrigami Project? It's a simple ruse whereby Microsoft starts a teaser campaign for some unannounced project, and everybody whose mother met someone who knew a man who once worked in product development tries knowingly to guess what it is. It's a good game, of course, unless the product you are promoting in absentia is atotal turkey.Microsoft bloggerRobert Scoble says: "I do know that Origami is the code-name for a new kind of device. Oh, heck, here come the NDA* police, gotta go!"I wonder if it will come with any of these fantasticwhoops* An NDA is a Non Disclosure Agreement, which you have to sign before they'll tell you anything.Update: So far, the prime suspect is something like theRuby concept PC which we blogged in October 2005, courtesy ofEngadget.
Apple Keynote Bloopers at Tauquil's BlogDespite what some may have you believe, the famed Steve Jobs Apple Keynotes don't always go to plan. Behind the effortless veneer goes a lot of preparation but even the most orchestrated and well rehearsed show suffers from the occasional mishap. This wonderful video by Macintologist, shows just that.Fantastic compilation video of things not going right. I think I've seen them all but for the Phil Schiller one. Worth waiting for the 10MB download. (You are on broadband, right?)
"The British Government has been named Villain of the Year by a group of the world's largest internet companies after pushing through laws across Europe that will force firms to store more information on their customers' web and telephone use," reportsThe Times Online."At an awards ceremony in London last night, the Internet Service Provider Association said the Government had used its presidency of the European Union in 2005 to push through EU-wide data retention laws that will force ISPs and telecoms companies 'to retain more data for longer without proper impact assessment'."
James Governor, an industry analyst and co-founder ofRedMonk, says he "was at theCarson Summitrecently, which was full of European developers interested in the future of web apps," and he wasn't surprised by the shortage of English Web 2.0 companies. "At the beginning of the day I thought it was a bit condescending that a US firm* was running the conference. By the end of the day though I realised why. Nobody English tried," he sayshere.The only people that can make a living from whining are standup comedians. There are many great English standups. I just wish there more great English startups. Maybe I just should just stop whining about it.*Carson Systemsis based in Bath, and is a privately -held UK company, but Ryan Carson was born in Colorado.
Following on fromyesterday's blogI propose an experiment. Totally anecdotal and unscientific, obviously, but I want to find out whether my theory about PSP being the more popular handheld console to be seen in public with, despite the DS selling more, is true. So, post in the comments if you see a DS or PSP being used out and about and I'll tally them up next week. In the meantime I'll do my normal thing of taking both with me and using the DS if I fancy playing a game and the PSP for watching last night's TV/listening to music. Oh, and no fictional sightings please, this is serious stuff. Honest.
The US Patent Office is already famous for incompetence and/or stupidity -- granting patents forperpetual motion machinesor, in 2003, thedomain name system, orpeanut butter and jelly sandwiches without crusts. But when it comes to software, the organisation is so far out of its depth it has become positively dangerous.The latest patent-you-really-can't-believe-they-granted is forMethods, systems, and processes for the design and creation of rich-media applications via the internet.If you think that's pretty broad, you're right. According to Neil Balthaser, chief executive officer of the company that filed the patent on February 9, 2001, it covers "all rich-media technology implementations including Flash, Flex, Java, AJAX and XAML and all device footprints which access rich-media Internet applications including desktops, mobile devices, set-top boxes and video game consoles" (quoted fromCNet).Somehow it's horribly amusing that Balthaser has what could bethe world's most hideous Web site. Neil used to work for Macromedia and seems to have been badly bitten by the Flash bug. Indeed, he penned a rather amusing pro-Flash article in NewMedia Magazine sayingKill HTML before it kills us.Unfortunately, all this software patent nonsense is causing enormous amounts of damage to businesses, especially in the US. For example, Microsoft was stung for more thanhalf a billion bucksover the Eolas Technologies patent, which was not just granted but upheld! And you don't get your lawyers fees and any court costs back even when the US Patent Office startsinvalidating the patents it granted, as in the case where NTP has been using patents to attack Research in Motion, with the risk of shutting down its BlackBerry service.We've written or published several stories about all this -- see, for example,Richard Stallman's Patent Absurdityin Online last June. What Balthaser's patent suggests is that the situation is not getting any better, and could very well get much, much worse.
Welcome to the February edition of Business Sense, where we bring together the latest smart technology - and smart thinking - for small- to medium-sized businesses.Inside this edition, we focus on business away from the traditional office environment. Big offices are, after all, one of the reasons many people choose to start out on their own; getting away from the corporate atmosphere is often an attractive proposition for many would-be entrepreneurs.In fact, the home offices highlighted by David Howell in his piece on page 3 this month may be enough to inspire you on their own. We take a look at a range of set-ups, from what appear to be well-appointed garden sheds to mighty, architect-designed statements.Not that all home working is always easy-going - Ibiza-dwelling Nick Clayton's regular Desk in the Sun column reminds us that dealing with red tape and utility companies gets no easier, wherever you live.Meanwhile, Sue Norris looks at rather more temporary accommodation - the hotel - and asks: why do they so often fail to anticipate business travellers' needs? Recent research, reported in the piece, suggests some big hotel chains might be well advised to get back to the old, important values of hospitality to keep their business travellers happy.Finally, the eBay Business Sense challenge moves towards its climax next month, with our five contestants - who all won seed funding for their eBay businesses late last year - facing a Valentine's challenge this month. The contrasting ways they rose to the task makes, we think, for some interesting reading.Next month's Business Sense - out, as ever, on the last Friday of the month - will reveal which of the five has done best.
One of the great business fashions of the age is the "project". Into its capacious arms fall a number of other trends, including the outsourcing of work and the throwing together of multidisciplinary teams for particular, one-off efforts.Projects have been popular for years, so it was always something of a surprise that there were so few accessible online tools to help manage them.Yes, the hardcore project managers could get familiar with Microsoft Project, or wrestle with Lotus Notes but, for the rest of us, engaged in smaller projects, perhaps with only a limited number of people involved and little inclination to learn a new software package, the options were few.For instance, if you simply wanted to keep scattered members of a team informed about deadlines, facilitate a little electronic conversation between everyone and maybe share some work in progress along the way, there was really only one option for some time: email.That was a bad idea for lots of reasons. The obvious one: our inboxes are, in reality, not good places to keep lots of documents. A project manager might send a vital email with mission statement, budget and a list of tasks early on - but given the volume of mail most of us receive, that's quickly buried. Using folders helps a little but, on a big piece of work, even the folder can become overwhelmed.Well, finally, a solution might have arrived, thanks to a happy combination of circumstances. First, new web technologies, popularised in the last couple of years, have made the creation of nifty little web applications much easier. Second, we've got faster PCs, much better web browsers and speedier internet connections, thanks to broadband and wireless internet.All this means these new web applications - which push some of the hard work down to your computer, rather than it all being done centrally - can work at a decent speed, and in a very user-friendly way. Importantly, they also work on any recent browser, and on PC or Mac. Here, we look at some web applications worth examining if you're looking for a way to manage projects, create documents or store your stuff.Project managementBasecampBasecamp is a "project collaboration tool"; something that makes it simpler to coordinate the tasks of a group of people working on a project, through liberal use of to-do lists, messages, goals (called "milestones") and time-tracking. The site is, fundamentally, just a collection of editable webpages, but webpages that can be edited in a variety of useful ways.The service can, for instance, tie to-do lists to particular milestones - so you know you have to do a set of small tasks to complete a big one. This is particularly well-suited to those of us who try to adhere to David Allan's Getting Things Done regime.The service is simple to set up, and the learning curve is gentle. An "owner" sets up (and pays for) the Basecamp, picks an address for their new site and then invites members of the team via an easy-to-use "people" screen. When they sign up, they see the project they have permission to work on (a Basecamp owner can have multiple projects on the go at any one time). The fact the service is online means it's also a very useful solution for those of us who work in teams scattered across buildings, or even continents. A recent project I worked on would have been much harder to organise, and certainly less efficient, without Basecamp, simply because one member of the team was based in Italy. We were able to share files, work out what work needed to be done when, suggest solutions to problems and comment on ideas all within Basecamp, without recourse to email, lengthy meetings or (unfortunately) trips to Florence.This said, Basecamp doesn't do everything brilliantly, yet. For instance, to-do lists can relate to a milestone, but they can't relate to a date. That means you can't simply say, "I want to complete everything in this list by Friday", unless you make Friday a milestone. Moreover, on big projects with lots of collaborators you might want to set "permissions" so some people don't see every message, to-do list or milestone; this is impossible in Basecamp, unless you set up another project to carry that information.The best way to evaluate Basecamp is to give it a go; happily, they'll let you run one project on the service for as long as you want, for free. More projects, and some features, come for a fee - from $12 a month for three projects to $99 a month for unlimited projects, secure data encryption and lots of storage for files you want to share.Word processingWritelyWhy would you want an online word-processor? Well, this one - Writely - is free, for a start. It is also surprisingly fully featured, with all the kind of tools one generally uses most in Word, including text formatting tools and spell checking (in American English, mind). It also handles the insertion of graphics quite happily.The benefits of being online are noticeable too: when I was writing this piece on my laptop it started to malfunction, and it became clear it would need to go off for repairs. So I took the work out of Word, and pasted it into Writely, where the document was stored while I worked on it. I could access it from work, or my desktop machine, and I was secure in the knowledge that it wouldn't vanish should I suffer another computer mishap.But, like Basecamp, Writely is not just about having a central place to store stuff. Another advantage of having a centrally-stored document is that a team can work on it, editing bits until it's finished. You can track the revisions made - thus seeing who has done what. And, unlike dealing with documents that are emailed around a team, there's never any doubt about which is the most recent version.There are other webby features too: if you have a blog, it's easy to publish your documents to that blog from inside Writely, making this a much nicer place to edit blog posts than some blog services.The interesting thing about Writely is that this is a word processor made for the internet age. While Writely offers print functionality, and does a perfectly nice job of it, it's clear this is only part of its use. It has the feel of something that accepts that many of the documents we work on are unlikely to ever get printed out - a clear difference from the decades-old Word.Online calendarsOf all the common computer functions, the one that's proving hardest to replicate away from the computer desktop is the online diary. There have been lots around for years, and new ones are appearing all the time. The trouble is, it seems they are struggling to be as convenient as their desktop counterparts. That's why we can't clearly recommend one above the others.Calendarhub finds favour with some, while there's been an extraordinary amount of hype around 30Boxes, an online calendar that attempts to bring "social" features - sharing, collaboration and so on -to calendars. Another one, Airset, has found support among Getting Things Done disciples thanks to, among other things, the ability to colour-code calendars depending on the role and the ability to view combinations of to-do items based on the tags you search under.Finally, Planzo calls itself "the world's easiest online calendar", and has some neat features, including the ability to email yourself every day with a reminder of your itinerary.But, despite all these competing services, all remain a slight disappointment; big problems include difficult integration with existing diaries, the inability to synch with handheld devices and ugly or awkward interfaces. A key feature I want, for instance, is the ability to import an existing calendar - something much-hyped 30Boxes simply can't do. Others simply feel clunky to use; if putting information in the calendar is a chore, it'll make it much less likely to become the vital repository for all your diary dates.Calendars have a bit to go to match the slickness of the other applications featured here, perhaps reflecting the complexity of the jobs we expect them to fulfill. We'll update you on their progress in future editions of Business Sense. WeblinksWeblinksGuardian interview with David Allen:http://technology.guardian.co.uk/businesssense/story/0,,1580180,00.htmlBasecamp:www.basecamphq.comWritely:www.writely.comCalendarhub:www.calendarhub.com30Boxes:www.30boxes.comPlanzo:www.planzo.com
There's nothing more annoying than expat Brits who spend their time whinging about the way things aren't the same as at home. My response is: "If you don't like living in a foreign country, why don't you go back home?"On the other hand, there are some Spanish bureaucracies that drive even locals to despair. Try walking into a bar miserably muttering, "Telefonica". Every drinker will join in with a horror story about the former telephone monopoly.It often feels as if Telefonica is run by the bastard offspring of a Spanish dictator and a Russian author, a sort of "Franco Kafka". For instance, soon after I arrived in Ibiza I ordered ADSL and was told a modem would be delivered in a few days. Two weeks later I phoned to see what had happened. Apparently the courier couldn't find my address. This wasn't surprising because, according to Telefonica's computer system, I lived in the local unmanned telephone exchange.At this point I should admit my conversations with Telefonica have not been in Spanish. One of the good things about the company is you can get straight through to an English-speaking operator. Well almost straight through. You have to know it's necessary to listen to two menus in Spanish before carefully over-pronouncing "ingles".Mind you, that's easier than Telefonica's mobile service Movistar. After a few attempts you feel proud to have got through Catalan and Basque to get a menu option in English. Then it jumps back into Spanish for what I now know is an instruction to press the cuadradillo (hash key) to confirm.Anyway, after several weeks, despite many calls to Telefonica, I still didn't have my equipment. Then, on one of my frequent visits to a local internet cafe, I discovered all Telefonica ADSL customers use the same log-in. All I needed to do was plug in my UK modem. I blush when I remember how excited this discovery made me.So now I didn't care as months passed without a modem delivery. At least I didn't care until my broadband service suddenly stopped. I phoned Telefonica. The operator said I couldn't have been cut off because I'd never had ADSL. I could, however, order it. Back to square one.Weeks passed. Eventually another operator told me I could cancel my order and go to a Telefonica shop instead. So that's what I did. After annoying the lengthy shop queue with my appalling Spanish I eventually understood it would take up to two weeks for the cancellation to get through the system.In due course I returned to the shop, filled in the forms and waited to be handed my modem. But no, it had to be delivered to my apartment that was still, according to Telefonica's records, in the telephone exchange. In the end it was a lost courier who saved the day. He asked a local hotel for directions and the receptionist knew me. It had only taken eight months.I was living on the outskirts of Ibiza's largest town. It can be worse if you live in the country, as a friend discovered. When his line developed a fault he was informed he must provide a number for the engineer to call. As he works from home in a place without mobile reception, this was a little problematic.He also had broadband, at least until his service was "upgraded". Telefonica told him he was too far away from the exchange to have ever had ADSL. More in anger than expectation he requested a rebate to cover his monthly payments for a service he apparently couldn't receive. It was ignored.Shortly after this, however, Telefonica allocated his phone number to somebody else. Calls went to whichever house got to the phone first. The situation was only resolved when the new subscriber rescinded their right to the number in writing.Sometimes I wonder if all this is in some way related to the fact that Telefonica owns Endemol, the TV company behind Big Brother. Are we all housemates in some bizarre experiment to be televised later?&#183;Nick Clayton is a writer and web content consultant
Someone once said that the purpose of a lecture was to get the contents of the lecturer's notebook into the notebook of the student without them passing through the brain of either. This is an extreme view, of course, and a pretty dated one - we now have voice recorders so we don't need the notebooks any more.The same is true of business meetings - except we're much older. We want a way of keeping a record with as little effort as possible so we can concentrate on the meeting itself rather than on keeping track of it. Or maybe you're in the habit of dictating letters to a PA and want a way to do this in his or her absence.Whichever approach you decide to take, you're edging towards the need for some sort of voice recorder. What you opt for will depend on a number of things. Do you want to load the recordings on to your computer? If so, no problem - as long as you have a PC rather than a Mac. Mac users might be better off looking into an add-on widget for an iPod, which they'll no doubt also use for music and video entertainment.Either way, once you've downloaded your recording you can edit it and mail it around the place, whether to your PA or to a remote PA somewhere else - one Guardian freelance uses expresstype.co.nz in New Zealand; he sends his sound files when he finishes work for the day then, by the time he wakes up, they're all transcribed for him.The top endOlympus WS-320MIf you want something top of the range, this could well be the voice recorder for you. Sound quality was superb and, for something so small, the ability to fit stereo speakers is a bit of a marvel. It's slim - think iPod Nano with a heavier battery - and it comes apart for plugging straight into a USB slot, although it has an extender cable if you need it. Other features include 277 hours' recording time, compatibility with a PC or Mac, stereo headphones in the box and it'll play MP3s and WMA files for your leisure moments.The price is a drawback. You can see where the money has gone, but you need to decide whether you need all of the functions it offers, and whether they're worth paying twice the price of the competition. There are optional extras including a tie-pin microphone and a telephone adaptor; given the price and the fact that Olympus provides the mike as standard with its lower-specified models you might have thought they could have put it in the box.If you've been toying with the idea of getting a small MP3 player but also want a powerful voice recorder, you'd do well to consider this as a combined unit that looks businesslike.Price:&pound;135.13 (PC World Business)Maker's URL:www.olympus.co.ukPros:Size, weight, MP3 playerCons:Costly if your need is simply for a voice recorderStar rating:5 starsThe workhorseSharp PA-VR10eA slim recorder in stylish and rather trendy iPod-white and grey, this has a lot to recommend it. The built-in microphone has two sensitivity settings and it offers four folders with up to127 files per folder. The "erase" button is as far from everything else as is practicable on a small unit like this and the sound quality is fine for dictation. There are no flashy extras like MP3 or WMA playback, and this is reflected in the price, but it does offer some elementary organiser functions; you can set it to play a message to remind you of a meeting at a given time, for example.Like the expensive Olympus, though, it has a socket for an external microphone which it fails to supply in the box. Speaking of boxes, Sharp had to send the software to link this to the PC in a separate box because it doesn't fit in the standard packaging. None of this is disastrous as not everyone will want the PC connectivity which others find so useful, but, if you're buying one, make sure you take the extra box with you if you need it.Price:&pound;74.44Maker's URL:www.sharp.co.ukPros:Size and capacityCons:Again, the absence of an external microphone is a pityStar rating:4 starsThe multi-taskerGenius MP3-DJ 520Taiwanese company Genius might be surprised to find its product in a round-up of voice recorders; it's intended as a one gigabyte MP3 player and it does that perfectly well. It has two earphone sockets so you can share your music. More importantly from this article's point of view, it has a voice recorder that works well as long as there isn't much background noise; if there is, then you'd be better off with a dedicated recorder and an external microphone.If your requirement is for very occasional recording, though, why not get something that'll do other things? Look also at the Rio Carbon, which was selling as low as &pound;76.38 on Micro Direct as we went to press and has 5Gb to store music. Don't forget, either, that many hand-held computers have a voice recorder incorporated; if you keep your recordings on memory cards using one of these then you can manage a permanent archive if you need to.Price:&pound;102.97Maker's URL:www.geniusnet.com.twPros:Size and ease of useCons:Not a great microphone, as you'd expect since it's not primarily intended as a voice recorderStar rating:3 starsThe add-onBelkin TuneTalk for iPodThis is a nice little widget. You stick it in the top of your iPod (dating back to 3G iPods), and the voice recorder menu comes up on the menu. You hit "record" and it records, then it'll play back through earphones and synchronise with iTunes just like any other piece of music would. You can then edit it, convert it to MP3, send it around the world and do whatever you wish with it.It's frankly excellent - as long as you've already got an iPod. If not, then the bad news is that you need to look into buying either the 30 gigabyte or 60 gigabyte version because the smaller models - the Nanos and the Shuffles - won't take this useful add-on. That's a frustration because the combined price of one of the new 1 gigabyte Nanos - &pound;109 - plus the TuneTalk at &pound;19.99, is on the expensive side, but it's not impossible since you get a decent MP3 player as well. Add the extra &pound;90 for the full-blown iPod and you have a much more expensive proposition.Belkin is working on a Nano-compatible version and, frankly, it can't come soon enough.Price:&pound;15.29 (digitalkind.co.uk)Maker's URL:www.belkin.com/ukPros:Allows you to take advantage of something you may already haveCons:Doesn't work with the obvious iPodsStar rating:4 stars&#183;All prices found onFroogle.co.ukas we went to press
This month, the five contestants were set two specific challenges. The first was to spruce up their eBay shops, after which experts at the company would judge whose was best. Second, all five were given an identical hamper of chocolates to auction over three days on the weekend before Valentine's Day, to be judged on who sold it for the most money regardless of how much they spent listing and promoting the item.To help with the first, Matt Priddle, head of events and education at eBay UK, used a conference call with the contestants to suggest they consider how search engines view a shop, from the top-left. This means using words that people might search on high on the front page, such as in the shop description.The contestants were already following a lot of Priddle's other advice - all five were already using a shop banner and search box on their normal auction listings, encouraging customers to visit their shop. But only Clare Tomkins had sent out an emailed newsletter. Customers can sign up to receive newsletters from a shop even if the owner hasn't realised this: "You may already have people subscribing to your email marketing," Priddle points out.Tomkins reckons the newsletter facility, for which she has more than a dozen subscribers, is useful for telling customers when she has new books in stock: people had been asking her to let them know when this happened.There was mixed news about the cost of listing in shops: on February 22, eBay cut the monthly listing fee per item from 5p to 3p, but raised the sales charges, from 5.25% to 6.75% of the sale value up to &pound;30. However, shop items now appear in eBay searches, although after auction items.Roger Eigenheer asked about linking to external pages, something which other contestants have found problematic. Priddle admitted the rule was complicated, and sometimes misapplied: "You're allowed to link to an information-only page, so long as within two clicks you can't purchase an item," he said. "Things can go a little awry, pages can be pulled down when they are in compliance with the policy." He advised contestants to link to external sites from their About Me pages, rather than item listings.Paul Edwards said he has received inconsistent judgements in this area, with one auction listing being removed by eBay because of an external link, followed by an apology when he complained, followed by another listing being pulled and then another apology.Low starting priceAll the contestants decided to start their Valentine's hamper at 99p with no reserve, and all offered free postage: Stuart Reed started by charging &pound;4.95, but then edited the listing to remove it after noticing similar auctions charging nothing.Tomkins launched her auction first, offering to write a romantic poem for, or on behalf of, the winner. "Luckily, I'm married to an English teacher, so I reckon between us we can come up with a poem," she said.Denice Purdie and Eigenheer both decided to donate all the income to charity, while Reed donated 50%: eBay can make such donations automatically to a range of charities through its MissionFish system, with a ribbon logo added to listings.All three chose charities with which they have a link: Eigenheer chose Cancer Research UK, as part of a fundraising programme he is undertaking through five bicycle trials leading up to him taking part in L'Etape du Tour, in which amateurs cycle stages of the Tour de France.Edwards hit on the most dramatic way to promote the hamper: cross-promotion with a custom-built conservatory, the kind which he has tried to sell at &pound;1,495, but this time would start at 99p with no reserve. "Combining them, I should get a few hits," he said before starting the auctions. "If it goes wrong, it's going to cost a bit."Although their bids were close in value on Saturday, Eigenheer ended up raised almost twice as much as runner-up Tomkins, whose auction was a day ahead of the others, and almost three times as much as Purdie, who sells gift hampers as part of her normal business and who, like Eigenheer, donated all the money to charity and listed the item in two categories.Although he paid for some extra promotion, Eigenheer spent less than others. So what was his trick? "It was definitely a matter of promotion," he said: despite being in a hotel as a result of work, he stayed up until 3am photographing the hamper - using red wrapping and crepe paper from a nearby card shop - and fine-tuning the words. He used the title "Gourmet Chocolate Valentine's Hamper - Free 24hr P&P;", having noticed that "chocolate" was a more popular word on eBay Pulse than "Valentine's": everyone else put the latter first.Eigenheer also used an eBay shop facility to generate leaflets advertising current items for sale, and left these in his local bicycle and Cancer Research charity shops.Meanwhile, eBay judged that Tomkins had the best shop. "She's created great content, signed people up to her newsletter, and we love the link to her blog," says Dan Wilson, the firm's UK community manager, adding that Purdie's shop looks best.Tomkins said that the changes she made after the conference call - displaying the shop description at the top of the page and writing guides to appear elsewhere on eBay, linking to her shop - increased traffic within days. Of the shop description, she said: "I've changed it using eBay Pulse, to make sure I have plenty of keywords to do with my items."Edwards made a loss selling his hamper, but had bigger fish to fry: he sold his first conservatory through eBay, with the 99p starting price rising to &pound;500 with an hour to go, then - during a nervous hour which Edwards spent hitting the browser refresh button - rocketing to &pound;1,216.He made a small profit on the item, and gained a lot of attention: "There was a couple of thousand of hits on my pages. It's certainly a way forward for the competition - I'm going to try a couple more," Edwards says.The Valentine's hamper challengeRoger Eigenheer:&pound;78. Started at 99p with no reserve, free P&P.; Highlighted to appear first in searches, listing in two categories including his usual selling area of cycling, 100% going to charity. Cost of listing: &pound;22. Received 21 bids, ended at 21:30 Sunday.Clare Tomkins:&pound;41. Started at 99p with no reserve, free P&P.; "Featured Plus" item with six photos and subtitle. Cost of listing: &pound;11.35. Received 11 bids, ended at 22:29 Saturday.Denice Purdie:&pound;28. Started at 99p with no reserve, free P&P.; Promotion on eBay homepage, listing in two categories, 100% going to charity. Cost of listing: &pound;50. Received 18 bids, ended at 19:00 Sunday.Stuart Reed:&pound;23.50. Started at 99p with no reserve, free P&P; (revised from &pound;4.95). Standard listing in two categories, 50% going to charity. Cost of listing: 30p. Received 16 bids, ended at 10:09 Sunday.Paul Edwards:&pound;13.49. Started at 99p with no reserve, free P&P.; Cross-promotion with auction of conservatory starting at 99p, featured listing. Cost of listing: &pound;10.11. Received 17 bids, ended at 21:45 Sunday.Trading update and shop rankingClare TomkinsTrading name:book-bagsShop URL:http://stores.ebay.co.uk/back-to-schoolShop ranking:1stFeedback rating:91 (100%)Clare Tomkins reckons she is working more efficiently than a few weeks ago: "I'd make a bag, parcel it up, go to the computer and see where it had to go." Now, she does such tasks in batches, and visits the post office just once a day, rather than twice. She took Matt Priddle's advice to write online guides which link back to a seller's shop: by lunchtime the day after the call, she had written one and was planning half a dozen more, mainly on children's books: "I used to be a primary school teacher, so I've got things to say."Denice PurdieTrading name:scottish_soap_companyShop URL:http://stores.ebay.co.uk/purdies-the-scottish-soap-companyShop ranking:Joint 2ndFeedback rating:44 (100%)Denice Purdie has found that gift sets between &pound;10 and &pound;20 sell well, and was hoping to sell several for Valentine's Day. She finds auctions work best, followed by Buy It Now offers, with shop-only items last. "We never put reserve prices on - people like to get a bargain," she says of auctions. She plans to use more categories of eBay to gain more attention, including soap-making kits and wedding favours: "I got an email from someone through eBay, asking about wedding favours. People write you a question and it gives you a good idea, you go with it," she says.Roger EigenheerTrading name:green-wheelsShop URL:http://stores.ebay.co.uk/green-wheelsShop ranking:Joint 2ndFeedback rating:76 (100%)Roger Eigenheer is sticking to auctions starting at 99p, which he finds works better than other methods: one bicycle part stayed on his shop for two weeks at &pound;2.50 without selling, but he then auctioned it for more than &pound;6. Even with shop items now appearing in eBay searches, he prefers auctions, given his main items are second-hand bicycles: "It's hard for me to value my stock. People prefer to start at a low price and sometimes get carried away." He has started using a shipping agent to deal with couriers and the Post Office, at a cost of 50p to &pound;1 per item.Paul EdwardsTrading name:tfs_conservatoryShop URL:http://stores.ebay.co.uk/tfs-conservatoryShop ranking:Joint 4thFeedback rating:10 (100%)Although he had sold a few accessories, Paul Edwards had not sold any custom-built conservatories through auctions starting at realistic prices, despite spending &pound;280 on eBay listing fees, which are linked to auction starting prices. So he decided to change course: "I think 99p is the only way forward," he says, of his experiment to list a conservatory at a minimal price and risk a big loss. "It's a complete change of strategy for the rest of the competition." It paid off, at least on its first attempt, as he sold his first conservatory for &pound;1,216, making a small profit.Stuart ReedTrading name:sports_and_leisureShop URL:http://stores.ebay.co.uk/rrd-sports-and-leisureShop ranking:Joint 4thFeedback rating:9 (100%)When interviewed, Stuart Reed was waiting for his feedback to reach 10, allowing him to pay &pound;9.99 per item for an appearance on eBay's homepage. He has started his auctions of new sporting goods at realistic prices to avoid losses, but plans to start homepage-featured items lower: "What it should do is drive people to your shop." He has sold more fitness equipment than expected, as opposed to outdoor sports kit such as for canoeing: "I think it's probably the time of year, and very keen prices," he says, adding that he now wants to increase sales of outdoor goods.
How long do you spend commuting to your office? Nicky Blumfield takes less than a minute; she's set up a studio in her back garden. As a graphic designer she had always worked at home, but after moving into a new house with her partner it was clear that she'd have to make other arrangements as the house was simply too small to work in."For 19 years I'd always worked in a room in whichever house I owned at the time," says Blumfield. "But, when I moved in with my new partner in December 2004, there wasn't space in the house for me to have a room to work in, so I needed to create a new space."Now her Garden Escape studio is just that; a workspace with phone and network lines, as many shelves as she needs and even a two-way switch so she can turn lights on and off from the house.The potting shed has always held a fascination for some, as something more than just a place to store the lawnmower. People have always created new spaces for their hobbies, or as an escape from domestic life. Roald Dahl famously wrote his books while wrapped in a blanket in his garden shed.Today, home-based workers are creating office and studio spaces in their homes and gardens that are something more than just a shed conversion. They are purpose built structures that offer a lot of control over the working space they create and, importantly, they aren't as expensive as you might expect.Super shedsIt's estimated that 3.1 million people now work without stepping out of their front doors - and the figure is expected to rise dramatically thanks to a variety of factors, from flexible working to the widespread availability of fast internet access at home. One leading home office supplier says business has tripled over the last year alone.Solicitor Michael Mallone, like many other people who have experienced a change in their working patterns, needed a space to work, and store his large collection of books."It was really because of the amount of space that was needed. In my old house in Bolton I had quite a large study and quite a large library of books. There simply wasn't enough space in the new house to accommodate them all. That was the main purpose for building the office. Also, at the time I was doing some work from home so the new office has a combination of library area and a small working area."The daily commute to the office is often the reason for moving to home-based working. This was certainly the case for Mallone, who faced a two-and-a-half-hour commute both ways each day as he travelled to work in Manchester.His circumstances have changed yet again, but he still believes the InsideOut Buildings office he bought was a good investment: "It made a lot of sense to work from home and save that time. But my circumstances have changed now as I have retired from practice and gone into a full-time judicial appointment, which means working full-time elsewhere. But even with these changes in circumstances, I think the building is still worthwhile."Building an office or studio in your garden is only one option that home workers are adopting. If you have the space, home offices and studies are becoming increasingly popular. One of the best-known designers of bespoke office spaces is Neville Johnson, which built an office for Brighton-based pharmacist Lawrence Sprey."I wanted a space at home were I could write and plan my businesses," he says. "I have an office at work, but often it's hard to concentrate so I bring work home. The space they have created is stunning. When we bought the house we asked the builder if they could do something for us, but all they offered to do was put a few shelves up."If the idea of building a specialised office or studio space in your garden is appealing, the project doesn't necessarily have to put a large hole in your bank balance. The Garden Escape has a range of designs to suite every need - including spaces that incorporate steam rooms, shower rooms, toilets and kitchenettes. Prices can reach &pound;85,000, but an office space suitable for one person would cost just under &pound;10,000 for an off-the-shelf model. It is more likely, however, that with customisation the cost could reach &pound;15-&pound;20,000. Garden offices from InsideOut Buildings, for instance, start at around &pound;16,400, plus VAT.For the deeper of pocket, however, the ultimate in home offices is to commission an original piece of architecture. This is what Jonathan Marland did for his studio.Marland lives in a Grade II listed house and wanted to build an office space in the grounds of his home that was modern, yet sat comfortably with the rest of his home. He enlisted the help of architects Hans and Paula Klaentschi to help him realise his ambition. "I already had an office in the garden at roughly the same position as the new studio. I felt that it wasn't giving the right environment for work. It wasn't compelling me to go and work there," he says. "It didn't use the location to its full advantage and also needed a bit of money spending on it, so I thought, 'why not build something new?'"Marland had clear ideas about what he wanted to create: "What I didn't want was a pastiche fitted on to the side of the house, which is 16th century. If you recognise that you don't want to do that, you want some architectural freedom. I had some strong views about what I wanted to do. Hans came up with a variety of suggestions, some of which I knocked into the long grass and some I embraced. So there was a very healthy debate."The studio went on to win a Royal Institute of British Architects award.Commissioning a bespoke piece of architecture will always present problems. Marland's development was no different. "The challenge was bringing the project to fruition given that most of the local merchants have not been involved in contemporary projects so, for example, glazing had to be imported from Germany. The quotes we received from the local builders were far too expensive so I managed the project with Hans and my then odd-job man, David Cherrie. We had to source materials from far and wide and find someone who could produce the necessary steel."At &pound;60,000 for the completed building, this level of commitment to a working space at home is beyond most people's means but, as Marland says, if you have the resources, you can create something very special. "I have seen other kits that could have been put up far more economically than the one I actually built."There is no doubt the &pound;60,000 that the building cost is a lot of money. I am lucky that I can afford the indulgence of creation. The thing about buying something off the shelf is that it doesn't indulge externally your desire to create something."And is Jonathan happy with the result? "I hate to admit it but I probably would have changed the loo. Otherwise, I am terrifically happy with everything and I really want to work there." It's estimated that 3.1 million people now work without stepping out of their front door 'I felt my old office wasn't giving the right environment for work. It wasn't compelling me to work there'How to create the perfect working spaceWhether you simply have to walk to another room in your home, or go outside into your garden, the spaces that home workers are now creating are far more than simply somewhere to answer the phone or crunch a spreadsheet. Many home workers who have invested in garden offices talk about the need to create a space that they want to work in.Nicky Blumfield says making the space her own was essential. "The psychology of going to work is really important. The trick is to try and create as few barriers between you and the work as possible. I have personalised the space so I do want to work in it."It was built last March. It had a couple of minor teething problems but they were sorted promptly. We had a deck built for access, and we oiled the deck plus the outside of the building to preserve the cedar colour. This keeps the 'wow' factor, which is important for the re-sale of the house."If you're considering building a home office, where should you start? Jonathan Marland offers some advice. "If you're starting from scratch, you need to sit down as ask yourself, 'what kind of room are you going to feel comfortable in?', and, 'what works for you as a person?'. Don't get caught in the middle with a compromise."Michael Mallone also believes that you have to ensure you build a space that fulfils your needs: "I think the best advice is that you're not constrained to accept a standard package. If you talk to someone like InsideOut, it's normally possible to adapt whatever the standard building may be to your own requirements."I think you ought to make out a checklist of the things you want to achieve with the building and, rather than buying off the shelf, talk to the supplier to ensure that those requirements are being met."As you could be spending upwards of &pound;20,000 on a garden office, it's important to try and see first-hand the spaces you could buy. Above all, make your working space a place where you can be productive, but ensure that it is comfortable and says something about who you are - and the new life you are leading.
Tired? Listless? Moody? Work getting you down? You're not alone. Recent research suggests more than a third of business owner/managers would cancel their family holiday for the sake of their business. Another survey said more than two-thirds of small business employees took their work to the beach or the ski slopes.Mark Roy, who started his business, the REaD Group, in 1991, knows exactly what that means. He hasn't got away much in the intervening years but, when he does, his business - which specialises in managing mailing lists - travels with him. "I usually spend about two hours a day working," he says.This had to stop when he got married recently, when his wife insisted that he shouldn't so much as take a phone call on his honeymoon. He approached the event with some trepidation. "It was a bit nerve-wracking," he says. "The thing is, people like me are addicted to their own adrenaline. When I had to stop completely it was as though someone had stolen the toys; I had a real dip after about three days."He put this down to starting to chill out a bit. "Then I started to relax; we were on Capri, which is fairly sleepy - it's stunning but there's not much going on, and there are only so many boats you can watch go by- and eventually, after a week, my new wife started calling me lazy because I wasn't doing anything!"The workplace, meanwhile, was in good order, suggesting that Roy had actually worried needlessly. "On the day I walked back into the office I was nervous but, of course, I needn't have been," he says. "They did a terrific job without me. There were a few decisions that hadn't been made but that was it." He identifies a certain control freakery associated with entrepreneurship as part of the reason he'd been so reluctant to let go, and indeed so tense.A more recent start-up is recruitment consultancy Dilectus, which started life in 2004. Owner Matthew Smith is also getting married, in September, and is also tense about going away from it for any length of time. "I've had the odd weekend off, but the bigger you get the more responsibility there is," he says."When it's just you, you can't leave the business alone and, as it grows, there's more riding on it - there are more overheads, which is important." Sounds like a sure-fire recipe for burnout, surely? "I like to think I enjoy my job enough so that I don't need a holiday desperately," he says.He has still put off doing anything active about planning for his absence, although he trusts his staff absolutely. "I don't know if there's anybody there who has the experience to run the place, but they'd all be prepared to make a good go of it."This sort of determination to be on duty the whole time is familiar to Iain Scott, founder of business mentoring service, Enterprise Island. After speaking to around 150 entrepreneurs in Scotland, he began to notice some common themes emerging. They had all started off enthusiastically and energetically but, after a while, this ceased to be the case. "They found they were like Sleeping Beauty in the forest, surrounded by all the thorns and everything, except they weren't asleep, they were pacing up and down." Many of them had lost their passion for their business completely and it was clear to Scott that something would have to give.It's notable sometimes that people will spot something in other people without realising that they have exactly the same thing going on themselves. Two years ago Scott himself found that he had been on the treadmill for so long that he had just become fed up with it. He has a list of things he asks his clients to watch for: tiredness, irritability, a lack of motivation and numerous other things, and he found he was suffering from all of them.He had to stop, and so, when he noticed the physical symptoms, he took the decision to uproot his family from Glasgow and move to Cornwall. "We had a lot of clients in Cornwall so I drove down there often. One day, as we approached Birmingham, I came out in a rash." He stresses that this is nothing to do with Birmingham but is to do with its proximity to Glasgow. "I found that even when I wasn't at work I was checking my web mail on Saturdays, and I just thought, 'enough'."Cornwall was a much easier environment and there were like-minded people around him. He now mentors businesses, and one of the planks on which his business philosophy is based is that the managers should take their holidays. He regrets the current entrepreneur culture in the UK, which appears to him to be Americanised in its nature."What's on offer is market growth, but there's nothing available where people to get together and share problems and opportunities," he says. "I came up with something called entrepreneur therapy." This involves luring entrepreneurs into relaxing while they think they are working.Once he has "permission" to make people relax, he really starts having fun: pulling apart of lifestyles, asking how people can turn things around. It can take a while for the subject to assimilate the idea that they're allowed to rest, and that it'll do the business good as well as them.Some people resist the idea that a break is a good thing. Sarah Tye runs her own PR company and has seven employees. She took a break recently, regrets it and believes managers are better off taking weekends off and refreshing themselves that way."When you're a chief executive or a leader of some sort, if you go away the direction and leadership you instil in the organisation is gone for a while." If you take two or three weeks off, she says, it can take weeks to prepare for it and more weeks to recover the company when it's over. "It can be a full financial quarter," she says.Presumably people need some idea of who's going to take over while they're away - a kind of business babysitter. James Phipson is a serial entrepreneur who found himself asked to look after other people's companies while they were away, through contacts. He soon came to realise there was an angle in there somewhere, and started to add services under the name Clink Business Support because he's based next to an old prison. "We serve a lot of businesses - one was the oldest baker in London, and the woman had inherited it knowing everything about baking and nothing about business." He put some management ideas in place and skilled the new proprietor so she could take over again.He soon found people would ask him to take over a business and fix a problem in their absence. "They might go away and we'll say, 'OK, when you come back your staff will all have contracts', or, 'your health and safety policy will be in place'." The proprietor remains in as much or as little contact as they wish while they're away. "We usually set triggers - for example if there's a county court summons we can deal with that by asking for more time or sending a cheque; if it's a court summons clearly we call the proprietor back in." And if the proprietor wants to know about every bill that arrives in their absence, they're welcome to.If you're still in any doubt as to the wisdom of taking breaks, remember two things. First, a hoary old quote from Paul Gibbons (see box): Nobody ever said on his deathbed, I wish I'd spent more time in the office. Second, an anecdote from Scott. "One of the exercises we do is a questionnaire where people profile themselves. They think, 'oh yeah, that's me, right'. Then I tell them about the lives of the people who match their profile and how they tend to end up. And they just say, 'shit'."Inside view: The business psychologistPaul Gibbons is chief executive of Future Considerations, a company offering consultancy in leadership development, diversity, change management, corporate responsibility and human rights. He's hard working - regularly putting in a 60-hour week - and, as a result, the business has grown 50% per annum. He's not, you'll gather, a slacker - but he's also a business psychologist who has no qualms about taking 8-10 weeks off per year and offering his staff six weeks' paid leave plus two weeks' training."It's a false economy if people believe they can be effective for 60 hours per week without taking time off," he says. "I have no research to back it up but I also believe that if you work for 12 hours in a day, your 12th hour is nowhere near as effective as your first."He suggests there can be a number of reasons people refuse to let go. "There are compulsive neuroses that leave people anxious about control," he says. "In business everyone is anxious, there's always pressure, but sometimes people just won't delegate. Equally, sometimes they haven't recruited the right people so they can't delegate."He coaches people on work/life balance and despairs when they won't step back. "If they concentrate on work all the time and don't take a break then the rest of their life is going to look like shit," he says. "Some of them call it a lifestyle choice. You could also call what happened to George Best a lifestyle choice. The downside of it all is that there are a lot of people who die before they're 45."
Books'Top dog' or 'chameleon'? Office archetypes exposedPlenty to read this month, starting with Why Work Is Weird by Jerry Connor and Lee Sears, Cyan Books &pound;12.99. They take the view that something happens to people at work and they end up looking in the mirror wondering what happened to that 20-year-old student they used to be.What actually happened is the student is now twice as old and experienced, and wondering how this came about is a sure sign of a mid-life crisis.That aside, they come up with some nice points. Their method is to identify six archetypes you'll either come across or become in the workplace, and they put strategies in place to cope with them. Cleverly, they don't claim all of these archetypes are bad, or that changing is inevitably a negative thing.For example, the "chameleon", who alters his or her dress sense, manner and outlook to fit in with the corporate team, might actually benefit from dressing more sharply, they say, as long as they don't lose touch with their individuality.The top dog (or "control freak" as one might say less charitably) might seem an ogre, but you need someone who's going to take charge in a given situation.People who think they're superman and become repentant workaholics are also dealt with - a section that's well worth reading. The book takes its title from the idea that we all go into work voluntarily, applying for the job of our dreams and then, when we get it, start resenting it like mad. If this scenario sounds all too familiar, Why Work Is Weird can offer insights into why and what you might be able to do about it.BooksGet to grips with digital photographyA book that will be of interest to a subset of workers rather than everyone is the Digital Photography Handbook by Doug Harman, photography by David Jones, coming out from Quercus on March 23 at &pound;4.99. If your job involves photography in any way and you have yet to go digital, then this is a superb book for you.Chiefly aimed at the consumer rather than business reader, there's a lot to recommend it. The business reader won't want to read all of the book, though. The chances are that if you need to use digital images in your workplace you'll already be doing so in some way, so the section on choosing your first digital camera and getting it hooked up to a computer for the first time is going to be too basic.Items on improving photographic quality and eliminating faults are more obviously useful, and it's refreshingly free of jargon. Photography professionals won't want a basic book like this, but you could imagine a new estate agent or someone else who needs to incorporate reasonable pictures into documents without looking like David Bailey considering this &pound;4.99 well spent.GadgetsPortable scanner offers solution for the time-poorA useful gadget sent in this month is the Plustek Opticard 120. It's basically a portable colour online scanner and will suit people who want to scan small photos - anything from 33mm by 43mm up to 105mm by 148mm - or bills, invoices and business cards. Set-up was simple out of the box and it exported information to Microsoft Outlook without a hitch. It will save a lot of re-typing for people who would otherwise be getting back to the office and hacking in the business cards after a meeting, or worse, allowing a backlog to build up.It's small and neat and it works. Mac users will find a small problem in that the thing won't work with their systems but, for the 97% of people who use Windows, the &pound;79.99 including VAT they'll have to pay should save them a lot of time.SoftwareHandy desktop tool for the super-organisedOn the software front a useful thing I've come across over the last 30 days will appeal to Mac users. It's a data management tool called Yojimbo from Bare Bones Software. You download it and install it, and it sets up a small sidebar on your computer. You can then drag and drop whatever you want into whichever category you've set up and will be able to find all those little "things you must not forget" really, really easily when you come to need them. It will bookmark emails, notes and websites and is very simple to use.It costs $39 for a single user and more for the multiple user version; it doesn't take up much space and didn't slow my Mac down in the slightest. Go towww.barebones.comand try the trial version. If your job involves collecting and keeping track of on-screen information in any way you should find it highly useful.SecurityFirms still failing to stamp out use of external devicesThere's been a lot in the news about security breaches lately. Comedian Harry Hill was stung for more than many people's houses are worth - while chip and pin purports to make many people's retail operations safer. It may be a little odd, then, that many businesses are still allowing people to connect whatever privately-owned devices they may choose to the office network. Research from LanDesk Software says 66% of IT managers were still experiencing security breaches as recently as November. Significantly, 60% of respondents, who came from the UK, America and Germany, said their company didn't have any means of scanning what sort of devices were being attached to their systems.
From a distance, it looks like an unfashionably chunky mobile phone. The shiny white plastic curves clearly owe a lot to the iPod. But the Solio's purpose only becomes clear when you fan out its three "wings" to reveal bright blue solar cells.You might have seen the device recommended before Christmas as a slightly geeky gadget for iPod owners with an environmental conscience. In fact, the solar charger can be adapted to charge a number of other devices, including mobiles, the Blackberry and PDAs. Since going on sale just over a year ago it has quietly built up a considerable following. It isn't the only portable solar charger on the market, but it is undoubtedly the most stylish: its main rival in Britain, the Scotty Personal Solar System (geddit?), is two-thirds the price but resembles a first-generation grey plastic PDA.Adam Thacker, the commercial director of Solio's manufacturer, Better Energy Systems, says the breakthrough came when Solio won the Best of Show award at last year's MacWorld Expo. "Christopher Hornor, our CEO and founder, was living in London and working in the software industry during the internet boom," he says. "He scoured the market and saw there were few renewable energy products out there and thought he could do better."After an initial collaboration with the American solar power specialist AstroPower, since bought by GE Energy, Better Energy began developing the device with Motorola. Solio was finished in August 2004. The following spring it was taken to the North and South Poles on the Polar Challenge and TransAntarctica Expedition - ideal regions for generating solar power because of the snow's ability to reflect sunlight.Dr Ian Davis, the Polar Challenge's chief medical officer, became an enthusiast. "He says he will plant a Solio flag at the North Pole when he goes back," Thacker says, "and that it's the only solar powered device he's found that really works."Snow and sun, then, are the Solio's friends. But what about less favourable climates? I was sufficiently intrigued to buy a Solio for my gadget-loving partner before Christmas and suggest he take it with him on a long business trip to South Africa. At home, he normally relies on a spaghetti of cables and chargers and, while away from home, charges his various appliances via the USB port of his laptop."My attempts to test it have been severely hampered by what I've been told is the dullest and rainiest Johannesburg summer in living memory, a fact my colleagues are blaming squarely on the arrival of the Brit in their midst," he emails from a hotel room."It proved a novel icebreaker with the hotel maid, who was curious as to exactly what it was." Charging was slower than he would have liked thanks to the dreary weather, but it could be relied upon as the option exists to plug it into the mains. "The trade-off with my previous solution is one of bulk (it's one more thing to carry) versus environmental issues."The decision to incorporate a traditional plug-in charger with the Solio is unusual. Most solar chargers - like iSun's comparable model, which is available in the US - do not include one. Better Energy decided that the existing limitations of solar technology meant customers still needed the flexibility of a wall charger. "The reality of the situation is that solar technology is not in the mainstream, but we are trying hard to change that," says Thacker.Once Solio is fully charged, it can charge a mobile as quickly as a conventional device. But it does require 8-10 hours of direct sunlight, which is a lot to hope for on an overcast winter day. Thanks to the variations in solar intensity, charging will be faster in San Diego than in San Francisco, and slightly better in Wales than in eastern England. In theory, the Sudanese desert is an optimal location; in practice, the heat - Solio shuts off when exposed to temperatures higher than 50C - means that the charger performs less well than at the snowy poles. The key, says Thacker, is to keep a look out for sun and take advantage of it, rather than waiting until you need it.Solio currently sells for &#163;43 on Amazon and &#163;45 on iPodWorld and, generally, even more on eBay. The tip packs for mobiles will set you back a further &#163;4-6 from Solio's own site and PDA tips a considerable &#163;10. Is there any chance these prices will fall? "We are working on a cheaper version," says Thacker, "and with economies of scale you are able to improve your supply chain." But, he says, the components come from sustainable and ethical sources and the carbon emitted during Solio's manufacture is offset by donations to Future Forests.The company has recently launched Solio cases made from Colombian truck tyres, which have a certain robust appeal, although the boast that they feature "unique markings" from their journeys "across beautiful Colombian mountains" may be taking green whimsy a bit too far. What else is in the pipeline?A laptop charger is "in the works," says Thacker. "We know we can do it, it's just a question of size and costs." That product, however, probably won't be ready to launch until 2007. Let's hope that, by then, Better Energy will enjoy the kind of competition that can drive down the price of solar-powered gadgets.
A special almost-the-weekend lunchtime edition of Chatterbox.
As everyone knows, videogames are a generally a good influence on our lives, instilling a sense of healthy competition and generally soothing the troubled mind after a day out there in the bloody gladitorial arena that is 21st century existence.But sometimes games make us do bad things. Severed from the polite rules that govern real-life society and allowed to roam-free in virtual domains where anarchy is only ever a slip of a fire button away... well, it is tempting to transgress. You are only human.So, it's time to creep into the Gamesblog confessional, take a seat and spill it out. What's the worst thing you've ever done in a videogame? I want cheating, I want senseless violence, I want squad-based treachery. Ever use a wall, radar or model hack? Did you prosper as a result? Ever team-killed? Did you shoot informants in Deus Ex? Do you seek out illegal shortcuts in racing games?It's okay. Just let it go...
Those among you who didn't pre-order an Xbox360 and haven't been able to find one on the shelves since the machine launched last December will be pleased to hear that Microsoft Corporate VP, Interactive Entertainment Peter Moore has promised that the console shortages are almost over. Blaming low component stocks and the simultaneous release of the machine in the three major territories, Moore explained to the assembled at theDICE summitin Las Vegas a couple of weeks ago that things should be looking up in four to six weeks.So start saving those pennies again.viagamesindustry.biz
I was reading about the Singularity the other day, and apparently it's nigh. If you don't know what I'm talking about, it's a theoretical point in the evolution of technology: imagine we design an artificial intelligence smarter than ourselves, which in turn designs an intelligence smarter than itself, which in turn designs an even brainier entity, and so on and so on and so on until it's impossible for us to envisage anything smarter at all - at which point, TA-DA! Singularity! The point of no return.(At least I think that's what it means. If you want a clearer explanation, invent someone cleverer than me and ask them about it, all right?)Anyway, it sounds great. It takes the pressure off us. We never have to invent anything again. We'd leave all that to our android offspring. They'd just call us into the room occasionally to show us cool stuff they'd invented - disposable eight-bladed razors, holographic Xbox games, vibrating colours, soap operas set on the moon: that kind of thing. And that'd be it. We'd spend the rest of our lives sipping cocktails and getting our chins wiped by androids. Perfect.Of course, our new super-intelligent robot masters might get fed up with us stumbling around like idiotic children, jogging their elbows while they're trying to write down equations. They might snap, inject us with paralysis drugs and use us as human powercells in a Matrix-style battery farm - slurping lifejuice out of our backsides while pumping a digitised caricature of reality into our brains. Whatever. Provided I never have to think ever again, I'm not that fussed.Besides, there's always the possibility that five minutes after we switch them on, our super-smartarse descendants will develop nanotechnology, ie the ability to re-configure the molecular structure of absolutely anything - which means you could take a clump of soil and turn it into a delicious profiterole, or squirt extra synapses and knowledge banks and microchips into our brains, so we'd be as clever as they were; clever enough to carry the entire contents of Google around in our heads.Or they could get really ambitious: take the entire population of the planet, and knit us together into one single gigantic sentient being, with a billion arms and legs, an eye in the centre of its forehead and a massive scrotum. Instead of starting wars, we'd simply sit around arguing with ourself, falling silent intermittently to admire the size of our balls.Actually, if the nanostuff's really working, there'd be no point bothering with a conventional physical form at all. We could become a wobbly cloud of gas that could float away and spend the rest of eternity exploring the universe, contacting far-off alien civilisations and flogging them ringtones. Or maybe we could go one better than that, and simply break down all our molecules and rebuild them as an endlessly reverberating sound wave. Something gentle would be ideal; perhaps the noise of someone breathing on a harp.Whether that would be a good idea or not is totally beside the point - we're not making the decisions. We've delegated everything by this point, remember? Viva the Singularity!
