Sega has announced that Liverpool studio, Bizarre Creations, is developing a new third-person action shooter entitled, The Club, set to debut on next-gen formats next year. Sounding like a futuristic take on Fight Club, the game features a nefarious organisation that holds violent spectator sporting events in dodgy locales around the world.As a competitor you must use high-powered weaponry (in videogames, is there any other kind?) to stay aliveandkill other combatants as stylishly as possible - an idea perhaps borrowed from the developer's racing titles Metropolis Street Racer and Project Gotham Racing which reward daring drivers with kudos points. Here's a bit from the press release - try reading the third sentence in one breath:"Within The Club, Bizarre Creations will redefine and refresh the mechanics of 3rd person action shooters just as they have shaken up the racing genre. The Club focuses on addictive and rewarding gameplay that tests your skills to the limit and offers a relentless pace never before seen within the genre. Offering frantic, fast paced gameplay with a unique style, tone and storyline that drips with energy, attitude and anarchy, The Club will be a genuine showcase for the capabilities of the next-gen platforms by maximising the graphical and audio technology available to give a gameplay experience that is second to none.Although most famous for the aforementioned racers, this isn't Bizarre Creations' first foray into the world of the third-person shooter. Dreamcast veterans may remember the company's darkly comic cell-shaded adventure, Fur Fighters. Sadly, we expect this latest title will feature rather fewer homicidal kangeroos.
Microsoft is to acquire in-game advertising company Massive in a bid to dominate a market expected to be worth $1bn (&#163;540m) by 2010.The acquisition will drive Microsoft's bid to increase revenue from its online services and see Massive's technology delivered via its internet gaming portal Xbox Live!, as well as MSN games.Microsoft is also aiming to extend the technology beyond gaming for use in products such as Windows Live, as well as the company's new online ad delivery product adCenter.Massive's technology enables the delivery of ads within online games, often in formats that mirror real-life advertising media.Hoardings, billboards and poster sites are commonly seen in games, especially sports titles, which attempt to mirror reality by providing the same look as, say, a real golf course, basketball court or racing track.The likes of Xbox and PlayStation have enabled gamers to play against each other in living rooms across the globe, who are now effectively linked in a real-time online world.Because the ads are delivered in real-time, MSN is aiming to sell the value of the service on the back of its ability to target individuals or small groups of consumers.Not only are the in-game ads updateable and trackable, elements such as the geographic location of the player, particular audience demographics or time of playing can be catered for and delivered globally."Advertisers are having a tough time connecting with the elusive 18- to 34-year-old male demographic because this group continues to spend less time watching TV and more time playing video games," said Joanne Bradford, the corporate vice president of global sales and marketing at Microsoft."Massive and Microsoft can help lead with our shared vision of delivering more targeted, measurable and effective opportunities for advertisers to reach today's youth audience in a largely untapped market."The acquisition comes on the heels of the news that Microsoft is to launch its new online ad delivery service, adCenter, in the UK later this year.Earlier this week, Microsoft boss Bill Gates announced a $2bn (&#163;1.08bn) investment in the company's products and services for the internet age to compete against the likes of Google.It is thought that around half of the investment will be used to boost the MSN internet brand - its search engine, instant messaging service Messenger and Hotmail email offering.&#183;To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
It's almost the weekend, so get chatting!
A couple of weeks ago,Joystiqreported on the latest innovation in Sony's Massively Multiplayer Online GameEverQuestseries:virtual hair salons. Vladimir Cole posits that this inclusion is directly related to why developers spend so much time and money on tweaking and perfecting their graphics:Graphics matter because people love to customize their avatars.Now there's a real can of worms.I've often wondered why I rarely see unattractive avatars in any virtual space where users have control over their physical presence. If users can beanything, why not personalise themselves across the attractiveness spectrum?After a brief trawl through the literature, I'm pleased to discover that there are all sorts of reasons why there are few ugly avatars online.Most obviously, and in keeping with the escapist tradition of most games, there is an element of fantasy in the representation of a player which emerges in the form of an "ideal" self, often including a physically attractive outer shell. Your avatar is your public clothing, acting as a visual mnemonic for others who want to know who you are in the online space. As lilazngurl2156 explains to HillierT onYahoo Answersin response to a similar question,Sometimes they are true sometimes they are not.People love to have a dream image.It's not bad it just doesn't reflect on who you are.Or does it? Surely, beyond the self-esteem issues of creating a particularly stunning online self there are psychological elements of oneself in the characterisation you choose. Furthermore, Jeremy Bailenson and Nick Yee at Stanford University argue that the representation of the virtual self may have implications for who you become online (viaNew Scientist).In their research, they found that avatars which were more physically attractive stood virtually closer to other avatars.Other researchsuggests that these proxemics have an effect on how you interact in the virtual world, much like "IRL".Yee also argues that avatar representation has social implications as well. He and his colleagues at thePalo Alto Research Centre(PARC) collected data in World of Warcraft, an environment where personalisation is limited. With regards to the interpersonal aspects of physical attractiveness in virtual worlds, he posed some further behavioural ideas onTerra Nova:Given that Alliance avatars are more attractive than Horde avatars (especially the female avatars), and given that many social interactions on Alliance side are parallels of the classic Behavioral Confirmation study - men interacting with who they believe are attractive women, might this cause Alliance players to become friendlier, more charming, and more sociable in general than Horde players over time regardless of their RL gender or attractiveness? That is to say, a form of behavioral confirmation cascade that has an effect on the community rather than simply the individual level.This confirms early research into the visual 3D space, which found similar responses to attractive avatars. From John Suler's 1996Psychology of Cyberspace:A seductive, sexy, or simply "attractive" avatar can have a powerful impact on other members. One member described how his prop of a cartoon animal didn't seem to be getting him much attention from females. Most of them wouldn't talk to him. Curious about whether he could alter this situation, he searched the net and found a picture of Brad Pitt which he turned into a prop. The result?... Lots of attention. If he happened to be wearing his cartoon prop and found that he was being ignored by a woman, he would move to another room, switch to Brad Pitt, and then return. Or he would switch to Pitt right in front of her. Nine times out of ten, he said, the woman would strike up a conversation with him even if he hadn't said a word.Recent research byNowak and Rauhdelves deeper into the psychology behind the attraction. Their study argues that people perceive attractive avatars as more credible and more similar to themselves than unattractive ones. The physical choices, then, have implications for acceptance in a social circle.Interestingly, this may be a cultural phenomenon. Whilst the research conducted byShasta Johansenwas inconclusive, her review of the literature suggests that people from different regions may be more of less inclined to be persuaded by virtual attractiveness in e-commerce situations. Phew, that's a relief. There's still hope for an ugly online army.If you, likemeandothers, are convinced that 2006 will be the year of the avatar, check outthis historyfrom iMedia Connection to get informed.
"Hollywood has a spotty record when it comes to portraying computers and the Internet," says The Wall Street Journal, while providinga dozen clipsto prove it. These range from War Games (1983) to Mr &amp; Mrs Smith (2005).
ODF, theISO-approved Open Document file format, is one possible solution to the main problem with computing, which is not the use of proprietary hardware or software -- these things pass -- but the production of proprietary data, which can lock up information for decades, or forever.When writing about the use of open file formats in aDecember 2005 column, I said: "Most software can save files in a variety of formats. Microsoft Word 2003, for example, can save files in .rtf (Rich Text Format), the web's HTML, XML and plain ASCII text, as well as several versions of Microsoft's proprietary .doc format. The obvious solution would be for Microsoft to add ODF, giving customers more choice. Instead, it will submit its Open XML file format -- the default in the forthcoming Office 12 -- for standardisation."Well, Microsoft may not be doing it, but according toGroklaw, the OpenDocument Foundation "says it has such a plugin, it has finished testing it, and it is good to go". It quotes Gary Edwards as follows:The OpenDocument Foundation has notified the Massachusetts ITD that we have completed testing on an ODF Plugin for all versions of MS Office dating back to MS Office 97. The ODF Plugin installs on the file menu as a natural and transparent part of the open, save, and save as sequences. As far as end users and other application add-ons are concerned, ODF plugin renders ODF documents as if it were native to MS Office.The testing has been extensive and thorough. As far as we can tell there isn't a problem, even with Accessibility add ons, which as you know is a major concern for Massachusetts.You can't download the plug-in at the moment, but I'm looking forward to it being widely available.
The controversy over Nintendo's new console spread tothe papertoday, withAleks arguingthat hardcore gamers shouldn't feel betrayed. Nintendo will still be renewing its classic franchises - is there any other company that manages to do this with as little gamer backlash as Nintendo? - and will still have titles that appeal to the older fan. I still think it's an awful name, mind.Elsewhere thereviewsare in this week, with Football Manager Handheld and FIFA World Cup both doing enough to warrant a trial. Perhaps more interesting is Dreamfall, a sequel to the last decent point and clicker,Longest Journey. I'm hoping Dreamfall is rather better than Rhianna makes it sound. I still think point and click games can work, but then I only threw out my ancient Monkey Island t-shirt last year.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
"Gangsters, thugs and smugglers are thoroughly respected," rapped Grandmaster Flash and Melle Mel on their 1982 classic, White Lines. They were talking about drug dealing, of course, but they could so easily have been referring to videogaming's love affair with the urban underworld. And a big TV or movie license which involves the urban underworld? Well, that's marriage material.This very morning three press releases concerning branded gangland shooters ricocheted off my in-box and imbedded themselves into my brain. First up, Vivendi has announced the star-studded voice acting line-up for its Scarface: The World is Yours shooter. According to the release:"The cast includes stars from the original film including Robert Loggia (Jagged Edge), who played Frank Lopez, Steven Bauer (Traffic), who starred as Manny Ribera, and Al Israel (Dangerous Minds), who appeared as Hector the Toad. Al Pacino lends his likeness to the lead role in the game and hand-picked the voice-over actor playing Tony Montana. In addition, key lines from Mr. Pacino's performance in the original film appear in the game."So Pacino had time to pore over the performances of other voice actors, but couldn't spare five minutes to record himself shouting "say hello to me leeetle friend"? What a primadonna. Anyway, loads of other 'top-notch' actorsdidturn up including James Woods, eighties b-movie baddie, Robert Davi, and Ice 'available for family comedies, stratight-to-DVD action flicks and bar mitzvahs' Cube. They still haven't announced the lead role yet - what's the betting the lucky actor will turn up at E3 looking awkward and quite a bit richer?Elsewhere, Eidos has released a couple of screenshots (that's one of them above) for its third-person action adventure conversion of Reservoir Dogs...The game allows you to take on the roles of several characters from the ground-breaking movie, including Mr White and Mr Pink. Rather like the decent PS2 version of The Thing, the game promises to answer a few questions about the film including: 'What happened to Mr. Blue and Mr. Brown?', 'Where did Mr. Pink hide the diamonds?' and 'What actually happened at the heist?', yet seems to avoid the crucial, 'Why did we all find that Like a Virgin scene so funny at the time?'In another licensing coup, the tie-in features all the music from the film. But, as far as I know, only one actor is returning for voice duties: Michael Masden. I saw it being demo'ed when I visited Blitz last year but am not sure whether the NDA I signed at knifepoint is still valid. Best keep the other details to myself for now then.Finally, THQ is set to create a videogame based around The Sopranos. Set for release this Christmas on PS2 and Xbox 360 the game will feature several familiar voices from the show, including James Gandolfini. From the extremely proud and excited press release:"A mob war is brewing as Philadelphia's and New Jersey's most powerful families are about to collide. As the illegitimate son of "Big Pussy," you have been born into the organization and are now being given an opportunity to demonstrate your loyalty to Tony Soprano. As a soldier you must earn money on collections, protect your turf through intimidation, and gain admiration within your own family to move up in the ranks of the organization. Carry out orders from Paulie, Silvio, Christopher and Tony in familiar locations such as the Bada Bing!, Nuovo Vesuvio's and Satriale's. Storyline collaborated with show creator David Chase and voiced by the show's key cast members."I'm sure all the subtle nuances of character and situation, as well as the insightful probing into the skewed psychology of violence, will be perfectly realised in the videogame interpretation.Stop laughing at the back.
...stands on the steps and looks around, but doesn't go inside. At the moment, I can see the Supreme Court* from my room at the Marriott Hotel by Brooklyn Bridge in New York, which is currently home to a Microsoft Office Reviewers Workshop. These workshops are the main chance for journalists and analysts to talk to the developers without involving the marketing people. Steven Sinofsky, the head of Office who was recently put in charge of the next Windows, is giving the opening speech. However, this is all under an NDA (non-disclosure agreement) which runs to the end of the month, so you're not going to get a blow-by-blow account.It's an interesting audience, and I might mention some names later. The first thing I've noticed is that the two people on my right and the one in front are all using Tablet PCs, and one of them is a Samsung Q1 UMPC (Origami), but of course, keyboards still dominate....* Update: theState of New York, Kings Countybranch, of course....
Some people may have doubts about the long-term prospects for podcasts, but Dubliner Ken Carroll is not among them. His siteChinesepod.comis one of the top five podcast sites worldwide: it has sent out 3m free podcasts since it was set up last September, and downloads are running around 20,000 a day. But it's not just sinophiles who will find this language-learning site of interest. The site is one of the first and best examples of how Web 2.0 technologies can be applied in business.Carroll has been teaching English as a foreign language (Tefl) for more than 20 years, working his way across Europe before ending up in Shanghai in 1994. As there were no language schools, he opened one, and today has five branches, 70 western and 35 local teachers serving 2,500 students. But for a long time, he was aware that teaching English in the traditional way had a big problem: "There isn't a whole lot that is scalable when you have classes of teachers," he explains.Although the arrival of the web in the 1990s looked like a solution, it proved a letdown: "It was essentially just like a textbook," Carroll says; the human element was missing. It was this social aspect that made podcasting so appealing when he was introduced to it in early 2005. "This is personable, it can create atmosphere," he says.Carroll was also attracted by other aspects. First, the entry costs for podcasting were low: "a studio doesn't cost that much to build" in Shanghai. Second, the turnaround time is fast, especially compared with creating traditional language-learning materials like books -days, rather than years. Finally, podcasts offered the scalability Carroll had been searching for. "You only need one teacher to reach an audience of potentially hundreds of thousands," he points out. Enormous potentialCarroll realised he couldn't use the technology immediately to address the biggest market of all: English for Chinese speakers. People in China aren't yet familiar with subscribing to podcast feeds. So he decided to try the idea teaching Mandarin Chinese to English speakers, another promising market. "We see enormous potential for this approach, to attack market segments that would never otherwise spend money in this context - people who would not take evening classes to learn Chinese, people who wouldn't buy a set of books and CD-Roms."His business partner, Hank Horkoff, suggests offering all the podcasts free of charge. "That would attract people to the site," Carroll explains. "Then we had to figure out what exactly we would get them to pay for." The solution is extra teaching materials, available from a subscribers-only learning centre: transcripts of the lessons require a basic subscription ($9 a month), while Flash-based interactive teaching materials require the premium level subscription ($30 a month). Currently, there are more than 1,000 subscribers to Chinesepod.As well as adopting this viral marketing approach, and a standard open-source software stack for the website, Chinesepod draws on several Web 2.0 ideas. Podcasts are presented in a reverse chronological order, with users' comments. There is also a formal Chinesepod blog, and a wiki, where users are invited to contribute entries related to Chinese and China. Every part of the site encourages users to join the conversation. "We obsess to feedback: what are the users saying, what do they want, what are their problems," Carroll says.All this feedback is pored over by the 30-strong production team, who use it as the basis for future daily podcasts. After the scripts are written, and the premium exercises generated, Carroll and his co-presenter, Jenny Zhu, record all the podcasts for the week, each in a single take. "We even leave in mistakes because it's more natural, it sounds warmer," he says.The next stage of Chinesepod aims to put the user more firmly in control thanks to another Web 2.0 idea: content tags. "Say you were going to visit China in six months on business," Carroll says. "You could come in, test, find your level, and say: I'd like business-oriented lessons for an elementary [user]." Creating a customised curriculum will be possible thanks to the modular form of Chinesepod, which consists of self-contained podcasts, each dealing with one topic and lasting about 12 minutes.One measure of Chinesepod's success is that it has been invited to collaborate with Qinghua University in Beijing - the Oxford of China. Carroll notes: "They administer globally the tests for standard Mandarin. In the run-up to the Olympics in 2008, they've been tasked to drive interest globally in the Mandarin language." Prestige boostAlthough this will provide a big prestige boost for Chinesepod, the real money will come from teaching English to Chinese speakers. "The prize is probably 1,000 times bigger," Carroll says. "[The Chinese authorities] estimate they need about 1 million English teachers. They'll never be able to meet demand." Podcasts seem the perfect solution. "Instead of trying to rope in hundreds of thousands of teachers ... you just select one or two or three, but you make sure they are the best."To get round the problem of lack of familiarity with podcasts, Carroll's plan is to go around English language schools in China and offer content free of charge, which can be used as the basis of classroom teaching. He makes his money from students who subscribe to premium content on theEnglishpod.comsite he has set up.Carroll's sites have also attracted a flock of imitators. Perhaps the best of these,Japanesepod101.com, even used the same web design and typeface initially. Carroll seems unconcerned that big language-learning companies might adopt a similar approach. "Nobody wants to threaten their revenues with a model that hasn't been proven. We're kind of attacking our own offline business - but I'd rather do it myself than have somebody else eat my lunch."For their part, those in the traditional language-learning world seem equally unperturbed. As Suzanne Furstner, head of Cactus Tefl, an independent company that represents and promotes the Tefl industry, says: "I doubt very much whether this will render the classroom less necessary. Personal interaction when learning a language is of crucial importance."Carroll agrees that "language learning is not just about learning words". But he adds that "I think in a few years [podcasting] could really affect [language schools]", not least because it's very much pot luck how good the teachers are. Podcasts, on the other hand, let everyone have the best in teaching, while Web 2.0 technologies can supply much of the classroom's personal interaction.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I have to buy a home PC just when a whole new platform is on the horizon. Should I wait until January and jump in right at the opening wave of Vista? Tracy MarksVista is prettier, easier to use and more secure, but Windows XP is going to be around for a long time, and Microsoft plans to make many of Vista's features available for XP as well. I'd buy now rather than wait 10 months. If you do, then consider getting a PC that is capable of exploiting all Vista's features, rather than running it in an "XP comparable" mode. Unfortunately, Microsoft has not released the specifications yet, but further information will be available at the end of this month following discussions with PC manufacturers at the Windows Hardware Engineering Conference (WinHEC) in Seattle. There should also be "Vista ready" and "Vista capable" stickers to attach to current PCs.At the moment, there is some information on Microsoft's TechNet site underWindows Vista Capable PC Hardware Guidelines. This suggests a recent processor, at least 512MB of memory (1GB is better), and a graphics card that supports DirectX 9 and the WDDM driver model. (Actually, you want DirectX 10, but that isn't out yet.) It must also have enough graphics memory, which depends on your screen size: 64MB for a 1280 x 1024 pixel screen, 128MB for 1920 x 1200 and so on, with at least 32 bits per pixel. Gamers will want 256MB. Vista includes an XP-compatible program called the System Assessment Tool (WinSAT.exe), which evaluates a PC to see if it meets the various requirements.The new graphics system, developed under the codename Avalon, is needed to run the new 3D interface, Aero Glass. You can get a good idea whether you will like that by watching the 10-minute video presentation at Microsoft's 10 website (http://on10.net/TheShow/2601). You can download the video as a 35MB file.If seduced by Vista, you could buy a cheap PC now and replace it with something better in 18-24 months, when any teething troubles have been sorted out.
I have a large digital music collection (250GB) and would like to be able to use an online backup service to protect this data. Or is backing up to an external USB drive, and keeping it away from my PC, a more practical solution? DuncanStreamload (http://www.streamload.com) will store 250GB or more: it offers unlimited storage of media files for $4.95 a month, and you can have 25GB of space for free. However, you would have to upload it all, and what happens if Streamload (founded in 1998) goes bust? I'd go for the USB 2.0 or FireWire drive option. Today, 250GB costs about £100-£120. But my preferred backups for music include the original CDs.
My second generation iPod has died after three years of service. I am reluctant to purchase a new model if Apple is about to release one with a full touch screen, which I have heard rumours of. Tom ByngTheThink Secretwebsite mentioned this model -- which has a "virtual track wheel" -- in February and it was supposed to be out by April. If it exists, it should be out by Christmas -- but Apple isn't saying anything. If you readwww.Macrumors.com,www.ThinkSecret.cometc, your guess is as good as ours.
Why do estate agents still exist? Why haven't they, along with banks, been extinguished by the internet? This is a topical question because a fresh wave of disintermediation (getting rid of intermediaries or middlemen) is sweeping the web and no one knows where it will end. In the early days of the dotcom boom, false hopes were stirred about the internet's power to cut costs by absorbing profits made by wholesalers and distributors. There were some big exceptions, such as eBay, but mostly the boom was about replacing an offline middleman with an online one (such as Amazon).The situation is different now. Disintermediation is undermining the power of distributors as people create their own content - including podcasts, photos, blogs, videos or home broadcasting - for others to watch or listen to. If you have a digital camera and broadband connection, you can make your own short movies and upload them to free sites such as YouTube for anyone to watch.This doesn't spell the death of middlemen, but it means there is less time to do traditional things such as watching television, and it is already nurturing a revolutionary change in the way we create and absorb entertainment. As the Economist said last week, the corporations building the net's pipes made download speeds much faster than upload ones. It never occurred to them we might want to send as much data as we received. Research by Pew has found that 57% of US teenagers created their own content for the net in the form of pictures, music and so forth.You can already bypass publishers to get your book printed at tiny cost through self-publishing sites such asLulu.com. Gambling is being changed by online sites arranging bets directly between individuals, not through bookies. You can talk to the world through a (free) blog rather than trying to catch the eye of conventional media channels. Search engines or comparison sites steer you to the best online bargains without going to shops. Craigslist fixes anything from getting a job to dating. Voice communication is being revolutionised by enabling people to use (free) internet telephony systems such as Skype rather than BT. Even benevolent intermediaries such as libraries may be under threat if all reference books are scanned by the likes of Google and made available to everyone.This has already happened with Wikipedia, an online source of reference created by its readers, which can correct its own mistakes (unlike most of the mainstream media, which have been criticising it lately). Some TV channels, such as Current TV in the US, take 30% of their output from viewers and others get viewers, not middlemen, to decide what is included. Yahoo claims that in most of the US it is the second-most important provider of local news. Youngsters no longer write letters or even use email since they are hooked on instant messaging and community sites.Intermediaries can be cut out of the supply chain for things that can be digitised or commoditised (when you don't need to see before buying). But it doesn't explain why estate agents and banks have escaped. You can search for a house online, check rooms, crime figures and the price of similar houses without an agent.Banks are the biggest intermediaries, creaming off billions of pounds in exchange for the simple task of raising money at one rate and lending it at a higher one. One of the few attempts to line up lenders directly with savers,Zopa.com, is so far only a modest success. This may be because it isn't simple enough and punters want a longer track record before committing their savings to a non-bank even though it offers more attractive rates. Eventually, estate agents and banks will join this bottom-up revolution. It is not only more efficient - because it cuts out most of the intermediary's fees - but it is unleashing a tidal wave of creativity around the world.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The politics behind the power of the retailer gets theEscapist treatmentthis month, with Allan Varney dissecting the unequivocal power Asda-ownersWal-Marthave over the games we play.Wal-Mart and other retailers display an ever- decreasing range of game types. More and more, it is difficult-to-impossible to market an adventure game, or a non-Microsoft flight simulator, or a non-Maxis city-builder, or a non-Civilization turn-based strategy game. Did the audiences for these forms simply wither away? No, they're still out there - but they're not sufficiently profitable for big-box retail chains. The commercial range of games shrinks because of the free market's uncompromising pursuit of the majority at the expense of all minority tastes. We see this most clearly in Wal-Mart's signal triumph in game design, Deer Hunter.Worth a read, if only to fuel theamazinglyspirallingdistainfor this superstore.
This week's print edition of the Technology supplement is online too..Will licensing kill the radio star?New rules on royalties are stifling British internet radio stations while allowing foreign rivals to broadcast into the UK unhindered, reports Wendy M. Grossman.Now you're speaking my languageA businessman in China plans to deliver language learning to millions through podcasts, cutting out teachers and classrooms. Glyn Moody reports.Should government charge ... and how much?Charles Arthur investigates why six years is apparently not quite enough time in the civil service to carry out a study into the economic benefits of free data.Roaming instinct to cut costsThe next step in the phone revolution is a mobile that will get cheaper the moment you step inside your home or office, discovers Peter Judge.Intel's approach is logical but won't have mass appealIt will take more than the undoubted logic that underpins Intel's latest offerings to revitalise the company's slowing sales, predicts Jack Schofield.War that's worth the waitSupreme Commander will deliver an intergalactic war on a spectacular scale, the game's lead designer tells Alexander Gambotto-Burke.Why has the Guardian been spamming my blog?A spammer inserted spam weblinks on hundreds of blogs and sites over the weekend, giving Guardian Technology's email as a contact address. Many of the blog owners weren't enchanted. Nor were we.Who wins if iTunes songs have a single price?Although Apple barely scrapes a profit from its iTunes Music Store, analysts are convinced that the company benefits from having a single price for all its songs.Caught in the middle of a net revolutionThe internet allows us to bypass the shops and buy online, or to forsake the bookies and bet against individuals - and Victor Keegan reckons estate agents and banks might be the next intermediaries to suffer.TechnobileFilling in online forms is one of modern life's most testing experiences - it's easier just to visit the local shops, insists Kate Bevan.Read this week's lettersSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, andpleaseinclude your address and post town.Nintendo's name change a Wii bit too far for fansIn calling their next generation games console "Wii", Nintendo have reinforced the barrier between gamer and non-gamer, argues Aleks Krotoski.Games of the weekFootball Manager Handheld | 2006 Fifa World Cup | Dreamfall: The Longest JourneyAsk JackSend your questions and comments tojack.schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query. Please visit our Ask Jack weblog for daily updates.NewsBytesNews in brief
Sometimes the technology works perfectly; it's the law and economics that get in the way. UK-based radio listeners won't have noticed, but since April 1 many British-based radio stations have begun switching off their internet streams to listeners based outside the UK. The reason: collection societies warned they would begin policing such streams and requiring payments. As most British commercial radio stations derive relatively little revenue from streaming to listeners outside the UK, most have elected to discontinue that part of their service rather than pay for a licence to continue.So a flowering medium that crosses borders effortlessly is suddenly being stifled - at least by its UK practitioners, though not by those beyond - with potential ramifications for all concerned."We opted to block streams to non-UK listeners," says Nick Piggott, the digital content manager at GCap Media, owner of Capital Radio and other stations. "We don't do a lot of overseas streaming, and we didn't feel it was a great hardship if we switched it off, compared to the potential cost in licensing fees and legal paperwork terms. We're a UK broadcaster. We don't earn any revenue for ads delivered outside of the UK, so in strict cost terms, a stream that leaves the UK costs us money we can't recoup. If you compound that by having to pay further royalties, it's not an attractive model."Until the internet, radio was governed by physics. A transmitter could only reach so far, and it was possible to carve up the world into geographical regions, each with its own radio stations and way of doing business. While there has always been overspill into adjoining nations over land borders, the amount has been limited. The internet, however, puts a radio station located in Dubai next to one in London on a more or less equal footing in terms of competing for listeners. But all of radio's business models are based on the idea that geographical regions are meaningful. It's not alone in this: all business models for the distribution of intellectual property - whether it's books, movies, music, or software - are based on the same idea.The net ageKevin Marks, a digital media expert now working at Technorati, describes this as "an attempt to apply territoriality to the net, which is a big mistake. Having worked in the rights field before, what works in the net age is rights by language, not by territory." A radio station in Paris, for example, may find a large internet audience in areas as distant as Quebec and Ivory Coast. But when it comes to music - or, more generally, content that the station hasn't generated itself - it may not have the legal right to distribute its output outside of France. This is the situation that UK stations have found themselves in.In the UK and most of the rest of the world - other than the US - radio stations pay two kinds of licence fees to broadcast music. The first is performers' rights, administered by Phonographic Performance Limited (PPL), which collects the fees and distributes the revenues to performers whose recordings are played on the air. Thus every time BBC Radio 3 plays a recording of the cellist Yo-Yo Ma performing Bach, it owes him a tiny slice of revenue.The second is composers' and songwriters' rights, which are administered by the Mechanical- Copyright Protection Society (MCPS) and the Performing Right Society (PRS). If the BBC instead broadcasts Ma playing a composition of his own or a work that is still under copyright (Bach's are not), an additional tiny slice of revenue is owed to the composer whose work has been broadcast. If Ma decides to record a copyrighted piece and release it commercially, he is automatically granted what's known as a "mechanical licence", and he owes royalties based on the number of CDs pressed. Those royalties are collected by the MCPS. (Recorded speech is copyrighted, too, by the person who said it and the organisation that recorded it.)Mechanical licences are probably the simplest to deal with, since every recording artist knows whose material he is performing, and arranges payments accordingly. When it comes to radio stations broadcasting continuously, the realities of administration mean that stations are granted blanket licences - they pay an annual fee based on their revenues, whether that's from advertising (commercial radio) or the public licence fee (the BBC). In general, British radio stations pay between 8% and 12% of their overall revenues in licence fees.Virgin Radio, for example, which has 4.2 million listeners in the UK and 1.3 million online, pays a little more than 10% of its revenues. "We paid over $2m [&#163;1.1m] to rightsholders last year to allow us to play music," says James Cridland, managing editor for Virgin Radio, "and we think it's well spent because we play some very good music and that makes our radio station as well listened to as it is. But it is a considerable sum of money and it's considerably more than a similar sized station in the US would be paying." American stations typically pay only 3% to 4% of their revenues in licence fees.The governance of physics meant that radio in the US could develop as its own ecosystem, much the way Australia has kangaroos and no one else does. And so it did: where much of the rest of the world favoured public-service broadcasting, US radio was predominantly commercial, growing up hand in hand with commercially recorded music. In the US, radio stations do not pay performers' rights to broadcast music. Instead, airplay on terrestrial television and radio is considered promotion. Performers are "paid" in increased sales of their recordings. Only songwriters and composers get royalties from airplay.If American stations are asked to pay for a performance licence, the ensuing arguments are likely to echo the current ones over network neutrality. Who should pay? The medium that delivers the audience - radio - or the organisation that wants the audience delivered - the artist (and record label)?The upshot for the moment, however, is that online Virgin Radio competes with dozens of American stations such as WVBR-FM, Cornell University's student-owned, student-operated radio station in Ithaca, New York. WVBR does some special programming that isn't duplicated anywhere else (for example, the 40-year-old Bound for Glory show that features folk singers in live performance every Sunday night), but much of the time its playlist is more or less the same as Virgin Radio's. Online, they are competitors, even though WVBR's home base is a town of 30,000."It's odd that we have to stop broadcasting outside the UK," says Cridland, "yet we can still have all of these non-UK stations broadcasting into the UK." On the other hand, he quotes an industry magazine: if the PPL somehow managed to stop foreign stations from broadcasting into the UK we would become the only country other than China to prevent access to overseas media sources.Don't think that's impossible. Peter Leathem, director of legal and business affairs for PPL, says that "we are currently in dialogue with a number of US service providers". The PPL is, he says, prepared to sue. It's not clear, however, what jurisdiction the PPL would have in doing so: its remit is the UK.Gavin Starks, managing director of the non-profit webcasting companyexequo.org, says that in the past such negotiations have proceeded amicably, though he believes that ultimately there will simply have to be a global licence.Hammered outAt the dawn of web radio, no one had a licence and "the PPL could have insisted that a whole bunch of people shut down, but it didn't". Instead, after several years, a licensing system was hammered out that drew on the framework decided in the US. There, the demands of the songwriters' collection societies looked likely to drive webcasters out of business until, in November 2002, Congress stepped in and mandated more reasonable rates. Here, the PPL's rate for web-only broadcasters (that is, not traditional radio stations simulcasting their output) is .000503p per listener per track per stream. It sounds cheap, but Tom Lousada, founder of the Association of Streaming Media Companies (Asmec), points out that a web-only station with 5,000 listeners would be paying approximately &#163;1.7m in rights fees annually, an economic model that is clearly not sustainable."If you applied this model to traditional broadcasting, the jump in what you'd have to pay is astronomical as a percentage of revenue. It wouldn't be allowed," says Lousada. That apparently cheap rate also rises sharply as soon as any interactivity is added to the stream, such as allowing listeners to tailor the stream they listen to or time-shift.Part of the problem is that all of the definitions of what radio is are also based on physics. Internet radio is different: it may mean shuffling tracks, personalisation, downloading. It is a long, long way from our grandparents' radio. Today's new services are just the first experiments in what could become a dramatically changed medium. Podcasting, arguably the next step, is even more fraught with licensing troubles. How do you define the audience for a podcast? How much importance should incidental music used to top and tail the podcast have?Mark Stephens, a media lawyer with Finers Stephens Innocent who has represented many of the collection societies in such discussions, says that when it comes to podcasts he thinks the situation will eventually evolve the way performing rights have. "Individuals who podcast will be given a licence in the same way as you go into a hairdresser's or a pub and see a PRS sticker on the door. The amount of money that is made will be made by having, for example, 1,000 people all paying &#163;100 a year for a licence."For the moment, however, such licences do not exist. Theoretically, it ought to be a great opportunity for independent musicians to get hired by corporations to create the house sound. After all, live musicians might work out cheaper.
It is Pop Idol for the Arctic Monkeys' generation. Eschewing Simon Cowell and fame for 15 minutes, a talent contest will this month aim to prise the next big singer-songwriter from his or her bedsit or guitar band from their garage.More than 6,000 aspiring artists who uploaded tracks to the O2 Undiscovered website have been whittled down to a final 10. They include urban acts, indie bands, Scottish singer-songwriters and even funk Indian rock fusion.Unlike TV pop talent shows that offer a speeded-up journey from obscurity to fame and back, the competition will give two artists studio time and mentoring from music industry experts, including the impresario Vince Power and Polydor records' head of A&amp;R, Simon Gavin. The aim, say organisers, is to nurture musicians for a long-lasting music career.The two winners will record a track and release it as a digital download and perform at the O2 Wireless festival in Hyde Park in London in June. More importantly, they will have the chance to network with industry figures and get their music promoted to O2's 16 million customers.Power, the founder of the Mean Fiddler empire, said he hoped the competition would unearth a talented singer-songwriter. "I don't like to criticise Pop Idol or The X Factor. That appeals to a certain type of person and it's more a manufactured sound," he said. "Songwriters will hopefully have more longevity."The finalists were picked "blind" by the panel, who only heard the songs they had uploaded. "I don't know what they look like and I don't care," Power said. In contrast to the cringeworthy televised exchanges on The X Factor, every finalist will be interviewed for 45 minutes next week by the panel, which includes the music critic Lisa Verrico, the XFM DJ Lucio, and Paul Jones, former guitarist with Elastica. They will announce their decision on May 15.According to Gavin, who discovered Ms Dynamite and Daniel Bedingfield, attitude will be all-important. "I want to work with artists who have a desire to succeed but also have the wherewithal to get things going themselves - have set up their own MySpace page and done all these gigs. I want to see people who know who they are and who they appeal to. The days have gone when people would walk into a record label and say 'how do I do this?' You've got to walk in with the idea."The winners can plug into experience and get valuable help rather than a cheque in the bank. It's not just about one day coming in and playing, it will be complete access to industry experts."Emma Rohan, 27, from St Albans, heard about the contest from a friend and uploaded a track she had written with her songwriting partner. "I thought it would be a good opportunity to test the songs we had written," she said, describing her music as "pleasantly filthy". She has toured with the Bluetones. "If it gets too sweet we like to kick it round the room a bit so it is not too typical female meandering songs." She is particularly keen to get the chance to play Hyde Park this summer. "That's the main reason I entered."Not all the O2 Undiscovered finalists are young: George Burton is a 40-year-old studio engineer from Lanarkshire who has played in bands "since I was a foetus" and worked with Paul Weller and Norman Cook."I was stunned when I was told I had made the final 10. It was a bit like winning the lottery," he said. "What's great about the prize is it is going to allow me to play a couple of tracks to some heavy-duty people in the game. That's a scary prospect."Even though he has two decades of experience, Burton is still keen to learn from Simon Gavin and the other mentors. "The one thing about this game is I don't think you ever stop learning. I'm sure even Paul McCartney is still learning. As you continue to write songs, you get better and better."And Power's advice for the winner? "You've got to believe in yourself and do as many gigs in as many places as you can."
The game wires went into overdrive last Thursday as the race to get the most attention before the annual Electronics Entertainment Expo (E3) started with a minor revolt. Two weeks before the gaming masses were due to descend on the Los Angeles Convention Centre, Nintendo announced that its next generation console, to date called the "Revolution",was to be called "Wii". The gaming community said it was the worst name change since the pop star Prince became a squiggle."Wii sounds like 'we', which emphasises this console is for everyone," said the perky press release. Nintendo was no longer trying to appeal to the inner hardcore clique of gamephiles; now it was all about Wii. As a result, the game community freaked out. The primary point of attack was the name.The brand machine at Nintendo assures me that its Wii is used to suggest community. Its Wii attempts to break down the all-too-apparent barrier between gamer and non-gamer, which is often the culprit in generating public vitriol and negative headlines. Unfortunately, the obsession with what else Wii sounds like builds that wall right back again, with sturdier foundations than before.The second offensive was the implication that the machine isn't for "us" any more, it's now for "them". This shouldn't come as a surprise to any games-spotter; Nintendo has worked very hard at breaking into the mainstream consciousness. The direction the company has taken the software library on its handheld console indicates that it is reaching out to a greater Wii than the traditional gaming demographic. While Sony's populist EyeToy camera and Buzz! quizzes speak to a media-savvy, entertainment-focused gizmo-freak population, Nintendo's cognitive activity brain-training titles and other thinking software positions it towards a demographic that chooses to spend its downtime doing things other than flailing around the living room.But reactionary gamers forget that alongside Nintendogs, Brain Training and other so-called mainstream titles, there are plenty of software opportunities that appeal to the hard core. Nintendo's Wii will not become the geriatric console; it will simply offer options.On the basis of its name change, die-hard Nintendo fans rejected the machine. Predictions of dumbed-down software, mass migrations and economic failure were debated and lamented. And then, almost as quickly as it began, the furore over the name Wii was largely forgotten, as the emotional rollercoaster of outrage and elation associated with pre-E3 announcements started its next ascent to the top of the ride.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Mickey Mouse phonesDisney is planning to launch Disney Mobile in the UK, targeted at 8- to 14-year-olds. The service will offer Disney-branded handsets. The US service is being launched on June 6 (http://disney.go.com/disneymobile) and could reach the UK by Christmas.Sphere timeSphere, a new blog search engine, has a supercool feature: a Flash timeline with sliders to select the first and last days for the search to cover (www.sphere.com).Porn spam worksYou are still getting spam because some folkstill buy from spammers. CipherTrust says the response rate for porn site spam is 5%, falling to 0.0075% for "Rolex" watches.On the listMySpace is streaming live music from new bands playing at the Roxy Theatre, Sunset Strip, in front of 150-200 MySpace members (www.myspace.com/thelist).Code JamGoogle has finally launched a European version of Code Jam, its programming competition(www.google.com/codejameurope/). Europe is defined as the EU member states and candidate countries, Efta, Israel and Russia.Push offAfter settling a lawsuit with NTP, Research In Motion - the company behind the BlackBerry - is now being sued for patent infringement by Visto. Visto is also bringing cases against other "push email" providers such as Microsoft and Good, and has just won a case against Seven Networks.Baby blue mainframeAt a press conference in Beijing, IBM announced the System z9 BC "baby" mainframe, with a UK entry level price of &pound;136,000 - "our cheapest ever" (www.ibm.com/systems/z/).Google moansGoogle is lobbying for anti-trust action against Microsoft because its Internet Explorer 7 search, though easily changed, defaults to its MSN Search site - presumably Google hasn't noticed that previous versions of IE do this already. This has contributed to MSN Search's success in the US, where its market share is 11% and falling.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Football Manager HandheldPlayStation Portable, Sports Interactive/Sega, &pound;29.994 starsFootball Manager widows have more reason to fret as the series arrives on a handheld console for the first time. And while this title is a cut-down version of the PC game, there is still enough depth to satisfy most. All the usual features are included, such as transfers, training and tactics, and the menu system allows for swift navigation. The matches are played in a rudimentary style, with sporadic commentary and a coloured possession bar. Basic, yes, but the drama is intense and likely to cause a few embarrassing moments on the tube as you celebrate that late winner or curse an injury to your striker. Less enthralling is the basic presentation and lack of multiplayer options. Accessible yet rewarding, Football Management Handheld is a transfer that has paid off.Greg Howson2006 Fifa World CupPlayStation 2, Electronic Arts, &pound;39.994 starsWith a licence this expensive, you can forgive EA for taking several bites of the cherry. Luckily, this one is a lot better than the uninspired Road to the World Cup. It features all 32 finalists from this summer's tournament, the chance to play as one of 127 teams through the qualifiers and a host of unlockable star players and classic matches from the past - although you have to play these using current team lineups. There's also an eight-team multiplayer mode.Pro Evo still has the edge but the Fifa engine is improving with each revision. New touches abound, such as Jerzy Dudek-style antics during penalties and a much improved shooting system. And, the crowd sounds, commentaries and stadiums are fantastic. On the negative side, there's no option of "being" Sven- Goran Eriksson, although there is a limited management mode. Still, for the true armchair-Berlin experience, nothing else comes close.Mike AnderieszDreamfall: The Longest JourneyPC, Empire/Funcom, &pound;29.994 starsAs gaming becomes more mainstream, the industry's focus on stories is increasing. Consequently, the adventure game genre is clawing its way out of an early grave and Dreamfall, sequel to the classic The Longest Journey, is getting its hands dirty. Both titles revolve around the machinations of technologically advanced Stark (our world) and the magically saturated alternate dimension of Arcadia. However, the gameplay is simplistic. Puzzles are easy, while combat and stealth sections feel rather underdeveloped. Despite this, Dreamfall remains a good game, thanks to its great storytelling and imagery. It's thoughtful, moving and even tear-jerking. All the things games should strive to be when they grow up.Rhianna Pratchett&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Wait for Vista?I have to buy a home PC just when a whole new platform is on the horizon. Should I wait until January and jump in right at the opening wave of Vista?Tracy MarksJack Schofield replies:Vista is prettier, easier to use and more secure, but Windows XP is going to be around for a long time, and Microsoft plans to make many of Vista's features available for XP as well. I'd buy now rather than wait 10 months. If you do, then consider getting a PC that is capable of exploiting all Vista's features, rather than running it in an "XP comparable" mode. Unfortunately, Microsoft has not released the specifications yet, but further information will be available at the end of this month following discussions with PC manufacturers at the Windows Hardware Engineering Conference (WinHEC) in Seattle. There should also be "Vista ready" and "Vista capable" stickers to attach to current PCs.At the moment, there is some information on Microsoft's TechNet site under Windows Vista Capable PC Hardware Guidelines (http://tinyurl.com/a655s). This suggests a recent processor, at least 512MB of memory (1GB is better), and a graphics card that supports DirectX 9 and the WDDM driver model. (Actually, you want DirectX 10, but that isn't out yet.) It must also have enough graphics memory, which depends on your screen size: 64MB for a 1280 x 1024 pixel screen, 128MB for 1920 x 1200 and so on, with at least 32 bits per pixel. Gamers will want 256MB. Vista includes an XP-compatible program called the System Assessment Tool (WinSAT.exe), which evaluates a PC to see if it meets the various requirements.The new graphics system, developed under the codename Avalon, is needed to run the new 3D interface, Aero Glass. You can get a good idea whether you will like that by watching the 10-minute video presentation at Microsoft's 10 website (http://on10.net/TheShow/2601). You can download the video as a 35MB file.If seduced by Vista, you could buy a cheap PC now and replace it with something better in 18-24 months, when any teething troubles have been sorted out.Music storeI have a large digital music collection (250GB) and would like to be able to use an online backup service to protect this data. Or is backing up to an external USB drive, and keeping it away from my PC, a more practical solution?DuncanJS:Streamload (www.streamload.com) will store 250GB or more: it offers unlimited storage of media files for $4.95 a month, and you can have 25GB of space for free. However, you would have to upload it all, and what happens if Streamload (founded in 1998) goes bust? I'd go for the USB 2.0 or FireWire drive option. Today, 250GB costs about &pound;100-&pound;120. But my preferred backups for music include the original CDs.Asking JackI have emailed a query that hasn't appeared in your column. Do all queries appear? Are non-printed ones answered directly?Mary PebbleJS:I get more questions than I could answer, even if I knew the answers, which I very often don't. Instead, I try to focus on ones asked by several people (which happens remarkably often), and ones that seem of general interest - I don't get enough of those! Questions about very specific Windows problems, like yours, are not likely to be answered: it's better to take these to the company's user forums or even to Usenet (eg via Google Groups). Lack of time also means I usually can't email individual answers, though I will if it seems there might be a more interesting problem involved, or if a small amount of my time could save a lot of yours. However, I have opened a new section called Any Answers on the Ask Jack blog, where readers can try to answer them. Your query is the first.New iPod?My second generation iPod has died after three years of service. I am reluctant to purchase a new model if Apple is about to release one with a full touch screen, which I have heard rumours of.Tom ByngJS:The Think Secret website mentioned this model - which has a "virtual track wheel" - in February and it was supposed to be out by April (http://tinyurl.com/nt4uk). If it exists, it should be out by Christmas - but Apple isn't saying anything. If you readwww.Macrumours.com,www.ThinkSecret.cometc, your guess is as good as ours.Backchat&middot; Tim Gossling bought an external hard drive which, as usual, came preformatted for DOS. Brian Butterworth points out that the drive can be converted to NTFS without reformatting it by using the command convert X: /fs:ntfs where X is your external drive letter. See the Microsoft Knowledge Base article 307881 - search Google for the number.&middot; Jon Ramster wanted a sub-&pound;400 notebook PC without Windows. Gerry Gavigan suggestedwww.linux-on-laptops.comfor help getting Linux to run on a wide range of machines. Andrew Merrall added: "Fedora Core works perfectly on my Dell Inspiron 1000. More Windows users should give it a go."&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Technology Guardian: Why do you think a real-time strategy game of this scale has never been attempted?Chris Taylor:I think it's partly due to the technical challenges and partly due to following trends in the market. I also think it's important that the design matches the scale - the Supreme Commander concept is specifically designed to work well inside a huge "theatre of war".TG: Has the RTS genre become stagnant? Is there anything or anyone you'd blame for its downfall?CT:Not in public. Seriously, I blame myself for not getting off my arse and working on Supreme Commander sooner.TG: Did the loss of the Total Annihilation licence have anything to do with those delays?CT:Losing the licence actually helped the game's design process. I can't wait to start exposing all the details on the backstory and the bizarre characters and histories we have developed.TG: Explain some of them. What about the game's opposing factions? Were there any real-world influences behind them?CT:There are three factions: The United Earth Federation - UEF - the Aeon Illuminate, and the Cybran Nation. Each faction centres itself on different core philosophical and ideological beliefs. The UEF is where many players will immediately be comfortable, because the values are very popular "Earth" values - the military is modelled to reflect this. The Cybran, on the other hand, are struggling for galactic independence, and the Aeon are on a mission to kill both the Cybrans and the UEF. I got a lot of inspiration from many different sources when designing these factions - I've read and studied a lot about the second world war, and I've read a lot of science fiction that covered future civilisations. Asimov is a leading favourite. Supreme Commander's almost a serious look into what motivates people to fight wars ... But I should stop there!TG: What do you think the ability to zoom out to a "strategic" scale does to traditional RTS gameplay?CT:We allow the player to zoom out well beyond a tactical scale to what we call a strategic "theatre of war". We think that this allows for a powerful visualisation of the entire theatre, which, in turn, makes command and control of large armies possible and also allows the player to really stay on top of every aspect of their war effort. It's, quite frankly, the key to allowing the players to experience the game at a much more strategic level than ever before.TG: Does Supreme Commander follow the traditional "rock, paper, scissors" schoolof strategy combat?CT:We definitely don't follow that model, because it doesn't fit well with a full-on combat simulation. Instead, the game units are balanced by considering firepower, turret traversal speeds, unit speed - including acceleration, max speed, and turning rates - and reload times, to name a few. The rock-paper-scissors system is a holdover from pen-and-paper war gaming, and although it was a great system to adopt in early computer games, we now have enough processing power to do it in a way that is much more similar to real life.TG: What will base building and micromanagement in Supreme Commander entail? Is it a focus?CT:Base building includes unit factories, defensive infrastructure, resource collection and storage, and intelligence gathering systems. It's a very important part of the game, but plays a support role to the combat aspects of the game.TG: You mentioned "resource collection". What resources will players have to accumulate in the game?CT:Well, I'm not a fan of big, complex, resource models, and my goal is to focus the player on the front lines of battle, not on the details of resource gathering. To accomplish that, players only have to locate "mass" - which is really a combination of all the raw materials necessary to create a game unit - and "energy", which is required to power weapons and keep the player's base fully functional.TG: Screenshots of Supreme Commander in action reveal units that are much bigger than anything else on the battlefield. What do "giant" units, in general, offer to the RTS genre?CT:Our experimental units are what take the game from being huge and awesome to crazy and over-the-top. It's what makes you want to rub your hands together like a mad scientist and say, "Wait till they see this thing!" Our goal is to not just get people excited about the whole game, but about each unit individually.TG: And finally, do you think Supreme Commander is shaping out to be better than Total Annihilation?CT:I'd love to leave that question for you to answer when I sit you down in front of Supreme Commander.Interview by Alexander Gambotto-Burke&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Intel has just announced vPro, its first platform for professional computing, and a companion for Centrino, its mobile platform, and Viiv, its multimedia home platform. These three are Intel's main attempts to answer the question: when you can no longer sell faster clock speeds, what do you have to sell? And while it's a logical answer, Intel could have a tough time making it work.Intel's problems were highlighted at the end of last month, when Paul Otellini, president and chief executive officer, said he was looking to cut $1bn from costs, and expected to lay off staff. He told financial analysts: "You will see us restructure, resize and repurpose Intel for the future."Otellini said Intel expects slower growth in the PC market, with the company's revenue falling by about 3% to $37.7bn. Sales have already slowed, and Otellini admitted to an excess of inventory - it has unsold stock worth $3.55bn, the highest level since 2000. Some is due to competition from AMD, which has steadily increased its market share over the past three years, and now has more than 10%, measured by value.The platform strategy is Otellini's response. He was one of the main proponents of the Centrino platform, which packaged a new Pentium M processor with support chips and Wi-Fi. Whether its success can be repeated with Viiv and vPro is open to question.Certainly Viiv (rhymes with "live") has not created much interest, since it's hard to see what Intel is offering, except a sticker and some links to content downloads. Viiv machines are mainly just home PCs running Microsoft's Windows XP Media Center Edition (MCE). A revolutionary new technology it ain't.The third platform, vPro, is "the future of the digital office. It provides critical capabilities not found in previous generations of business PCs or software-only solutions," says Intel - "all with full support for Microsoft Windows Vista."At vPro's launch in San Francisco (http://tinyurl.com/ght93) Otellini said that business PC support costs were twice the cost of the hardware, over four years, and that desktops still account for more than 70% of all business PC purchases. "It's time to reinvent those 85m units," he said. "It's all about driving costs down and productivity up."Intel makes three claims for vPro: built-in manageability, pro-active security and energy efficiency. Manageability means increasing support delivered over the network, and reducing the number of expensive desk-side visits required. The vPro version of Intel's Active Management Technology allows support desks to start PCs remotely, reboot crashed systems, and re-start software even if the user closes it down.This is done with hardware assistance in the form of virtualisation hardware on the processor, so it's partitioned from and works independently of the user's part of the processor - the bit running the operating system. Anti-virus software can also run in the virtual machine space where users, and malware programs, can't get at it.In vPro, the Intel hardware includes a new 64-bit Core processor, codenamed Conroe, plus supporting chip-sets. Intel claims the 2.6GHz Conroe offers more than twice the performance of a 3.8GHz Pentium 4 in business multi-tasking. It also delivers four times the performance per watt of a typical Pentium, which could lead to huge savings in electricity costs.In 2007, vPro will be extended to portable PCs and to chips with more than two cores.There's no doubt that new Conroe-based systems will appeal to big businesses - and the bigger the business, the stronger the appeal. Whether they will have much appeal in small businesses is open to doubt, but the ability for a PC to defend itself against user stupidity will doubtless win some sales.Of course, this is still jam tomorrow: Conroe isn't here, and nor is Vista. Even when they arrive, it's going to take time for manufacturers to ship new vPro PCs in volume. It will take even longer for enterprises to test samples, decide to adopt them (or not), and roll them out. vPro could be a hit, but it won't have an immediate impact on Intel's profitability.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Free phone calls now will cost us laterThe phrase "Itemised bills for fixed lines could soon be history" (Calling time on phone bills, April 27) is on a par with "Nuclear power will be so cheap that they won't need to meter it" and "By 2010 everybody in Britain will have their own personal hovercraft". Get real.First, how long will it be before unmetered telephone calls can be connected in places as exotic as Vanuatu and Burkina Faso, which have minimal international connections? Second, how old is that decrepit piece of copper wire that connects you to that brick outhouse we used to call a telephone exchange? Twenty years? Fifty years? When data carrier demand goes past the abilities of ADSL Max and the access network crumbles because no one wants to pay for it, then fibre to 99% of homes is the only rational next step. That will cost a vast sum of money - and we will be paying.Richard AvisIpswich&middot; Never mind free phone calls in the future, I'd much rather just pay for the calls I make now. Last month, my BT bill was &pound;20, for just 40 calls. I pay &pound;15 a month for my BT line, whether I use it or not. Of course, I could just use my mobile instead, or try Skype, but I still need the BT line for my broadband connection. So, either I'm paying 50p a call on my "cheaper" phone, or my broadband access (nominally &pound;18 a month) is really costing me &pound;33 a month - almost &pound;400 a year.Paul HaynesSpringvale, MaidstonePlaying fast and looseKeith Stuart describes as unrealistic the exact way I use the games on my mobile phone: for an awkward few minutes waiting for a tube or train, or waiting outside a shop for someone in a queue (Gamesblog, April 27). I have a Nokia 6230i and can go straight to a game with three "clicks" into my games folder, and the simple puzzle games I have downloaded are at the top of my list and take five seconds to appear on screen, ready to play.Diane TurnerLondonSound adviceI agree with Kate Bevan's sentiments, but wouldn't it be useful if she told us where to get the "decent earbuds that don't leak sound" that she has discovered (Technobile, April 27)?Alyson GillespieCheltenham [and others][Kate Bevan uses Shure Etymotics, now discontinued, though similar models abound - Technology editor]In-store solutionsYour article on NAS (Home network storage will be the talk of the town, April 27) was spot on. I bought a 250GB NAS device and use it for "family stuff" like photos and backup. It has a print server built in. That means my old (not network enabled) Epson 880 sits on the NAS device USB port and provides an always-on service to all users.One thing I would like: instant messaging over the network. If I am printing a report on posh paper it would be good if other users could IM me to say, "Dad can I print now" or whatever. I thought of all of us having MSN messenger accounts but the data would have to go a very long way round. Any solutions ?Richard Cowling NewtonCambridgeCrowd controlCharles Arthur says: "Social search has an achilles heel: without a Turing Test (to confirm that something comes from a person, not a computer), a well-written computer 'script' can very easily mimic a crowd. Too easily, perhaps, in Digg's case" (Newly asked questions, April 27). He will be relieved to hear that simply asking the user to read some numbers off the screen is sufficient to prevent abuse by scripting, as Yahoo and many others routinely do.Ian HarperLondonNo funny businessBelow these letters there is a cartoon. Is there anybody out there who finds it funny? Either bring back Cyber with Rosie or join the Dilbert syndication.John IllingworthBradford
I seem to spend a good chunk of time at the computer filling in online forms. And it is never straightforward. For starters, I live in a basement flat. So if a website insists that it will find the address from the electoral roll rather than have me type it in, I duly enter 11a, followed by my postcode. And then I wait while the site bustles off to search the database.It always reports back that my address doesn't exist, and am I number 11? No, I bloody well am not number 11. I am 11a. I am on the electoral register and have been at this address for nearly 16 years. I get bills here and there are nice brass numbers on my front door that say 11a.So I have to type the address in manually, which I'd like to have been able to do the first time before wasting time waiting for the website to come back to me.And if it's a US website, it can all go pear-shaped. Guess what! Brits don't live in a state with a two-letter abbreviation, and some websites get shirty if you don't fill that in, even though you've selected the "United Kingdom" option.Another infuriating potential hazard is if you need to pick a user name. Some don't like capital letters. Others don't like spaces, but they don't do you the courtesy of pointing this out before you type in your preferred user name, which for me is usually my own name. I know, I'm funny like that: I like to use my own name where possible.So you type in a user name, having filled in all the address details and stuff, and hit submit. Your browser churns away for a few seconds and then comes back to announce that that user name is already taken. You gnash your teeth a bit and prepare to think of a variation - only to discover the form hasn't retained all the information you've laboriously typed in and you have to enter it again.Finally - hallelujah! You've registered, you've picked the item you want to buy and you get to the check-out page. You reach for your plastic.OK, so what's the shipping address? Same as the billing address? What if you don't want the item delivered to your house - perhaps because you're in an office all day? Well, tough. Many online shops will only deliver to the billing address, which you often don't discover until you've been through the painful process of typing in all the information.Finally, the website grudgingly decides it wants your credit card details. But does it want the 16-digit number entered in blocks of four digits, as on the card, or does it want it one long string? It never tells you, which means you have a 50% chance of getting it wrong. And if you do get it wrong, you can bet that the form will lose all your information.The hell with that. I'll go down to the local shops. I don't need a user name there. Just a card - with its digits as they are.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
A week is a long time in politics. But six years, it seems, is not quite enough time in the civil service to carry out a study into the economic benefits of free data.In the Treasury's Spending Review in 2000, an interesting part (online athttp://tinyurl.com/ncyoe) discussed the knowledge economy - in particular whether public organisations should charge for their data, and if so, how much."The evidence is that certainly not all demands for government information are price sensitive," the document, on the economics of government information, notes. "The government produces and sells value-added as well as raw data for which consumers are prepared to pay a premium while in other areas such as mapping and meteorology the government does much more than meet its needs." That is, some of the data generated is surplus to the running of government; it's simply there to generate profits, to offset the running costs of various departments."As a result," the authors add, "the government is able, without abusing the dominant position it has in particular markets, to use pricing strategies which enable it to recoup at least some of the fixed costs of production." But that begs an important question that the Free Our Data campaign - which argues that government agencies should provide their data to the public for free - would like to see resolved. If government agencies have a dominant position in a market, how can one know that their pricing strategies do not abuse it by charging more than the data is "worth"?Strangely for an administration that has consistently raised the average tax burden, the document suggests that making government-collected data available for free, and bearing the cost from the public purse, would be inefficient: "taxation also normally mis-allocates society's assets," the authors say. "Taxation absorbs resources and changes behaviour."But the authors then admit it's unclear how government-generated data should be priced. After discussing pricing models, they note the suggestion "that demand would grow rapidly in response to lower prices ... and as basic information is repackaged in innovative ways. The issue needs further empirical work." That is, an economist should see whether cheaper data boosts the economy.So, six years on, has the Treasury followed up its own recommendation and done a study on the effect of data pricing? No, the Treasury told us. "There's been so much upheaval with the introduction last year of the Freedom of Information Act ... some data we couldn't charge for any more," said a spokesman. But, he added, "we do have a general position on pricing which is informed by experts".But the 2000 spending review said expert analysis was needed, and that hasn't been done? No, the Treasury agreed, it hasn't. When might it happen? Would it be driven by Gordon Brown or one of his ministers? Probably not, said the Treasury. "It would probably come from our policy unit."Perhaps they'll be interested by a new paper produced by the OECD this week examining public sector content, which notes huge disparities in market size and access between the UK, Europe and other countries. You can download the PDF (660KB) fromtinyurl.com/fcc8r.See the campaign blog atwww.freeourdata.org.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Leamington-based developer Blitz Games is holding two open days for students hoping to get into the games industry. 25 a day will be allowed in to see how games like Reservoir Dogs and Spongebob Squarepants are shaping up. "Each day will feature of a full tour of the company's new facilities and a series of informative presentations about the fast-moving games industry and the methods required to meet the challenges of producing high quality and commercially successful games," says the press release. As Spongebob is being developed for Wii, they may also get a go on Nintendo's new console too."It's like 'Willy Wonka's Chocolate Factory' for students that want to enter the games industry!" said CEO Philip Oliver, possibly dressed in top hat and tails, while twirling a cane mischievously. Does this mean the students will disappear one-by-one as they stray off the official tour route?The events will take place on June 16 and July 6 and students at UK universities can applyhere.
E3 is the biggest and most important games event in the world. Each May thousands of industry types descend on downtown LA to check out the latest console launches and upcoming games, while meeting with people who probably only work around the corner from their office.This year the focus will be on PlayStation 3 and Nintendo Wii, both of which will be properly playable for the first time, and the next wave of 360 titles, including Halo 3. Other obvious attractions include Zelda and the latest version ofSpore, but predicting the games of the show is not as easy, with surprises guaranteed. Sadly one thing you can predict is a level of whooping and hollering in the Nintendo press conference that is as uncomfortable as the shorts the adherents have squeezed themselves into.Elsewhere, those 360 owners who are signed up to Live will be able to play demos and watch trailers of on-show titles like Gears of War (HD trailer) and Moto GP 6 (demo). It'll be like having E3 in your living room, albeit without the lights, noise andeau d' Game.I'll be there next week, so expect some jetlagged opinion from Monday night/Tuesday morning as Sony's press conference kicks off about midnight UK time.So, what are you most looking forward to from next week's show? Wii? PS3?God of War 2? Halo 3? The latest German RTS?
Panniers. Let's face it, they're not tremendously sexy, are they? They don't do much for a bike, looks- wise. Perhaps I'm prejudiced, but there are plenty of people, after all, who would rather get a wet bum than spoil the lines of their machine by fitting mudguards. I'm not quite of their number. Or rather, I've a foot in both camps - by having fair-weather bikes without guards, and foul-weather ones with. But I draw the line at a rack and panniers. I know they are immensely practical, but they just look so, you know, earnest.Only if I were going on a serious cycle-touring holiday would I deign to bolt them to a bike of mine. Instead, for day to day use, I'd rather put up with almost any amount of stuff loaded into my bike bag - a completely frivolous preference that no doubt keeps my osteopath in business.So I can't help but have a little sympathy for Conservative leader David Cameron, who has been skewered in recent days over the revelation that while he cycles home, in a show of seeming eco-virtue, his driver sometimes follows him in a car with his briefcase, papers, clothes and shoes. Yesterday morning, Cameron was somewhat stunned to be grilled on the subject by John Humphrys on the Today programme.Humphrys revealed that he'd done his research and found online some vastly capacious panniers that could surely swallow Cameron's shadow-ministerial paperwork and his pair of Church's. It would only have been slightly more surreal if Humphrys had asked why the Tory leader had not brought back a sled and team of huskies from Norway to perform the task of commuting from Notting Hill to parliament. There's a photo op for you, Dave - "Then it was two jags, now it's two dogs." Take it and run with it.Funnily enough, in a moment of despair about global warming and self-loathing for owning a car, I acquired a bike trailer last year. About every other week, I hitch it to my bike and do the supermarket run. I feel a bit of a twit, but actually it gets some admiring comments from other cyclists - usually the ones lugging panniers. It comfortably carries at least double what the biggest panniers could. And I kid myself that we might one day use it to go touring and camping. But its main attraction, frankly, is that it isn't a pair of panniers.So I don't believe Cameron should have to answer to the pannier police. Yes, it seems a bit of a nonsense that there's a car following him occasionally, but would it make any difference if Cameron was in it, rather than riding his bike? The truth is he's a long-time cyclist. It's not a cynical parading of green credentials; he's on his bike because it's healthy and he enjoys it. And that, if not he, gets my vote.Bike doctorAll your cycling questions answeredDear MattHaving just joined the army of those whose beautiful new bike was stolen (in central London) within 48 hours, I'd welcome some advice on locks and insurance. I'm afraid I economised on the lock - it was a cable thing, but I didn't want to carry too much weight. I've been lulled into false security by many trouble-free years of riding a battered old second-hand racer.Howard Nelson, via emailCommiserations, Howard; it's a miserable experience. I'm afraid the cable lock was a mistake. Boltcutters eat them for breakfast. Unfortunately, weight is not a bad guide to relative impregnability. A thick, armoured cable lock, hardened steel chain with padlock, or high-quality D-lock, are all heavy to lug about, and more pricey, but afford better security. Ultimately, no lock is totally thief-proof - all you can do is deter opportunists and also give the pros something that'd take more than a few seconds to crack.Insurance is expensive (budget at least 15% of the new value of your bike in annual premiums), but may be worth it to cover a brand new one. But perhaps the best line of defence - as you discovered - is just to use a "hack bike".
ModelHonda Civic Hybrid 1.4Price&pound;16,300Top speed115mphAcceleration0-62mph in 12.1 secsConsumption61.4mpg (combined)Emissions109g/km (road tax band B)At the wheelStingThey'd rather walkKeith RichardsOn the stereoThe weather forecastEn route forThe recycling centreIn an ideal world, cars wouldn't have to burn petrol and smog up the place. They would run on a combination of grass cuttings and rainwater and, as they passed, the air would be lightly perfumed with the heady smell of summer. And they would still be capable of doing 70mph, of course. And a bit more than that, when no one was looking.Alas, the motorway-ready, grass-and-water-powered automobile remains, according to most of the messages coming out of the motoring industry, some way down the line. Ditto the genetically engineered, all-terrain, turbo-charged, people-carrying horse. In the meantime, the most workable solution, for any driver seeking to make an impact on fuel consumption and air quality, but still needing to get from, say, Luton to Maidenhead, has to be the hybrid engine.In hybrid cars, a conventional petrol-drinking engine receives assistance from an electric motor, creating a hitherto unthinkable collaboration between good and evil, clean and filthy, right there under your bonnet. At certain key moments - most notably when idling - the electric motor takes over the running of the car and the petrol engine shuts down. Thus the car only burns petrol when it really feels it has to and returns the kind of consumption and emission figures for which diesel car owners would cut off their steering wheels.Despite this, a hybrid car places no extra or peculiar demands upon its owner. You go to a petrol station to fill it up, like anybody else. You just don't go as often. And because the electric motor constantly recharges itself with energy recycled from decelerating and braking, you don't need to leave the car plugged in overnight in your garage - a demand that has been noticed to grow in complexity if you don't happen to have a garage. In fact, you never have to plug in a hybrid car at all.The obstacle between hybrids and mass acceptance has been their tendency to look thigh-slappingly ridiculous. When any manufacturer first unveils a car designed to run on alternative energy, the car, for some reason, always ends up seeming far more alternative than the energy source. They come out weirdly domed or oddly boxed, such that one is left asking: "What's that enormous egg for?" Or: "Whatever happened to that washing machine?" The first mass-produced hybrid car was the Honda Insight, which went on sale in 1999. It was a dead ringer for the trailer for a glider - and, as such, it resembled a car in desperate need of a tow, even before anyone had driven it anywhere.Also, the Insight only seated two people and cost as much to buy new as a good-quality family saloon, meaning you would have to drive it in a frenzy, 24/7, for some months before you began to notice any saving at all - behaviour which, of course, would somewhat fly in the face of the car's ostensibly green purposes.It was all valuable R&amp;D, though, as far as Honda are concerned. And now, with this new version of the trusty Civic saloon, the company has clearly - like Toyota, with its similarly natty Prius - reached the stage where it can produce hybrid cars that do not declare their hybridness in any way at all.Yes, the car's dashboard is dizzyingly strange, but this has nothing to do with it being a hybrid and everything to do with it being a Honda, where the barking dash has almost reached the status of a badge of pride. Arranged on many tiers, and featuring more typefaces than Microsoft Word, the Civic's dash manages to strike a rare balance between hi-tech, 21st-century console and mid-80s music centre, like the flight deck of an aircraft, reimagined by Dixons.Also, explain that handbrake - a strangely abrupt little handle that could have been made by snapping a coat-hanger. You warm to it, eventually, though, as part of the Civic Hybrid's lovable, if improbable, eccentricity, and that cute way it has of qualifying for free entry into congestion charge zones.The car accelerates firmly and clips along, quickly shaking off any milkfloat analogy. It is hard to quibble with Honda's claim that it has produced a 1.4-litre engine that pulls like a 1.6-litre and is as frugal as a 1.1. The silence that descends at junctions, when the petrol engine lies down for a breather, is at first eerie but, eventually, plain restful. Overall, the driving sensation is light and airy - perhaps too feathery for some. Still, you can trade a bit of heft for the pleasure of the smugness that arises from knowing that you are fouling up the environment, but not half as much as you used to, and that if everyone joined you, the polar ice caps would shortly reform. Or maybe not. But we might use less petrol.
Yesterday we began our two-part article on alterative funding models which may save computer games development from a deplorable and seemingly inevitable creativity downwards spiral. We talked business, from advertising in games, revamping the industry infrastructure towards a Hollywood Model to episodic and downloadable content. Today we get all Guardian and discuss the warm fuzzy independents and public broadcasters.4. Independent distributionSure, distributing an indie game without the corporate nod of the big publishers and format holders is setting it up for a hard slog to the top of the pile, but without the financial constraints of a "owned" title, such a model could really encourage innovation. Furthermore, without the time sensitivity of most named projects, an indie game wouldn't require end-of-development crunch time, and therefore could even address some of the quality of life issues that have sent most talent away from the industrynever to return.Now might be the best time to branch out into indie, as next generation consoles move towards a model of user-generated content via community channels. Much has been made about the potential of the Xbox 360 community platform and the Nintendo Revolution for publisher-skirting, and it's already evident with the home brew culture of the Sony PSP handheld.AsGreg Costikyanrantedat the 2005 Game Developers Conference:You have choices too: work in a massive sweatshop publisher-run studio with thousands of others making the next racing game with the same gameplay as Pole Position. Or you can riot in the streets of Redwood City! Choose another business model, development path, and you can choose to remember why you love games and make sure in a generation's time there are still games to love.You can head to hisManifesto Gamessite ("the Miramax of independent games") to find out more about indie games. Also, check outthe nominees and winnersfrom this year's Independent Game Festival awards.5. Public BroadcastersFinally, there's been a lot of chat on the blogsphere lately about whether and how public broadcasters are fulfilling their remit to inform, educate and entertain when it comes to computer games. Of course, we're not talking about the BBC funding the next Grand Theft Auto, but broadcasters may gain from exploring the serious games genre as a method of disseminating their information to their audiences.The topic was first tackled byDavid RejeskionGamasutra, who argued for a Corporation for Public Gaming:A Corporation for Public Gaming (CPG) could be established that would operate on a model similar to its broadcasting equivalent, providing grants to develop a diversity of games for the public good. Like CPB[roadcasters], the goal of the CPG would be to provide high-quality games, which "inform, enlighten and enrich the public." A $15 million annual investment would be made for a three-year period with a review conducted at the end of year three followed by recommendations for continuance, modification, or termination of the program. Grants would be made available to qualified non-profits who could partner with commercial game developers, universities, museums, schools, or government entities. All grants would require a 15 percent set aside to support a rigorous evaluation of the game's impact. A portion of the overall funding would go to universities to conduct research on how to improve the content, impact, and evaluation of such games. An alternative model would be to support serious games within the existing Corporation for Public Broadcasting, by increasing the appropriation and changing the allocation formula from the 75-25 percent split between television and radio to one that reflected the additional funding for games.Having spent a lot of time over the past few weeks discussing serious games, I'm particularly interested in the academic rigour which Rejeski proposes. This does tend to slow down the process of releasing a product to market, and can - notice I didn't saydoes- reduce the whimsy and fun of interactive software.Still, $15 million's a pretty substantial investment. It could seriously reduce the between-jobs terror that befalls many traditional games developers.On this side of the proverbial pond, Alice atWonderlanddoes a doozy on the role of her employer (the BBC) in the digital sludgepit....public service creations should go where others haven't dared to tread (yet); they should experiment on behalf of the commercial industry as well as customers interested in the new, the alternative or the different. Public service creations should strive to quest out at the edges, and bring back news of gold or inclement weather for the benefit of others. Public service entities are, after all, millions of tiny investments by the Many: they shouldrisk more because they can afford to, and they shouldshare those lessons and insightswith everyone else.(emphasis as in original)The comments Alice gets are equally as interesting.The BBC has done a terrific job in the past bringing digital entertainment into the home. The well-lovedBBC Microis an excellent example. As Mark Kelly atgamepoliticspoints out, however,Fightboxwasn't so good.One caveat which both David and Alice point out: it would be best for the broadcasters to keep the "worthy" thing a secret and simply plump up the cash for some stimulating and worthwhile entertainment.There are plenty of alternatives out there for the designer-in-the-making. You don't have to buy a development team on eBay, you just have to broaden your horizons away from the overly-commercial corporates and do some lateral thinking.
Oops - we missed yesterday's Chatterbox. Here's an earlier edition to compensate.
Dear MattHaving just joined the army of those whose beautiful new bike was stolen (in central London) within 48 hours, I'd welcome some advice on locks and insurance. I'm afraid I economised on the lock - it was a cable thing, but I didn't want to carry too much weight. I've been lulled into false security by many trouble-free years of riding a battered old second-hand racer.Howard Nelson, via emailCommiserations, Howard; it's a miserable experience. I'm afraid the cable lock was a mistake. Boltcutters eat them for breakfast. Unfortunately, weight is not a bad guide to relative impregnability. A thick, armoured cable lock, hardened steel chain with padlock, or high-quality D-lock, are all heavy to lug about, and more pricey, but afford better security. Ultimately, no lock is totally thief-proof - all you can do is deter opportunists and also give the pros something that'd take more than a few seconds to crack.Insurance is expensive (budget at least 15% of the new value of your bike in annual premiums), but may be worth it to cover a brand new one. But 
perhaps the best line of defence - as you discovered - is just to use a "hack bike".
Several US news sources (includingthisone) have picked up on a fresh industry report written by Michael Pachter and Edward Woo for Wedbush Morgan securities. Over an impressive 188 pages, the prophetic twosome suggest that Microsoft will dominate the market until 2007 at which point Sony will take over via PS3. Microsoft will then slip into second place, except in Japan, where Wii will take the runner-up position. There's also something about how Sony will use PS3's Blu-Ray drive to sneakily build consumer interest in the technology - you know, like they did with the cheap DVD drive in PS2.I have yet to read this report, partly because it doesn't seem to be on the company's website and partly because it's188 pages long. That's longer than The Great Gatsby, Animal Farm or The Invisible Man. 188 pages of - what I guess is - supposition, hypothesis and conjecture. And let's face it, the conclusions are hardly ground-busting. This one,quoted on Next-gen.biz, is reasonably interesting, though..."We believe that the Xbox 360 and the PS3 are far more similar than their predecessors were, and believe that the economics of game development will serve as a disincentive to third party publishers to offer exclusive content for either console. As a result, we think that Nintendo's Wii, backed by the company's deep library of high quality content, may surprise many by gaining a greater share of the market than did its predecessor, the GameCube."This theory has been gaining credence over the last few months as it becomes clear that PS3 and Xbox 360 are a lot closer, specs-wise, than their predecessors.But really, do these reports really mean anything? The technology sector is subject to a constant flow of them, mostly covering how much money will be made by certain sectors in, say, five or ten years time. Journalists love to quote the 'findings' - it is nice to be able to draw statistics from the unknowable future. It is convenient. Comforting even. But should investors - surely the legitimate targets of the industrial report industry - set any store by these predictions? Surely not. Anything beyond the broadest projections is mere folly.By the way, this isn't the first time we've encountered Michael Pachter. Last year, Ibloggedabout another one of his reports, which covered a downturn in console sales. "You need people to buy more stuff. This is a bad downturn," he informed Reuters sagely.
OK, so playing your iPod (etc) too loud damaged your hearing, slouching in front of your destop did your back in, while mice and keyboards have given you RSI. Now you can worry about your eyesight. A Wall Street Journal/AP story inThe Baltimore Sunsays:As use of portable hand-held gadgets soars, Americans are becoming a nation of squinters who spend hours hunched over gadgets such as PDAs, cell phones, game devices and iPods, straining to read small text everywhere from dimly lighted restaurants to sunny park benches. With mobile technology growing increasingly sophisticated -- allowing people to surf the Web, build PowerPoint presentations and watch "The Daily Show" on screens barely larger than a postage stamp -- many users say they are experiencing eyestrain.For decades, optometrists have recognized that spending long hours in front of a desktop computer can lead to a range of eye-related problems, including headaches, burning sensations and temporarily blurred vision. Now, hand-helds are triggering a fresh round of complaints. Many of the factors known to cause eyestrain on larger computers -- such as low-contrast screens and fonts smaller than 11 points -- are especially common on mobile devices. Moreover, to conserve battery life, hand-helds usually have dimmer displays than do desktop computers.The rest of this long story is well worth a read....
Google's attemptto use the US and European legal systems for competitive advantage -- a trick also used by the failing Netscape -- seems to have attracted more than a little derision. Many comments suggest Google is usingdouble standards, epecially since it uses its own browser -- since that's basically what Firefox is, now -- in the same way.Valleywagsummed up the whole story in one sentence: "Let's clarify: Google's Marissa Mayer takes a stand against default search engines other than Google in browsers."Danny Sullivan atSearch Engine Watchexplained:Sure, I can get behind the "give people a choice from the beginning" idea. But if Google wants Microsoft to do that, then Google should make it happen right now in Firefox, which pretty much is Google's surrogate browser. If this is the best way for a browser to behave, then Google should be putting its weight on Firefox to make it happen. And Google should also ensure it does the same with Dell, where it has a partnership that I believe makes it the default search engine on new Dell computers.There was also some amusing abuse, like this example fromRaving Lunacy: "Really Marissa, you need either adult supervision, or a dose of reality. Microsoft has had MSN as it's default search engine for years. Did you just fall off the turnip truck? You would be much better served evangelizing FireFox than becoming the internet idiot of the day."MeanwhileNicholas Carrtucked his tongue firmly in his cheek and pointed out that:As "Google" has become synonymous with "search," people head to its home page as much out of habit as anything else. It is, quite simply, where you go to search the web. But Google doesn't give you any choices when you arrive at its home page. There's a default engine - Google's - and it's a default that you can't change. There's no choice.If Google wants to fully live up to its ideals - to really give primacy to the goal of user choice in search - it should open up its home page to other search engines. That would be easy to do without mucking up the page or the "user experience." You could just add a simple drop down menu that would allow users to choose whether to do a search with Google's engine, or Microsoft's, or Yahoo's, or one of the other, less-well-known engines that now exist. The result would be that users get more choice as well as fuller access to the wealth of information on the web (another of Google's goals). By enabling broader competition in search, right at the point of user access, Google would also promote innovation in search technology, again benefiting the user.Indeed, it may be worth asking whether Google does not already have such a grip on the search market that it is bad for competition, and could ultimately be bad for consumers. It's not so much Google's search engine as Google's advertising business, on which many small firms are now more or less dependent -- and all too aware that Google can simply cut them out of its index without telling them and without giving them an explanation. (And if you ask about this --which I did-- Google just ignores you.)Google is also using its power in the search market to diversify into many other areas, to the point where some people now see it as a potential threat to Craigslist, eBay, Amazon and other major Web sites. The plea that you're about to be devoured by a monster doesn't cut much ice when you look like the biggest monster on the block.
We said we might have cut off our guestbook spammer today. (Missed an episode?Catch up at this blog entry.) And so, it seems, we have. Here's the email we received from Peaclick, the second company that our spammer was being paid by, this afternoon:The affiliate was removed from our network yesterday evening after findwhat contacted us, now he has some other PPC [pay per click] listing on this domain.all his money was forfeited.He was russian, we have no more details of him, his profile was filled with x'esWe are sorry for this problem, we do not condone spamming and we actively remove such affiliates from our programOur thanks toPeaclickand tofindwhatfor their quick action. And webless the decision by Tim Berners-Leethat one should be able to do "View Source" for any web page. We'd never had tracked this guy down if we were trying to reverse engineer a compiled program. We'll see where "Loki" has gone next. Will we track him down? Well, the week is young..
EA has announced that it will be publishing a new mobile phone RPG developed by Id andFountainhead Entertainment(probably best known for its work in machinima). Orcs and Elves is a first-person, turn-based title, based on the engine created for Id's award-winning Doom RPG."With the help of a magical talking wand, players explore an ancient Dwarven fortress riddled with legendary beasts and untold treasures," explains the press release. And later on:"Orcs &amp; Elves catapults gamers into a world of sword and sorcery with over five hours of feature-rich gameplay. Players can wield eleven mystical weapons from flaming swords to powerful cross bows as they confront over thirty five vicious enemies - including trolls, dark elves and the undead. In this heroic quest to save the Dwarven citadel from the forces of darkness, mobile gamers encounter secrets, treasure chests, devious traps, puzzles and mysterious characters."It's interesting how, when working on mobile titles, many studios immediately revert to old skool maxims - opting for geriatric genres (in this case theDungeon Master-style RPG) and using the sort of simple, functional titles we used to find in the 8bit home computer era. "The formative computer games of my youth were fantasy games, so I am happy to finally bring one to market," comments John Carmack.Perhaps more industry veterans will go this way - using the limited resources and lower customer expectations of the mobile phone platform to explore gaps in their game design CVs. Didn't get round to coding that killer 2D platformer in the Spectrum era? Never released your Dragon 32 text adventure? Get 'em out there now!But seriously, it's a little disappointing to find Id falling back on such a well-worn fantasy-style setting for its next mobile phone RPG. The graphics are limited, but surely the designer's imagination doesn't have to be...
Previously on theguestbookspammer... someone is spamming blogs worldwide with a link to a French blog site page, which redirects to a fake search engine that then sends you, via pay-per-click referral companies, on to pharmaceutical sites. What we don't like in particular is that they're using the Guardian's Technology email address as the place for the blogs/guestbooks to contact about the link.A little hunting and a little emailing, pointing out that such links lower peoples' esteem of the Guardian brand (you shouldseesome of the annoyed emails we've had), and one of the two revenue streams the spammer uses dries up. The email we received from a US-based company today says:Further to your e-mail, we immediately investigated the matter, and have removed the affiliate from our network in the U.S. This particular affiliate does not work with us in any other territory.We understand this is a serious matter for The Guardian brand, and regarding your request to provide contact details for the affiliate, we will need to consult with our legal counsel as to whether we can provide you that information so that we are not in violation of any law. As soon as we have had those conversations, we will be in touch with you.We're just waiting for some details from the other company that the spammmer - who styles himself "Loki" - uses to get paid via pay-per-click; that one's based in Austria. We're hoping to have cut off his revenue stream there by the end of today, with a bit of luck.WasLoki(the Norse god of mischief; also avillain in Marvel Comics) really a good name? It's starting to look like "Pyrrhus" might have been better.
Top coders ahoy: Google took some time today to announceCode Jam Europe, the continental version of its hugely successful programming competition.Competitors fight it out to be faster than their rivals at solving a number of problems, proving their coding muscle and - if they emerge on top of the pile - scooping a €2500 prize. The top 50 will also have the chance to be interviewed by Google for jobs.I spoke to Shannon Maher, the company's engineering director in London, who explained exactly what Googleplex hoped to achieve."We're expanding our engineering group greatly in Europe," he told me. "We can't be in everybody's back yard, but we can be closer to people. We obviously expect that any of these top coders are the people we'd want to be associated with."So effectively this is Google saying to the programming community "hey, we're in Europe" and then taking part in an outreach programme.The science bit - Code Jam Europe follows a similar trajectory to previous events in the US and more recently in India: several rounds of competition which narrow the competitors down. The first is online, and starts now. Then there are several attempts to whittle down the numbers (the Indian competition drew 14,000 wannabes) until the grand final between 50 battle-hardened code monkeys on June 29 in Dublin.
As an adjunct to last week'sflippant postabout the development team who put themselves up for (unsuccessful) auction with online trading site eBay, we thought we'd outline some alternatives to the traditional funding models for interactive entertainment. Why alternative models? Well, as most everyone can see, the games industry - while consistently demonstrating a bullish trend - has unsettlingly settled into a quagmire of uninteresting titles reliant upon sequels and hackneyed ideas. If the target audience of teenage boys arelosing interest, surely there's a need for an alternate funding scheme which would allow for innovation whilst not breaking the bank and sending over-worked employees intoearly retirement?Continue reading for Part 1: Advertising, the Hollywood Model and Episodic content distribution.1. Advertising in GamesAs uncomfortable as it makes many gamers, opening up the computer games platform to big corporates as a way to get eyeballs on brands can be a very lucrative trade-off for developers. Digital luddites argue including billboards or product sponsors into virtual environments breaks the immersive quality of gameplay - and certainly this is true if the advertising is implemented in an obtrusive or nonsensical way - but those thousands of dollars could provide a cushion for an ailing developer and may be a lifeline for a future, more innovative project. Immersion could even be increased, as appropriate advertising may enhance the agency of the player. As Keith points out in anearlier gamesblog post:With costs of producing games likely to sky-rocket in the Next Gen era this sounds like the perfect way to meet those spiralling budgets. The worry is, if large corporations do start to fund games in this way, how long before they're censoring content? How long before fast food giants and global supermarket chains are saying, "We'll give you $5 million to develop Doom 5, but, hey, we can't have all that violence, our shareholders won't approve and it contravenes our passionate support of family values..."For advergaming in practice, seeMassive Incorporated'simpressive portfolio.2. The Hollywood ModelThis is the approach we touched on last week, in which employers hire talent on a contractual basis. This saves the development company from spending big bucks on retainers between projects, when they have to keep an entire workforce in the money until a commissioning publisher gives a green light. You can imagine that millions goes down the drain.I'm particularly familiar with this approach because I'm a freelancer myself, albeit in the "medja" and not in games development. Still, I appreciate the pitfalls and benefits because I've experienced them firsthand. Unfortunately, the benefits do fall in the favour of the employer; however, there are good points about being a contractor, as well.Development talent can focus and stream skills, rather than becoming okay at quite a few subjects as the development tide turns in their company. (There is a danger, though, that this may pigeonhole some employees.)Developers can get experience at a number of companies, which means that they'll have more games under their belts than with the traditional model. The constant flow of employees should also establish a cross-industry code of practice, thus increasing the quality of life in an environment which rapidly chews up and spits out its most able and experienced workers. Furthermore, contractors would be able to charge for overtime, unlike full-time employees.The upsides for companies include saving cash on retainers, reducing costs on employee tax and benefits and having the ability to pick and choose teams to work with. They'd include individuals, but would also quite often include groups. If this model took off, there would be loads of four and five person companies/teams who would be hired as a unit and would work together. You'd also be able to outsource jobs to cheaper regions.The Hollywood Model isn't just a philosophical exercise dreamed up at industry conferences; the critically acclaimedStubbs the Zombiewas developed under these conditions, and according to theHollywood Reporter, the benefits seem immediately obvious:...if all the work on "Stubbs" had been done in-house, it would have required a full-time staff of 65-70. Instead, his 12 employees began 18 months ago and spent six to eight months to plan the project. Then, outside contractors took another six to eight months to build the assets. And now the internal team is filling another six months assembling it. All told, contractors accounted for about 75% of the work hours. As a result, the project cost 35% less to produce than if it had been produced entirely in-house.Of course, there is still a danger that budgets could skyrocket with this plan, as game development freelancers realise just how much it costs to do their own taxes.3. Episodic and downloadable contentThere is a reason why two or three years ago every games developer worth its mettle was suddenly working on a Massively Multiplayer Online Game: the ongoing production and distribution of online content costs substantially less in the long term than one-off releases, and the revenues just keep on giving. In some cases, they last much longer than abattery-operated mechanical bunny; Ultima Online has been going since 1998.The bulk of the cost in the development of any MMOG orepisodictitle is in the initial planning and implementation. Once the technology has been worked out, the assets developed, the design established and the title released, the majority of employees can move on to greener pastures, leaving a core skeleton crew of community managers, writers, designers, programmers and artists to move the content forward. All that's required of the player is a hard drive, a broadband connection and a subscription fee. Even better; there's no costly packaging to shell out for.It's not just limited to downloadable PC games, as Steve Boxer explains inTechnologyfrom a few weeks ago:...at the recent Game Developers Conference in San Jose, Nintendo president Satoru Iwata announced that the Revolution, its next-generation console, will feature a download service including a library of games from Sega's 16-bit Mega- Drive console, while Sony's head of development, Phil Harrison, demonstrated an iTunes-style song download service for the company's SingStar karaoke game.Microsoft's already in on the act, offering new missions and other content via itsXbox 360 marketplace.It's a pretty dangerous practice, as the initial investment (say, 80%) goes towards the first episode. If that one is rubbish, companies won't get the cash back via the remaining downloadable sequences - as in the business model - as no one will spend their money on duff content.The killer app for this distribution model will be the release ofHalf Life: Fallout.Episode 1launches at the end of next month.Tomorrow, independent distribution and public broadcasters.
Legend has it that when IBM began producing commercially viable computers it foresaw that six Big Blue machines would suffice for the whole of the US. These monsters would, of course, be acquired and operated by big business, big government and the military. The notion of a "personal computer" was as alien as an individual citizen owning a personal aircraft carrier.Now the PC, like the mobile phone, is ubiquitous. We like to think of this leap in technological access for the masses as a good thing. But is it? William Davies takes a sceptical view. Is universal webocracy, he asks, "progress" or merely a pampering of the public? Does new information technology serve society, or merely make its members' lives easier? Should we, Davies wonders, pour so much investment into continually refining a technology whose current primary purpose is to make the world ever more "flexible to the whims of consumers in egocentric and irrational ways"?The term that Davies has come up with for the downside of universal web connection is "digital exuberance". It has a strong whiff of Alan Greenspan's straitlaced thinking about how to manage the American economy. Is Davies, I ask him, a digital conservative?"There's a case for asking questions in periods of rapid change," he responds, "even if they're naive-seeming questions such as: 'Why are we doing this? What actual benefits is it delivering to us?' We also need a sense of what kind of answers will be useful to us. Traditionally, technological advancement on the scale and at the speed we're seeing at the moment has been justified in terms of the direct productivity gains it offered to big businesses, large organisations and government departments. My question is: 'What is the case for individuals equipping themselves, technologically, to the extent that they're doing at the moment? What is the case for the wholesale shift from analogue, face-to-face services to online services?' One of the things I want to suggest is that many of the benefits of this present phase of modernisation, and the technological investment that drives it, are not the traditional benefits of efficiency gains to the supplier. What's happening at the moment is that those benefits, the efficiency savings, are disproportionately benefiting the demand side, the consumer, not the manufacturer, distributor or supplier. There's greater convenience for the public at large, but not necessarily greater efficiency for society as a whole."The buzzword devised for population-wide access to the new electronic technology is "e-readiness". Is it true that Britain is well up in the field?"The most recent e-readiness national rankings, carried out by the Economist Intelligence Unit, put the UK fifth. Denmark still comes out top, but we're certainly high up."Doesn't that high ranking bestow an advantage over countries lower down? For example, European big-hitters such as France and Germany?"The connection between these technological investments and associated productivity gains is a very murky area. In the United States it's now believed that a jump in productivity in the late 90s was partially attributable to this kind of technological investment. An equivalent jump hasn't happened in Britain - or, at least, not yet. France and Germany still have much higher output per hour in terms of productivity than we do. There is no obvious correlation between investment in technology across the whole spectrum of society and productivity growth."So do you think we should, for our own good, introduce bottlenecks and speed bumps on what Al Gore grandly called the "information superhighway"? "The point I'm making is that we shouldn't automatically assume that having things that are faster and faster, that cast their net wider and wider, and that provide information to us with greater and greater immediacy is necessarily synonymous with social betterment. Nor should we assume that it will, necessarily, deliver the economic growth that the country needs. What I propose is that we give serious thought to institutions that might act as checks on our ever expanding, ever accelerating connectivity, or that can impose what one might call etiquettes as to how we use them. The idea that one has an inalienable right always to be "on" - online, everywhere and all the time -is neither justifiable neither on an economic level nor, I would maintain, on an ethical or a cultural level."So when you ride the London underground, and half the people in the carriage have iPods stuck in their ears and the other half are madly texting, you perceive something very ominous?"I think these are technologies, among other technologies flooding our society at the moment, that enforce a quite radical individualisation. I'm no killjoy. I enjoy and employ many of those technologies myself. But what I do believe to be necessary is that we recognise that part and parcel of modernisation is to put checks on that modernisation. And that we should give weight to the forms of conservatism that say: 'This is all the technology we want.'"As for your word, 'ominous' ... I believe this issue is going to get a lot more extreme. We shall very soon see a merging of what mobile phones and the internet currently do separately. We're going to have a lot more of TV on the move and so on. My plea is simply that we should give serious and sustained thought to what types of cultural norms are going to be needed to make ours a civil and decent society which can respect the norms of public space, without being locked into private forms of entertainment and quasi-socialising."&middot;William Davies is senior research fellow at the Institute of Public Policy Research.
The thing aboutguestbook spammingis that to work for the spammer, it has to generate a cash flow. Which means that the spammer will include links somewhere to places that make money for him. (It's so nearly always a him.) Which means that we can, by following their breadcrumbs, find out who they are. And then, we hope, get The Guardian's lawyers to make his life much more unpleasant than he has for us.In this case, the money trace is interesting. The spammer has set up a page at a free blog site in France which directs you to a part of a site hosted by theplanet.com called seek-and-search.com (the URL:http://seek-and-search.com/se/search.php?keyword=phentermine- the hyperlink is to the tinyurl link;do NOT visit this siteunless you are very confident that your machine cannot be hit by all sorts of viruses etc; The Guardianwon't be held responsible).Now, it doesn't matter what search term you put in at that site: you get the same list of "results", apparently to Lycos, thefreedictionary and so on. (Another interesting thing to note: the "recent searches" list doesn't change.) If you do the pharmaceutical search, you get a whole different set of "results sites" to do with drugs and so on.But the links aren't what they seem. Every one leads to a different site - peakclick.com, hosted by Isprime of New York. When you click the link, you go briefly to that site and then redirected onward to Lycos (or the pharma site).When you click on the first link to Lycos (or the drugstore): you actually get bounced through this link: http://search.getfound.com/rd/Clk.jsp?id=23184366&amp;k=tspam&amp;r=100&amp;a=40481&amp;s=sff&amp;p=39657&amp;sid=774807&amp;ex=1146515614773What's the "id" bit there? It's the "affiliate" ID, I think. The number of the person who's getting paid by getfound.com to deliver people through it. (Getfound must get paid by Lycos, presumably.)Our spammer is getting money by directing people to those sites. And he has to identify himself uniquely to those sites, so that when people click on the fake links in the seek-and-search page, the receiving pages know who to pay for dumping.. sorry, delivering them to the site (even if they thought that they were going to Lycos, or thefreedictionary..).What makes it fun is that there are these hard-coded links. They have a unique URL. We can use them to track down the spammer (who is still, in an infantile rage, guestbook spamming us). Which means we can identify him. Perhaps he didn't think of that when he decided to do it."Follow the money". Yes, it's an old journalistic saw, but no less true for that.(Followup: ah, one of the companies paying the spammer is Nasdaq-quoted. Boy, this isfun, isn't it? We'll hold off naming them until they've contacted us.)
Have you ever heard Google complain about being the default search engine in Firefox, Opera, Netscape and AOL Explorer? Has it been kicking and screaming about how that gives it an unfair advantage over Yahoo, Ask and MSN Search etc? Odd, then, that it has had a sudden attack of scruples about Microsoft making Microsoft's search engine the default in Microsoft's browser, though you might well be amazed if Microsoft set Google as the default instead.However, according toThe New York Times, Google has already gone to the feds about it:Google, which only recently began beefing up its lobbying efforts in Washington, says it expressed concerns about competition in the Web search business in recent talks with the Justice Department and the European Commission, both of which have brought previous antitrust actions against Microsoft.One of the odd things about this complaint is that IE users can alreadysearch from the address bar, and this search already defaults to MSN. Presumably nobody at Google has ever used IE, so they've just never noticed....And asMicrosoft's IE blog explains, it's easy to change the default (it ships with five options), or it can be done for you, remotely.Consumer Choice and Changing the Default.The user is in control of the search box. If users want to change what IE7 or the OEM set the search engine to initially, they have several ways to do it.Indeed, since IE7 supportsOpenSearch, developed byAmazon's A9, it's arguably more open than Firefox, Opera or Safari.There is, of course, another alternative for Google. Instead of spending money lobbying in Washington, it could persuade or pay PC manufacturers to set Google as the default search engine in all the machines they ship -- as they are free to do. Google has already paid$1 billion for 5% of AOLto get Google set by default, though Google doesn't seem to be complaining about limiting the freedom of choice of AOL users.If Google wants to extend its "Don't be evil" marketing slogan, it could easily add "and don't be hypocritical".
Google is usually great for helping sort out uses of English, so you can check the difference between a pedaller and a peddler -- though that doesn't stopGuardian journalistsgetting it wrong, of course. But there are times when the majority of people get things wrong. In today's Guardian,Patrick Barkham reportsthat "according to the Oxford English Corpus, a database of a billion words, dozens of traditional phrases are now more commonly misspelled than rendered correctly in written English.""Straight-laced" is used 66% of the time even though it should be written "strait-laced", according to lexicographers working for Oxford Dictionaries, who record the way English is spoken and written by monitoring books, television, radio and newspapers and, increasingly, websites and blogs."Just desserts" is used 58% of the time instead of the correct spelling, "just deserts" (desert is a variation of deserve), while 59% of all written examples of the phrase in the Corpus call it a "font of knowledge or wisdom" when it should be "fount".Other common mistakes mentioned in the article include "free reign" for "free rein", "slight of hand" instead of "sleight", "phased by" for "fazed by", "butt naked" for "buck naked" and "vocal chords" for "vocal cords."Bear this in mind the next time you use Google to check: it could be wrong.Comment: We're already familiar with words ceasing to mean what they really mean and coming to mean something less precise or even different -- nice, enormity, prestigious, cohort, decimate, jejeune (should be jejune, from the Latin ieiunus: meager, dry, fasting) and so on. Phrases such as "prodigal son" and "begs the question" are also probably mis-used more often than not. Language changes. 'Twas ever thus....
"Google apparently doesn't see cheating its customers out of billions of dollars as doing evil," says Brian S Kabateck, a partner in Los Angeles law firm Kabateck Brown Kellner LLP. "Kabateck is representing disaffected Google Adwords customers in the California click-fraud case, Advanced Internet Technologies (AIT) v. Google," asInformation Weekreports.What he's complaining about is a$90 million settlementreached in a similar case in Arkansas last month because, he claims, advertisers are only getting about half a cent back for each dollar lost to click fraud.The story says:Gripes raised by the panelists at Ad:Tech echo the issues Kabateck has with the settlement: Google isn't required to change the way it does business to become more accountable; Google has earned over $15 billion in advertising income in the past four years, making it potentially liable for at least $1.5 billion if a 10% click fraud rate is assumed; the $90 million set aside is really only $30 million in cash for attorneys, the balance taking the form of credits for victimized advertisers; and Google gets to determine whether clicks are fraudulent or not.Coment: Of course, this is not just about Google: all the search engines' advertisements may be vulnerable to click fraud. But Google's business is wholly based on advertising, and it's extremely vulnerable if click fraud becomes the same sort of problem as, for example, spam.
Microsoft Windows provides afree Reader programfor electronic books and newspapers and, not surprisingly, there is a new version that uses the new graphics facilities in Windows Vista. The New York Times plans to exploit this new Reader by offering a version of the paper that reproduces the appearance of the printed version, but also exploits the ability to have Web links, add notes, search and so on.According to Arthur Sulzberger Jr, publisher of The New York Times, it's blending "the accessibility and the portability of print ... with the immediacy and interactivity of the Web," according to a report inThe Seattle Times.The system was previewed at the American Society of Newspaper Editors conference in Seattle, which made it easy for Bill Gates to turn up and do a demo.There are stories inThe New York Timesand other papers, and there's aMicrosoft press release.Comment: You might think this story is simple enough for anyone to understand. There's clearly a market fore-reader softwarethat works offline -- and lots of companies supply it, such asZinio. There are even people who like the idea of having an electronic version of a text that looks much like the paper original --The Guardian offers one, for example. And such systems do more than feed editorial egos, because publishers are also looking to protect their content (making it harder to modify) and monetize it (via copy protection and by including paid advertisements) -- thus, partly, the market for Adobe PDFs.Whether individuals like this approach is up to them to decide -- and as a matter of fact, I don't like it, so if firms are depending on getting money from me, they'll be out of luck. But that doesn't mean I'm going to throw a wobbly about it -- look at some of theclueless comments on Buzzmachinefor examples. This is just one option among many. And in the end, the market will decide.
The day that a man was caught masturbating on the subway was the day that the women of New York said enough was enough. Thao Nguyen, a disgusted fellow passenger, took a picture of the man with her camera phone and posted it on the internet.A cyber-storm gathered, the photo made it to the front page of the New York Daily News and the man, 43-year-old Daniel Hoyt - a repeat offender - was convicted of public lewdness. Supporters compared Nguyen, 23, with civil rights activist Rosa Parks who famously refused to give up her seat to a white man on a segregated bus.Inspired by Nguyen's use of technology, Lauren Spees and six friends launched a website, hollabacknyc.com, which invites people who have been sexually harassed in public to take a picture of the offender and post it online, thus shaming the guilty party.The growing interest in the site, which receives an average of 1,500 hits a day, has been described as 'cyber vigilantism' by critics and raises new questions about where society draws the line between an innocent chat-up line and 'harassment'.In the eight months, about 100 camera phone pictures have been posted on the site along with text accounts, or 'blogs', of the harassment suffered. Next month, British and European sites will launch under the banner: 'If you can't slap 'em, snap 'em!'The New York version makes the bold proclamation: 'Holla Back NYC empowers New Yorkers to Holla Back at street harassers.' It goes on to say: 'We believe that what specifically counts as street harassment is determined by those who experience it. While there is always the classic, "Hey baby, nice tits," there are so many other forms that go unnoted.'Tackling the question of whether a man can tell a woman that he finds her attractive, it argues: 'Some do not find comments such as, "Hello, beautiful," or, "Hey, gorgeous," offensive. Many do. Others may find them intimidating, intrusive, or just an annoying pain in the ass. Keep in mind that many women experience unsolicited comments, as well as violent verbal assault, from men in public spaces on a regular basis.'The most recent blog entries include 'Tru', from Los Angeles, recalling how a middle-aged man said, 'I really dig your culottes [cropped trousers],' and added: 'I really want to get between them and your thighs.'Another photo is entitled 'Two fire escape ass-hats' and shows two grinning youths, one of whom is holding his penis in his right hand; it is captioned by 'Shana', who writes, 'Right out my third storey window... this is SO annoying.'Spees, 25, told The Observer: 'The guys who harass with sexual comments are not interested in a date... It's not an attempt to connect.'Emily May, 25, another co-founder of Holla Back NYC, denied that women are putting themselves in danger by aiming their camera phone at a hostile male. 'We encourage women to be safe rather than sorry, which could mean only doing it in daylight or if they're with someone,' she said.
