Actresses do it, bishops do it, even the royal family does it. But scan the faces of the 80,000 new users who came online every day during 1998 and you won't spot too many British members of parliament.The government is making admirable noises about the net. Labour's National Grid for Learning aims to kit out every school in the country with the internet. The new University For Industry will enhance internet access in further education, and the Public Library Network will do the same in local libraries.But most MPs don't seem to want to access the internet - or use it to enhance their own accessibility to their constituents. "The Commons is one of the most unwired places there is," says Labour MPMargaret Moran. "We're still in the era of the quill pen here."This is the institution where, Labour's Paul Flynn recalls, people visited his office to ogle his exotic fax machine after it was installed barely 12 years ago.Margaret Moran  is trying to create a user-friendly online directory of every MP's website. Of 659 MPs, she's found just 89 with sites, many of which don't work or appear hopelessly primitive.Plenty of big names are conspicuously website-less. Peter Mandelson's last act as trade secretary was to introduce the Competitive White Paper, which aims to make the UK the premier digital marketplace by 2002 and treble the number of small businesses wired up to it. Now a humble backbencher, Mandelson fails to live up to his billing as wired-up government guru: he lacks a website of any sort.Nevertheless, a small band of internet-savvy MPs remains resolutely optimistic. "There's a sudden explosion of interest in the internet among MPs now. In five years time all MPs will have websites,"  says Flynn.MPs could start by taking lessons from America. A study by the Center for Congressional Studies at American University found that each of the 100 senators has a website, as do 414 out of 435 members of the House of Representatives. All are listed on the official congress site."It's the first time we haven't had to ask, 'Is there a web site?' We get to ask how good the sites are. It's a critical step," says Don Goff, the study's senior researcher.Some US representatives' sites differ from their British counterparts only in that you can purchase the American flag from them. Others are a world apart. Republican representativeBob Barr's massive site,  ranked first in the study of Congressional websites, carries an exhaustive set of press releases, speeches and position statements on local and national issues, often with comprehensive links to related sites. He also offers a regular online column, an email updates facility and full transcripts of the regular virtual "town hall meetings" he conducts with the people he represents.Improving connections with their constituents is exactly what the few online MPs strive for. Tory MP Tim Collins has  the slick internet presence you would expect from a former Conservative Director of Communications. His polling booth enables constituents to vote on thorny issues, usefully gauging local opinion. "I don't see it as a national forum," he says. "It's there to be a point of communication between me and my constituents."Anne Campbell became the first MP with a website nearly five years ago. A third of her "post-bag" now consists of email. The net encourages "much more direct interaction between MPs and constituents", she says. "It enables us to be much more sensitive to what people think and feel."Labour'sAndy Reedsays: "In theory nearly all the letters I get from constituents about policy can be answered through the site". As  internet use increases, MPs' websites could become "a one-stop shop", as Reed says, which could ease MPs' workload.But easing the workload is not what this small band of internet-savvy MPs seek. "As with all technological advances, it raises productivity but it also raises the workload," Collins says."Some MPs say 'you must be bloody mad to be on email and the internet - there's enough work as it is'," reckons Bob Laxton, Labour MP for Derby North. "But I believe in making myself accessible."This accessibility comes at a price. "I'm struggling to find someone who'll maintain the site for me," says Laxton, who hopes a local "internet geek" might help. Most MPs pay for their websites from their office allowances, but these don't stretch to maintaining a sophisticated web presence. Paul Flynn attacks the spread of lobbying and "New Sleaze" on his site and, appropriately enough, insists on paying Citypages "the full commercial rate" for its upkeep."I'd be quite happy to accept commercial sponsorship," says Laxton. Other Labour MPs have. Local internet provider UUnet helps Anne Campbell fund her site. But she declares the sponsorship in the register of members' interests and the site is updated by her constituency staff. She also relinquishes it during general elections so as not to fall foul of the strict rules on MPs' electoral expenditure.The online MPs realise that, like their colleagues, many of their constituents don't share their passion for the internet. Unlike their colleagues, their constituents may also lack the ability or facilities to access it. "I'm very conscious of the information rich-information poor gap," declares Flynn, who believes that mass access will occur "when people start shopping on the internet".The audience may not be a mass one yet - most MPs report modest traffic, although Flynn gets 200 visitors a day - but most are surprised by how diverse it is. Flynn gets plenty of older people contacting him via the internet, and recognises how useful it could be for disabled, or house-bound constituents.Campbell is pioneering the use of partnerships with private companies to expand internet access for ordinary people. She formed Cambridge Online City, based on partnerships with local businesses including UUnet and Cambridge Cable. It has created 15 public internet access points across the city, in libraries and community centres. "This could be a model for how widening web access could proceed," Campbell says.Widening access can only enhance the democratic ties between online MPs and their constituents. "I believe democratic politics should be about easy access to elected politicians," says Moran. She plans to conduct an online constituency surgery soon, via live video, which she sees as a potentially useful tool for busy politicians stuck in Westminster.Campbell also believes constituency participation in Westminster politics can be increased by developing personalised web services, with email updates informing people about policy developments. This could, for instance, involve many more people in the consultative stages of legislation.In such ways, the small band of internet-savvy MPs show that digital democracy is not about fanciful cyber-constituencies, but a means of modernising themselves - and keeping the purpose of parliament alive."There are infinite possibilities," says Paul Flynn. But, ultimately, a website is only as good as its MP. "Sadly," he says, "even websites don't transform boring politicians into interesting ones."The Old HandAnne Campbell, LabourFundedSponsored by local ISP, UUnet.MaintenanceMaintained by Campbell's constituency staff who have been trained in HTML.FeaturesFAQs show Campbell's position on policies of concern to her constituents. Also lists press releases, surgery details and a diary of forthcoming engagements.Function"It keeps people in touch with my with my views on current issues," Campbell says. It also enhances constituents' access to her.The MaverickPaul Flynn, LabourFundedStrongly against sponsorship: pays for it personally.MaintenanceFlynn maintains it, adding 2,000 words of unique content a week. He aims to change the headline on the home page three or four times a week.FeaturesEasily the most distinctive and witty MP's website. Latest news, details of Flynn's personal crusades, parliamentary anecdotes and an edited version of his two books. Flynn promises to publish a new book on the site this month.FunctionCampaigning 
and constituency contact. "Constituents are using it as an alternative instant method of contact," Flynn says. "Some local journalists regularly pick up stories straight from the website."The RebelKen Livingstone, LabourFundedPays for it personally.MaintenanceMaintained 
by Poptel. Livingstone's researcher sends them the pieces for publication. 
"In addition, I can email 
my press releases directly to the news page," Livingstone says.FeaturesNews, latest articles, surgery details, speeches and an email updates service.Function"At the moment it is probably stronger as a news and information resource than as a service to my constituents," Livingstone says. 
"I recently spoke at a conference in Barcelona on the future of city government and my speech was posted on the website at the same time as I got up to speak in Barcelona. When you consider that the media is more interested in the mayor story as an internal Labour Party row than as a debate about London's future, this is invaluable."The Scottish NationalistRoseanna Cunningham, Scottish NationalistFundedThrough the parliamentary office costs allowance.MaintenanceThe designer Iwan Williams keeps an eye on it. Cunningham's constituency assistant puts up her press releases. "The problem is one of time really," says Cunningham.FeaturesThe Soapbox section is "intended as a general forum on a wide range of topics, whether or not they fit into the SNP's current policy".Function"It is principally a communication tool," says Cunningham. "At present 
the constituency traffic is probably not all that high - but I am certain it will grow."The young ConservativeTim Collins, ConservativeFundedBasic design 
by a constituent, "who did 
it at a knock-down price", says Collins. Paid for 
by the parliamentary 
office allowance, with assistance from the 
local Conservative Party.MaintenanceBy himself and his office.FeaturesPolling booth gathers opinion on questions from: "Do you think a new northern relief road would be the best solution to Kendal's traffic problems?" and "Referendum on the Pound". You can also find Collins's speeches on Hansard using the parliamentary search engine linked to the site.Function"It's there to be a point of communication between me and my constituents," says Collins.
What was your introduction to computers?A secondhand 48K Sinclair Spectrum in about 1984. Me and my brother saved up for it from our pocket/paper-round money. My favourite games were Chuckie Egg, Pac-Man and Pole Position. We would also spend laborious hours typing in Basic programs from magazines. Difficult to imagine it now, but it took eight minutes to load a game from cassette and my ultimate fantasy was to get a 128K model.Do you use an Apple Mac or a PC... or something different?When I became a full-time freelance journalist at 16 I could only afford an Amstrad PCW8256 word processor - they didn't even have hard drives. After that I fell in love with Macs. I had a Classic II (my baby) and now a PowerMac. Much as I adore Macs, however, they've been left behind. Just bought a Psion Series 5 and am getting a PC shortly.Are computers important... for you? for the world?They've changed my life - my fantasy is to be a "techno nomad" ie living in a beach hut in Thailand but still do my job by email (right now I'm replying from a net cafe in Sydney). As for the world, the net is going to have a huge educational affect - for example, in China ordinary people now have access to uncensored media and in Thailand, the net cafes are full of school children.What do you use the machine for?My work - editing anthologies of fiction. The latest, Fortune Hotel for Penguin, was almost entirely compiled by email/ICQ  &#91;instant messaging&#93;. It's the way I prefer to contact authors, negotiate, receive their submissions and edit them.Any particular favourite software? Anything you'd like but can't have yet?When I get a PC I'm going to be in software heaven - being a Mac-user is so limiting. Wish list: PC banking, netphone, speech recognition, infra-red Psion link. Also the program that transforms digi-camera pics of you and your mates into wacky stickers - a big craze in Japan.Do you get into dialogues with strangers on the Net?No, if I want to meet people I go clubbing or to the pub.Are you a geek?Definitely not.What do you see in the future for computers?Public internet terminals will become as common as telephone boxes. International telephones will become obsolete, replaced by net calls at local rates. The handheld computer market will boom with combined Psion/mobile-phone devices leading the way.Are you worried about the Y2K Millennium Bug?No, I think it's exaggerated.Presently working on?I am currently curating a writing/music project with a guy in Moscow called Kremlin Renegades - working entirely by email and ICQ.• Compiled by Hamish Mackintosh
The PC industry is preparing a great leap forward that will more than double the power of computers. The problem is that there is hardly any software to exploit the extra capability. To bridge this gap, Intel, the world's biggest chip maker, has just announced a $250 million fund to support the switch from 32-bit to 64-bit processors when the company delivers Merced, its first 64-bit IA (Intel Architecture) chip next year.The Intel 64 Fundis being bank-rolled by Compaq, Intel, Dell, NEC, SGI and Hewlett-Packard. A dozen non-computer companies - including Bank of America, Ford Motor, Reuters and SmithKline Beecham - are also contibuting to the fund, which will be managed by venture capital investment company Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.The last processor transition started in 1985 when Intel introduced the 32-bit 80386 to replace the 16-bit 286 chip used in the IBM PC AT (Advanced Technology). However, it was not until Microsoft Windows 95 appeared a decade later that most users gained the benefits of 32-bit computing, and even that retains 16-bit operations for backwards compatibility. Intel hopes the $250m investment in 64-bit software will make the transition faster this time.Microsoft is well advanced with the development of a 64-bit version of its next-generation Windows 2000 operating system, formerly known as Windows NT (New Technology). However, the Intel 64 Fund will target "a full-range of volume operating systems" including Unix, which is the standard on the large server computers and high-powered graphics workstations where Intel's 64-bit chips will first come into use.In this market, Intel's ideas are far from new. Workstations and servers started moving to 64-bit processing when Digital Equipment Corporation announced the Alpha, an advanced Risc (Reduced instruction set computer) processor, in 1992. But the IA-64 fund's backers show the failure of the Risc processing revolution to kill Intel - one of the sillier articles of faith among some supporters of Risc chips used by companies like Acorn, Apple and IBM.Hewlett-Packard, the first company to commercialise Risc, has been a co-developer of IA-64 chips with which it plans to replace its own HP-PA (Precision Architecture) Risc chips.SGI, formerly Silicon Graphics Incorporated, has floated off its Risc chip division, Mips, and switched to Intel. Digital was taken over by Compaq, the world's largest manufacturer of Intel-based PCs, and the Alpha is now made under contract by Intel.Intel expects that Merced and the next IA-64 chip, code-named McKinley, will enable it to expand its share of the server and workstation businesses, where it is currently weak. Of course, this does not mean it has lost interest in the PC business. There will be a "price point" version of the IA-64 code-named Deerfield for use in ordinary desktop computers.Intel is also working hard to win back the low-cost PC market. Last year its market share fell from 85% to 76%, according to US-based Mercury Research, as PC manufacturers adopted cheaper Pentium-compatible chips from AMD and Cyrix. But over the past six months, Intel has repeatedly cranked up the speed and slashed the price of the Celeron, its low-end version of the Pentium, to attack this market.As a result, Brian Halla, chairman, president and chief executive of NatSemi (National Semiconductor), Cyrix's parent company, announced last week that it would immediately cease "slugging it out" in the PC-processor market. "Believing that Intel would not and could not compete in the low-end &#91;PC&#93; space was a mistake," said Halla.AMD is also struggling. In March the company said it was losing money and would lay off 300 workers. At its annual meeting on April 29, shareholders called for the resignation of chairman and chief executive Jerry Sanders, who has run AMD for 30 years. He asked for more time to try to compete with Intel."You should reserve judgment for at least another year," he said. "I believe if we can't do it, it can't be done."
Frequent web users know the golden rule of design which has passed by the big-spending corporations churning out  all-singing, all-dancing and all-confusing sites. They know that less is most definitely more.This is confirmed by an innovative study from US consultancyUser Interface Engineeringto be unveiled next week at the computer usability conferenceCHI99. It finds most corporate web sites are rendered ineffective by basic design flaws and excessive complexity.Hundreds of users were set research tasks on the web, such as "how do you change your pension plan if you change companies?", while UIE researchers bounced infrared light off their eyes to track their position and movement to the accuracy of a single pixel.Jared Spool, Founding Principal at UIE, says most sites had "significant flaws" which impeded users: "Try to find a cell phone you can afford onEricsson's site. Try to find out how much a 'Gator' utility vehicle costs onJohn Deere's website. Try to find out if your Zoloft prescription could be causing you to have sleepless nights onPfizer's site. Many of these are award-winning sites, but the awards process never asks real users to look for real information."Spool says the most common reason for the failure to present information in a usable way is a lack of understanding by designers of who their users are, and what information they want.Good site design starts by analysing the various sorts of target information that different users will need, and linking them together.The research also found that complex technologies have no positive effect for the user and that site logs - records of numbers of visits - may not be a triumph but may indicate users are needlessly returning to different pages. They do not show whether information has been found or if users are just lost.Not all sites get it wrong. Spool says that online booksellerAmazon.com, web directoryYahoo!and  auction houseeBayall keep their sites simple and lay down strong trails for users to find what they need.It is no coincidence that these sites are all internet commerce innovators: "They have to have a good design, or they disappear from the map".Apart any commercial disadvantage, inaccessible web design also excludes users with visual disabilities, who rely on clear text-based information to feed into special access software such as speech converters.Last week saw the launch of the first international guidelines for web content accessibility for the disabled from theWorld Wide Web Consortium. Daniel Dardailler, technical manager of its Web Accessibility Initiative, says "flashy commercial sites" are the biggest offenders.
Half-lifeis the best game ever written for the PC, which knocks Quake (both versions) down to second place and Sid Meier's Civilization (ditto) down to third. At least, that's the view propounded this week by PC Gamer magazine, which has just published its fourth annual Top 100. Hard to argue with experts, of course, but next year some of the more questionable opinions will be repudiated and a few games will tumble 50 or more places in the rankings - just as happened to Incoming, Blade Runner and MDK this year. The Top 100 is still a fascinating list, of course, and the top 20 shows how good PC games have become. However, the bottom half of the chart could almost have been chosen at random, while a handful of classics (Chessmaster, Colonization, Masters of Orion 2, Tempest 2000, Tetris) have been thrown out with the rubbish.Any listing of the best "of all time" should surely find room for these, not to mention titles PC Gamer seems to have forgotten altogether, such as MechCommander, Lemmings, and Creatures. Some of the magazine's problems come from making comparisons across different genres, which is like comparing detective novels with science fiction with westerns. It would have been easier to pick, say, the top 10 strategy games, the top 10 sports sims, and so on. Still, at least a PC magazine doesn't have to do anything really hard, like compare PC games with console classics such as Super Mario Brothers (Super Nintendo), Sonic 2 (Sega MegaDrive), GoldenEye 007 (Nintendo 64) or Gran Turismo (Sony PlayStation).Electronic Arts has become the first independent games software company to beat the billion dollar mark with annual sales of $1.2bn, an impressive 34% more than last year. Sales were boosted by the launch of hit games such as Sim City 3000 and Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri, developed by Firaxis, and should be continued with the eventual launch of Westwood Studios' Command &amp; Conquer: Tiberian Sun. EA has also signed a deal with Porsche to produce a series of games featuring Porsche cars.Larais the new Lara. A 24-year-old American model called Lara Weller is making her first public appearance as the human face of Tomb Raider Lara Croft at this week's E3 games show in Los Angeles. She is taking over from Nell McAndrew, who apparently has had enough ("it's time to hang up my Uzi and do something different"). In a press release, Weller said: "It's taken a while to sink in that I will actually represent Lara Croft, but the more I think about it, the more excited I get about the whole idea!" Eidos, publisher of the Tomb Raider series, says her attributes include a 34C bust. Meanwhile, in the UK, the somewhat more protuberant digital Lara is following in the footsteps of footballer Alan Shearer and advertising Lucozade on TV. She'll also be appearing on 48-sheet posters, and on the sides of buses. On Saturday, the first of a series of "special" advertisements will be unveiled on the Cromwell Road, London, poster site then "rolled out" to 30 cities across the country.MiCkey Mouseis going to make his first appearance on the Nintendo 64 games console and the GameBoy Colour handheld. It seems three games will be developed in the UK by Rare, creators of GoldenEye 007, Donkey Kong Country and other masterpieces. The first title should be out for Christmas, with others following in 2000 and 2001.Star Warsmerchandising for Episode I: The Phantom Menace will, of course, include games, and Star Wars: Episode One Racer is due for release in the US on May 19. In the UK, the Nintendo version will be bundled with a new Nintendo 64 package for £119.99 - that's £20 more than the GoldenEye version - or sold separately for £49.99 from June 4.Tetris, the falling-block puzzle game, swept the world more than a decade ago making Russian programmer Alexey Pajitnov famous for more than 15 minutes. But it extracted a heavy price. Everything he's tried since has been prefaced by references to Tetris, and it's unlikely he'll ever do anything that makes as much impact again. But he hasn't stopped trying, and his next effort, Pandora's Box, will be published later this year by Microsoft. Apparently Pandora's Box will contain 10 different puzzle games with various skill levels suitable for all the family, instead of the usual collection of "all the ills that beset man".Bafta, the British Academy of Film and Television Arts, has called for entries for its annual Interactive Entertainment Awards, to be held in London on October 20. There are three new categories: the most innovative game, best e-zine, and best entertainment website. Entry forms can be downloaded fromwww.bafta.orgor obtained from Helen Wood at BAFTA Interactive (0171 437 0858). The closing date for entries is August 6.
Star WarsEpisode I: The Phantom Menace is taking over the net. It's not theofficial sitethat's the problem but a supporting cast of sites for fans who will queue up to two weeks to see it. You can get Your Daily Dose of Star Wars atwww.theforce.netorwww.newsdroid.comor tryJediNet, a very professional-looking fan site. You cansee how the queues are goingor watch out for the start ofCountdown TV. Phantom Menace is not due for release in the UK until July 16, but real fans will be on planes to the US long before then.All the webis a new search engine that plans to cover all the web, or certainly more of it than Compaq's AltaVista. The service has gone live with 80 million pages indexed, and should pass 200 million pages this summer. It runs on Dell PowerEdge 4300 servers and at the moment it's amazingly fast, though that may be because hardly anyone knows it's there. The search technology has been developed by Fast Search &amp; Transfer ASA from Oslo, in Norway. Although not yet famous, the company supplied the search technology used by Lycos'sMP3search engine for finding sound files on the net, and by what is claimed to be the world's largestfile download site.The Hampster Dancehas spawned more than 100 lookalikes including aGenetically Modified Hamster Dance. But the sites are no longer hard to find. Melissa Ping has launched theAnimated Dancing Pages Web Ringto link them all together and theCenter for the Easily Amusedhas listed almost a hundred. The original is still going strong and has even started selling things like posters and bumper stickers. It has answered the question: Why do you misspell hamster? It's not supposed to have a 'p' in it! "Everything here is named with a p because the name of the original HampsterDancer is Hampton Hampster, a little hamster from Canada." So now you know.Dilberitosare a must-eat for Dilbert fans. They are frozen burritos (tortillas with fancy fillings) made by Scott Adams Foods, the latest business launched by the cartoonist responsible for the geek-flavoured comic strip. Set your microwave towww.dilberito.com. This is not Adams' first venture into comestibles. Last year he opened Stacey's Cafe in Pleasanton, California.Noddymay not be taking over the net, but the TV series based on Enid Blyton's books is running on BBC2 and America's PBS public broadcasting service, supported by two websites. The Enid Blyton Company has aShockwave sitewhileNoddy's Shop, co-developed with BBC Worldwide, is getting more than a million hits a week.The Everest expeditionto find the remains of climbers Mallory and Irvine, who disappeared in 1924, is reporting its progress day by day on the web. The expedition got world-wide coverage last week when it found Mallory's body.Zingocould be the next big portal or gateway to the web, and what's novel about it is that it is designed for use with wireless phones and handheld computers: you'll be able to browse it using voice commands. Well, that's the idea. At the moment there's just a placeholder demo (don't bother trying to log in). The man behind Zingo is Dick Snyder, who works for Lucent Technologies, which used to be part of America's phone company, AT&amp;T. A working test version of Zingo, based on Netscape's Custom Netcenter software, is expected in June with a public launch following in August.The American Century is the latest exhibition from New York's well-endowedWhitney Museum, with 1900-1950 online now and the rest to follow in the fall. The Intel-sponsored site has been designed to show off the capabilities of high-powered Intel Pentium processors, so it's either dazzling or a tedious waste of time. However, if your PC is also sufficiently well-endowed, give it a try.Virgin Netis launching an online leisure and entertainment guide  to support its move to providing free Internet access. The free Virgin Net software is now available from Virgin Megastore Games shops or call 0500 55 88 00.Chunnelwatchers can go to the (soon) multi-lingualChannel Tunnel Rail Linksite which has just been opened by Union Railways.A roofwith a view of the Thames in London, where the new the Millennium Bridge is being built, is an obvious place to put some webcams, and the Financial Times newspaper has done it. Better still, visitors towww.mbridge.ft.comcan zoom, pan and tilt the Canon WebView cameras to explore the scene.
Transforming ElectricityWalt Patterson (Earthscan £12.99)The stuff itself is clean, green and never seen. It isn't toxic, it certainly doesn't persist in soil, water or human tissue. It isn't really a stuff at all, it's an effect or an action. Oil and coal have what economists call "place value": they are cheaper if you don't have to carry them long distances but you can, in theory, generate electricity anywhere.Walt Patterson launched himself into public life almost three decades ago by filleting the nuclear industry on behalf of Friends of the Earth, and hanging it out to dry like a kipper, before it kippered itself with Three Mile Island and Chernobyl. Now a Fellow at the Royal Institute of International Affairs, he has turned to the big one: what are we to do to power the planet in the next millennium?Coal-fired, hydro and nuclear power all have their different downsides, but that doesn't mean high technology and big thinking are out: Patterson is keen on combined-cycle gas turbine (CCGT)  systems. This is neatness to the power of two. Gas turbines on their own are inefficient because the gases from the exhaust come out at 500C. So the trick is to use these to make steam to make more electricity. That way, you get 60% efficiency: three fifths of the fuel gets used properly. This is power engineering that produces no solid waste, and harmless liquid discharges; it needs less cooling water and no cooling towers. You can site the plant a long way away or in an urban area, and he says, these things are clean and quiet enough acceptable neighbours. They can just produce the juice, or they can also turn out heat as a byproduct, as steam or hot water for industrial manufacture.This joint use or cogeneration gives CCGT 80% fuel efficiency: that is, four-fifths of energy in the fuel is available for some sort of use and there is even talk of "trigeneration" to get the last extra squeeze of juice. Because cogeneration is a good idea, it is already beginning to encourage human enterprises to do their generating where they need it, rather than buy from far away.In Finland, for instance almost a third of all electricity is already "cogenerated". Transforming Electricity isn't about daydream answers: it is about the whole, huge problem of how we get the best bang for the buck from the power industry, and the choices are not simple. Public service monopoly, or private enterprise? Open subsidies, or concealed ones. Big packages, or multiple solutions? And is the issue just one of generation and supply, anyway?"No one actually wants electricity," says Patterson. "You want illumination, comfort, motive power, information, entertainment and so on: electricity is only part of the means to these desired ends."Meanwhile, two billion people haven't got it at all, and need it for a decent life, but the human enthusiasm for cheap energy has already started heating the whole planet. Books like this should be on school curriculums as well as boardroom tables. What the world does about electricity over the next two decades is crucial: it will affect the whole of human society. Think about that, says Patterson, next time you turn on the light.
RequiemPC CD-Rom - £34.99UbiSoft 0181 944 9000Minimum requirements: Pentium 166, 32Mb memory. (233MHz PII, 64Mb and 3D graphics card recommended)Calling all avenging angels... lay down your harps and load up your weapons. This unlikely scenario forms the basis for Requiem, another first-person shooter, where the guardians of yesteryear have given up cloud hopping and taken instead to human destruction.Controlling the angel Malachi, your aim is to destroy rival fallen Angels who have enslaved the human populace and are generally making an unholy mess. Cue hellish tunnels, moody cityscapes and Quake-style action.You soon realise that although conventional weapons are suitably violent, it is the divine powers which are most cruelly effective. The immense satisfaction gained from boiling the blood of an opponent or turning them into a salty pillar may be un-angelic but it makes the game a lot more interesting.It also raises the strategy level as you decide whether to rely on brute force or heavenly power to combat the creepy mixture of aggressors. Do you use subtle mind control techniques and turn the enemy against themselves or slow down time, enabling you to creep up on unsuspecting opponents? Or do you just blast them with a rocket launcher? Decisions, decisions.After Half-Life it is de rigueur for first-person shooters to have an evolving plot and Requiem is no different, with character interaction vital as you try to contact the rebel humans. Add some moody graphics and chilling sound effects and you come close to a winner.The fusion of religious symbolism with combat masks the fact that Requiem is not quite as important as it thinks. It lacks that really engrossing extra. The blandly designed multiplayer is a particular disappointment with few of the divine powers at your disposal. Despite this, Requiem is still worth your time as it's not every day you can create a pillar of salt, boil blood and slow down time — well not in this millennium anyway.• Greg HowsonFIFA 99Nintendo 64Nintendo/EA SportsFIFA 99, the PlayStation Christmas favourite, made a belated but welcome appearance on the Nintendo 64, where the competition for top soccer sim is pretty much a second team affair.The graphics and the game are more realistic than the N64 version of Konami's International Super Star Soccer 98, which is more of an arcade-style game than the excellent PlayStation version. Fifa 99 also provides a better commentary, using the voice of John Motson.However, the players don't look anything like their names, the action is simplistic, and the goalies tend to miss the ball, which makes it far too easy to score.If you can't live without a footie game and have only an N64, Fifa 99 fills the bill. Otherwise there are better Nintendo games around or on the way.
• Jack Schofield
The next time that  El Niño turns the rainforests of Borneo into a tinderbox or lightning sets the boreal forests of Siberia ablaze, you will be able to watch. Not quite as it happens, but within a day or so, thanks to theWorld Fire Web Projectset up by the European Union.By the end of the year, it will provide online satellite pictures of forest and bush fires across the world. "The data has been available for years," says Simon Pinnock, the British scientist running the project from the joint research centre in Ispra, northern Italy.During the 1997 El Niño, satellites turned their gaze on the flames below. But, he says, till now nobody has tried to collect data routinely to provide an instant global picture of the world's fires. El Niño turned fires from being a local curiosity into a global peril.At the height of the blaze in 1997, Klaus Toepfer, head of the UN Environment Programme, said they were "one of the greatest ecological disasters of the millennium". He called for a global fire service, to snuff out new blazes before they got out of control.But first you need to know where the fires are. In remote forest regions, they can be hard to detect and even harder to measure - except from space. Pinnock's scheme is simple. The US government satellite sensor known as AVHRR (Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer) has been in place for several years. The first went up 15 years ago, and there are currently four aboard Nasa satellites that orbit from pole to pole. They view the world in both the visible spectrum and infrared and can spot anything down to one kilometre across.But as a result, Pinnock says, the sensors collect so much data that their on-board data recorders cannot store it all for long enough for the daily dump. Much of it is never looked at. So the EU is establishing 15 regional receiving stations round the globe, mostly attached to existing remote sensing centres, to catch the data before it is deleted unread.Five stations are up and running and another four go live this month. They will pick up instant data on their region as the satellite passes overhead. The stations will then turn the data into images on site, and swap with images from the other stations on the network. Result: global maps downloadable from anywhere in the world.Pinnock plans to put out two kinds of maps from the beginning of 2000. Daily global fire maps will provide valuable hotspot data for fire brigades and environmental monitors. And seasonal "global syntheses" of the amount of forest burnt will help calculate the cost of big fires triggered by climate events, and spot long-term trends tied to global warming.Forest and scrub fires are big players in the chemistry of the planet's atmosphere. They can send thick haze for thousands of miles. And they are, says Pinnock, "second only to industry in emissions of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide".Trees absorb carbon dioxide from the air as they grow, but release it when they die - and forests offload it in huge quantities when they burn. The forest fires of late 1997 emitted about a billion tonnes of carbon dioxide, more than is produced by automobiles and power stations in western Europe over a year.Fires have many natural causes. In the empty boreal forests of the north, lightning is still most important. In the tropics, the droughts caused by El Niño can turn rainforests into tinderboxes. But it is humans that carry the matches and firebrands that light most tropical fires. Many are set deliberately to clear land for farms and plantations. Stopping such fires and the gas releases they cause will become an important feature of the Kyoto Protocol, signed in late 1997, to halt global warming. Under the protocol, countries will soon be able to claim "carbon credits" if they can show their forests have become net absorbers of carbon dioxide. The credits will be offset against emissions of the gas from factories and exhaust pipes. And if they have spare, they will be able to sell them. Pinnock says the World Fire Web will help countries to justify their entitlement to carbon credits - and help the rest of the world to check the truthfulness of their claims.Several of Pinnock's satellite firewatch stations are already at work. Hanoi watches South East Asia, Campinas peers across the Amazon basin, Canberra is on the alert for fires across the Australian outback; Dakar watches the annual savannah burn in West Africa and Ispra in Italy is the lookout for the sudden violent forest fires that burst on the Mediterranean countries most summers. This month stations in Thailand, Venezuela, Canada midwest and the Argentine Pampas come on line. Coverage will be complete by the end of the year with the arrival of two more stations in Africa and four more covering Russia, Siberia and Mongolia.There are problems: maintaining permanent internet connection from Hanoi, for one. And there is the little matter of "false fires". Pinnock says satellites "sometimes mistake the glint of the sun reflected in rivers, lakes and even the sea for the flames of fires". This fire-and-water problem could be programmed out by software that can remove reports of fires where there is known to be water. But that assumes the software knows exactly where the satellite is at any given moment.Life isn't so simple. Satellites wobble in unpredictable ways as they orbit the Earth. They are not always exactly where they are expected to be. So Pinnock's plan is to update the system's maps of satellite orbits every two days so the satellites (and the rivers) stay where they are expected.Back in 1983, it took months before anyone knew about fires in Borneo that were even more extensive than those of 1997. The world heard about the 1997 fires largely because their smoke blew over populated areas.Last autumn, when fires in Siberia consumed an area of forest the size of Wales, it took several weeks for news to filter out. But soon, says Pinnock, any schoolchild will be able to download pictures of fires anywhere in the world within a couple of days.
The crowning achievement of the 1899 Hague conference was a ban on certain inhumane weapons, such as dum-dum bullets (named after the factory in the Dum-Dum area of Calcutta where they were first manufactured).Dum-dum or expanding bullets were designed by the British in India and their continued use was vigorously defended by Sir John Ardagh at the Hague meeting of 1899. Expanding bullets dump all their energy into the body. A hit in a vital organ causes either instant death or a massive exit wound promoting high loss of bodily fluids and infection.Sir John argued: "The civilised soldier when shot recognises that he is wounded and knows that the sooner he is attended to, the sooner he will recover. He lies down on his stretcher and is taken off the field to his ambulance, where he is dressed or bandaged by his doctor or his Red Cross Society, according to the prescribed rules of the game as laid down in the Geneva Convention. Your fanatical barbarian, similarly wounded, continues to rush on, spear or sword in hand; and before you have had time to represent to him that his conduct is in flagrant violation of the understanding relative to the proper course for the wounded man to follow, he may have cut off your head."This cut no ice. The contracting parties on the committee agreed "to abstain from the use of bullets which expand or flatten easily in the human body, such as bullets with a hard envelope which does not entirely cover the core or is pierced with incisions".Many of the countries of "fanatical tribesmen" targeted by the British have now joined the international community, so how well has this ban stood the test of time?It hasn't. One reason is that the advent of high explosives means modern ammunition has much higher velocities and tumbling bullets can cause equally catastrophic exit wounds. Another is that the convention is an agreement between states. Nothing in it prevents a state from using such ammunition against its own people.Modern conflicts are increasingly fought by states as internal wars 
with their own people. It comes as no surprise that Kosovans are being murdered by dum-dums or that these bullets featured in the Bloody Sunday massacre in Northern Ireland. Such expanding ammunition leaves only fragments and usually a corpse. Therefore, identifying which gun or soldier fired the lethal shot provides forensic researchers with insurmountable problems.What is surprising is the level and extent to which such ammunition has proliferated among the world's special forces and police forces. In the USA, civil liberties groups were outraged earlier this year when the New York police joined police departments in Los Angeles and Chicago in acquiring hollow point ammunition. Many campus police in the US are also now armed with hollow point loaded magnums.Manufacturers have  many variants of "high wounding bullets". These include the Conjay Firearms CBX bullet 
"with explosive cavitation effects"; the blow-out-nosed Dynamit Nobel Action 1 bullet which has been adopted by several European special forces and the PMC Ultramag. CCI's Blazer JSP bullet (developed in conjunction with the UK distributor, Edgar Brothers) is "specifically designed for bone penetration in head shots and to create maximum expansion inside the cranium without exiting"; and then there is Winchester's Black Talon.  This produces six sharp edges on impact and led US medics to complain about personal risk to themselves when ferreting around wound tissue. Exploding ammunition such as the Israeli Frag 12 can cause even more fearsome wounds - Amnesty nicknamed it "the hamburger weapon" because it could reduce targets to meat, gristle, testicle, brain and goo.The International Committee of the Red Cross has called for a ban on weapons designed to cause superfluous injury or unnecessary suffering. Inhumane weapons are once again on the Hague's agenda.• Steve Wright is director of the Omega Foundation based in Manchester
Your children are suddenly adult-sized. You find you have acquired a large golden retriever. On weekend trips out of London there always seem to be three or four bags, a briefcase, a computer, two piles of homework and an improbably large radio-CD. The retriever kicks up rough at having to share his space with the luggage. So do the children. So, come to mention it, do you. In short, you need something larger.It is, presumably, a common dilemma. Hence the boom in MPVs, van-shaped things and vaguely military-looking vehicles with huge tyres and drivers in obligatory dark glasses. Hence I am thinking about a Jeep.Even as I put down those words I have a Mandelson moment: I can't believe I am writing this. So let me qualify those words immediately. The Jeep was the kids' idea. A suggestion that was met with a snort from me. The truth is that I have always nursed a secret Jeepo- phobia. They seemed a bit boxy, clunky and just a bit flash - or, to put it another way, naff. You picture them lining the streets of Chelsea outside the homes of junk bond dealers or Radio 1 DJs, venturing off road only to mount a pavement.So the arrival of the test Jeep in the Guardian car park was an awkward moment. The new Grand Cherokee is not what you would call a subtle presence. It is tall (1.7m), long (4.6m), fat (2.2m) and possibly just a bit pleased with itself. It is difficult to climb up into it for the first time without a twinge of self-consciousness.Once inside - and once you're sure no one you know is looking - it is a different story. You wanted space, and now you have it. You are high up and surrounded by glass - and if the passenger door seems a long way away, the boot is very, very distant indeed.This is American executive-style comfort of a high order. The seats are of Club-class proportions and programmed to remember your favoured contours. There is fingertip control of more or less everything, from radio channel-seeker and volume to cruise control and accelerator. A digital display tells you in which direction you are pointing, reminds you when next to fill the tank, and prompts you to buy flowers for your PA's birthday. Well, almost.So you set off in sedate fashion, looking over walls and down on your fellow motorists with some satisfaction. Out on the open road, the 4-litre Jeep is not without acceleration. But the back streets of London are not its natural terrain, and there is no sense in rushing things. This is not a car for ducking and weaving or nipping down to the dry cleaners. It is a car for loading up, switching on the CD and pointing down the motorway.The kids were, naturally, delighted. The dog also seemed pleased with his living quarters. The boot of the new Jeep has managed to lose its spare wheel - now buried beneath the floor - and is as palatial as everything else about the vehicle. It was just me left worrying.The very thing you wanted it for - its space  - is the very thing that nags away except when cruising down the open road. The publicity pictures show the car among rugged mountains, lakes and rocks. Quite so. You don't see it pictured squeezing its way down an English village high street, trying to fit in an underground parking bay or doing battle with an obstreperous cabbie in a north London rat run. Its sheer size and solidity mean that you usually win, but you pick up some dirty looks on the way.All that said, it is a handsome beast. The new Jeep is more rounded and marginally less boxy than its predecessor - but unmistakeably still a Jeep. It is said by Chrysler to be 'a completely new vehicle' with only 127 parts carried over from the previous model.At the end of the week it was back to the anonymity, scale and lightness of touch of the regular estate car. Which, in many ways, was a relief. On the other hand, all the problems of fitting in kids, luggage and dog flooded back. There's just no pleasing some people.Jeep Grand Cherokee 4.0 Limited £29,995; 4.7 V8 Limited £34,995.
'Car wash, ohh yeah, workin' at the car wash, baby . . .' Who can forget Norman Whitfield's immortal song, used for the rubbish 1976 film of the same name and most memorably performed by Rose Royce, I think? And who can remember the rest of the lyrics? Not me, and I haven't found anyone else who can, either. However, I do remember once hearing that 'car wash' is slang for a particular form of oral-genital contact, and that maybe Rose, or even Royce, knew this while they were singing it.It is not a particularly aphrodisiac term, although a friend did remind me of the wet-dress car-washing scene in Cool Hand Luke, where Paul Newman and his buddies are driven to a frenzy by a woman washing a car, and not just using a sponge to do it.Another song that refers to washing cars was The Members' Sound of the Suburbs, which proposed a rejection of the bourgeois hegemony both typified and symbolized by splashing some suds over the Sierra of a Sunday morning. 'Same old boring Sunday morning' is how the song begins. You get the drift. And car-washing is exceptionally dull, anecdotally arid (as I have discovered), and not even the film Car Wash has anything to tell us about it. ('The material, however, has almost nothing to do with car washes,' wrote Pauline Kael.) So it is a mystery to me that anyone could want to spend good lying-in-bed time with a bucket and a chamois over what is, essentially, a never-ending and therefore pointless struggle against muck, bird poo and that strange sticky stuff that comes off lime trees in the summer. I would go further: what is the point of having a clean car at all? I do not clean the car; neither do I get it cleaned, either by enterprising teenagers or in a proper car wash. And there are hundreds of thousands of others who have either fallen out of the habit or never had it to begin with. Squeegee merchants came into their own when the rest of us decided that the only bit of the car that really needs to be clean is the strip of windscreen in front of the driver. Many once-white vehicles have had 'Clean me' written on the back by wags - and they have not been cleaned.It is not a matter of aversion to the process or the idea of a clean car. I have very fond memories of the times when my father and I would drive to the car wash on Finchley Road - everyone of a certain age who was brought up around north-west London will remember it, with its primitively robotic policeman waving his arm to the traffic. Ah, I could rhapsodise about it: the way it sucked you into its maw like a space monster, the monstrous revolving brushes, the six-foot wide curtain of malevolently sentient grey seaweed that went ka-chunk-a-slurp-a-chunk-a-slurp-a all over your car, the hot air dryer that pushed the water drops up the windscreen, giving you the impression that you were travelling at speed through space . . . and afterwards the car looking as shiny as a rocket.I wouldn't mind going to a car wash again (if you put a gun to my head) but my wife says - misusing the word 'easily' - that they're a rip-off and you can easily do it yourself. Besides, as I have grown bigger, the car washes have become smaller (the Finchley Road one is long gone), and sitting under some ridiculous meccano-machine behind the local Texaco doesn't really do it for me. (A friend says car washes are 'really great' when you're stoned, but I wouldn't know about that.) So if car washes are ruled out, there still remains the possibility of doing it yourself. As I said, this is something I just won't do. Just as there are owners of 4x4s who will not wipe a speck of mud off them, as it makes them look as though they have been used for their intended purpose, and not just dropping the kids off at school 1.5 minutes away, so there are owners of ratty old Cavaliers who will not wipe off the dirt because . . . well, they can't be bothered. Am I exhibiting it at the Motor Show or something? Anyway, water makes things rusty, everyone knows that, and it's already a rustbucket. Frankly, the mud, bird poo and sticky lime tree stuff is holding the whole thing together.This put me at a disadvantage when it came to posing for the photographs accompanying this article: I had forgotten how you did it. The photographer proposed a bucket-detergent-rag combination. But to be honest, if he'd told me to use a knife and fork I would have. As I sloshed and he snapped, neighbours came up and said drolly that they'd have brought their cameras too if they'd known I was going to wash the car.Which did at least make me realise that it is the impression a clean car gives the neighbours, what you would like to think it tells them about you, that is important when you clean a car. But in the end the only reason you clean your car is because you love it, in one way or another. Strangely, it is probably the only act of surface-cleansing that a man will perform voluntarily and on his own initiative. No one loves a car like a man. I know women who covet and make sacrifices for really neat sports cars, but they never get fanatical. So if you buy the line about cars being an extension of a man's membrum virile (tacitly supported in the subconscious etymology of the slang phrase 'car wash') then you can see where we're heading. The sweep of a man's arm, the slither of soap across a smooth, firm surface, the weekly ritual . . . do I have to draw you a picture? On holiday recently in Tunisia, I asked a friend from there if anyone ever wrote 'Clean me' in Arabic script on the back of dusty vans. (The idea tickled me for some reason.) No, she said, no one ever did, and looked at me slightly oddly. So why do we do it? Well, it's our highly developed and sophisticated sense of humour, obviously. Or are Tunisians simply slobs? Certainly not. You can eat off their floors and they are, personally, amazingly clean considering they were colonised by the French.No, the 'Clean me' gag only works because the urchin who writes it thinks that there is sufficient implicit rebuke in his action to rattle his victim. And, as large numbers of them visibly don't give a monkey's, then the gag is on its perpetrator. He, after all, is the one who got his finger dirty. And why wash your car in a land where the heavens so often do it for you free? Although for sheer, plangent sincerity, it is hard to beat this graffito I saw on the back of one particularly grubby van: 'I wish my girlfriend was as dirty as this.'
You don't drive a car then?I wish I could. I tried in 1990, but I worried about my driving lessons. My whole week became full of neuroses revolving around the lesson. Perhaps it's to do with coordination.So how do you get around?Buses mostly. I liked the tube when I first came to London, but I like watching the world go by. I did a drawing from a bus once. You get a different perspective from on top. It's a good place to be. You feel anonymous. It's like a shield.What was your first bus experience?School buses, in the 70s. All the hard kids sat on the top at the back and all the swots sat downstairs.Where did you sit?At the back of course.The rebel, yeah?When I left school, we used to take the bus into central Birmingham on a Saturday night. We were 15 and hung around Birmingham late. I had a friend who took ages to get ready, so we'd hardly get to the town before 10.30 pm. The only thing we could do was get on the bus back again!Are London buses different?On a Birmingham bus, everyone always says: 'Thank you driver.' You get chastised if you don't queue. In London rudeness seems to be the norm. People expect you to barge in.Ever fallen off a bus?Once, in the mid-80s. It was the 28. They have open backs. I was with my two friends and we'd had something to drink. I dropped my pencil case and it fell off the bus. I decided to go with it. The driver must have thought I was just a bag falling off, so kept on driving. My friends were screaming. I landed quite well. Drink makes you better at falling over.Is there such a thing as bus rage?Yeah. One guy had a go at me when I pressed the bell too soon. We had a a fierce exchange. Then there was that time of request stops when, if you were new to the route, you had to guess if the bus was going to stop.Don't you get angry when it's going really slowly?I overheard a driver say they get penalties if they bring the bus back too early. So they pull in at empty stops. I wouldn't want to be a bus driver. It seems dangerous. A friend was a bus driver, and he got threatened a lot - over 50 pence as well.Ever had sex on a bus?No. Never found it romantic. Good place for flirting though.Gillian Wearing is a Turner Prize winning artist
It takes about half an hour with aRio MP3 playeron your hip to realise that, for the music industry, the future is upon us and one juicy and radical part of it is taking us straight back to the past.What is an mp3 file? It's a song. That's it, just a song. The whole thing is about songs, individual, naked, unpackaged, singular, pieces of lyric, melody and rhythm. Why this future is THE future for the music industry is that, however hard you try to hide it, the music industry is also about songs. At their heart, it's the same heart.What did we use to sell, what was popular music for the first fifty years of this century, where did the phrase "Plugging" come from? Sheet music; sheet music - songs. We're going back to the future and the power that will transform all is not some new tech fad or a revolutionary distribution system (which it is) but the very essence of our game, the song.In this song-driven cataclysm some say that record companies will go. I'm not so sure; they'll change but not go. The B-side though, that receptacle for an artist's secondary doodlings, that's definitely on the way out, thank God. Don't remember sheet music having another bit attached.And another bit of the past that you'll find in the future. Bring up Rio manager on your laptop. Stare at that cool screen with your track listing from the player's internal memory and suddenly you're looking at that cassette box you've still got in the attic somewhere - the one with your adolescent handwriting and those songs you loved that Autumn, many years ago. One of YOUR collections. A tape full of songs that you wanted, wanted to have, wanted to listen to, wanted.They say: "the human being does not want to buy an electric drill, the human being wants to buy a hole in his kitchen wall." The mp3 furore (SDMI, MSO1, who cares? - the mp3 revolution is shorthand for whatever file system we use for selling songs not plastic) has reminded me that our industry is composed of two quite separate desires; the desire for a song, and the desire for a piece of the artist. There's a world to come where the sale of music - songs - as digital files, co-exists with the CD or album, as naturally as the once bitter-rival formats of the 45 single and the 33 LP settled happily into bed more than twenty years.I have heard that in five years time we'll still be buying CDs but the UK singles chart will be 80 per cent composed of download statistics. Sounds perfectly reasonable to me.I met a man fromGlobal.com. He didn't say anything but hastily unpacked his suitcase, ripped open his laptop and started running what he called MP4, a cute little square image with either 30 seconds of the band's video or, in a slightly bigger square, 45 seconds of a song with images of the artist and sleeve art. E-mailable promotional packages. So simple, so obvious. So inevitable. The marketing man calls it the "Segment of 1".In all of this, I am evangelical but still conservative - there are three bits of the debate where I'm going Luddite right now.First, the mp3 revolution (still trying to work out whereLiquid Audiowent and whetherRealPlayer, still a bit clunky, has a role) has started conversations about differential pricing.A technology industry executive said: "We don't pay the same price for a Mercedes as a Honda Accord so why pay the same for a Madonna track everyone wants as for a new band that isn't there yet?"I hate that. I know that cutting out manufacturer and then shop and distributor mark-ups will utterly transform the price structure and would indeed allow such differential pricing. But I love new music and dislike the subtext that a big hit is worth more than a ground-breaking tune. But then, maybe, I'm old fashioned.Then there's the Cable TV paradigm. The idea is that in five years time you won't pay for a particular piece of music that you want. Instead you'll pay a monthly subscription for everything; absolutely everything, from all Robert Johnson's back catalogue to the entire new Eminem album. Everything. For $14.95 a month. People who like it point out that would take music spend in the USA from $14billion to $18billion. I think there's a more direct relationship with the purchase in music than the "grazing" that goes on in our TV habits. So I don't like it.And finally there's the quirky "pricing-as-to-length-of-ownership" schtick. You know. So much for one play, so much for two weeks or twenty plays. Clever, but I think it misunderstands the customer's desires. When you love a song, and when you want a song, do you really only want it for a bit? Doesn't sound like love to me.Perhaps the best idea of all came from the man from theUltimate Band Listsaid to me, "Cheap, Tony, go cheap... so cheap you haven't even imagined it yet." He's a genius - but that's another story.Anthony Wilson has been running Factory Records out of the North of England for the past twenty years. In 1992, with his partner Yvette Livesey, he launched In The City, the British music industry's annual convention. On May 27/28 at the Glasgow Hilton Livesey and Wilson will be hosting Interactive City, the UK's first annual happening for e-commerce and the (very) popular arts.Full details here.Related storiesApril 22, 1999:MP3 for all
As theUS department of justice v Microsoft case grinds back into action, who doesn't need some light relief? You'll find plenty at Hawaiian cartoonist Daryl Cagle'sPro Cartoonist Index page, as some 65 newspaper and magazine cartoonists take on Microsoft. If Bill-baiting bores you, there's lots more from the Year 2000 problem to Monica Lewinsky's famous blue dress. You can even send a cartoon as an electronic postcard. Why not forward one tobillg@microsoft.com?Industryand market analyst PC Data has placed its listing of the250 most-visited websites, updated weekly.At number one last week 
was, unsurprisingly, Yahoo! However, contrary to claims that such sites are among the web's most popular, the first pornographic site  shows 
up only at 32. Categories can also be shuffled to display the sites according to male or female preferences, which reveals some interesting contrasts, but mostly shows that men and women tend to like the same sites.Can't recallthe name of that dimly-remembered arcade game into which you lovingly fed coins many years ago? Help is at hand at KLOV, also known as theKiller List of Video Games, Bet you don't remember Holey Moley, from 1982: "Players try to knock moles back down into their holes. Points are awarded for hitting as many moles as possible during a given time limit."Geek cultureis not an oxymoron - it's a website. Along with geek movie reviews, downloads, chat forums and (of course) geek merchandise, the site,www.geekculture.com, offers the unmissable Geek Erotica section ("The Internet's hottest Geek Erotica! All geeky, all erotic. Yes, both of these at the same time".) The stripping Dell PC and Mac G3, complete with Addicted to Love background music, are a 
must-see.Get continuouslyupdated headlines from 
more than 60 newspaper, broadcast and online news services from1stHeadlines, - click on the headline and you're taken to the site with 
the full story. Along with the expected roster of North American news sources, 1stHeadlines includes the 
BBC and UK Press Association as well as some unusual titles like the Albanian Daily News. There are separate business and sports headlines sections as well.Yes, we all know it's coming and that the official licensed merchandise will follow at Millennium Falcon speed. Whether you love Star Wars or hate it, you'll probably enjoy the humourist Dave Barry's column on the subject,Watch Where You Stick That Light Saber, Pal. Or, if you just 
want to check out the people Barry describes as the geeks who wear Han Solo underwear, visitwww.phantomcast.com. The site has live streaming webcasts of three of the queues in the US where people are camping out to get Star Wars tickets. Many have been in line since early April.
Realnetworkshas just launched a program that turns your PC into a jukebox. The RealJukebox program invites users to put audio CDs into their CD-Rom drives and have the tracks converted to MP3 or RealAudio files in about 10 minutes. After that, tracks can be played from the PC's hard drive or copied to a portable MP3 player. Users can also download and play MP3 files from the web, and RealNetworks' website provides links to more than 60 sources from Abdullah Ibrahim (Dollar Brand as was) to Travis Pickle. RealJukebox MP3 files will, by default, play only on the PC on which they were created, to discourage piracy, but users can change the settings and share files with friends. This could upset the Recording Industry Association of America, which went to court last year to try to ban Diamond Multimedia's Rio, the first portable MP3 player. However, several other firms have shown prototype jukebox players, including Microsoft, and the MP3 format is already so widely used that it may be unstoppable. RealNetworks is a recent convert to MP3 and obtained its know-how by taking over Xing Technology last month. A beta (test) version of RealJukebox can be downloaded for free fromwww.real.comMicrosofthas released copies of the long-awaited Windows 2000 operating system (formerly Windows NT5) to 650,000 testers. No new features will be added to the Beta 3 test code, and the emphasis will now be on fixing bugs and improving performance. The final version may be launched in October.Hear me, smell me. Germany's Sonopress can now produce scented CDs in a  wide range of fragrances from common or garden strawberry (pictured ) or cinnamon to chocolate, or petrol station. Publishers of music, games and serious software could thus provide their CDs, CD-Roms and DVDs with suitable smells to enhance the "sensory experience". OnLine readers will have no problem thinking up suitable applications for themselves, say the Guardian's lawyers.Kodakannounced "the fantastic new photography application of the future" yesterday:  Picture CD. Take your 35mm or APS (Advanced Photo System) film to a selected branch of Boots and you can order a Picture CD of your photos as well as the usual prints. This must not, of course, be confused with Kodak's Photo CD, where you took your film to a branch of Boots or other outlet and ordered a Photo CD of your photos as well as the usual prints. Photo CD was merely the fantastic new photography application of the past: it was announced in 1990.One 2 Onemobile phone users can now send and receive email messages, using a service based on the popular SMS short text messaging system. Each user who registers for the service will have the email address of their phone number @one2one.net, and will also be able to access messages on the web at www.one2one.net - useful for those huge dancing baby video clips and other attachments One2one won't send to mobile phones.Chen Ing-Hau, 24, has confessed to being the author of the CIH computer virus which struck hundreds of thousands of PCs on April 26. Chen (whose initials of course are CIH) wrote the virus, also known as Chernobyl, while studying computing in Taiwan, where he is now doing compulsory military service. According to a police statement, Chen "did not expect the virus to cause such a great impact. He regretted his deeds and apologise&#91;s&#93; to all its victims".A teamof 16 people working for a US-based Internet service provider last week offered themselves for sale on eBay, a web-based auction site in California's Silicon Valley. The asking price, $3.14m, included salaries, stock options and a signing-on bonus. Although the anonymous team withdrew from the auction after a few days, another group of four software engineers had already offered their services for a starting price of $400,000, so they may have started a trend.The ISPteam on eBay could perhaps consider themselves lucky not be bought by a 13-year-old boy called Andrew Tyler, who lives near Philadelphia. Tyler bid $24,500 for a red 1971 Corvette convertible, $500,000 for a Van Gogh painting, $900,000 for an antique bed, and $1.2m for a medical office in Florida, among other things. Following his adventures on eBay, the boy told the Philadelphia Inquirer newspaper: "It's sort of weird that it's so open to everyone. They don't ask you for your credit card or any proof that you're over 18." Tyler's parents have responded by withdrawing his internet access.Tampa, Florida, is trying to close down an Internet site calledVoyeur Dormon the grounds that it's a violation of city regulations to operate an adult entertainment business in a residential neighbourhood. The web site shows images from 31 video cameras installed in the house where six young women - Alex, Brandi, Jackie, Mira, Trixie and Zoe - live. Access to the web site costs $34 per month.
What was your introduction to computers?The Wang &#91;word processing&#93; system used by my employers. After that it was a gigantic L-shaped one-and-a-half-desks-size Hewlett-Packard with three eight-inch floppy drives and a weird sliding half-depth monitor with buttons mounted along the screen's bottom edge. A friend of mine worked for the City branch of Credit Lyonnais; they were throwing this out so we salvaged it, he wrote a simple word processing program for it and I used it to write a couple of books until the screen gave out. Then I bought an Amstrad PCW512.Do you use a PC or an Apple Mac?Power Mac 4400/200 at the moment.Are computers important for your work? for the world in general?Absolutely vital for me: I hated doing 
second drafts on a typewriter. Computers and word processor programs made my life a lot easier. For the world? This is a rhetorical question, isn't it?What do you use the machine for?Writing books and letters. Plus I have a rather under-used music processing program called MDTU Freestyle, linked up via Midi to a mixer and various sound and FX modules, including my Fender 
Stratocaster, which I very bravely took an electric drill to in order to fit the Midi pick-up. Oh, and sometimes I dip into Claris's drawing facility to design fantasy houses.Any particular favourite software?Civilization 2 (until I realised I was spending all the time I should have been reading books playing Civ, and threw it in the bin); and Sim City 2000, until I ditched that too.Anything you'd like but can't have yet?A combination of the Oxford English Dictionary and Roget's Thesaurus immediately accessible from Claris. This may well exist, but I'm not organised enough to know.Any favourite websites?Having discovered, thanks to 
Civ 2, how addicted I can become, I have cunningly stayed off the net. This is due to change when my parents move in next door; we'll keep the net-linked machine over there.On a desert island, a human or a computer for company?As usual, depends on the human. The computer would have Civ 2 on it, wouldn't it?What do you see in the future for computers?Ubiquity. And consciousness.Are you worried about the Y2K bug?Us smug Mac owners aren't personally worried - though we are as much at the mercy of infrastructure chaos as anybody else. So, a little.Professionally, what's taking up your time?A couple of publicity tours: one for the paperback of Inversions in June, and one in August for the new mainstream novel, The Business.Iain Banks fanzine
Antimatter has an aura of mystery, the promise of a natural Tweedledum to our Tweedledee, where left is right, north is south, and time runs in reverse. Its most celebrated property is its ability to destroy matter in a flash of light, converting the stuff that we are made of into pure energy.In science fiction, antiplanets tempt travellers to their doom while antihydrogen powers the engines of astrocruisers. In science fact, according to everything that decades of experimental physics has taught us, the new-born universe was a cauldron of energy where matter and antimatter emerged in perfect balance. Which begs a question: how is it that matter and antimatter did not then immediately destroy each other in an orgy of mutual annihilation? How is it that today, 15,000 million years later, there is anything left in the universe at all?This conundrum touches on our very existence. We are made of matter, as is everything that we know of in the universe. There are no antimatter mines on Earth, which is just as well as they would be destroyed by the matter 
surrounding them with 
catastrophic results. Somehow, within moments of the big bang, matter had managed to emerge victorious; the antimatter having been annihilated, the heat energy from that destruction remaining (today being a cool three degrees above absolute zero in temperature and known as the microwave background radiation) and the surfeit of matter eventually clumping into galaxies of stars, suns and other newspapers.What aspect of nature caused this lopsidedness, this leaning towards matter, to occur? This question has plagued physicists and cosmologists for years.
Tomorrow an experiment will begin at Stanford in California, with physicists from several British institutions among the participants, that may at last help to provide the answer.This is not quite like seeking a needle in a haystack because an essential clue turned up some 30 years ago. Only now, following further discoveries and advances in technology, is it possible to exploit the clue and perhaps identify the culprit.The clue was the discovery that nature contains a tiny imbalance, a tendency for the behaviour of certain "strange" particles, known as K-mesons,  not to be precisely mimicked by their antimatter counterparts.These K-mesons are unstable, and die within less than a millionth of a second leaving a trail of other particles or antiparticles. In 1964 a team of physicists in New York discovered that about once in every 10 million times, the matter and antimatter books in the K-meson decays failed to balance. The subsequent award of the Nobel Prize was announced in one Swedish newspaper as being for the "discovery that nature's laws are wrong"!The magnitude of this asymmetry is so small that investigating it has been one 
of the most demanding and delicate measurements in modern particle physics. The results from decades of study, with ever increasing precision, suggest that there may be another place in nature where this charged particle (CP) asymmetry exists and much more dramatically than in the only one so far known.In 1977 the first examples of "bottom" particles were discovered. They turned out to be in effect heavier versions of strange particles; it is the latter that show the CP asymmetry and so the bottom (or "B" particles) should as well. But being so much heavier than their strange counterparts it turns out that, if the theorists are on the right track, B-particles should show a characteristic, and big, asymmetry between their matter and antimatter versions. As Bs were abundant in the first moments of the universe, it may be that they contain the secret of how the lopsided universe, where matter dominates today, has emerged.To unearth the secret, the strategy is to make billions of these ephemeral B-particles, and their antiparticle counterparts, and to study them in detail.
To do so, a "B-factory" has been built in California. It is a relatively compact machine on the scale of modern particle physics, being only a few hundred metres in circumference, but involves high-intensity beams of current controlled with a precision greater than ever achieved before.The energy of the beams is specially tuned so that the conditions for creating the Bs are optimised. It has taken years to build the special detector, known as BaBar, that will record the results and for months its components have been thoroughly tested. All that is now needed is for the counter-rotating beams of the accelerator to be switched on, to clash into one another successfully such that Bs are produced in vast numbers, and for BaBar to record the aftermath.It will be several months before even a glimpse of the message emerges, and perhaps years before the sharp details of how the universe managed to avoid destruction become clear, but from tomorrow, the journey will truly begin. Watch this space.• The UK institutes involved in BaBar are the universities of Bristol, Brunel, Edinburgh, Liverpool, Manchester; Queen Mary Westfield, Imperial and the Royal Holloway and Bedford colleges of the University of London together with the Rutherford Appleton Laboratory.
Opening Sony's latest VAIO subnotebook computer is a good way to attract a crowd: the PCG-C1 has a digital video camera built into the lid, so you can see your own face in the bright colour screen, mirror fashion, and take still or video pictures just by pushing a button. To see it is to want to have a go.
Even better, the Motion Eye camera lens can be swivelled through 180 degrees to photograph the rest of the world. You can take pictures of friends or business contacts and paste them into any addressbook software that supports JPEG stills or MPEG1 videos - a facility snap-happy Japanese buyers must love.Apart from its toy value, the C1 is a very capable performer. The 266MHz Intel Pentium MMX processor, 64 megabytes of memory and 4.3 gigabyte hard drive are more than enough to run the pre-installed Microsoft Windows 98 operating system. The letter-box screen is very sharp, very bright, and provides a resolution of 1024 by 480 pixels. And while there are some regrettable compromises on the keyboard - for example,the left shift is half the size of the right shift,  and the delete key has almost disappeared - it is still a joy to use.Of course, subnotebook computer buyers expect compromises. Packing the power of a desktop PC into a package 240mm by 140mm and weighing only 1.1kg is bound to involve trade-offs, such as leaving out the floppy disk, CD-Rom drive, and mains power supply. Desktop essentials become sub-notebook accessories, and while you may have to take them on your travels, you should be able to leave them in your hotel room.The C1's separate floppy drive is supplied as standard, but the CD-Rom and modem cost extra. Whether these are an optional extras is another matter. Few people want an ultraportable that can't connect to the internet or send and receive email, and the US version of the C1 has a modem built in. Fitting a PC-Card modem takes up the only PC-Card slot, and the same slot is needed for the external CD-Rom drive, which most users will also want, because so much software is now supplied on CD. Indeed, Sony's own "product recovery" program - needed to restore the C1 to its factory state if Windows 98 scrambles its bits - is on CD.Even worse, the C1 doesn't come with Microsoft Office 97 pre-installed, though it does have its own Smart suite of software (not Lotus SmartSuite). Sony's suite comprises Smart Capture (for grabbing images from the built-in camera or external devices), Smart Label (to record voice memos to go with images), Smart Write (a word processor), and Smart Publisher (for sending memos and pictures by email). Very nice too, but no use at all to "road warriors" whose data is in Excel spreadsheet files and who back their sales patter with PowerPoint presentation slides.The separate mains power supply, supplied, is neat and light - which is just as well because C1 users will need to take it everywhere. Sony's manual says the BP-11 lithium ion battery lasts for "up to two hours", but I found the one in the review sample only lasted about 90 minutes before warning lights started flashing. It was dispiriting to watch the on-screen battery life indicator tumbling from 100%. Serious users will want to buy one or two of the more powerful BP-12 batteries that are claimed to last for up to four hours.The Sony PCG-1 C1 looks great on paper. Play with it in a shop and you'll almost certainly try very hard to come up with a good excuse for buying one. But if you want a practical, working tool, it has limitations, and by the time you've added the extras, may cost more than it's worth.• The Sony VAIO PCG-C1 costs £1,402.95 (inc VAT).
As if by magic, Sun's Jini will enable your colour printer or video camera to talk to your personal computer, while your vacuum cleaner will compare notes with your electric toothbrush. But don't expect the system to take over the world in the very near future. Speaking at Sun Microsystems' annual JESS (Java Enterprise Solutions Symposium) in Paris last week, Sun co-founder and chief scientist Bill Joy said Jini networking was being adopted but ubiquity would be slowed by long design cycles and the long replacement cycles of many consumer goods."If you want to get to the situation where all the white goods in your house - your dishwasher, washing machine, refrigerator and drier - are networked in a way that they can be serviced remotely, so people just take care of them for you, you have to go through a replacement cycle on those as well, and how often do you replace your fridge?" Joy asks.There's also the problem of creating Jini "objects" for everything that might be included in a network. Each object - a small piece of software written in Sun's Java computer language - explains what the thing itself can do, and provides a way to operate it. Writing a Jini object for a light bulb might be fairly simple, but writing one for a car engine or digital video camera will be harder, and creating all the objects needed "will take a lot of work over many years", says Joy.Later this month, Sun plans to hold a meeting in Aspen, Colorado, where Joy is based, to decide on "a constitution for the Jini community": an agreed set of rules for the creation of Jini objects.In the short term, the focus for Jini will be on connecting computers to peripherals, and on wireless information devices (WIDs) such as electronic organisers and mobile phones. Also, eight consumer electronics companies - including Philips, Sony, Sharp, Thomson and Toshiba - are planning to use Jini to link audio-visual products together in their HAVi (Home Audio-Video interoperability) architecture.Originally, Sun's James Gosling developed Java for just this kind of application, based on hype for interactive television. But when this turned out not be the Next Big Thing, the marketing was switched to focus on the internet.Sun has spent the past three or four years rewriting  its internal computer programs in Java so that they can be operated from any device that has a Web browser with a JVM or Java Virtual Machine. JVMs are available for all sorts of systems from Alcatel screen-phones to personal computers to high-powered workstations, which means Sun's staff can work from any such terminal,  whether inside or outside the office, as long as they can log in to Sun.net.Last week in Paris, Sun launched a version of this 
in-house software for sale to outside firms as i-Planet. This offers remote access to email and a calendar, but like similar public offerings - ones freely available on the web at sites like Yahoo, Jump and Magical Desk - these can be very slow to use remotely.While Sun makes very little money from Java and does not expect to make much from Jini, it expects to profit from encouraging the growth of network computing where small devices ("thin clients", in the trade jargon) are connected to "fat servers". Much of the Internet is based on fat Sun server computers running Solaris, Sun's version of the Unix operating system, and Solaris is used to run server-based applications like i-Planet.Joy says that Sun expects to expand its server software business following the take-over of Netscape in a complicated deal between Sun and America Online, the world's largest online service. Sun and the AOL/Netscape server software division are currently merging and rationalising their server software, which will compete with similar programs from Microsoft and IBM.
Food for thoughtDid Sanjida O'Connell  write "human females are nearly continuously sexually receptive" with a straight face? ("You are what you cook, Online, April 22).
All right, so this means that humans, unlike other species, do not have a specific breeding season. But, if having females who are closer to the size of males in a given species is related to the theoretically urrestricted receptivity of such females, how does this explain female hyenas, which are in fact larger than male hyenas? Given that modern males do in fact do some cooking, does this mean that future generations of human females will eventually become larger than human males?K SinderponGrimsbyPoint of salePaul Youlten's paean to eBay (Feedback, April 29) takes a pessimistic view of electronic marketplaces. A service that takes a week to conclude each deal, extracts up to 5% commission (plus another 5% for the simple task of holding money until deal completion), that has admitted it cannot guarantee transactions and is one of hundreds of similar (but incompatible) forums, any of which might be able to better meet your needs, should be regarded as only a staging post towards a fully realised e-marketplace in which anyone can sell anything.
Wingham Rowan
Author, Net Benefit. 
Guaranteed Electronic
Markets: the ultimate
potential of online trade.wrowan@gems.org.ukHard drivesPaul Hartman compares software users' expectations of reliability with those of car drivers (Feedback April 29).
All the effort seems to have gone into making cars faster and sexier rather than easier to use and more reliable. I fully expect PC evolution to follow a similar path. Come 2040 I'll still have to rebuild my OS every six months but I'll have a 4 million MHz sticker and a metallic paint job.Nigel BennettWilmingtonDVD divideAm I paranoid, or is the Anti-Mac movement gaining pace? The Encyclopaedia Britannica release DVD99 is only available in PC format, and according to the helpline, there are "no plans" to introduce a Mac version. 
Is this another nail in the coffin of the Apple Mac? As a Mac lover I hope notAndy Eastandy.east@imppubl.com
Cyborgs have feelings too. When California neurosurgeon Gary Heit activated one of the implants he had just put into a human brain, the man burst into tears.Heit's patient at Stanford university neurosurgery clinic was crying because, for the first time in 15 years, he was able to button up his own shirt. A debilitating tremor, similar to that caused by Parkinson's disease, meant this 79-year-old man had been unable to feed or clothe himself. One flick of a switch and the chips in his brain were able to turn off the tremor.
Silicon technology and 
biological material - hard wiring and soft flesh - can now be combined, but so far, the results have remained unmistakably human.Actor Christopher Reeve, paralysed from the neck down in a riding accident in 1995, could be enabled to walk again with technology already available, Heit says. "If somebody gave me sufficient funds to pull a research group together I could get Christopher Reeve to walk in two years. I could probably make him stumble right now."Heit says it is simply lack of money that holds the field back from giving greater benefit to those debilitated by lack of brain function. A brain implant for an injured human being can cost more than $20,000, which he believes is a trivial sum compared with the way it revolutionises patients' lives. Cases like Reeve's would require an array of implanted high-speed microprocessors to analyse brain activity and translate those impulses into electrical commands. Those commands could be passed to a set of electrodes attached to the nerves that would stimulate muscles to perform a walking action.A few miles from the Stanford campus, a biotech spin-off company is about to begin commercialising another development in the silicon-biology interface, invented by researchers at the university of Bangor. Aura Diagnostics of Mountain View, California will develop a 
laboratory-on-a-chip capable of isolating cancer cells in tiny blood samples.
The process, which uses electrical signals to manipulate biological molecules, should enable early detection of cancers. It could also provide simple, quick and accurate tests for meningitis, and a means for regenerating damaged tissues and organs.It is one of many similar innovations now moving from research prototype into commercialisation: the Institute for Cancer Research unveiled its own "cancer chip" last month.The Bangor researchers were unable to find British backing. As was always the case with the computer chip industry, commercial exploitation of the silicon-biotechnology interface is still largely confined to American soil. Dawn may reach the US a few hours later, but the future always seems to arrive there first.Seeing the lucrative potential of this particular future, US firms that made fortunes through information technology are now looking to apply their expertise to biology. Motorola has just begun work on a project with the US department of energy's Argonne national laboratory and Packard Instruments, a Connecticut-based pharmaceutical instrument company. The aim is a mass production technique for "biochips" - thumb-size wafers that carry out information processing on the chemicals of life.Unravelling the human genetic code will provide ways of diagnosing and treating genetic diseases and cancers, as well as giving us an instruction manual for the assembly of the human body. But this is a complex business, and painfully slow when done by standard laboratory means.By combining biochips with robots and computers the Argonne researchers claim they will be able to find one genetic variation among three billion DNA data bits in a matter of minutes. Conventional methods take days.Like the microchip, the biochip will be mass-produced by photolithography techniques, a big operational change for conventional biotech companies.
"From our point of view, these biochips are a huge dimension shift," says Rolan Papen, business development manager for Packard Instruments. "You have to start thinking of clean rooms and miniaturised components. The companies that have a lot of experience with this are people like Motorola."Making a biochip involves laying down a forest of DNA material onto a glass substrate. There can be as many as 400,000 DNA strands on a chip, and each one is designed to trap - and thus detect - a certain type of DNA sequence.The four chemical blocks that make up DNA - generally referred to as the bases A, T, C and G - only bind together in certain ways: As with Ts and Cs with Gs. The DNA strands attached to the biochips contain carefully designed sequences of these bases attached to the glass substrate. The DNA to be tested is broken up into fragments which are tagged with a fluorescent chemical and then washed over the chip. The way these fragments bond with the DNA on the biochip, shown up as the chip is scanned with a laser pulse, allows researchers to infer their genetic makeup.The ultra-fast processing power of the DNA chips is set to change the field of medical diagnostics, researchers believe. Tiny blood samples will be processed within minutes to test for the presence of mutated genes that signpost dangers of cancer, multiple sclerosis or Alzheimer's. Bacteria and viruses such as HIV will be instantly identified, and drug-resistant strains will also be spotted."The chip technology is going to bring diagnosis from the laboratories to the physician's office," says Tuan Vo-Dinh, group leader of the life sciences division of the US department of energy's Oak Ridge national laboratory. Vo-Dinh's research group has just licensed the commercialisation of its own silicon biochip, an integrated HIV, tuberculosis and cancer detector. The matchbox-size combined chip is made from CMOS silicon and also contains logic circuits for data processing.Getting the prototype to market will definitely involve the co-operation of companies in the microprocessor industry, Vo-Dinh says. But, he says, it needn't take long. "I can see them reaching commercialisation in the next one to three years."Use of fused silicon and biology once seemed like science fiction, but it is likely to become commonplace within just a few years, Packard's Rolan Papen says. "The day when a customer will walk into a general store, buy a biochip, perform a test and take some medication as a result is a little bit away. But there are already trials of this kind of thing going on."The chips will also lead to "personal DNA": from a tiny drop of blood or a flake of skin, an individual's genetic code could be established and recorded within minutes. Walter Gilbert, a professor of bioinformatics at Harvard, has predicted that we could be 
carrying around our entire personal DNA sequence on CD by 2020. Susceptibility to inherited diseases could be monitored and treated, and drugs could be tailored to an individual's needs, minimising the chances of harmful or unpleasant side effects.Some advocates of the biochip revolution have taken things to extremes in order to convince sceptics of the way things are headed. Kevin Warwick, a cybernetics professor from Reading university, declared himself to be part-man, part-cyborg last August, when he had a microchip, complete with a transmitter, implanted in his arm. As he walked around his building on the Reading campus, doors opened automatically for him, and computers responded to his presence.Warwick's aim was to demonstrate what is and what might be possible with chip implants. But for the Stanford university neurosurgeons, it's not a stunt in cybernetics. There is so much that could be done to repair damaged bodies, claims Gary Heit, that more resources should be made available.Anyone submitting to such a procedure would, of course, have to trust the surgeons not to make them into a techno-slave, implanted with fiendish mind control devices. That is one of the myriad fears of those who are nervous about chip implants, personal 
DNA records, and other manifestations of the biochip age to come.Heit has little time for paranoid conspiracy theorists. "If I want to control people's minds it's much easier to do it with a few drugs," he says. "I could implant something in your brain to give you fear or intense pain with a radio transmitter. But why spend $20,000 and put you in hospital for two days? I could just come and kick down your door, drag you out and shoot you. It's much more cost-
effective."Of course, mass production techniques, such as those now promised by Motorola, might make mind control chips an economical alternative to brutish violence.
Get into an aeroplane, take it apart, and give it a thorough examination. You'll see tiny pits in the aluminium alloy panels that make up the  fuselage. Give them the right time and conditions, and these pits will grow into cracks that spread throughout the material. The experiment is not for frequent flyers, says John Scully, a corrosion expert at Virginia university."If you measure that growth rate in a laboratory, you might not want to know the result." Scully is a consultant to the US air force and Nasa, advising on the 
materials they had best not put into a plane or spacecraft. This week he is in Seattle, discussing the problems of Nasa's latest alloy at a conference of the Electrochemical Society.Nasa, worried about its weight, has found solace in lithium. In a strange parallel of its antidepressant properties, a dose of lithium lightens up aluminium alloys and makes space travel more economical. Nasa could use this metal to make the space shuttle's biggest fuel tank.Unfortunately, lithium also makes the alloy more susceptible to corrosion; Scully's findings show that they probably can't use the lightest, strongest version because it pits and cracks too easily. But there are ways to heat-treat the metal to rein in the cracks, while retaining most of its lightness. In space travel, a little rust goes a long way. "If you're going to put a satellite in space you don't really care too much about its corrosion," Scully says.Back on earth, it's a different story: people care because corrosion eats away at industry profits. "The figures for the industrialised world are staggering," says George Thompson, head of the corrosion centre at the university of Manchester institute of science and technology. Just replacing corroded materials eats up over four per cent of the GNP in industrialised economies. "In America, that's $1,100 per annum for every man woman and child," he says.The facts about corrosion in aircraft are harder to come by. Airlines and defence agencies are reluctant to admit there is any kind of problem. Even academics working in the field are loth to pass comment on the real danger levels. However, the US air force does operate a corrosivity league table.According to their figures, one of the worst places in the world to put a military aeroplane is Mildenhall in Suffolk: it's a rust trap. Almost permanently damp air, with the long periods that military aircraft spend on the ground, makes a great rusting environment.The risks to civil aircraft are much less. Corrosion rarely gets a chance to bite because they fly so frequently that they are continuously dried out. In the last two decades the aircraft accident investigation branch of the department of transport have looked into around 8,000 air accidents, and found only 18 that were caused by corrosion.The laboratory conditions that Scully uses to test the effects of corrosion are generally much worse than real life. Careful design also safeguards the plane. "Most aircraft designers have this cracking under control. They know the materials crack in a certain way, so they design the parts with a certain orientation."So, that's all right then: if you see your aeroplane's wing develop a crack, rest assured that it's under control.
British government scientists, whose discovery of a new type of secret communications was "the most significant event in the history of cryptography" for more than 500 years, failed to notice the value of their discoveries, a leading cryptographer has revealed. Two American groups repeated the research, published the ideas, and laid the foundations for the information society and electronic commerce.Dr Whitfield Diffie, the co-inventor of "public key cryptography" told the British Society for the History of Mathematics last week that he accepted claims by Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ) that members of its staff had been first to set out the principles of public key cryptography. The method is now the basis of most digital security systems.Diffie, a "distinguished engineer" with Sun Microsystems, California, compared his own work published in 1976 with a recent claim that British government cryptographers had discovered the same ideas over the preceding six years. Diffie's invention, together with later ideas for making it work efficiently, began a revolution in communications. It solved the critical problem of how to send secret messages across open channels (such as radio), without having to share vulnerable codebooks or encryption keys.But it was not until November 1997 that GCHQ's sister organisation, the Communications-Electronic Security Group (CESG) published a claim on the internet that its staff had got there first. CESG is responsible for the British government's secret codes.Diffie told an audience of mathematicians and net enthusiasts that he accepted that the CESG papers were probably authentic. He said that he had been tipped off about the claim 20 years earlier. He revealed that in 1982, he had made a private visit to Cheltenham to meet the British inventor, James Ellis who had told him "you did more with it than we did".Diffie also recounted how GCHQ's top cryptologist, Sean Wylie, visited his counterpart in the US National Security Agency and told him about the discovery, reportedly saying: "Do you see anything to this - we don't."But within three years, the value of the discovery had become exceedingly obvious. US nuclear weapons scientists used it to provide much higher control over the release of weapons and to verify arms control treaties. Its importance grew with the rise of digital communications.Diffie's lecture was attended by David Kahn, author of The Codebreakers and the doyen of writers in the field. Kahn described his invention as "the most significant event in the history of cryptography" since the discovery of polyalphabetic substitution cyphers in the 15th century. Even modern systems or the famous wartime Enigma cyphers had only been extensions of that system.Dr James Ellis, the chief of three British scientists involved, died in 1997. In 1987, he had retired and had written up his discovery. He had been led to believe that this would be published by GCHQ soon afterwards, belatedly making his reputation.By 1987, according to Diffie, secrecy about the discovery was "completely unnecessary". But GCHQ sat on his work for another 10 years, and Ellis died with his achievements unknown and unrewarded.
Is the boom in information technology jobs over? For the first time for six years the number of IT jobs in the national quality papers and computer journals actually fell - by 9% - in the first quarter of 1999, according to the latest  SSP/Computer Weekly quarterly survey of appointments data and trends.There are two ways of looking at this. One is that the jobs boom is subsiding bringing disappointment to many hopeful job seekers. The other is that it is a much-needed economic correction that may prevent the expansion from leading to an inflation busting boom in salaries. A growing shortage of  skilled labour is a classic symptom of an overheating economy. The fact that demand for skills is now subsiding may turn out to be a good long-term indicator if it means that the economy can expand for longer without going into recession.The  9% drop in jobs advertised in the first quarter can't be divorced from the general economic slowdown. In the final quarter of 1998 the whole economy expanded by only 0.1% and it was the same in the first quarter of 1999.If, as has happened so often in the past, these figures are subsequently revised downwards it could mean that the economy as a whole was in recession during this period. 
A recession is usually defined as two successive quarters in which the economy contracted.The pattern of this recession is also different to previous ones. Manufacturing has been particularly hard hit (its output is actually contracting) while the service industries - where most IT jobs reside  - have been growing more strongly. There are also strong regional differences with the south and south-east growing at over 3%  while Scotland has scarcely grown at all.Curiously, this national trend hasn't been reflected in Computer Weekly's IT recruitment figures. They show a 17% drop in  IT jobs inner London (and a 7% fall in outer London) yet a 1% rise in Scotland.Unlike the past couple of recessions, this time around the public sector - in theory - is expected to weather the storm better because of the government's decision to raise spending on education and health to well above the rate of growth of the economy as a whole. But better doesn't necessarily mean well. The latest figures show that the public sector advertised 14% fewer jobs.The IT sector has done remarkably well in these mixed circumstances. Although there was a 9% drop in the first quarter, there were still 60,000 jobs advertised. This was the fourth highest quarterly figure for the entire decade  and over four times the level of the two worst recession years in 1992 and 1993 (when the whole economy contracted in the wake of the Lawson boom of the late 1980s).Salary increases in IT are still outpacing the rest of the market. They were up on average by 5% on the year compared with a rise in average earnings of 4.6%. And IT managers (like managers in other industries) did better than most with a 12% rise to an average salary of £55,000, despite a 25% fall in jobs on offer.Most of the general fall in jobs came from users of IT rather than from the IT industry itself. For the first time computer companies advertised more than 30,000 jobs in the first quarter or more than half the total. Of these 25,000 came from software houses buoyed up by the general prosperity of the industry and of course boosted by the millennium bug problems. It may well be that IT companies will be affected after a time lag when the effects of decisions taken to downsize in industries like banking (where there was a 15% job reduction) filter through the supply chain.And the future? The main problem ahead - from the job seeker's point of view - is that the industry may be a victim of its own success. The glowing prospects of IT relative to other sectors of the economy have now filtered down and more people are studying aspects of IT at college either as a main subject or as an essential adjunct to other subjects. This could expand the pool of recruitment quite substantially in future.Whether this will lead to a glut in the market will depend on whether IT continues to outperform traditional industrial sectors. The US experience is that there is a long way to go before the IT boom subsides. Its economy has been expanding at a record 4% for the past three years without generating inflation. Most of that extra growth is directly attributable to the meteoric expansion of internet-related companies and all the hardware they generate (routers, servers, terminals etc).The internet is barely five years old as a popular phenomenon. Business success during the next decade will largely depend on the extent to which companies re-align  to capitalise on the vast untapped potential of the world wide web. Britain and Europe can claim major success stories (like wireless telephony and computer games), but exploitation of the internet has largely been an American phenomenon, both in hardware and software fields 
Future employment prospects will depend partly on the extent to which Europe, and Britain in particular, can take a bigger slice of the action. That in turn will depend on the quality, and entrepreneurial ability, of students currently going through schools and colleges. The best advice is to get a good general grounding but be ready to follow whatever direction the internet revolution takes next.And that is the most difficult thing of all to predict. After all, six years ago hardly anyone had heard of the world wide web, let alone used it.
In the Serengeti National Park in Tanzania, a lioness is returning at dusk to her pride. Eighteen females, one adult male and seven cubs are waiting a mile away. She hears a roar, one she does not recognise.It must be an intruder into her territory. Her cubs are safely with her sisters and she is all alone. She hears the roar again. It's the same lion. Should she try to drive off the intruder? It would be an even match - one against one - and it could turn into a real fight. With lions, that could be fatal. Dusk becomes the inky black of night, and she returns silently to the pride.The following week, again at dusk, she hears roaring 500 metres away: one unfamiliar voice, then a chorus of roars, one overlapping the next, and none of them the familiar voices. There are three intruders. This time she is with four of her sisters from the pride. Three of them, five of us. Their ears prick. The roaring is coming from a stand of trees over to their left. They wait, they peer into the night, and at each other. One of them, the leader, approaches the roaring cautiously at first, as the others join, more quickly, until they are charging headlong into the trees.By the time they reach the trees, the roaring has stopped and there is no sign of the intruding lions. The roaring was  from a loudspeaker set up by Karen McComb of the University of Sussex and her colleagues. She was testing a theory about the way lions make a numerical assessment of the threat from intruders and the strength of the defence forces.The theory predicts that lions (like many other animals where fighting would be costly) will contest resources only when they are very likely to win; otherwise they will withdraw. The one exception is when a lioness is with her cub. Then she will always attack an intruder. The lions' decision to attack depends on the number of intruders - in this experiment  one or three - and how many adult defenders there are. The lioness leader identifies roaring as coming from individuals who are not members of the pride; she will also represent the defenders as known individuals. The best explanation of her decision is that she enumerates the number of distinguishable roarers and the number of her sisters and compares the two numbers.Only when the number of defenders is greater than the number of intruders, will she launch the attack. This is remarkable because the number of intruders comes from the sound they make (they are not visible), while the number of defenders comes from another sense or other senses, vision probably, and is stored in the lioness's memory. Thus she has to abstract the number of the two collections - intruders and defenders - away from the sense in which they were experienced then compare these abstracted numbers.Research on animal counting is helping us understand how we humans understand numbers, one of the key abilities that has taken us from the stone age to the phone age. We process about 16,000 separate numbers a day - dates, times, page numbers, calculations, government statistics, prices, addresses, and phone numbers. That's if we don't work in a bank or a shop, or in a lab. Then of course, we will process vastly more.Where does this ability come from? Is it just another thing we learn, or fail to learn, at school? One very influential idea comes from the Swiss psychologist Jean Piaget. He argued that our very idea of number is constructed out of previously developed logical abilities. One of these was transitive reasoning: if A is bigger than B, and C is smaller than B, which is the biggest? If you can't figure that our correctly, then you won't be able to put the numbers in order, he claimed. But these logical abilities don't develop until at least four years of age, and are not functioning in their most abstract form until the teens. The Serengeti lions pose a problem here: they certainly cannot reason as well as four year old humans, and yet they can order two numbers as if their lives depended on it.In the laboratory, where it's possible to ensure that number is the critical variable, all kinds of animals can be trained to make choices based on numbers. Last year two American scientists, Elizabeth Brannon and Herb Terrace,  showed that it was possible to train a rhesus monkey to select one of two pictures according to which had the most coloured shapes in it. Back in the forties, the great German ethologist, Otto Koehler, successfully trained a raven called Jakob to open boxes and eat the seeds contained in them until a precise number of seeds had been eaten, and then to stop.These studies suggest that animals are born with numerical abilities, that can be detected reliably in the lab, and serve a useful purpose in the wild. If we have inherited these abilities from our non-human ancestors, then there should be some evidence of it in children much younger than Piaget's four year olds. Indeed there is. Babies, even newborns, look longer at a display when the number of things in it changes.Of course, they may be responding to something other than number, but many experiments have now shown that change of number alone can trigger increased looking, and is in fact a more powerful trigger than changing the colour or shape of the objects.Many different types of evidence are beginning to converge on the theory that we humans are born with brain circuits specialised for numbers. We even have a good idea of where these circuits are in the brain. 
Have we inherited these brain circuits from  our non-human ancestors? Do our genes carry a code for building the same kinds of circuits  as the lions, the monkeys and birds use, but perhaps a bit bigger and more advanced? 
To answer that question, we need to know which parts of their brains these animals use; and we don't yet know that.• Brian Butterworth is professor of cognitive neuropsychology at University College London. His new book, The Mathematical Brain, is published by Macmillan.
Treasure The TreasuresPC Six CD Roms £29.99 each
Lee &amp; Lee Communicationswww.culturalcafe.comBertrand Russell used to pose this conundrum: a man and a Ming vase are sinking in a marsh; you have time to save only one; which?The moral imperative, he maintained, was that however beautiful the vase, you had to save the man. And yet it would be all too easy to nominate a colleague or two for sacrifice in return for a piece of Ming; even for the exquisite little Qing dynasty porcelain cup that fetched squillions in hard cash at auction at Christies in Hong Kong during April.That particular piece was 18th century; the Qing dynasty itself ended in 1912 and brought to a close an era in Chinese art  stretching from the neolithic age through the Xia, Shang and Zhou periods of the bronze age into recorded history, collected from the 10th century by successive emperors and now in the National Palace Museum in Taipeh.The collection covers 7,000 years and approaches 700,000 items: suspiciously round figures, but whichever way you count, it's a lot. So the series of CD-roms from Lee &amp; Lee Communications outlining this great collection constitutes a history of Chinese art. Treasure The Treasures, is divided into six:A Treasure House of Chinese Art, The Dragon in Chinese Art, Gems of China's Cultural Relics, Calligraphy, A City Of Cathay (a virtual stroll through an 18th-century scroll painting 38 feet long and 14 inches high showing daily life in the northern Song capital of Bianliang), and The National Palace Museum Experience (a virtual tour of the museum).There is the option to look through the objects chronologically; or to dip into items from the early bronzes to the greenish Song celadon ware and the fantastic blue and white Ming porcelain. You can click to produce captions on technique and history or iconology or to produce close-ups of patina or glaze in colour that a book publisher would give up the Frankfurt Fair for.A warning: if you turn the sound up, the preferred narrative style is reverence heavily laced with the awe reserved for the very old and priceless over Ming Muzak.I had to review these disks on my daughter's PC with Windows because it is not compatible with the Mac. Not to worry, at £29.99 a disk books are cheaper, more informative, and easier to use. Pity to lose the wonderful picture quality, though.Mike McNayWild Metal CountryPC CD-rom 
Gremlin (0114 263 9900) £39.99Your grandma was right — machines are taking over the world, although in this case the 'wild metal country' is a planet in the distant Tehric system. By passing exams in self-awareness the previously servile machines destroyed all non-metallic life and gained control of the vital planetary power cores.The barren planet is now ripe for some human re-occupation and as a bounty hunter your aim is to retake these power cores and teach the machines a lesson in tank warfare.In one of those ironic twists that developers DMA are known for, the only way you can defeat the renegade machines is by using one of your own, albeit a tank with an "absolutely no self-awareness or your money back" guarantee.
Sounding suspiciously like a Command and Conquer-esque resource management affair, Wild Metal Country is in reality an old school blaster — a kind of Quake on tracks. Having separate controls for driving and shooting mean nimble fingers are essential to achieve anywhere near the required levels of manoeuverability and destruction.Flipping over and careering down slopes are common occurrences in your first attempts.Futuristic tank warfare has rarely looked or sounded this healthy with the noisy, well-drawn landscapes offering a suitably apocalyptic combat arena. Throw in a superbly manic multiplayer mode and you have the perfect way to work off any technophobe frustrations, which would doubtless please your grandma as well.Greg HowsonBloody Roar 2PSX, Virgin Interactive 
(0171-368 2255) £39.99Coming amidst a blaze of hype and hyperbole this latest addition to the overcrowded "beat 'em up" genre promises much but doesn't fully deliver. The yardstick has to be the Tekken series, and the makers of Bloody Roar 2 have that target market firmly in their sights.In comparison, however, it comes up a little wanting. The high-res 3D graphics are impressive enough, but it is getting harder to carve out your own niche among the scores of competitors in this genre. You have to come up with more than one main selling point to grab the attention (and the cash) of an increasingly demanding public.That selling point here is the ability of the characters to "morph" into weird hybrid creatures but, beyond this, there isn't a great deal to differentiate Bloody Roar 2 from the myriad other fighting games available. I found the scenario of fighting a giant white bunny rabbit/girl more amusing than impressive.There is also an attempt to bring a vaguely S&amp;M motif into proceedings with some of the female characters, but if you find any thrills of that nature within the action here then you really should leave the house more often.
The game-play is frantic and furious but nothing too out of the ordinary (bar one or two semi-psychedelic scenes) and certainly nothing to go trading in your Tekken 3 for.Hamish Mackintosh
Exactly fifty years ago Britain led the world in computer technology. On May 6 1949 a pioneering computer called Edsac, designed and developed at Cambridge university, ran its first program. Remarkably, a prototype computer called the Small-Scale Experimental Machine, or more popularly "Baby", had run its first program at Manchester university nearly a year earlier. These two machines underlined Britain's position as a major force in the new field of computing.The Americans had got there first in 1945 with Eniac, a walk-in monster occupying three sides of a 40ft by 20ft room with 18,000 valves consuming 150kW of power. But it lacked a memory, relying on plug-boards and banks of switches for setting up programs, an inflexible and time-consuming procedure.British electronic engineers stole a march by implementing the stored program concept ahead of the Americans. First off the blocks were Freddie Williams and Tom Kilburn whose "Baby" computer ran a test program in June 1948. For Williams and Kilburn, Baby was just a means of testing their cathode ray tube memory - the Williams tube - as a medium for storing information. It was Edsac (electronic delay storage automatic computer), a computer designed to incorporate the stored program principle, that would provide the first systematic study of programming and the way computer work should be organised.Maurice Wilkes, acting director of the mathematical laboratory at Cambridge university, had heard about Eniac and other US developments in automatic computing and, in 1945, had written a report suggesting that "Cambridge should take its part in trying to catch up some of the lead the Americans have". An invitation to attend the seminal course on electronic computers held at the Moore School in 1946 helped him to achieve that aim. He returned to Cambridge "with my head full of thoughts for constructing a stored program of modest dimensions". Work started on Edsac in October 1946. It was to be two and a half years until the momentous day in May 1949 when, to quote Wilkes, "quite suddenly the machine worked", reading a program tape, computing a table of squares and printing the results.This was an important milestone but from the outset he had been clear that "it was not a project to build a computer only. It was a project to build a computer, to learn how to use it and then to solve some problems". Edsac led to publication of the world's first book on programming in 1951 and provided a computing service for university researchers until 1958 when Wilkes's second computer, Edsac 2, went into operation.In 1947, Wilkes had received a deputation from J Lyons &amp; Company, the catering firm. The directors had decided to automate their office procedures. They offered to donate £3,000 to the Edsac project and a technical assistant in return for advice on the development of their own electronic computer.
The result was Leo, Lyons Electronic Office, a computer based on Edsac but with twice its memory. Leo I went into service in September 1952, calculating the value of products from the company's bakery departments each week, possibly the first regular commercial job run on a programmed computer.Such was the success of Leo I that Lyons went into computer manufacturing, introducing the Leo II in 1957 and the Leo III in 1962. Sales, even of the advanced Leo III,  did not go much beyond the 50 mark. Even so, Lyons/Leo had carved a niche in an increasingly competitive industry.By the late 1950s, Britain had seven other computer manufacturers: AEI, Elliott Brothers, EMI, English Electric, Ferranti, ICT and STC, producing 29 models between them, plus seven industrial processors. It was too many for Britain's limited industrial base.The much larger US market was served by nine computer manufacturers, each capable of supporting greater R&amp;D programmes than their UK counterparts. By the mid-1960s they dominated the world's computer business.
The major player was IBM. By 1967, it had notched up world sales of 21,500 computers. In comparison, ICT, Britain's most successful manufacturer, had sold 844 computers.Consolidation was seen as the only solution for the UK industry. ICT had taken over Ferranti's computer operation in 1965 and in 1968 the company, renamed ICL, took over the computer interests of English Electric, Leo and Marconi in a government-inspired merger. This maintained Britain's capability in computer manufacturing for the next 20 years but, in 1990, Fujitsu's take-over of ICL foreshadowed the end of mainframe production in the UK.Fortunately this is not the end of the story. Development of the microprocessor in 1971 changed everything. During the second half of the 1970s the microprocessor was the heart of home computers produced by Apple and a host of other West Coast companies. In Britain, Chris Curry, an entrepreneur and Herman Hauser, a PhD student at Cambridge's Cavendish Laboratory, teamed up to form Acorn Computers, which at first produced a computer kit, then launched the Acorn Atom computer in 1980.The Acorn computer was twice as fast as the Apple II, possessed a high-resolution colour screen, had the ability to mix graphics and text, and incorporated built in networking capability. When the BBC decided to run a computer literacy programme on TV, Acorn won the contract to supply what would come to be known as the BBC Micro.By the end of the 1980s most of Acorn's computers were based on a proprietary microprocessor called the Acorn Risc Machine or ARM. Over the past 10 years, ARM expertise has been extended to a range of chip products and a world-class design team has been built up. In 1990 ARM was established as a separate company with a capitalisation of £2.5m and a team of 12 Acorn R&amp;D engineers. Nine years later the workforce has expanded to 360 and the company is valued at £1.4bn.ARM does not manufacture chips. Its revenues flow from licensing its chip designs for a wide range of embedded applications including mobile phones, automotive systems and digital cameras.The work carried out by ARM and by researchers such as John Daugman into iris recognition at the Computer Laboratory and by Steve Young into speech recognition at the engineering department will ensure that Cambridge continues to make a significant contribution to information technology. Edsac was just the beginning.
What are you driving?I'm currently driving a Fiat Punto. It's a nippy little blue car. It's quite high up, like driving a van. I'd rather be in something even higher.Like a Challenger tank or a Range Rover?Something like that. I think it's to do with that moment when you're stuck behind someone and can't see past them to what's in front.What does it say about you?I'm quite a nippy driver myself - nippy rather than fast. I suppose I'm quite an assertive driver - assertive, not aggressive. I used to be aggressive, but now I'm fine. There are certain people who don't like being overtaken. Taxi drivers and men in white vans, principally.What kind of people do you think drive those white vans?People who have to spend their whole day in their vehicles. Their life seems to depend on them being stuck to my bumper. Now I usually just lose them, or I smile. When I meet difficult people, I just smile instead. It's always much more disconcerting.Sounds quite resourceful. Is that the kind of driver you are?What I really want to do is the Paris to Dakar race. I've also done some stunt driving. I was doing a film in Italy, and we were required to do our own stunts. I had to do a few handbrake turns. But, that's nothing big. I Thai box, I rollerblade, and I did a 400 mile drive across Namibia where we didn't know if we had enough petrol until we reached our destination. I do all that sort of stuff. I need a sponsor for the Paris to Dakar race though.What does all this say about you, though?That I'm a bit of a 12-year-old boy, really. I'm quite extreme. I was tracking rhinos in Namibia, and sleeping in the bush. A lot of me is very tomboyish, but that's polarised by a feminine, girly side.Ok. Must be hell to be you. Have you ever had sex in a car?Yes.What car was it?I really wasn't paying much attention to the car. I was a bit distracted at the time.&#149; Lynsey Baxter is in Psychos on C4 on Thursday
The Office of Fair Trading (OFT) has made a move that seems about as overdue as the Titanic: they have announced an investigation into the car servicing and repair business. 'We spend £8.9bn a year servicing and repairs, but are we getting value for money or are we being taken for a ride?' asked John Bridgeman, who is in charge at the OFT.That question is surely rhetorical, because there is plenty of evidence to suggest that there's a serious problem. The number of complaints made to Trading Standards offices about servicing and repairs has doubled since 1988, and now runs at over 27,000 a year. Last year I saw how dangerously dishonest some garages are when I joined Birmingham Trading Standards' Motor Vehicle Unit for one of its undercover 'sting' operations.Target garages are selected on the basis of the number and seriousness of complaints received - and significantly they range from flashy main dealers through multiple fast-fit centres to under-the-arches independents - and then a qualified mechanic introduces a number of specific faults to a car. One of the undercover team then takes the car into the garage for a service, and on its return the vehicle is inspected to see what has and hasn't been done.The results were terrifying. Even the best garages missed simple but safety critical items like not pumping up dangerously under-inflated tyres.Yet even the worst did manage to change the oil and filter - so why was that? 'There's no profit in air, but there is in oil,' replied one of the world-weary undercover team sadly.One of the cars on the exercise I joined started with 23 introduced faults and came back with 15 of them still there, yet every one should have been picked up during a routine service. That car was in an un-roadworthy condition and the garage is now being prosecuted, but Birmingham Trading Standards are aware of another abuse which is much harder for them to deal with: the practice known as over-selling.Most of us feel we've been over-sold at one time or another, particularly when you get that call saying, 'your brake pads are a bit down; shall we fit some new ones?' When it comes to safety-critical items we rightly feel that we can't take chances, and even Trading Standards find it hard to prosecute in some cases of over-selling because the garages often claim, when the case comes to court, that they were 'erring on the side of caution'.That all adds up to a nasty problem for us mechanically clueless drivers. If we pick a bad garage the best we can hope for is that we'll be royally ripped-off, while at worst we'll drive away in a car that's actually dangerous. And in the short term the OFT won't be much help either, because although their inquiry will asses 'how best to advise consumers wanting to choose a reputable garage' their report won't be published until early next year. So in the meantime how do you find yourself a decent garage? The Retail Motor Industry Federation (RMIF) offers a key pointer, namely that personal recommendation is a great way of finding a good garage, but they also suggest that in a good garage 'the staff appear presentable, dress-wise'. However, the experience of Birmingham Trading Standards suggests that's unlikely to be an accurate indicator, since they've caught plenty of swanky garages giving sub-standard service.The RAC offer several pieces of advice. They like garages that have achieved the ISO 9000 quality control standard, and they add that if your car is still under its warranty from new, both mechanical repairs and servicing work should be carried out by the franchised dealer. If you do consider going to an independent garage then you must make sure that your warranty won't be invalidated.The RAC also advises that you should get a firm quote in advance for the work that your car needs, and that you should receive a detailed invoice afterwards.You must also make it clear that no additional work is to be carried out without your say-so, which means that you'll need to leave a contact number with the garage.A piece of advice that's often given as a way of checking that you haven't been over-sold is to ask for the parts which have been replaced to be returned to you afterwards. I'm unconvinced by this approach for two reasons. First, it implies a lack of faith in the garage, in which case why is your car there in the first place? Second, would you know how to spot if a component was actually worn out? Most of us wouldn't, so what other tactics can we choose when choosing a garage, especially if we decide to go outside the franchised dealer network? This can seem risky, both because you don't have the car manufacturer to fall back on if things do go wrong, and because many independent garages are in low-rent areas and the staff often aren't terribly 'presentable, dress-wise'. Yet lower overheads and experienced staff often make independent garages better value as cars get older, so how can you spot a good one when the visual clues are likely to be misleading? Ian Hudson has run an independent Citroen garage in west Cumbria for 17 years, and he suggests that the first question you should ask a garage is: 'How long have you been here?' Garages rely on repeat business, and in rural areas like Hudson's word soon gets round if a cowboy has come to town. Hudson's next killer questions are 'who is going to work on my car' and 'can I talk to the mechanic about my car before the work is done?' Hudson argues that a lack of communication often leads to problems, and that a key advantage of the independent sector is that it's usually possible to talk to the person who's actually going to carry out the work.He also suggests that you confirm that the garage uses OE (original equipment) rather than 'pattern' parts in all safety critical areas, and that you watch out for too-cheap labour rates or discounted MOT offers, which he says are sometimes more than offset by over-selling when your car is in the garage. (And as a rule of thumb Hudson suggests that £20 an hour is a minimum labour rate these days.) It's certainly worth making the effort to find a good garage, but sometimes good advice just drops into your lap. Some time ago I had called the AA out to get my car started, and while the patrol man was under the bonnet he told me of an excellent independent garage. He was absolutely right, and here's the proof you should need: when I booked the car in for a service I asked for a pair of new front tyres, but the garage realised that all I had was a tracking problem which they sorted out for £6, rather than charging me £100 for a brace of tyres. They missed out on an easy profit that day, but gained a customer for life.
If you want to buy a car, new or used, but you can't quite face all the hassle of traipsing round dealers and forecourts, or scanning the pages of Exchange &amp; Mart, then help could be at hand.Autobytel is a big American online car dealership that has recently launched in the UK (www.autobytel.co.uk). Along with www.autoweb.com, Autobytel is threatening to revolutionise the new and used car business in America, with dealers either hooking up to the site, or sticking to the traditional ways of the forecourt and going to the wall. Now Autobytel hopes to do the same over here, and their huge and fairly swish site shows all the hallmarks of doing for car buying what Amazon - the gargantuan online bookseller - has done for books.Like Amazon, Autobytel realises that being able to flog your product online allows it to undercut traditional dealers. But the site's real strength is that it makes finding a car much quicker and easier than the more traditional methods.Unlike many of the existing online players, Autobytel starts by providing loads of information about different models and makes. This allows users to browse different cars, prices and specifications - and there is also a link to the BBC's Top Gear site where you can read their reviews, so you can get a more independent view.Once you have a good enough idea of what you want, move to the 'car builder', which steers you towards a specific model and allows for slight customisation through the adding of options (power steering, electric windows in the back etc). A nice touch is the inclusion of comfort, exterior and safety specifications at this point. In fact, Autobytel has enough minutiae to keep even the most hardened fanatic interested.The site then offers online financing - including good calculators to help you establish whether you can afford your dream car. Then you get to buy the car, which the site does for you in exchange for your email address. A quote usually comes back within 24 hours.Autobytel is paid for by a subscription fee from the dealers who will eventually supply the cars.In itself, Autobytel doesn't offer much that is not already on the web, but it does manage to combine the finding and customising of a car with online financing and insurance, and has enough content to pull it off. This, and the 'no-salesman-will-call' effect should steer Autobytel's UK launch towards success.Siteseeing: other cyber forecourtswww.autosave.co.uk,www.autotrader.co.uk,&lt;A HREF="http://www.autoexpress.co.uk "TARGET="_NEW" www.autoexpress.co.uk,&lt;A HREF="http://www.cardeal.co.uk"TARGET="_NEW" www.cardeal.co.uk,&lt;A HREF="http://www.motortrak.com "TARGET="_NEW" www.motortrak.com,&lt;A HREF="http://www.New-Car-Net.co.uk"TARGET="_NEW" www.New-Car-Net.co.uk,&lt;A HREF="http://www.topgear.beeb.com"TARGET="_NEW" www.topgear.beeb.com,&lt;A HREF="http://www.whatcar.co.uk"TARGET="_NEW" www.whatcar.co.uk
It's National Pet Week, but you knew that already. What you might not know though, and what Touchline Insurance is keen to point out, is that it's very important to secure your dog when it's travelling in the car. Even the smallest chihuahua can turn into a lethal missile in a crash situation. You have been warned.
Few thingsare more important to the future of the UK economy than the success of young high technology companies. For years it has been presumed that the nurturing of start-up companies is a US phenomenon that couldn't be emulated on the same scale over here. But are things starting to change? Earlier this month the UK-based Eidos, publisher of Lara Croft and the Tomb Raider series, came top of Fortune magazine's  table of the fastest growing companies in the world with revenue growth of more than 700% last year.This week Eidos also came first in Deloitte &amp; Touche's UK-based Fast 50 survey. Based on revenue growth in the past three years, Eidos expanded 29,637%, an astonishing performance.Eight of the top ten  saw growth of over 1,000% during the same period. Deloittes concludes that the UK technology sector is in "robust health" and shows an extremely healthy outlook. This is part of the economic changes  that have seen the traditional manufacturing base, battered by the strong pound, lose out to new industries. Call centres now employ more than the shipbuilding and steel industries and, globally computer games are bigger than the film industry.A separate surveyby the European Information Technology Observatory found that although Britain invested more in information technology than other major European countries (3% of GDP against 2.3%) we were way behind the US which boosted its IT outlays from 4.0% in 1997 to 4.5% last year.America is playing in a different league so it is not surprising that when asked about raising capital outside the main stock market 16% of Deloitte's respondents said they would consider the US hi-tech NASDAQ market compared with only 4% considering the European EASDAQ. Deloittes found that the two main problems for Britain's hot 50 were retaining skilled labour and raising development capital. Some things never change.The racist bombingsin Britain and the high school catastrophe in the US have highlighted the role of the web in providing a conduit for criminals to exchange information. Like the telephone, and the telegraph a hundred years ago, it is the medium for a lot of wicked and illegal events. But instead of shooting the messenger, critics should use technology to trap those who exploit it for foul means.It is now commonplace to retrieve emails long erased from hard disks and to send "intelligent agents" the length and breadth of the net seeking specialised information: so it can't be that difficult to mobilise an electronic police. Many fascist sympathisers  can't resist making their views known in chat rooms and in some of the darker areas of the net where their electronic finger prints can easily be monitored. Time-worn police procedures translated to the web could catch a lot of them. Others could be tracked by really special agents. If it hasn't already done so it would give GCHQ and the secret services a job for life. And in the process they might develop software with commercial applications which could help to pay their bills.Reportsof the demise of the computer industry have been widely exaggerated. Following the well publicised problems at Compaq there will be much relief at this week's figures showing a better-than-expected rise of almost 19% in sales of personal computers in the first quarter. It was a bad time for Compaq which lost 1% of its market share but good for Dell which closed in on its rival. The winner from all this is the consumer who continues to be able to buy more powerful machines at ever decreasing prices. But how far can prices fall? A long way yet according to Lewis Platt, chief executive of Hewlett-Packard. He predicts that savvy computer companies will still be able to make a profit if prices fall as low as $200. He cites colour printers which sell in the US for $79 without producing red ink for the makers.A weeklater the merger of Deutsche Telekom and Telecom Italia still looks completely defensive, rooted in old technology to reduce competition rather than to increase it. Most mergers fail to deliver economic benefits - particularly those created for mutual convenience.Yet Europe desperately needs lower prices for internet access to generate a user base on which web business can flourish. If competition is thwarted the EU should create a strong regulator to force the new company to reduce its prices. Otherwise the worst expectations will come true. As one wag reminded us this week, when elephants mate it takes 24 months to gestate - and all they produce is another elephant.
What is it the Finns have got that we haven't? Well, they have more smart cards in their wallets than any other nation, more subscriptions to the internet, and they expect to do away with notes and coins altogether in the next few years. They do more of their business online, and run more of their government services, like paying taxes and benefits, online. And it all seems to work much better in Finland.In Britain, we have had news in the last month of another set of embarrassing failures in big IT projects, especially in government. Many departments seem more ambitious about the scale of their data processing projects than their ability to manage the implementation would warrant. Siemens has been working on the introduction of a new computerised system for processing cases in the home office immigration and nationality department. The new system seems not to work, the old manual system is in chaos, and the department has all but stopped making decisions. Each side blames the other for bad project management.Andersen Consulting's contract for a new system for national insurance has so many technical problems and mutual recriminations that hundreds of thousands of people are not receiving the right pensions and unemployment benefits.On the other hand, we often lack ambition - particularly the ambition to do things that cut across departments, or that would really transform the way people live. There are over a hundred schemes under starter's orders by central and local government to give citizens cards for everything from passports and benefits to paying road tolls. Huge sums could be saved by opting for a smaller number of projects using multi-purpose cards. But, however many times government reviews the ways these projects get financed, we still get duplication and waste that just clutters up our lives with more single-purpose cards.Multi-purpose cards would be the ideal basis for making savings by moving to electronic money. It costs governments and businesses - you and me, in the end - millions to run a system of notes and coins. Think of the costs of the armoured vans, armoured cash points, burly uniformed staff, the police effort to fight forgers, and the locks on the vaults.In the Netherlands, 
two or three smart 
e-money schemes now enable you to pay parking meters, newsagents and post offices. In Amsterdam, you can reload a "Chipknip" card with cash from your current account over a mobile phone in seconds.The only sensible way to manage the introduction of the euro is to offer people electronic money. Exchanging notes and coins involves huge expenditure, massive transport problems and frightening security risks. The Finns and the Dutch recognised this long ago. But this is hardly centre-stage in the British government's plans for the real possibility that, during the next parliament, we vote ourselves into euroland.Ask the government's computing strategists why we can't be more like Finland and Netherlands, and they'll tell you that with much smaller populations than ours, with fewer "legacy systems" (clapped out old hardware), with much stronger political and administrative consensus, it's much easier and cheaper for them to get wired public services to work. But starting from here, I'm afraid...So what is New Labour doing to "start from here"? Cabinet office minister Jack Cunningham issued a white paper on modernising government this month. He promises cross-government frameworks for data standards, call centres, smart cards, government websites and portals, planning for digital television, and new targets for the proportion of transactions with citizens that government agencies should be capable of doing online.But with so many big government computing projects going pear-shaped, and when the party of joined-up government still doesn't seem to be able to join up capital financing for smart card systems, there is a distinct smell of butter-free parsnips about these fine words.New Labour still has to learn where it is important to be ambitious and where it's more important just to get the project management right. The white paper hardly talks about project management at all, but offers only a standards document where it ought to be setting out big changes. The right place for ambition now isn't in big systems to administer back-office transaction processing. That's the place for tough project management, and for departments to learn to be better clients and purchasers and make it clear from the outset what they need.No, if Britain is ever to have the feel of what Mr Blair calls a "young country", like Finland or the Netherlands, government needs to be ambitious about bringing together the capital for a market in multi-purpose cards that citizens can own; in which they can choose how they want to mix and match government and private services, and on the back of which banks and shops can introduce a modern e-money system. Mr Cunningham has laid out the parsnips, but he has yet to find the butter knife.• Perri 6 is senior research fellow in the department of government at Strathclyde university and a senior research fellow at Demos. He is an adviser to the Smart Card Club and to CommerceNet UK.
One click takes you back to Chernobyl - or Chornobyl - and a check that the Pripyat river indeed flows into the Dnieper just to the north. With another, it is touchdown in Dushanbe, now capital of independent Tajikstan, but once the Soviet city of Stalinabad, north of Afghanistan.You can home in on Stalingrad simply by reducing the entire map of what was once the USSR and taking a stab with the cursor, then magnifying the screen until the letters leap out.It doesn't take more than a few seconds to find where whales breed, or seals settle, or the earthquake faults around Los Angeles, or the theatre of war in Europe and North Africa.The National Geographic was one of the great educators, if in some ways it was a very limited education, and it had a well-documented tendency to see everything in a positive light, including Mussolini's Rome, and Hitler's Germany, before the shooting started.Even after the shooting started, this splendid organ could say some curiously guarded things ("The English countryside has not been overlooked by the Luftwaffe..." says one of my wartime volumes) but the geographically-minded would forgive it everything for the pictures, and the maps.Maps are never truly out of date. The old ones are all our yesterdays, signposts of how we got from there to here. So keep up with the Russo-Japanese war of 1904 with the magazine foldout map of Korea and Manchuria that year, and the cities of Kirin, Harbin and Vladivostok a year later. Contemplate Central Europe and the Mediterranean as of 1939; look at the Europe of the Paris peace conference of 1921. Most bitter of all, look at the map of the new Balkan states of August 1914: it could help put in context at least some of today's barbarism.The huge catalogue, spread across eight disks, is a reminder of how recent and how detailed the mapping of the world has been. There is a pilot chart of the North Atlantic from 1903 - and a map of the Atlantic Ocean floor from 1968. There is a map of the Orinoco River Valley dating from 1896 and another from 1992 bluntly called Amazonia: A World Resource At Risk.Space is there, and the solar system, and so is the prehistory of the Old World and New. The Middle East is redrawn after every war; and the battlefields of the American civil war are charted.You can search by place, or by theme, and (it helps to read the manual) you can find treasures everywhere. There is an internet link; you can print bits of map, if you have the patience. Occasionally the search engine on disk 1 goes into denial. Stay calm and start again.The introduction has some useful explanations of projecting a spherical world onto a flat surface, although you could quickly tire of the portentous voiceovers. The 109 years of the magazine itself are now available on CD-rom, but bound volumes remain stubbornly easier to use.Cybergeography is no substitute for a huge folder of printed linen, though who now could produce 100 years of these maps, and in such condition, available at such little effort?
European commission documents obtained this week reveal plans to require manufacturers and operators to build in "interception interfaces" to the Internet and all future digital communications systems. The plans, drafted by a US-led international organisation of police and security agencies, will be proposed to EU Justice and Home Affairs ministers at the end of May.
They appear in Enfopol 19, a restricted document leaked to the London-basedFoundation for Information Policy Research.
The plans require the installation of a network of tapping centres throughout Europe, operating almost instantly across all national boundaries, providing access to every kind of communications including the net and satellites. A German tapping centre could intercept Internet messages in Britain, or a British detective could listen to Dutch phone calls. There could even be several tapping centres listening in at once.Enfopol 19 was agreed by an EU police working party a month ago. It was condemned last week by the civil liberties committee of the European Parliament. But the European Parliament will shortly dissolve to face elections in June. Meanwhile, EU ministers are preparing to adopt a convention on Mutual Legal Assistance, including international interception arrangements.If the Enfopol 19 proposals are enacted, internet service providers (ISPs) as well as telecommunications network operators face having to install monitoring equipment or software in their premises in a high security zone.Ministers were told two months ago that an international committee of experts regarded new European policy on tapping the internet "as an urgent necessity". But they will not be told that the policy has been formulated at hitherto secret meetings of an organisation founded by the FBI. Known as the International Law Enforcement Telecommunications Seminar (Ilets), police and security agents from up to 20 countries including Hong Kong, Canada, Australia and New Zealand have been meeting regularly for seven years.The Ilets group was founded by the FBI in 1993 after repeatedly failing to persuade the US Congress to pass a new law requiring manufacturers and operators to build in a national tapping network, free of charge. Since then, Ilets has succeeded in having its plans adopted as EU policy and enacted into national legislation in a growing number of countries.The group first met at the FBI research and training centre in Quantico, Virginia, in 1993. The next year, they met in Bonn and agreed a document called the International Requirements For Interception, or IUR 1.0. Within two years, the IUR "requirements" had, unacknowledged and word for word, become the secret official policy of the EU. They became law in the United States.In June 1997, the Australian government succeeded in getting the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) to adopt the IUR requirements as a "priority". It told the ITU that "some countries are in urgent need of results in this area". Ilets and its experts met again in Dublin, Rome, Vienna and Madrid in 1997 and 1998, and drew up new "requirements" to intercept the Internet. Enfopol 19 is the result.Linx, the London Internet Exchange, is the hub of British Internet ommunications. According to Keith Mitchell, chairman of Linx: "Anything along the lines of the Enfopol scheme would probably have astronomical cost implications. In the event such a scheme was ever implementable, the costs should be met by the enforcement authorities. Since the industry cannot afford it, I doubt the public sector could 
"This kind of monitoring approach is based on a world view of telecomms operators which is both technically and economically outdated."• Duncan Campbell is a freelance writer and broadcvaster and not the Guardian's staff correspondent of the same name
Most internet users would really like a permanent connection to the net (one that's "always on")  and they'd like their connection to work at a faster speed than today's standard 56K modems. Next year they'll be able to have both in handheld devices that are small enough to carry around in their pockets.Users marooned at an airport or station will be able to use their handhelds to look up timetables on the net, search for a local hotel, and check their bank accounts. Some will be able to buy things from vending machines that are also on the net: this is already possible in Finland, according to Nokia's Tuomas Korpela. He says: "You'll be able to have an Internet address in your pocket. In theory, it will be possible to run a web server on your mobile phone."Wireless Information Devices (WIDs) would have seemed revolutionary only a few years ago, but now they're simply the next step in personal communications. First, mobile phones enabled millions of people to stay in touch while out and about; then SMS text messaging services like Cellnet's Genie were added. While Genie is impressive in delivering things like share prices, sports results and even email to mobile phones, SMS is limited.It is already possible to use pocketable computers and portable PCs to access the internet via a mobile phone and a modem. Not many people do it because it's very slow - the maximum data rate is only 9.6 kbits/second - and, at mobile phone rates, very expensive. Plug the same modem into a voice line and it works about five times as fast for a fraction of the price.But suppose you didn't have to dial up an internet service provider? What if your mobile phone or palmtop computer was permanently connected to the net? And what if it could work more than twice as fast as the fastest voice modem - at a theoretical maximum of 115 kbits/second - so that web pages arrived in seconds instead of minutes?The technology to make this possible is known as GPRS or General Packet Radio Services. It's being marketed to telephone operators like One-2-One by equipment manufacturers such as Ericsson, Motorola and Nokia. Telcos have to buy the equipment to upgrade their networks and then conduct usability trials before they can start marketing new services, but Korpela, one of Nokia's GPRS marketing analysts, says some services should be in operation here in the third quarter of next year.While progress may not be inevitable, GPRS looks like being adopted. For the mobile phone operators, GPRS offers a way to make fuller use of their network infrastructure and introduce new, money-making data services. GPRS is also a step towards Edge (Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution), which will increase the possible data rate to 384 kbits/sec, and eventually to the third-generation UMTS (Universal Mobile Telecoms Service), a global service that will offer speeds up to 2 megabits/second.The basic idea of GPRS is to use the mobile phone network to carry data whenever circuits are not tied up by people talking. Because the data is packetised, there does not need to be a one-to-one connection between the sender and the recipient: just put on an address on the packet - such as an IP or Internet Protocol address - and the system will deliver it. GPRS devices can then be "always on" like phones or pagers, always listening for data.At the moment it's not clear how the telcos will charge for GPRS services they haven't yet set up, but the obvious alternatives are to charge a flat rate for unmetered usage, like cable TV, or to charge for the amount of data sent and received. Both have their attractions. For example, there could be flat rates for fixed applications like vending machines ("I'm empty: fill me.") or distributing popular data like racing results and share prices, but hefty charges for "road warriors" making high-speed connections to their corporate networks.Katrina Bond, a researcher with Analysys Ltd in Cambridge and co-author of a report on cellular data published last week*, says: "The cellular networks don't have unlimited bandwidth - it's not like you could put in another 500 fibre optic cables - so the networks will price it so only those willing to pay will use it."Some people think the mobile phone will continue to be the dominant wireless device, and internet access will be an extra feature on models chosen mainly for voice use - like Teletext facilities on a TV set. Others see the opportunity to connect palmtop and notebook PCs to the net, not just to pull down web pages but to make network connections and move large word processing files and spreadsheets around.The typical mobile phone, with its small LCD (liquid crystal display) screen and limited memory, is not well suited for displaying websites full of high-resolution graphics and digital video clips. But such phones could show some useful information, and software houses are developing "microbrowsers" that use the WAP (Wireless Application Protocol, seewww.wapforum.org) standard to create a new generation of "media phones". The first example could be Nokia's 7110 phone, due later this year.Malcolm Bird of microbrowser developer Phone.com, says: "WAP isn't about phones surfing the web, it's about using services written for phones and sent to phones. It's possible to go to any website and extract something that you could display on a mobile phone, but you get a much better service if you design pages with the mobile in mind. So we encourage people to write their applications in WML - Wireless Markup Language."WML pages cannot be read using ordinary web browsers written for standard HTML (HyperText Markup Language), but telcos are now being encouraged to install WAP "gateways" or "proxy servers" that will link mobile phone networks to the internet.WAP and WML have widespread support and Bird says some information suppliers - news agencies like Reuter and share price firms like Quote.com - have already developed compatible services. Since there are at least twice as many mobile phone users as there are web surfers, this could be a lucrative market. And with the number of mobile phone users expected to reach the billion mark by 2005, it could become a very large lucrative market. WIDs of various sorts - from mobile phones to lifts to vending machines - could eventually make up the majority of devices on the internet.But even if that happens, millions of people with handheld and portable computers will want access to more than WAP can provide. Many users with handhelds like the Psion Series 5 and various Windows CE machines want full function email and browsers that can display most web pages. Microsoft wants users to move Word and Excel files across the mobile phone network as easily as they can move them between PCs connected by local area networks or the internet. In other words, the battle between Psion's Epoc (Electronic piece of cheese) software, used in the Series 5, and Windows CE (originally, consumer electronics) operating system is incidental to Microsoft's real aim: an end-to-end system that includes desktop PC and server software.Last summer, Psion spun off Epoc into a company called Symbian in which the world's three largest mobile phone manufacturers, Ericsson, Nokia, and Motorola - have shares. This should make Epoc a safe bet to be the most popular operating software for phone-based devices. Products have yet to appear, but STNC, a software house based in Bury St Edmonds, is developing software for them.Amy Mokady, marketing director and co-founder of STNC, says her company is providing communications software "directly to Symbian" as well as providing web technology for Psion's Series 5 . "The market we see being addressed by Symbian is where a mobile phone and a computer are combined," she says. "This is the top 10% of 'feature-rich' devices, but even mass-market phones are beginning to get data facilities."STNC has rejected WAP for HitchHiker, its web browser. "We are using real HTML," says Mokady. "If a web page is written in HTML you can access it from anything; if it's written in &#91;WML for&#93; WAP, you can only access it from a mobile phone." She argues  you should be able to get information from the net using a phone/ organiser, even if it would look better on a PC.Microsoft has also neglected to support WAP in Windows CE, which includes a browser in its modular range of software components. CE is used in a wide range of devices from handheld and ultralite notebook computers to in-car systems, television set-top boxes, games consoles, music players and phones.
For mobile communications, Microsoft and Qualcomm, a $3 billion US-based wireless communications company, have set up a joint venture called WirelessKnowledge to bring "true convergence to the computing and wireless communications industries". WirelessKnowledge's system is based on Microsoft technology, including Windows CE, its BackOffice programs for servers, and the Microsoft Commercial Internet System, MCIS. The system is being adopted by several of America's mobile phone service suppliers, including AT&amp;T Wireless Services, Bell Atlantic Mobile, Leap Wireless International and US West Wireless. Microsoft has also signed a deal with BT in the UK, which involves BT adopting Microsoft's microbrowser.Microsoft's strategy is designed to appeal to corporate IT managers and, as Yankee Group researchers say, "by assuring these gatekeepers of a relatively smooth and easy transition to wireless, Microsoft may be able to succeed where no one else has before".But in linking together two of the world's fastest-growing industries - mobile telephony and the internet - wireless data looks like developing into such a large and varied market, no single company will be able to dominate it.•  Data Over Mobile: Commercial Strategies for Operators by Susan Ablett, Katrina Bond and David Wilkins, published by Analysys Ltd, Cambridge (01223 341300).
What was your introduction to computers?Mid-80s. My little sister had an IBM that I used for writing film script ideas on. It was a total pain in the ass - to execute any command, one had to refer to this keyboard-shaped sheet of paper that revealed what the keys did. The commands were not intuitive in any way that a human could understand.Do you use a Mac or a PC?I quickly switched to Mac. This was before Microsoft and others figured out how to imitate the Mac operating system. I stayed with the Mac. There's the myth that it runs the "creative" software best, the photo and design stuff, the music stuff, the multimedia stuff. But it might be a myth.Are computers important... for you?... for the world?I'm using one right now. I use email all the time, so I find them incredibly convenient. But I'm suspicious of their ultimate worth. They inherently emphasize binary, logical thinking and would love to see all aspects of the world reduced to binary operations. The world is vastly more complex, interrelated and wonderful than that.They remind me of those Charles Dodgson (Lewis Carroll) games of symbolic logic whereby a series of ridiculous statements resulted from one or two initial seemingly logical statements. Logic, carried to the nth degree, often results in nonsense. Amusing, in Dodgson's games, but dangerous when applied to human beings. I feel that Soviet Communism, for example, was a logical system that made loads of sense, until you factor in human beings.Economics is another such system, and Lord knows, they've never been able to predict anything yet. Most Western medicine is another such system, as are countless other parts of our lives. Government by opinion polls. And faith in computers is another such religion without a centre. That said, they're handy tools. But try hammering in a nail with one.What do you use the machine for?I do some, but not all, of my photo "art" on a computer; some, but not all of my recent music; and almost all of my interviews, like this one.Any particular favourite software?Anything you'd like but can't have yet? Soon mobile phone technology will be integrated into laptops and their smaller cousins, in more intuitive, more flexible and more inclusive ways. Then we won't see so many of our friends desperately seeking AC cables and phone lines to suck on as they move from place to place. Hand-cranked computers... solar-powered computers...Any favourite websites or news groups on UseNet?audiorom.com has some cool music toys, colorsmagazine.com is discovering a way to make a magazine that uses web technology, that isn't an imitation of a print magazine, and I must plug the LuakaBop.com site, which has its own radio station.Do you get into dialogues with strangers on the net?I check the bulletin boards at the Luaka Bop website, and respond to some queries, but that's about it.Are you a geek?I'm told that on one Simpsons episode I was namechecked as a "nerd who made good".On a desert island, a human or a computer for company?Duh.What do you see in the future for computers?I think that, like Hal, they'll learn to lie (if they haven't been lying all along!).Are you worried about the Y2K millennium bug?I'm not Christian, so I don't use that calendar.Professionally, what's taking up your time?Got some nice discs from some of the Luaka label artists that are almost ready to be born. Got a photo "installation" thingy in Milan this month; Stop Making Sense &#91;film collaboration with Jonathan Demme&#93; is coming back out in a few months; and I'm writing songs that have nothing to do with anything.
Infogrames,the French games company that recently bought Sheffield-based Gremlin Interactive, has just made its first American acquisition, picking up Accolade for about $50m. Infogrames boss Bruno Bonnell is trying to build a company big enough to compete with American giants like Electronic Arts and, increasingly, Microsoft. Meanwhile the boys from Redmond, Seattle, have bought Access Software for an undisclosed sum. Access is best known for its Links series of golf games, which compete with Microsoft Golf. At the moment, Access is working on Links Extreme, a more violent version of the clubby game: it includes features like Deathmatch Golf and a Demolition Driving Range.A string of gamesbeing worked on by Infogrames includes V-Rally Championship Edition 2 and Bugs Bunny Lost in Time for the Sony PlayStation, both of which should be out in June. However, the maximum amount of hype is being applied to Outcast, which the company describes as a fantastic blend of action and adventure and its "most ambitious PC-based game ever". The game, written by Appeal in Belgium, has amazing graphics - don't they all - and a "sweeping original score" performed by the Moscow Symphony Orchestra.Outcastwill be shown at the E3 games trade show in Los Angeles next month, and should be released this summer.SEGAhas signed a £10m three-year sponsorship deal with Arsenal FC, one of north London's best football clubs. The sponsorship is intended to raise the Japanese company's profile, particularly among males aged 16-30, ahead of the UK launch of its new Dreamcast games console in September. Obligatory French connection: Jean François Cecillon, the boss of Sega Europe, is said to be impressed with Arsenal manager, Arsene Wenger.Connetixhas had to suspend shipments of its Virtual Game Station - a software emulator that runs Sony PlayStation games on Apple Macintoshes - as directed by San Francisco's federal court last week. Connectix regards this as a temporary set-back. Sony has also sued bleem!, which has just started shipping a PlayStation emulator for PCs.DOGZ, Catz... Babyz?Mindscape has done well out of its "virtual pet" programs, and it is now planning to launch Babyz, the third in the series, for the PC in the autumn. Babyz incorporates voice recognition, so you can talk to your pretend offspring while you teach it the difference between right and wrong (no spanking allowed). Whether this is the kind of thing that will appeal to Quake II or Total Annihilation players remains to be seen, but Mindscape says the program "has been extremely well-received by girls and boys of all ages in extensive focus group testing". It plans to post a trial version atwww.babyz.netBloodhits the streets tomorrow: the red blood of humanity, rather than the green stuff that splashes out of zombies. Yes, SCi is preparing to flog the uncensored version of Carmageddon II: Carpocalypse Now (PC, £4.99), which was delayed while the British Board of Film Classification (don't say censorship) pondered its 18 rating. Now the BBFC can ponder on the fact that the delay may have prolonged the life of what is basically a tedious game, though it does have some amusing moments and a terrific title.Lara Croft,the world's leading cyberstar, has been signed up to promote Lucozade Energy in a TV campaign.The official UKPlayStation Magazine, benefiting from the continuing popularity of Sony's games console, says it has printed 543,836 copies of its May issue. Since its last audited circulation figure was 380,186 (July-December 1998), it looks like being the first British videogames magazine to overtake the Guardian...Electronic Artsplans to release Cricket World Cup 99 for the PC next month to coincide with the start of the Cricket World Cup. It's the "official game of the series", based on up-to-date statistics and ratings, and features play-by-play commentary by Richie Benaud and David Gower. Alas we're still waiting for Extreme Cricket, played with a spiked ball, where the players batter one another to death.The nomineesfor the year's best games have been announced by The Academy of Interactive Arts and Sciences, with the final awards being presented during the E3 games trade show on May 13. As with the Oscars, the full list is interminable, but the Game of the Year nominees are: Banjo-Kazooie (Nintendo/Rare; N64), Grim Fandango (LucasArts; PC), Half-Life (Sierra/Valve; PC), Metal Gear Solid (Konami; Sony PlayStation), Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri (EA/Firaxis; PC), Star Wars: Rogue Squadron (LucasArts; N64) and Zelda: Ocarina of Time (Nintendo; N64). It's an obvious but not unworthy list. And in a week when the new releases look a bit thin - Eidos's Warzone 2100 (PlayStation) looks the most interesting and that's yet another Command &amp; Conquer-type program - you could pick up a potential Game of the Year instead.
Market forcesHaven't Charles Handy and Wingham Rowan (E-Flea Market, April 22) ever visited eBay Surely Rowan's vision of an electronic market place has been up and running for a while now on the internet. eBay &#91;the online auction house&#93; has reached critical mass and is certainly redefining the dynamics of market forces, business culture and consumer power. As Handy and Rowan realise, electronic markets do not equal capitalism, except for the founders of eBay - but pure electronic market place it is, and without the guaranteed bit that Handy and Rowan seem to think essential.Paul Youltenpauly@mahonyassociates.comCollege hallKevin Carey ought to come to Preston if he wants to see training in "village halls" (Keep it simple, stupid, April 22). I work at Preston College and spend Monday evenings teaching IT in the bar of the Deepdale Labour Club and a colleague does the same on Wednesdays at the local Caribbean club. Myerscough College, the local agricultural college, has similar classes in a variety of venues such as country pubs and village halls.Les StennettPrestonFood of love?You Are What You Cook (Online April 22) suggests women were the cooks in ancient times. Yet in every document I have seen of medieval age or earlier the cooks, kitchen assistants, bakers, pastry cooks etc were male. Perhaps women developed extended sexual receptivity to lure their menfolk away from their spits and ovens? I feel sure the men would not have trusted women with such a dangerous and complicated technology as roasting vegetables and building fires.Claire NashLeedsThe great debateJohn Treadaway has a major grudge with Apple Macs (Feedback, April 22). What really made me laugh was the reference to "lazy designers" who use Macs. I must confess to being one such designer, who cannot be bothered to struggle with the effort it takes to configure and maintain a PC in every day use. I still have to use the things though, so I'm more than familiar with what I'm missing. I take it that people who have power steering in their cars and remote controls are lazy too - why take the simple route and make life easy for yourself, after all?Warren Blackwarren@hoaxdesign.freeserve.co.ukThe Mac is the choice of the vast majority of journalists, designers, fashion consultants and film makers who grace the pages of Online, while the vast majority of IT specialists and business people understandably opt for a Windows or Unix solution. It bothers me not how Hamish Mackintosh phrases his questions as the answers would still be the same.Graeme Shepherdgreggie@dircon.co.ukWhy is it that every time the Mac-vs-PC argument dies down in Feedback you find a letter to print that will fan the flames again.Nigel CursonNorwichEditor's note:our readers never need any urging to begin the Mac vs PC debate.Risky softwareAdvice for Mike Pitts (Feedback April 22): Microsoft software for distribution with a new PC is commonly known as OEM software and, as it states, should only be sold "at the same time" as your purchase of a new personal computer. Software sold otherwise runs the risk of being stolen or counterfeit. You should return this software to the point of purchase and ask for a refund. The Microsoft Software Piracy Hotline, on 0345 002000, ext 999, gives confidential advice.David Gregory, Ray PintoBusiness Innovation Group Text 100 UK
By Hamish MackintoshFor those of us unfortunate souls who haven't yet got access to the sublime Call To Power for the PC there may still be hope. Civilization II allows us to indulge all our megalomaniacal tendencies from the comfort of the nearest PlayStation.For anyone unfamiliar with the concept of the Civilization series, it could best be described as a journey through time. The idea is to take a people - Romans, Mongols, Celts - and nurse them through all the pleasures and pitfalls of an emerging culture. You educate your citizens and help them to trade, conquering and consolidating the unfolding universe.I have to confess here that I wasn't an instant convert - the rather low-tech arcade graphics come as a surprise after the splendour of GoldenEye and MetalGear Solid, but that would be missing the lure of this insidious little game.Once it gets under your skin you really begin to think long and hard about how you'd like to see your culture grow. It allows you to put your armchair rhetoric about how things should be run to the test.Twenty years pass with each turn as you watch your empire flower or flounder, depending on the wisdom of your decisions. This is a tactician's dream, the sort of game you can keep returning to for months, honing your strategies as the centuries pass.You have the option to go it alone or to seek advice from a High Council of advisers (the fact that one bears an uncanny resemblance to Elvis only adds to the appeal), fighting off adversaries or befriending other nations as you go.It's easy to see why the sales for the PC versions of the Civilization series are in the seven-figure region. Perplexing, absorbing and utterly compulsive, this one will keep you addicted for centuries. Not, however, one for the boy-racer and thrills 'n' spills brigade. Must dash - I have some cities to pillage!
The Mini, as we all know, is a classic. Alec Issigonis's brilliant design was original, immediately appealing, quirky and looked unlike any car we'd seen before. (There have been quite a few pale imitations, but it's still fair to say that the Mini remains one of a handful of cars that is instantly recognisable.)One of the greatest achievements of the Mini - easy to overlook with hindsight - is that it anticipated the changing social values that would come to the fore in the 1960s, when the post-war babyboomers were looking to express their independence from previous generations through the fashions of Mary Quant and the music of The Beatles, the Rolling Stones and The Who.Along with the miniskirt, the Mini Cooper became an icon of British modernity. But unlike fashion and music, the Mini's appeal transcended not only class and sex, but also age.By being fun, the Mini made a virtue of its potential shortcomings, most notably the relatively cramped interior. 'How many people can you fit into a Mini?' was not just the basis for numerous jokes, but for newspaper and magazine articles with photographs of an improbable number of people stuffed into the car, limbs hanging out of windows and doors.The Mini represented independence and spontaneity: you could park it anywhere (or just about) and turn it on a sixpence (or just about). The wit and character of the car transferred itself to the owner, and in films and on television it became shorthand for: 'good guy' or 'party girl'. When a hapless, latter-day Robin Hood makes his getaway in a Mini, you're urging it to accelerate as surely as you know the cops will catch up with him.I don't think you can set out to design a classic for mass consumption: and I don't suppose that's what Issigonis set out to do. Of course, a team of people was involved in creating the Mini - the car's rubber suspension was designed by Alex Moulton who later designed a foldaway bicycle and went on to found a company making beautiful bespoke bicycles. But the vision for the Mini was that of one man, Issigonis - and that, I would argue, is why it has character and warmth.Interestingly, in the same year that the Mini was launched, another car manufacturer launched a family car called the Edsel. The Mini was designed around Issigonis' intelligence, conviction, and the gut feeling that he was on to something good; the Edsel, by contrast, was shaped by incredibly detailed market research and focus groups about exactly (or supposedly) what consumers wanted. Whilst I am not suggesting in any way that the two cars were in competition, I think it is telling that the Edsel was a spectacular failure.Forty years on, the Mini still looks fresh and fun. For many people, the Mini was, or will be, the first car they own. However many cars they subsequently get through, I doubt that they will be remembered with the same care and affection as their Mini. It's a classy-little classless car, and I wish it very many more happy birthdays.&#149; This is the foreword to Mini: The Design Icon Of A Generation by LJK Setright, published by Virgin on May 20, £25.
... to Jeremy Clarkson, for being voted 'Most Distinguished Old Reptonian ' (Repton is a minor public school in Derbyshire) by sixthformers, an achievement which knocks former champion Roald Dahl into second place. So what was Jezza like at school then? Pretty wild, you might imagine. Or maybe not - Russell Muir, maths teacher of 30 years, remembers him in the Times as "rather grey" and adds: "He didn't distinguish himself in music, sport, the arts, anything." So could it be true that Clarkson wasn't expelled for smoking, drinking and bunking off with local girls as he suggested.Strip me, you saucy thing!Vintage car owner Tony Lowe has restored his red Humberette, with the aid of some HP sauce. After advice from his friends in his local pub, Lowe, 52, used HP sauce to remove grime from the radiators, mirrors, lamps and horn of his 1914 two seater Humberette. Good work, Tony.Quote of the Week'This morning, pretty well everything went wrong. The electric gates broke again, trapping the postman in our garden - a garden that was being systematically eaten by some cows which had escaped from the paddock. The baby was screaming, the three- year-old had put an entire loo roll in the lavatory, the four-year-old was refusing to eat her cereal and the nanny was in Canada, skiing. Me? Well, I was lying in bed thinking that, all things considered, I was pretty damn glad to be a man.' Jeremy Clarkson, Sunday Times
What are you driving?A Ford Escort XR3i convertible. It's maroon on top and silver around the wheels. I've had it nearly two years. I love it.A bit eighties though, aren't they?It must be almost 15 years old. I got it from a dealer in Romford, mate.Was that to remain faithful to your working-class roots, then?No. I was living in Wanstead and it was the coolest thing I saw.How did the dealer react to your interest?They're salesmen, er, they . . . he had the roof down, even though it was the middle of winter. I came along, and it was a gift.So how much did you pay?£5000.That sounds like quite a bit for a near 15-year-old Escort?Ah, but it's in absolute mint condition and has Pirelli tyres. It has leather bucket seats too, you know.What does it say about you?Fairly racy, but with a fun side. It can do 0-60 in seven seconds.How do you drive?Very safe, but aggressive.So how does 'aggressive safety' translate into an experience for your passenger?I don't slam the brakes on, but I cut through the traffic, pull out when I have to, and I can judge spaces.Do you ever get road rage?I was close to breaking down going through London's Alexandra Palace. I put my hazards on and this Jeep came up behind, honking, and overtook. I made a specific gesture, suggesting he spend a lot of time on his own. He stopped and got out. I just sat there going: 'This is not good.' But it didn't go any further.What's Cherie like as a driver?I don't know. I suppose she's more sedate. They get driven around now, don't they? I'd hate to have a chauffeur. I'm an appalling passenger.Have you ever had sex in a car?Aaargh. Let's just say, it's a car from Essex, an XR3i, but that doesn't mean you have to share its proclivities. The seats go all the way back, that's all I'm going to say.&149#;Lauren Booth is Cherie Booth's sister, and presents My Secret on Channel 5.
It is, of course, a complete coincidence. Among the latest batch of Millennium Products that will enliven the Dome - such beacons of British genius as the Teletubbies, the waterless urinal and a water ski for wheelchair-users - is the new Ford Focus.We live in a cynical age, so when I tell you that Ford is one of the Dome's major sponsors, I don't want anyone jumping to conclusions. Other cars will also be shown under the grey bubble at Greenwich next year. Such as? Well, the Ford Puma and the Ford Ka.Now, I know what you are thinking - but you're wrong. Philip Johnson, of the Design Council, which is drawing up 1,000 examples of homegrown innovation, insists there has been no jiggery-pokery: 'We're completely independent. There has been no interference. We have other cars. There's the Land Rover Freelander, and look at the new Jaguar, you know, the S-type... ' That wouldn't be the same Jaguar Ford owns, would it? 'I suppose it is. But really, there is nothing to get suspicious about.' And, I admit, when Phil (we're on first name terms now) tells me the 'Ka has been acknowledged as a design classic, while the Puma was the first car to be fully designed on computers in this country - and in record time, too', I feel chastened.Ford itself - and my mate Steve, who hired one last week - were very keen to point out that the Focus is a great car, winning 11 major awards, most recently Northern Ireland Car of the Year. Steve was particularly taken with the dashboard. 'Very ergonomic, if you know what I mean.' So what are you getting for the £12 million you've forked out to sponsor Journey, the spooky new name for the Dome's Mobility Zone? 'The kudos, I presume.' I see. The Dome isn't just being nice to Ford because until last week the future of Dagenham was dodgy and everyone in Whitehall was bending over backwards to keep you here? 'No, not at all.' Hold on, says Phil at the Design Council. We have another Millennium Product car maker. Oh yes? Daewoo are getting in, though not for their cars. 'They've developed a revolutionary direct sales techniques which cuts out the dealer by selling straight from the factory.' What an exciting place the Dome will be.
Age:40.Designed by:Alex Issigonis and launched on August 26, 1959. Suspension was designed by Alex Moulton, famous (OK, not that famous) for designing a foldaway bicycle.Cost:£500 then, £9,300 now.Teething problems:Windows misted up, exhausts fractured, it rained inside.Track record:Minis won the Monte Carlo Rally three times.Most people ever in a Mini:24.Musical Mini drivers:George Harrison, Ringo Starr and Paul McCartney had Minis. Lennon had a Roller. David Bowie and Cliff Richard had Minis. Bolan died in one.Royals?Issigonis drove the Queen around Windsor Great Park in a Mini. Charles gave Di a Mini for her birthday in 1982. And Lord Snowdon had one.Movies:They've starred in A Shot in the Dark, Four Weddings and a Funeral, Mr Bean, and The Italian Job.The future:A new model is scheduled for next year
Millions of people are now using the internet as a source of free music, and the major record companies don't like it. The problem is that there's no way of controlling what amounts to a global distribution network, so hardly anyone is paying for the music files they're downloading. It's copyright theft on a grand scale.The problem has been created by computers, and the music business hopes computer companies will solve it. Last week, both IBM and Microsoft announced systems that can provide copyright protection, ahead of this week's National Association of Broadcasters conference in Las Vegas, but that doesn't guarantee anyone will use them. They will have to offer extra benefits as well.Using free MP3 audio software - named from layer three of the Motion Pictures Experts Group's compression standard - anyone can convert a song from a CD into a computer file and post it on the net; anyone else can download the file and play it (seewww.mp3.com). MP3 files have become so common that companies have started to sell gizmos like Diamond Multimedia's Rio MPMan player, the digital equivalent of a Sony Walkman.This leap from geekdom to major growth industry is causing sleepless nights in the record industry. And most of the major record companies are frantically seeking measures to stop this threat to the status quo.Ironically, while bodies such as the RIAA (Recording Industry Association of America ) are lobbying for legislation against websites that carry "illegal" MP3s, many bands and artists are actively involved with the movement. Talents as diverse as David Bowie and the Beastie Boys are supporters, and American rappers Public Enemy recently parted company with their record company when it withdrew MP3 files of unreleased material they'd posted for their fans to download.MP3 may well prove to be unstoppable, and some record companies are coming round to the idea of releasing MP3 files to promote new albums and artists. Others are beginning to realise that with the internet eliminating almost all the manufacturing, shipping and retailing costs involved in music distribution, small charges for file downloads could lead to huge profits, if only there were some way of controlling the tsunami of online music. IBM's Madison Project - part of the Secure Digital Music Initiative (SDMI) backed by BMG, EMI, Sony Music, Universal Music and Warner Music - and Microsoft's Media Technologies 4.0 are the latest attempts.IBM is using unidentified compression techniques with its Electronic Music Management System (EMMS) so consumers can download files at high speed - up to 60 minutes of music in less than 10 minutes, it's claimed, but that's using a high-speed cable modem. A six-month trial with 1,000 cable TV users in San Diego, California is planned.Last week, IBM also announced an agreement with RealNetworks, which provides the Real G-2 software most used for "streaming audio" (where the file is played as it's downloaded), for the use of IBM's EMMS. Then Real bought Xing, the most successful supplier of MP3 software.Also last week, Microsoft launched a beta test version of a rival streaming system, Media Technologies 4.0, which supports a wide range of audio compression techniques. The Audio 4.0 format can produce music files that sound significantly better than today's systems, or similar quality sounds with files that are half the size. The file format includes features to protect intellectual property rights, and Microsoft was able to announce more than 60 backers at last week's launch. (The software can be downloaded fromwww.microsoft.comand a list of streaming media files is available atwebevents).Microsoft also showed a prototype Casio player that will work with MS Audio 4.0 files. The player, which uses Microsoft's Windows CE operating system, will hold four hours of music compared with the Rio's one hour.The next few months promise to be both exciting and crucial to the world of on-line music distribution. Whether MP3 will continue to flourish or be usurped by commerce or the march of progress remains to be seen, and heard.• The impact of MP3s and digital distribution on the music industry will be among the  topics discussed at the Guardian-sponsored, Interactive City conference in Glasgow on May 28-29. More details available atwww.interactive-city.com
Anyone who's not quite sure whether Britain is at war with the Serbs - isn't this really a humanitarian mission, after all? - should log on and watch the virtual Kosovan conflict being fought on the internet.OnDejanewsa visit to the newsgroupsoc.culture.yugoslaviaor a search for "Kosovo" reveals thousands of postings each day. Some are abusive, some thoughtful, others obsessed with a particular conspiracy 
theory.Most are fighting a war of words, made more vivid by the net jargon of "flaming" (sending abusive messages) and "blitzing"  opponents with emails. But a number have a more serious intent."My wife talked to her auntie in Backi Brestovac yesterday on the phone and she said that a German Nato plane was shot down there," wrote one. It's impossible to know whether these Chinese whispers have any truth to them. On arec.aviation.military"thread" of emails, plane spotters note the take-off times of aircraft from British bases. Another questions the reliability of Nato's press briefings, pointing to inconsistencies in its story."It has long been NG &#91;newsgroup&#93; lore that this board, and others like it, are regularly monitored by the CIA, FBI, MI5, GCHQ, etc. Suffice it to say that if they are not, then perhaps they would benefit from the practice," said one regular.Even if not all newsgroup "posters" are shouting abuse into a vacuum, cheap taunts, of the kind you remember from the school bully's sidekicks, flourish. It's the powerlessness of many contributors that drives them to greater abuse. Credibility matters, though, and according to another regular user, pseudonyms abound. Onrec.aviation.militaryagain, considerable speculation surrounds the identity of a certain female aircraft expert, allegedly from Nato.It's not surprising that this one-sided conflict, where public opinion is the main target of political rhetoric, has provoked so much activity on the net. In a war where the reporting of Serb "atrocities" is an essential propaganda tool for Nato, and where both sides accuse each other of "strategic disinformation" (most notably after last week's bombing of the refugee convoy), people are turning to the net for justification of the bombing.They may not find facts. They probably won't change the course of the war. But they find the vituperative, partisan opinions and the anger that help to explain why Nato is fighting that most paradoxical of battles - the humanitarian war.One frequent Croat contributor toalt.beogradexplained that he had two motives. One was to "let off steam" and "piss the other side off". The other was the hope that "a stray non-Slavic individual, or even a journalist, will read our stuff and perhaps see the situation our way". Sometimes that happens. A newsgroup user from America, still a supporter of the war, described how his feelings had changed."When the war started, I took note of some Serbian email addresses. I wrote to these people and said some hateful things. Then an interesting thing happened. I started to worry about these guys and their families with the bombing going on. I got to know these people and it put a face on the enemy. I no longer hate the Serbian people." Sensitive military information? MI5 should be more worried that the two sides can talk to each other at all.• Other active newsgroups includealt.news.free.kosovoalt.news.free.kosovoalt.news.macedoniasoc.culture.russian
Hypertext,the "active" text on a web page which allows a person to click and link to another location, has intrigued many creative writers (and infuriated some readers) by the possibilities it offers for literally restructuring the reading and writing experience. What if, mid-sentence, you could send the reader off somewhere else, down a new line of thought? The Cybermountain Colloquium in Denver, Colorado in June,www.wordcircuits.comwill bring together some of hypertext writing's most eminent writers to discuss the genre. If you're intrigued but can't attend, the organisers are arranging a worldwide MOO (Multiuser Object-Oriented technology, but it just means a big online discussion) for June 2. Hypertext pioneer and critic Stuart Moulthrop will address the MOO. For more information visitwww.wordcircuits.com, which also gives dates for some practice MOOs for neophytes.Here's proofthat sitting down helps one to think deeply, angrily, or amusingly.Latrinalia, is a  photojournalist's documentation of restroom graffiti, gathered from water closets across North America. "The underbelly of human culture, seeking refuge from our collective neurosis. A signpost of sorts with scattered scrawlings, framed only by borders of the mind," is how the site puts it.From the Hacked SitesWe'd Like to See Dept. Online hacker e-zine2600has a gallery of well-known websites, that haven't actually been, um, redesigned by hackers, but probably should be. The scurrilous content of these elaborate parodies of Microsoft (of course), Amazon.com, the White House, and 2600 itself is not for those of delicate constitution, however. The editors invite creative types to submit similar makeovers for other worthy sites.If simplyswatting those annoying houseflies has always seemed a waste of aviation talent, the very strange but nicely illustratedWork Well With Others page, has a suggestion. Take some matchsticks, a little glue, some cryogenically preserved flies, and some Calvinistic philosophy, and voila - an insect-powered airplane which helps teach flies that landing on your sandwich is a selfish thing, while working in tandem with others can achieve collective, airborne greatness. Of course, we are not suggesting anyone actually enslave real flies for the experimentMakeoversof a different type are on offer at Online Surgerywww.onlinesurgery.comwhich is providing the chance to win complimentary cosmetic surgery procedures. The choice ranges from breast and nose jobs to liposuction or a facelift - just fill in the form and make your (brief) pitch, following these instructions: "Tell us about yourself in 50 words or less: What difference would cosmetic surgery make in your life?" The site also features live surgeries for viewing on RealPlayer and a video archive of past cut-and-snip jobs. Whatever will they think of next?If youswim as well as net surf, theSwimInfosite supplies bored lap and competitive swimmers with an endless variety of swimming workouts. The Workouts calculator at  offers a range of training sessions depending on variables you enter into the search fields. You can also submit your own workout.London'stown crier, Peter Moore - master of one of the oldest forms of communication - this week adopted one of the newest: a Web page atwww.londonstowncrier.comIt has useful links for tourists, a picture page, and it has already attracted email and job offers to launch Britain's new potato, he says. Email is being diverted to his fax until he gets a PC.If reverbmakes it hard for you to figure out what the words to Heartbreak Hotel are, help is just aclick away. All the words to Elvis's songs are available which includes a photo gallery of The King, from school photos to the lanky youth of early publicity shots to the bloated recluse of the final years.Do youhave a space question? Get an astronaut to answer at the National Space Society'sAsk an Astronaut site, Individual astronauts are featured in special sections which offer information about each man or woman's specific missions, while each month another astronaut replies to email questions. Lots of photos as well as sound and movie files, reading lists, and links.
The PC eramay be over, according to IBM boss Lou Gerstner, but his loss-making PC division is still bringing out new machines. This week's model is a ThinkPad 570 notebook PC that, like all the best toys, transforms between two states. You can use it as a slimline ultraportable - it's only 28mm thick and weighs 1.8kg, despite the large 12.1in or 13.3in colour screen. You can also attach it to an UltraBase that turns it into a bulky but expandable 3kg notebook PC. The UltraBase can hold a wide range of add-ons, including a DVD drive. It's not a new idea but it's very nicely done, and the carbon fibre construction keeps the ThinkPad 570 impressively cool. IBM is targeting corporate "road warriors" who, unlike journalists, might be able to afford it. Prices, with 64 megabytes of memory and a 300, 333 or 366MHz Mobile Pentium II processor, start at £2,063 plus VAT.More peoplenow have home PCs. Research just published by BMRB (British Market Research Bureau) shows that the number of people in the UK with access to a PC at home has increased from 34% in 1996 to 40% in 1997 and reached 44% last year. The most common use is playing games (73%), with education a close second (72% ). About a quarter of the population uses a PC to do some work at home (27%). Only 16% of us can access the internet from home, but this has quadrupled since 1996. More worryingly, even fewer people have access to the internet at work, and the number has grown from 7% in 1996 to only 10% last year. The main barrier to information technology at home is cost: 41% think it's too expensive. However, 67% of those surveyed say they are very interested (the figure rises to 77% for males) and 67% would consider having a computer at home. BMRB reckons only 18% of us are "enthusiasts" comfortable with IT. The rest are "acceptors" (25%) who use IT but are concerned about the pace of change and our dependence on computers, "unconvinced" (23%), "concerned" (20%) or "alienated" (20%). The concerned and alienated adults "tend to be female, over 45 with a DE socio-economic profile", and almost half the alienated are retired.Wireplay, British Telecom's dial-up games service, was replaced by two new free services, PowerPlay and OpenPlay, yesterday. PowerPlay is basically the old premium-priced WirePlay service, and can be accessed via BT Internet, BT Click Plus, or an 0845 local-rate number. It will be available only to players in the UK. OpenPlay is a similar service with fewer games and no guaranteed performance levels, but it can be accessed from anywhere in the world via the internet. Current users will find their WirePlay memberships have been switched to PowerPlay, but they will need to install new software. BT says users will be able to get the software from computer magazine cover discs, download it fromwww.wireplay.co.uk, or get a copy on CD-rom by calling 0800 800 918.Creative Labs, best known for sound cards, has unveiled Nomad, a small device that will play MP3 audio files downloaded from the net. It  includes an FM stereo radio, and can also record voice memos. Nomad will be available with either 32 or 64 megabytes of memory, which can store one or two hours of MP3 music. It's not known when it will appear in the UK. For further details, seewww.nomadworld.comMicrosofthas signed up 20 PC manufacturers to ship machines running its Windows 2000 operating system while it's still in an unfinished (beta test) state. The announcement was made at this week's Comdex Spring/Windows World show in Chicago. Microsoft's "corporate preview programme" is intended to help large companies to plan and test the installation of the system, formerly known as Windows NT. The final version is expected in the autumn, when many corporations may still be more concerned about century date change.America Online(AOL) says it has 17 million members, a growth of more than 40% over the past year. AOL also owns its former rival, CompuServe, which has 2 million users. AOL now has about 600,000 users in the UK.Tescoplans to extend its internet-based Tesco Direct home shopping system to about 100 stores in the south east and central England. The system has been on trial in 
11 stores, mainly in London, for 18 months, and has more than 200,000 users. Entering orders can be simplified by using the ScanMagic system (below), which includes a bar-code reader -  a modified version of 3Com's PalmPilot handheld organiser. This  lets users scan the bar-codes on products they want to order, or scan the codes from a printed list, instead of finding them on the database or typing them in.Applewill release its Mac OS X (pronounced "ten") server software in the UK at the end of this month with a suggested price of £349 plus VAT. Mac OS X is based on the free BSD 4.4 version of Unix and Carnegie-Mellon's Mach software, and has been derived from the NextStep operating system that Apple obtained when it bought Steve Jobs's company, NeXT. Apple has also released Darwin - described as OS X Server's foundation - to developers 
as "open source" software. It can be downloaded fromwww.apple.com/darwin"targetBriannicahas finally released its DVD version of Encyclopedia Britannica, demonstrated at the BETT British Educational Technology Exhibition in January. The DVD includes more than three hours of video and animation and about 13,500 photos and illustrations, as well as 73,000 articles. The suggested retail price is £99, which compares with £79.99 for the DVD version of Microsoft's Encarta 99 Reference Suite. Seewww.eb.co.ukGuy Kawaski, the former Apple executive who founded the EvangeList mailing list in 1996, has closed it. It was used to circulate pro-Apple propaganda when the company's future looked bleak, and Kawasaki thinks it's no longer necessary. The list was best known for its hard core of zealots who sent masses of often abusive email to journalists who strayed from the One True Path (adoration of the Mac), though it's not clear whether they didn't know or simply didn't care that this had the reverse of the intended effect.Erotica USA, held in New York last week, was "buzzing" with news of "the world's first free, real-time ‘cyberdildonics' internet facility" - or so it says in the press release from the supplier, SafeSexPlus.com. The system uses software to display patches of light on the computer screen, and these light signals are used to control a vibrator or similar sexual device. (Slogan: "You'll never catch a sexually-transmitted disease at SafeSexPlus. com.") The service is in partnership with theIntimate Friends Network.
