Thomssi was still not convinced. A day trader, he spent most of Thursday lounging around one of Yahoo's financial chat rooms swapping idle gossip. Ironically, most of last week's gossip was about Yahoo, the internet portal now valued at a tenth of the $100 billion it was worth at the peak of the dotcom boom.Another trader, who went by the handle Coolguy, believed the internet company's share price was due for a rebound. Things couldn't really get much worse, Coolguy figured.But Thomssi was dubious. 'I still think it's better looking for value in traditionals for the next six months,' was his sober assessment.Thomssi may be proved right. As the chat rooms hummed with gossip about the world's second favourite online site - the Yahoo portal is visited by nearly 200 million unique users a month - the company's share price ticked ever lower.It could go further south in the coming weeks. Even Thomssi's professional counterparts over on Wall Street are struggling to find anything positive to say about the business.After all, this was a company that last week hit the markets with a devastating triple whammy. Revenues, the California-based firm was forced to admit, would be between $170 million and $180m for the latest quarter, compared with an analysts' consensus of $240m.On the back of the dreadful earnings figures, Tim Koogle, the company's race car-driving, guitar-strumming chief executive, announced he was stepping down, although he would stay on as chairman.Then, in a lamentable attempt to woo the market, Yahoo unveiled a $500m share buy-back plan. Nonplussed analysts pointed out this would represent only about 5 per cent of the company's outstanding shares based on its current   price - hardly enough to have an effect.'What a difference eight weeks makes,' noted heavyweight Merrill Lynch analyst Henry Blodget, a man whose sparkling predictions for the dotcom sector have spectacularly and repeatedly failed to materialise. Blodget, at the start of this year a buyer of Yahoo, has now gone cold on the stock, noting that 'Yahoo's business has deteriorated significantly...  with the market for online advertising falling off a cliff'.Dotcom companies are Yahoo's biggest headache. As market sentiment has shifted away from them, they have pared back their online ad spend. Merrill Lynch estimates that the dotcom sector was responsible for 33 per cent of Yahoo's revenues in the fourth quarter   of last year but will represent only 20 per cent this quarter.This might not be as worrying as it sounds. Jeffrey Mallett, Yahoo's brash and combative president, has been keen to cut revenues generated by dotcom firms to 15 per cent by the end of the year. But not everyone is convinced Yahoo is well-positioned to grow revenues from the old bricks and mortar world. For a start, fears of a US slowdown have caused companies to cut their ad budgets.And those companies that are still spending are suspicious of Yahoo. In the past the company, despite its seemingly laid-back West Coast persona, has liked to play hardball, negotiating directly   with businesses rather than using the big advertising houses to help forge long-standing relationships.For a while the approach worked, simply because the ad agencies were slow to embrace the net. But as the markets slide Yahoo may wish it had started to develop closer relationships with its clients much earlier.It might also have wished that in the past it had been a bit more flexible when negotiating with them. Its heavy-handed manner has left many ill-disposed to Yahoo at a time when it needs friends.Most alarming of all, the number of unique users has not grown by nearly as much as analysts were hoping. The likes of Blodget were, until recently, suggesting that Yahoo would be capable of drawing in 500 million unique users a month in five to seven years' time.But in January the company announced that user traffic was up only 3 per cent to 185 million visitors, compared with 180 million in December. Wall Street had been hoping for a 12 per cent rise.As the company's fortunes slide, there's a growing and damaging suspicion that Yahoo's management team is losing the plot, divided over whether the company should put up a For Sale sign.Yahoo has been fiercely keen to stay independent since it was founded in 1994 by two Stanford University students, Jerry Yang and David Filo. But it seems that someone high in Yahoo is keen to cut a deal. Disney is certainly interested in the portal. Michael Eisner, its chief executive, has said as much, provided the price was right. Viacom is mentioned as a possible stalking horse. Vivendi Universal wants some sort of relationship.Some even punt the idea that ever-hungry Vodafone might fancy it. But Yahoo, not to mention its rivals, is split on whether the move would make sense.'Do they need to do a deal? I'm not convinced. They remain a strong player in the market,' said Alex Kovach, managing director of Lycos UK.There are also suggestions that Koogle, Yang and Mallett are split over future strategy. Mallett is keen to remove Yahoo's reliance on advertising revenues by diversifying. He has plans to develop its e-commerce arm as well as its web-conferencing businesses, turning it into much more of a business to business player.Others within Yahoo appear cautious. What is irrefutable, though, is that the jury has yet to make up its mind on whether Yahoo can make such a leap, and the markets are not known for patience. Further acquisitions to help spread the company's portfolio of interests are effectively ruled out by the slide in Yahoo's share price.Despite its collapse, Yahoo's shares are still valued at 39 times earnings, compared with an average 21 for US equities. Or, to put it another way, it still    has a long way to fall if it continues to disappoint. Such concerns seem to have given rise to something of a bunker mentality at Yahoo's Santa Clara HQ. In a bid to preserve cash and weather the bad times, the company, which declined to talk to  The  Observer , now seems to be focusing on its US operations at the expense of Europe and Asia.In short, critics say as its fortunes have slumped, Yahoo has taken its eye off becoming a global player. This is perhaps understandable. As one senior executive with a rival portal put it: 'When you're up to your arse in   alligators, it's hard to remember your objective was to drain the swamp.'Disgruntled by the way the parent company was refusing to invest in its operations outside the US, the managing director of Yahoo Europe, Fabiola Arredondo - recently voted the most powerful European businesswoman - quit last month. 'Yahoo seems to have been struggling with investment in international expansion recently and this is no doubt what has been frustrating Fabiola,' said Judy Gibbons, vice president of Microsoft MSN Europe.Time was MSN could only look on in   awe as Yahoo grew. But by November it had 230 million unique users, overtaking Yahoo. Now the company's diminishing place in the world, which so frustrated Arredondo, has sparked an exodus.Within a couple of days of Arredondo's departure, Yahoo's Asian head Savio Chow threw in the towel. Earlier this month Mark Rubinstein, managing director of Yahoo's Canadian operations, joined the exit club. He is unlikely to be the last: other executives are said to be contemplating the departure lounge. Will the last one to leave Santa Clara please turn out the lights...From Yahoo! to dotcom hell1994Stanford graduates David Filo and Jerry Yang develop the! search engine for their own amusement. By the end of the year the portal has hundreds of thousands of visitors.1995Filo and Yang persuade Tim Koogle to become chief executive. Yahoo has enough cash to last a further six weeks.1996Investment giant Softbank takes stake. Yahoo goes public, launches in Japan, Europe.1999Yahoo radio launched. Buys GeoCities for $3.7 billion andbroadcast.comfor $5bn.November 2000Microsoft MSN overtakes Yahoo! as the   biggest portal. French court orders Yahoo to stop French users from buying Nazi memorabilia on its auction site.2001 JanuaryYahoo Europe predicts a sharp slowdown in online advertising growth. Koogle tells an audience in Davos that dotcom firms have given away too much content for free in a desperate bid to grab market share.FebruaryFabiola Arredondo, Yahoo Europe's managing director, and Savio Chow, head of Yahoo Asia, quit.MarchYahoo draws up emergency plans to prevent a hostile takeover. Koogle announces he is to step down as chief executive. Company warns earnings for current quarter will disappoint. Share price drops below $30 from a high of $205.
The typical onine shopper - who braves the net despite the sort of problems which have beset virtual bookshop Amazon, where hackers have been accessing customer credit card details held on line - is single, has a degree and drives a hatchback.Around one in five frequent shoppers, that's people who buy at least once every two months, spends more than &#163;500 annually on the net, and is happy to buy financial services online (39% do so).The average regular shopper is 34 and earns &#163;29,300.   More than 40% have a first degree - one in 10 has a postgraduate qualification - and more than 40% are single. The most popular internet service provider in this country is Freeserve (used by 18% to access the net), followed by BT Surftime, NTL and AOL, all of which are used by 11% of frequents.The top products for internet purchase are books, music and software. David Brosse, marketing director of MyPoints, a company which awards loyalty points to people who receive and read tar geted advertising by email and which carried out this research, says: "People tend to start with low ticket items such as these, then move on."The British spend &#163;2.3bn a year on the net, which will rise to &#163;4.4bn by the end of this year, according to Nick Jones, senior analyst at internet consultancy Jupiter MXL. This makes us the number one net shoppers in Europe, although Mr Jones says that we are still three years behind the US, and never likely to catch up because "they are much more   consumer orientated than we ever will be".He adds that shoppers are spending more on some items on the net than they do in bricks and mortar shops, particularly at book and grocery sites. "It is because once you are in a book site and you are paying to have one book delivered, you may as well pick up another two or three. The same is true of grocery shopping where the problems of buying bulky items is eliminated," he says.
NTL, Britain's largest cable company, said yesterday that 2001 would be a period of "getting down to business", after reporting a pre-tax loss of more than $3bn last year.Stephen Carter, managing director of NTL in the UK, said 2000 had been "a seismic year" for the company, following the acquisitions of Cable &amp; Wireless Communications and Cablecom in Switzerland plus the launch of digital, broadband and the company's internet service provider."We will be digesting the activity of 2000," he said. "We are now a business of scale, with customers and strong products."The effective closure of the capital markets meant it made sense to focus on the company's existing assets, added chief executive Barclay Knapp. NTL has made 11 acquisitions in the UK in the past 18 months.The company intends to put particular focus on London where it acquired franchises from Cable &amp; Wireless and   where take-up is as low as one in four homes passed by the network.Mr Carter said NTL had now signed 600,000 homes to its digital television service and has set a target of 1.25m for the end of the year. Average revenue per digital subscriber is &#163;42 against &#163;36 on analogue and the company is planning to push through additional price increases soon.NTL also expects to have 100,000-plus customers using its broadband service by the end of the year, up from the present 12,800. Revenues for the group during the year doubled to &#163;1.9bn while Ebitda (earnings before interest taxation, depreciation and amortisation) climbed from &#163;130m to &#163;229m.Around a third of the loss at pre-tax level was attributed to interest payments on NTL's debt of &#163;10bn which is expected to peak at &#163;13bn, Mr Knapp said. With much of the NTL network completed, capital expenditure, which peaked at &#163;1.9bn last year, will fall to &#163;1.3bn this year and &#163;1bn next.
Yahoo!, one of the internet's most popular destination sites, last night heaped further misery on the beleaguered dot.com sector by warning that its profits would be lower than expected and that its chief executive was stepping down.The Silicon Valley-based firm became the latest in a long line of internet and media companies to blame a weakening advertising market for its shortfall in revenues.Its downbeat statement is likely to have a knock-on effect on shares in UK internet companies when they reopen for trading this morning.Yahoo!, which was once one of the internet's brightest stars, has come to symbolise the malaise that has gripped the sector in recent months as its stock market value has tumbled from more than $100bn to around $11bn today.A year ago dozens of dot.com companies were commanding multibillion-pound valuations even though they lacked revenues, profits and dividends.Investors were betting on the young companies revolutionising the way business was conducted but in many cases sales have failed to filter through as planned and financiers have reverted to backing more mundane but stable companies.   Analysts believe that the instability at Yahoo! could lead to it being swallowed up by a more traditional media company. Vivendi Universal, Disney, Viacom and Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation have all been mentioned as possible bidders.Tim Koogle, chief executive of Yahoo!, who has nurtured the site from shortly after it was founded and is known to staff as TK, will stay on as chairman during what is likely to be a turbulent trading period. Headhunters have been appointed to find his replacement but industry watchers warned it could be a difficult process.John Corcoran, an analyst with CIBC World Markets Corp, likened finding a replacement to "getting someone to step in front of an avalanche".Analysts said Yahoo! had fallen victim to its dependence on advertising revenues and its failure to generate cash from other areas.Several big firms in the US say they are concerned by the slowing growth of the economy and plan to spend less on advertising than they did last year, when the presidential election and Olympics helped expenditure reach heady levels.Yahoo! itself generated record revenues of more than $1bn last year. But 90% of its   revenues come from advertising and last night it said it expected to miss its earnings forecast by about 20% due to the slowdown. It now expects to "approximately break even" in the first quarter - well below what most Wall Street analysts were hoping for.Rumours of problems at Yahoo! began to emerge yesterday morning when a senior executive unexpectedly cancelled a speech at a high-profile conference organised by the investment bank Merrill Lynch in the US. Dealers started to speculate that the company had run into financial difficulties or was about to be taken over and trading in the shares   was suspended shortly after they had fallen to their lowest level since autumn 1998.Yahoo! has been hit by several management changes recently. Last month Fabiola Arredondo, chief executive of Yahoo! Europe, quit to pursue "private business interests".Mr Koogle said last night: "All businesses in the United States are facing challenging economic conditions that have weakened further in recent weeks, and as consumer confidence and spending has deteriorated, a broad range of customers have delayed their spending across all media formats until their economic outlook improves."Useful linksYahoo!Yahoo! internet lifeMerrill LynchVivendiAOL France(in French)ViacomBertelsmannNews CorporationWalt DisneyTalk about itHave your say on the future of Yahoo!Related articles08.03.2001: 'Black Wednesday' leaves dot.coms reeling07.03.2001: Yahoo! suspends shares06.03.2001: Vivendi gives Napster hope18.02.2001: Tricks in clicks and mortar15.02.2001: Yahoo! MD quits
The future of popular internet portal Yahoo! was thrown into doubt last night after trading in its shares in the US was unexpectedly suspended.Amid a whirlwind of speculation and rumour, analysts said they thought Yahoo! was preparing to issue either a profits warning, details of senior management changes or possibly news that it was being taken over.Yahoo! shares dropped sharply in early trading before dealing was halted, leaving them valued at $20.97 each - their lowest level since 1998.The Santa Clara, California-based firm refused to comment on the reason behind the suspension but said it was planning to host a conference call for analysts and the media later in the evening.Henry Blodget, the Merrill Lynch analyst who was formerly one of the sector's most bullish watchers, released a note to clients speculating on a number of possible scenarios, including a profits warning or a takeover.One theory gaining wide circulation was that Yahoo! may be about to sign a major strategic alliance with Vivendi, the French media company, which is selling its stake in AOL France.There was also talk that Tim Koogle, the chairman and chief executive of Yahoo!, may be about to quit after disagreements over the company's strategic direction. A formal link-up with eBay has also been rumoured."Given the recent executive departures, the rough economic environment and the emerging consensus that a recovery will be gradual, we would not be surprised if Yahoo! were entertaining offers," said Mr Blodget.Viacom, Bertelsmann, News Corporation and Walt Disney Company are seen as alternative possible suitors.Rumours that an important announcement was about to emerge from Yahoo! began circulating after it unexpectedly pulled out of an appearance at a Merrill Lynch conference scheduled for today. Yahoo! co-founder Jerry Yang added to the confusion by cancelling a speech at another conference in Utah yesterday.Mr Blodget suggested that Yahoo! could give also guidance on its earnings or announce a restructuring following a slump in its share price over the past year. "To our knowledge Yahoo! has never cancelled the day before a conference. As a result, it seems prudent to review the usual reasons that lead to such cancellations," he said.Advertising fees account for around 90% of the company's revenues and analysts believe that the softening in advertising spend over the past few months could force the firm to restate its earning estimates."It's been a tough quarter for internet advertising, and Yahoo! continues to go through its transition, and they may be coming out with an earnings guidance warning," said Abhishek Gami of William Blair &amp; Co.Lowell Singer of Roberston Stephens said: "It is by no means a slam dunk that Yahoo! will make even the low end of revenue projections."Jordan Rohan, an analyst at Wit SoundView, said Yahoo! could even announce a cost-cutting programme which might includes layoffs among its 3,000 staff.Yahoo! has been hit by several senior management changes recently. Last month Fabiola Arredondo, chief executive of Yahoo! Europe, quit to pursue "private business interests". The heads of Yahoo! units in Asia and Canada have since followed her out the door.Useful linksYahoo!Yahoo! internet lifeMerrill LynchVivendiAOL France(in French)ViacomBertelsmannNews CorporationWalt DisneyTalk about itHave your say on the future of Yahoo!Related articles08.03.2001: 'Black Wednesday' leaves dot.coms reeling08.03.2001: Yahoo! deepens dot.com gloom07.03.2001: Yahoo! suspends shares06.03.2001: Vivendi gives Napster hope18.02.2001: Tricks in clicks and mortar
David Perry lives and breathes computer viruses.For the last ten years he has caught them, taken them to bits and studied them, broadcast across the world about what he has found, and addressed countless conferences. He works for a major antivirus firm, Trend Micro, and in his time has worked for other big names in the virus war including McAfee and Symantec.So, as you'd expect, he's the kind of guy who takes these malicious bits of computer code pretty seriously. So seriously, in fact, he worries about the day when some creaking system in a hospital ward gets infected and crashes, endangering some vital piece of life support equipment. "I really believe that in the future someone could die as a result of a virus," he told me yesterday.All of which made Perry's comments to a specialist meeting earlier this week extremely puzzling. Perry was in Munich for the 10th annual conference of the European Institute for Antivirus Research, and he delivered a paper and speech which had the virus community abuzz.For, instead of talking (for instance) about the dangers of Microsoft Outlook and visual basic - two tools of choice for today's easily assembled computer virus - he talked of "a growing problem, and one not addressable by conventional engineering  the problem of ignorance, of mistaken or misinformed action."His worry? That there is a growing gap between real viruses and the surrounding mythology. That, increasingly, the real virus is the hype.A perfect example he cites was the Anna Kournikova outbreak of last month. Just in time for Valentines Day, a very simple virus created using a simple toolkit spread across the net. Victims - expecting a titillating picture of tennis star Kournikova - clicked on an executable file, which then used the users address book to mail copies of itself to all the names in it.Within hours of the virus being identified by several large virus protection companies, breathless public relations people were hitting the phones. This one, they told me and several other journalists, was as big as the Love Bug outbreak of the previous year, spreading fast and threatening to bring the world's email to a crashing halt.It did nothing of the kind, of course, but thanks to the efficient work of the public relations folk the virus still served some kind of purpose. The virus protection businesses quoted in the resultant press got a little boost, and lots of computer users were left worried about their machines being invaded.Perry, a former help desk staffer, knows only too well what happens next. A deep suspicion is born; of the internet, of email, of computers themselves. Users panic, reformatting drives and wasting vast amounts of time recovering from their own blunders, even when they never had a virus.The hype machine, says Perry, talks up the danger out there. Symantec, makers of Norton Anti-Virus, boasts on its webpage today that its software covers you against 48,816 viruses. What they don't mention is that only 800 viruses have ever infected a computer anywhere, and that only around 200 (including this week's fave, the "Naked Wife" virus) are doing the rounds at the moment."All the others are kept under lock and key at the antivirus companies themselves," Perry told me. "Most virus writers fear breaking the law by releasing their code into the wild, so they email it directly to the antivirus companies asking 'is this dangerous?' We say 'oh, yes, it's dangerous', and then lock it away."It is said boxers never see the punch that gets them. Similarly, the deadly virus that creeps into vital hospital systems, without the aid of a headline-grabbing naked wife or a Kournikova, could be the one that causes the tragedy he dreads.It's time to calm the hype down and get real, says Perry, before his industry cries "wolf" one too many times.neil.mcintosh@guardian.co.uk£149#; Discuss this and the week's other IT stories tomorrow at the Guardian talk boards at www.guardian.co.uk, with online deputy editor Neil McIntosh. You can post your questions now, or join in live from 1pm.Useful linksSymantec
Vodafone yesterday said it would begin a full commercial service in the summer using GPRS, the technology expected to be the catalyst for a step change in the use of wireless internet.The technology is expected to make wireless internet far more user friendly than existing services. GPRS - or general packet radio service - will bring data speeds equivalent to desktop computers and an "always on" internet connection. It has been dubbed generation 2.5, ahead of the introduction of UMTS, the third generation of mobile technology, in 2003.Vodafone chief executive Chris Gent, above, also disclosed that Vizzavi, its internet portal venture with Vivendi Universal, is recording 4,000 registrations per day and daily page views on mobiles of up to 200,000 in Britain. It aims to to have 2m registered users in Europe by the end of the second quar ter. Investment in Vizzavi will reach euro 1.6bn (&#163;1bn) by the end of 2002, the company said, with break-even forecast at earnings before interest, depreciation and amortisation level by the end of 2003.Revenues from data are being driven by short messaging services. In a presentation to investors, Vodafone said 47% of its customers in Europe were active SMS users. The service is just being introduced in the US.
Ruskin Kerslake, aged 26, has just been propelled by accident into the vanguard of Britain's information revolution. He is probably the first person in the country to have their apartment wired with ultra-fast fibre optic cable - the Holy Grail of the "broadband" digital age. This is because he happens to live in a large block of flats in central London which NTL, the cable company, is fitting with fibre as a showcase for what the future could look like. Kerslake happened to be the first to be connected. This enables his computer, a laptop, to send and receive data at nearly 40 times the speed of a standard 56k modem and with the potential to go ten or fifteen times faster than that.He describes the experience as "brilliant" and claims it has changed the way he does business. Now he is hooked. If he moves home, he says, it will have to be to another with a fibre link.A fast link is tailor-made for the job he does. He is a sales engineer for an international company selling CRM (customer relationship management) software packages. When he used to send demonstration packages using up 10MB (megabytes) online to customers it used to take hours which would stop him doing anything else, even sending email, during that   period. Now he can send large amounts of data quickly and carry on emailing.Recently he was providing support for an order the company was chasing in Eastern Europe. Normally he would have had to send his passport to be approved and then fly there - taking up four or five days. But with the fast link he was able to demonstrate the product online. This saved his company all that time enabling him to do other things. The only limiting factor, he said, was the poor quality of the phone line at the other end. The company won a similar contract in Sweden without him having to leave his small apartment in Dolphin Square.Most of the time he is now travelling or working from home. He only goes into the office once or twice a week. He says: "Since being wired up, the time I have spent at home has increased. I can be up and working at 8am instead of being on a   train. I haven't lost any productivity recently through train delays. It is the biggest benefit in my working life - but it also underlines the importance of going into the office and seeing colleagues."He can also set up an international conferencing facility enabling him to talk to or message groups of colleagues and clients around the world simultaneously thereby avoiding the need - and the cost - of all of them flying to a mutually convenient airport hotel. Each of the participants has a colour code on screen to confirm that they are still there. This avoids a situation in which one of them carries on talking for an hour not realising there is no one at the other end.He adds: "The only real problem is remembering to turn it off. Otherwise working for a global company becomes a 24 hour a day job. It is so easy to leave it on and rush over to it whenever the email pings."There are compensations. The high-speed connection enables him to download music from Napster, the US file-swapping service, almost instantaneously instead of having to wait ages. This enables him to have music while he works. And judging by the pressures of the online   work load, it sounds as though he needs it.Despite Kerslake's enthusiasm, broadband connectivity isn't exactly the new rock 'n' roll. A recent survey for NTL found that 70% of the population had not even heard of the word and 30% of those who had heard of it thought it referred to radio. Yet the quest to deliver broadband - capable of high speed video transmission - to every home has been the ultimate objective of the information revolution.It has been a long time coming. In 1986, the government set up the Macdonald committee to decide how it should be done. Two years later - surprise, surprise in the Thatcher era - it concluded that the future of communications in the UK should be left to market forces not Grand Design.It ruled out the alternative of allowing BT to spend up to &#163;20 billion to build a national fibre optic grid - the Rolls-Royce version of broadband - in exchange for being allowed to deliver entertainment (meaning video on demand). The main reason for not considering this proposition was that it would have enhanced the monopoly position of BT at a time when the government was trying to encourage competition from the fledgling cable companies. Cynics wondered whether the Thatcher government would have turned down a national grid for electricity as not being practical politics.About the same time, Ian Mackintosh wrote an influential book (Sunrise   Europe) advocating a transnational broadband grid for the whole of Europe: this was intended to kick start the digital revolution and give Europe a platform from which to exploit the fruits of the revolution around the world.Remember, in those days the world wide web wasn't even remotely on anyone's horizon. All the talk was about building what Al Gore dubbed (or at least popularised) the "information highway" or high speed links between computers.Now, 15 years later, broadband in its various guises (cable modems, ADSL and fibre optics) is only just being rolled out on a national scale. It is only within the past few weeks that fibre optic links all the way to the home have been installed in the UK in a real-world situation. And that is just in one - admittedly large - block of flats.Even when installed, broadband won't wield its true magic until most of the population has it. It is the old story. One mobile phone (or  fax machine) is useless. But the more people sign up the greater the network effects. Once every citizen has the capacity to video phone each other then it could truly revolutionise entertainment, education and business.The "killer application" for the new technology may well be a service that doesn't even exist at the moment. Who ever thought that the capacity to send text messages from a mobile (put in as an afterthought) would become the fastest growing service in recent memory?At the moment we are in a chicken and egg situation. Software companies aren't writing applications for true broadband because not enough people are on it. At the same time consumers aren't buying in sufficient numbers to bring the price down because they can't see the applications.Today, Online offers a taste of what is to come by sampling three different ways of experiencing broadband. It will all look different in another 15 years.High speed internet access for consumersNowDial-up modemsSpeed: 56k. Price: &#163;0-20, various suppliers.It is how the bulk of home users log on. Connections are dialled up, and the low speed means limited audio and video.ISDNSpeed: 128k. Price: &#163;27 from BT (www.bt.com).Marketed as Home Highway by BT, ISDN now looks poor value and ready to die a lingering death. Twice the speed of dial-up, but you still have to pay call charges.DSL (Digital Subscriber Line)Speed: 500k - 2000k. Price: &#163;40 - &#163;160, various suppliers.Ten times faster than dial-up, and always on. Technical problems, and BT reluctance, means it is not as widespread as you might hope. There is also a waiting list for installation.Cable modemsSpeed: up to 512k. Price: &#163;20, NTL and Telewest (Blue Yonder).The cheapest way to get broadband, but only an option for those who live in cabled areas. Speed depends on how many neighbours are logged on. Cable firms also do not have a great reputation for customer service.URLs:www.btopenworld.co.uk,www.ntl.com,www.blueyonder.co.ukFutureFibreSpeed: up to 100,000k Price: unknown.The Holy Grail of broadband, completely eradicating the traditional bottleneck between your computer and the net.Third generation mobile (UMTS)Speed: 300k - 2000k. Price: unknown, five successful bidders in UK.Bidders blew &#163;22.5bn last year to buy the right to offer 3G mobile telephone services to the UK. Now they've got to make the technology work. If they do, it could deliver video and the internet to your mobile phone. Costs may be high because of last year's government auction.Fixed wirelessSpeed: up to 5000k. Price: unknown, various suppliers.Put a receiver on an outside wall, wire it into your PC and enjoy super-fast net access, goes the wireless dream. A lacklustre government auction last year for frequency created doubts, however, that wireless will be offered to much of the population.
I am now in the vanguard of the broadband revolution. Last month, I had a cable modem installed for my home computer. This came after nine months of waiting for BT to install ADSL. Finally, BT told me I couldn't have it because I live too far away from an exchange. Apparently my neighbourhood in north-west Surrey is destined to be left behind on the internet superhighway.Frustrated, I telephoned my cable company, NTL, and was astonished to hear they not only had a broadband internet product for home users, but said they could install it in a week. I was even more flabbergasted when they did. A man in a van turned up - on time - and in less than an hour, I was up and running.The service is permanently on line. It costs &#163;24.99 a month, including modem rental, and there are no call charges. The modem acts like a long piece of wire connecting my Macintosh to the internet via an Ethernet port. The setup was seamless. I just flipped my Mac's TCP/IP connection from PPP to Ethernet via DHCP Server and it worked first time.My reason for wanting broadband - apart from my nature as an early adopter of everything - was speed. I   often work from home and send huge PowerPoint and Word documents back and forth via email, as well as downloading documents from the web.True, I appreciate the extra bandwidth. Now, when I need a home file for the office, there's no messing around with Zip disks. I simply connect to my home machine from work and get the file I want. But speed itself has turned out to be less life-changing than the fast - or rather, instant - connection time and the low cost.Now that my home computer is permanently connected to the internet, it has become an extension of my computer. It's like having a large hard disk available at all times. I've stopped downloading documents to store on my system, and started saving just the links. When I need a software upgrade, a game patch, or a new device driver, I start downloading and get on with something else.Since I'm no longer waiting for connection, I use my PC to find out things that used to involve phone calls or flipping through the newspaper, such as what's on TV, whether I've paid my Visa bill, and what kind of washing machines are on sale at Currys.But I have made a sobering discovery. Instant access cannot make up for old-fashioned human error. I have not been able to check my online banking account because I seem to have forgotten my password. I will have to make a phone call to straighten that out. Oh, well.Here are a couple of recent "always on" behaviour modifications that strike me as interesting. I have started listening to Radio 5 on the internet. I still listen to Radio 4 on the radio, since it is FM stereo and the reception is good. But Radio 5 is medium wave and poor quality, so it comes through clearer on the internet. I'm still annoyed that I can't listen to football on Saturday afternoon this way. Another audio example is Napster: more than once during the week I have used it to download tracks that I own because I am too lazy to search for them in another room.The early experiences gained from the transition to broadband suggest some thing about the impending transition from 9.6kbps GSM circuit-switched data (eg, current Wap services) to the world of next generation high-speed mobile phone services. I predict it won't be the bandwidth that is the driver (hence my scepticism about video as the major revenue stream for mobile operators), but the fact that connection is instant and has low marginal cost. With a permanent connection, for example, why store phone numbers in your phone? If your phone is permanently connected, you might as well leave the phone numbers on your PC at home: the phone can get them whenever it needs them. The entire internet will seem as if it is stored on your handset.Even though &#163;24.99 a month for instant connectivity may seem reasonable, it's worth remembering that we pay about a third more in Britain for broadband access than users in the US or even Germany, due to a lack of competition at the retail level.I may be in the vanguard for some time. Despite all the hype about DSL, cable modems, and other broadband technologies, most internet users will be stuck with low-speed, dial-up modems for the foreseeable future.
The Isle of Man makes an unlikely first stop in any search for cutting edge technology. The island, with a population of only 75,000, is famed more for its low taxes, annual motorbike race and financial services industry than any internet-age innovation.But this spring, it could provide the answer to what is, literally, a $100bn question for Europe's mobile telephone giants: will the next generation of mobiles really deliver?On wind-swept hills around the island, engineers are racing to complete the world's first third generation (3G) mobile phone network, battling against the freezing conditions and even restrictions on their movements because of the foot and mouth epidemic. Their rivals in this contest are thousands of miles away in the Far East, where Japan's DoCoMo is hoping to launch a similar service by the end of May.Last week, Online was given an exclusive behind-the-scenes tour of Manx Telecom's work on the new network, which is also due to go live sometime that month.Besides the kudos of winning this high-tech race, whoever lights up their network first will know the eyes of the technology world will be turned on them, looking for signs that there will be the hoped-for pay-off to the gambles that mobile operators have placed on this cutting edge technology.If all goes to plan, the new networks will allow users to surf the internet proper (rather than just sluggish text-only services) and watch video - even each other - while they are on the move. If it goes wrong, mobile's third generation could drag some of technology's biggest names down with it.The networks have gambled on advanced mobiles being a hit with the public. Last year's UK auction for radio spectrum to operate these new services made &#163;22.5bn for government coffers, with five bidders winning rights. Similar auctions raked in further billions, often from the same players, around Europe and in the US.One of the most successful bidders was BT, which owns the Isle of Man's telephone monopoly, Manx Telecom. With 3G licenses now spanning Europe, BT has the most to learn from a successful Manx launch - and the most to lose if doubters are correct.There are quite a few who think things will go badly. Some say the new technology will not be capable of all that it promised, with base stations struggling to cope with the large amounts of data needed to make 3G work.Others, citing the problems of the $5bn Iridium satellite telephone network, which went bust in 1999, say 3G handsets will, like Iridium's, be chunky and expensive because of the hefty demands multimedia content will place on screens and batteries.Worse, some analysts say that even if the technology works perfectly, consumers are likely to be spending less on their mobiles in a few years' time as voice calls are commoditised - not spending considerably more as the 3G business plans demand.It will be on the Isle of Man that the truth finally begins to emerge, both about the technology and the business side. Not surprisingly, Mark Briers, director of Manx Telecom's UMTS Programme (UMTS stands for Universal Mobile Telecommunications System) is a busy man these days.Briers is on secondment to Manx Telecom from BT, and that gives a large clue as to BT's involvement here. The island is the perfect testbed for the technology, the services which might be provided over it, and the way it is to be paid for by users.Showing off Manx Telecom's plans at the company's smart new HQ in the town of Douglas, Briers says he is confident of making what he calls a "challenging" May deadline.Even if he does, 3G will still start slowly on the Isle of Man. It only has about 30,000 mobile phone users, and at launch, only the south western quarter of the island is likely to be fully served by 3G. Neighbouring areas will follow on soon afterwards, but the initial supply of handsets will be limited to only "a few hundred".Despite this, Briers insists the Manx launch is more than an experiment or publicity   stunt, and that the number of handsets will grow quickly. There are even plans to give them away in a competition for schoolchildren."This is a commercial launch," he says. "We'll be doing some work with the network but we're not going turn it off at night. We really want it to function properly."Briers biggest concern appears to be making sure the new generation phone is sold on the back of the services it can offer, rather than improved data speeds or other high-tech credentials."We need to get into the content space to make it exciting," he says. "We need to be talking about services rather than '3G' or 'UMTS', as proved by the problems with Wap."The message at Cannes &#91;where a major mobile con ference was held last month&#93;, despite the very technical audience, was 'let's stop talking about the technology'."But the content is, in some ways, inseparable from the technology. Today's mobile phones are choked by a slow connection of, at most, 28kbps, which means even text-only information arrives slowly. The 3G network on the Isle of Man will offer a maximum download speed of 384kbps, and 64kbps up, at launch. That is still much less than the 2Mbps promised amid the 3G bidding hype last year but, at this stage, a realistic target, says Briers.In content terms, that means you will be able to receive moving video clips   and hold videoconferences between 3G handsets. What Manxmen will not be able to do, however, is watch live TV on their handhelds, at least for the time being. There is still a limit to the number of simultaneous connections the 3G masts can support at the maximum speed of 386k.However, they will be able to send each other video clips and files at higher speeds than before, teleconference and play games, thanks to a partnership with online gaming company Gameplay. BT Openworld will chip in with video content and "enhanced Wap" services. Plans for mobile office applications are also in the pipeline.And once the launch is out   the way, the project moves on to the other half of the 3G problem - making money.One feature of 3G will be its ability to work out exactly where users are at any time, offering what the mobile giants hope will be valuable marketing opportunities.Manx hoteliers and shopkeepers could suddenly find themselves in the vanguard of the location-based marketing revolution as passers-by are offered cheap hotel rooms or discounts on the island's famous three-legged chocolate figures over their 3G mobiles. With the network able to take a cut of these "m-commerce" transactions, "the technology gives us a lot of interesting options," says Briers.But, before all that, the hard work of building the new 3G network must be completed. Several new masts - including one atop the Isle of Man TT Race grandstand - have been installed, winning praise from locals for being more discreet than their predecessors.Building the network has not been without headaches, some caused by occasional cultural differences between members of the multinational team of engineers."A team from our Japanese partners came over with the first base stations on December 19," says Briers. "We discovered that they didn't stop work for Christmas, so a few of our team only had a day off, which caused a few grumbles," laughs Briers.He will laugh even harder if, come May, that turned out to be his only headache in this high profile project.
Four months of living with a high-speed internet connection has not made me less impatient - probably the reverse. However, it has changed the direction of most of my venom. Today, I get angrier with stupid web designers than I do with British Telecom. At least BT delivered, which is more than my local cable company, Telewest, could manage after years of badgering.My high-speed connection is BT Openworld's business ADSL (Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line) service, which uses a stan dard phone line to deliver 512 kilobits per second into a small black box called a router. This lets me connect up to four PCs to the net simply by plugging them in and configuring the PCs' Ethernet network cards, and it could support a larger network. However, it costs &#163;100 per month.There is a cheaper alternative. BT now offers an ADSL service that connects to a PC's USB (universal serial bus) port for &#163;40 a month. This is aimed at home users with one computer, preferably a PC running Microsoft Windows 98   or 2000. I do have Windows 98SE, but my 150MHz Pentium MMX machine is too old to have USB.Needless to say, using ADSL is dramatically better than dialling an ISP via a modem. It is a huge boon to have a permanent internet connection. You are always on the net, whether you are using your PC or not. You don't have to think twice about searching for something on Google: just hit the button and it is there.In practice, ADSL runs at about 10 times the speed of a 56k modem. This makes a tremendous difference to   the quality of streaming video: it is possible to watch a movie, for example, as long as the display window is fairly small. It also makes downloading large files very easy. In fact, I can log on to my office mailbox, download several large files at once, watch a streaming video, and carry on surfing without any noticeable reduction in performance.But there are a few problems, including latency and congestion. Latency is the amount of time it takes to contact an site: the time to send it a signal and get a response. Sites that are slow   to respond to a modem are still slow with ADSL.Congestion is caused by bottlenecks on the internet, where too much traffic is competing to use a connection. And the web is only as fast as its slowest link. With ADSL, I have a fast connection to my ISP, and BT Openworld has a fast connection to the net, but there are still traffic jams further along the superhighway.Still, one advantage of ADSL, compared with cable modems, is that you usually get the bandwidth for which you pay. By contrast, a cable is a shared resource with no   guaranteed throughput. However, given the speed of the web nowadays, and the scarcity of cable modems, this is not really an issue.Websites also create problems when the server is too slow and/or the pages are too big. This is where ADSL gets me really   annoyed. It is frustrating being able to download stuff at more than 500kbps when some sites will only deliver 2kbps or less.Many websites keep users hanging about while they download stupid Flash intros no one wants, pointless graphics no one wants, badly written Java applets no one wants, and similar assorted rubbish.Once you have got used to web pages appearing in three to six seconds or less, any page that takes 15 to 90 seconds becomes very annoying. It looks broken.For comparison, I now   get a page from Yahoo in the US in about three seconds, and I would be happier if it arrived in one second. Guardian Unlimited is on the edge, with pages loading in about seven seconds: that is about the same as SiliconValley.com, and The New York Times's technology page. The Wall Street Journal's site usually delivers readable text in half that time. Well, it has to deliver: people pay to use it.ADSL means I am much more likely to run film clips, play games online, and download software updates and utilities. However, there   is a big difference between waiting for something I want and waiting for something I have not asked for.Some people seem to think that the widespread availability of broadband will enable web designers to fill their pages with graphics and multimedia. I am not convinced.What broadband actually gives you is a much greater appreciation of the speed of sites such as Google and Yahoo. Rather than being the salvation of badly designed sites like the old Boo.com , ADSL actually makes them look worse.
Even as over-hyped dot.coms started to die last year, sage-like analysts predicted one area of commerce - business to business (B2B) - would rise above the carnage. For, while the consumer dot.coms blew their borrowed money on ambitious advertising campaigns, B2Bs quietly got on with totting up the cost savings and streamlining. B2C's lavished cash on lifestyle campaigns, B2Bs told small businesses how electronic procurement could save millions on dull but daily expenses like spare parts, PCs and toilet paper.Come the dot.com shake out and the accompanying outbreak of 20:20 hindsight, it was B2Cs that were singled out for the accusations of hubris and hopeless naivety. B2Bs, it was quietly felt, would continue to bring together manufacturers and suppliers in the name of cost cutting and efficiency.But the closure last month of Work24, the small business portal set up by ScottishPower and Royal Bank of Scotland, has rocked that cosy assumption. Eight months - and &#163;30m - down the line Work24 had attracted only some 10,000 registrations, and even of that modest number, fewer had opted to do business on the site. It had aimed for 150,000.Meanwhile Barclays B2B.com, another &#163;30m venture, this time by Barclays Bank and Accenture (n&eacute;e Andersen Consulting) has announced it expects to receive no revenue from the site this year.Giant B2Bs such as the car industry marketplace Covisint are regularly cited as the proof positive of B2B, but question marks still hang over whether SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) are ready to trade online. As optimism wavers, analysts are also pointing out that here in Europe we don't benefit from the size, single language and single currency of the US market. All of a sudden there is talk of a B2B backlash."There is a backlash and it is justified," says Alex Drobik, the vice president of Gartner Research. "Whilst it's true we haven't seen the excesses of the B2C market there has been an equal amount of hype about e-marketplaces. We estimate that only 5% of them will survive by 2003, of which there will be a few very large ones, and some niche players, but almost nothing in the   middle ground."One of the features of the net is that it tests business models extremely quickly - you don't have to wait 10 years for results."Which makes us wonder who will survive among Europe's B2B marketplaces? Researchers at Jupiter MMXI predict that online B2B trade will grow to 1.8 trillion euros by 2004. However, they too envisage a drastic commercial cull, predicting that of the 500 or so B2B marketplaces present today, fewer than 100 will be around to share that booty.Jupiter also picks its top 10 of likely winners, ranging from a Belgian fish marketplace (PEFA.com), to a Swedish construction industry portal EU-supply.com. Reassuringly, four of the 10 are based in the UK: Band-X (internet bandwidth supplier), BuildOnline (construction) and Acequote and Mondus (both in SME office/business supplies).Naturally for those B2Bs left standing, the prospect of rivals going to the wall brings mixed feelings. "Generally the investment has dried up in this area," confirms Rouzbeh Pirouz, the chief executive of Mondus. "Paradoxically, while you never like to see negative sentiment about your business, it's true that with a lot of our competitors in dire situations and our own   funding ensured (Mondus has just completed a $150m investment round) the competitive landscape is looking a lot more open than it was a year ago.""Open" that is, for Mondus, but of course more closed in terms of the number of players. The support of the big industry players is identified by both Gartner and Jupiter as key to the success of a B2B marketplace. That, however, raises concerns about the possibility of fewer and fewer markets wielding ever more purchasing power - a concern that has seen aerospace industry marketplace Myaircraft.com referred to the EC's competition investigators.Advocates point out that a well-run B2B market can have precisely the opposite effect - simultaneously broadening the range of suppliers that have access to buyers while offering the   purchaser a wider choice. One of the main advantages of B2B marketplaces is that they can significantly reduce costs while putting the procurement process through a competitive tendering framework," says Pirouz. "Businesses can have the convenience of using a single supplier catalogue, with the benefits of comparing prices from all the suppliers _ &#91;which means&#93; small suppliers can compete with bigger ones on a level playing field."In short you place one order, and have one checkout and billing system, while behind the scenes, suppliers are competing to come up with the best offer.Pirouz also points out that B2B potentially offers an answer to the pan-European problem since a site could accept orders in one language, automatically translate into target languages for   potential suppliers, and return the best bids in the original language of the would-be buyer. Potentially, though not yet in practice.In the meantime, the ill wind blowing through the financial markets is not only sorting the wheat from the B2B chaff, it may well be just what the survivors need to thrive. If the B2B industry has been guilty of hype, and subsequent backlash, it none the less has one key card to play - it could theoretically thrive on economic downturn."If large companies think there's a recession on the way, they will immediately start to cut costs," comments Gartner's Drobik, "and that in turn means a lot more pressure on the procurement side." Which in turn further enhances the appeal of the B2Bs. Or as Drobik concludes: "The gold rush is over, but there's still plenty of gold."Jupiter MMXI Top Ten B2B Net MarketsAcequoteUK	Supplies for small and medium enterprisesBand-XUK	Internet and telecoms bandwidth capacityBuildOnlineUK	ConstructionEumediXNetherlands	Medical supplieseu-supply.comSweden	ConstructionGoodexGermany	Industrial equipment and suppliesIngredientsNet.comIreland	Food IngredientsMondusUK	Supplies for small and medium enterprisesPEFA.comBelgium	FishPhonetradeSweden	Mobile phones
The web is often cited as one of the major causes of stress in the workplace, and as anyone who has tried to dial up their free internet service provider at the weekend will know, recreational web use ain't exactly a one-way ticket to nirvana either. Virtual help is at hand, though (paradoxically, from the web itself), with sites designed to de-stress you. So, next time you want to takefive minutes to relax, don't run to the coffee machine, let the web take the strain instead.Relax-online.com has a particularly fab idea - relaxation "tapes" online. Atwww.relax-online.com/imageryonline.htmyou can take a "five-minute vacation" or the mind-body relaxation trip I opted for. Listen via your RealPlayer as an American woman talks  veeery slowly about releasing your "inner strength and releasing stress" and "letting the tension tiger out of your walled garden" (I made that one up).It's surprisingly effective, and I felt decidedly chilled out afterwards, although nervous for the next 24 hours that I hadn't been secretly programmed to kill the president.Mezzowave (www.mezzowave.com)is a superb example of what relatively simple web technologies (and the apparent consumption of a wheelbarrow full of recreational drugs) can achieve.   You'll need Flash, but then you need Flash for any of the decent sites, so if you don't have it, bite the bullet and download this excellent free plug-in.The results are well worth it - the site's designers use ambient music and some gentle kaleidoscopicgraphics to "chill you out". Pick the sphere you want: Space, Healing and so on. It provides "the power of animation and music in a cutting edge chi energy enhanced relaxation, chill out and healing area". Ignore the New Age tosh and just let the images and music relax your head.Another site that offers online audio and visual relaxation techniques is the Real Time Therapy site atclick4therapy.com. You can listen to them streamed online via Windows Media Player or Real Player, or download some of its relaxation guides to your computer as MP3 files so you don't have to be online to do them. The Guided Imagery MP3s are particularly recom mended, and handy if you have headphones at work and 10 minutes to spare.Even better is the Muscle Relaxation audio file, which talks you through how to sit and relax your body at the same time. Although the soothing tones of the American woman who talks you through the process would prefer you to be lying down, it is possible to plug the headphones in and get suprisingly relaxed. Don't get too carried away though; falling asleep at work is a good way to find yourself looking for new employment.If you want to learn how to relax by yourself, check outwww.mediconsult.com. The site teaches that relaxation can be obtained in the simplest ways - breathing, for example.This not only teaches you how to breathe properly but also how to control your breathing in relation to the rest of your body, how to deep breathe and how to use breathing to identify tension in your body.Give Interlude a try too, it's "An Internet Retreat - a place to renew the spirit" (www.interluderetreat.com/). Despite the serious tone of the Cybermonks who run the site, and their meditation of the week, or the thought of the day, a visit is highly recommended. The meditation instructions are helpful, particularly the tips for sitting at your PC and trying to relax.A similarly right-on vibe can be found at the excellent online Self-Help Magazine (www.shpm.com/articles/stress/slidindx.html). As well as being packed full of articles on everything from stress at work to The Four Faces of Anger, this site has a slideshow section, where you can download soothing images of sunrises, sunsets, mountains, deserts or whatever you need to chill   out. It sounds corny, but the site has been around since 1994.If you think this sounds like nonsense, and you relax best with fun and games, then the Stressbuster site is for you (www.stressbuster1.com). This site contains a wealth of fun and games.In the Games section there are Flash emulators of games such as Space Invaders. You may have to wait a minute to load them on a 56k internet connection, but it works perfectly over a faster work connection. There are not just games like Granny Paintball either, there are online art packages, too. Splashing virtual paint around can really do the trick.If that sounds more like your cup of herbal tea and you are tired of looking at lines of Times New Roman on your screen, thenwww.illusionworks.comis perfect to give your eyeballs a workout. The site is full of visual puzzles and graphical illusions that will have you scratching your head.As well as Java and Shockwave versions of famous visual illusions such as Escher's Ascending and Descending, the site also explains how the illusions work. Half an hour gaping at this site in your lunch break and you'll be hooked, and probably unable to keep anything in focus properly. Like taking your lunch break in the pub, then, only cheaper.
If you feel most radio stations are dominated by bland boy bands and cynically-manufactured pop stars, all you need is a computer with an internet connection to give you access to an unbelievable variety of new music.There are literally thousands of radio stations worldwide but normally you cannot listen to them unless you are well within the range of the city where they are broadcasting. The marvel of the web is that it brings radio stations online and lets them reach anyone who is logged on with the right software.To listen to web-based radio shows, your computer must be equipped with a sound card and speakers and you will also need a separate program, called a plug-in. You download and install plug-ins just like any other software and they work seamlessly with your browser.There are plenty of different plug-ins available to let you tune into online radio stations but the most popular formats are Windows Media Player and RealPlayer. You can download and install the Windows Media Player for free from Microsoft atwww.microsoft.com/windows/windowsmedia/en/download/default.asp, and RealPlayer is available atwww.real.com. If you're put off by the thought of downloading additional software, you will be relieved to know that if you are running Windows 98, Me or Windows 2000, the plug-ins will already be installed on your computer.There is no radio authority restricting the number of stations in the online world and not surprisingly, with such low    barriers to entry, the web has quickly gone radio ga-ga. All kinds of sites run their own radio stations. Manchester United (www.manutd.com) has linked with Century radio to provide online live match commentaries. Similarly William Hill (www.willhill.com) has a 24 hour radio station providing punters with betting updates and horse racing commentaries.When you click to launch any of these radio services, the required audio player - if it is already installed - will appear and open in a small separate window on   your screen. Shortly afterwards you will hear the music or the commentaries. If the software is not installed or it is not set up properly, you will be quickly directed to a site where you can download the appropriate player.Internet Explorer 5 users can now use a feature called the Windows Radio toolbar to tune into radio broadcasts from around the world. You simply connect to the net and open Internet Explorer. You then click on View Toolbars and choose radio. Click the radio stations button on the radio bar and then click the radio station guide from the drop-down menu. You will be offered a choice of stations to play and listen to from the BBC World Service through to US-based Beethoven.com. If you want more information from Microsoft about the radio toolbar, visit the Windows Radio toolbar page atwww.microsoft.com/windows/Ie/Features/Radio/.When you open a radio broadcast web page it can sometimes be confusing to know where you need to click to start the transmission. Look around for a speaker icon or an arrow head as these are usually the virtual buttons thatlaunch the services. It is also worth bear ing in mind that the audio plug-in players will also let you watch online videos and cartoons.E-commerce sites such as Bol.com for example have introduced their own radio stations to try to hold you on their pages for longer in the hope that you will fill your shopping trolley with more goodies. But if you try to log on to a radio station from the office you might have difficulties tuning in if your company has set up stringent firewall security software systems.The quality of online radio broadcasts largely depends on your own computer's hardware and the speed of your internet connection. If your PC is pretty ancient, you might want to think about upgrading the sound equipment. A new pair of speakers can make a huge difference. If you reckon you are going to be hooked to online radio, enticed by the opportunities to listen to jazz, country, dance music and rock and blues from stations all around the world, you would probably be better off getting a powerful ADSL connection.Apple users can download and install QuickTime (www.quicktime.com) as a plug- in to let them enjoy radio broadcasts. Apple offers a number of links to radio shows  from its site and even broadcasts its own Mac Show (www.macshowlive.com). Apple DJs Shawn King and his studio sidekick Hilary Percy chat about the latest techno-gadgets and all things Mac.Search engines such as Yahoo! (www.broadcast.com) offer their own radio listings with links to hundreds of online stations. You can browse by country and genre of music. When I logged on to Yahoo's service it ran a check on all the software which I had installed on my computer for receiving radio and presented it on the screen, which was a useful reminder. Frequently RealPlayer and Windows update their players and you can go to their sites for the latest upgrades.As you browse the online radio indexes, you will discover that a lot of the radio shows that are pumped out over the web are generated by traditional radio stations simply re-broadcasting their programmes. If you fancy yourself as an independent online radio buff, you might be inspired to have a go at setting up your own station. The internet radio list (www.internetradiolist.com) is offering tutorials on how to build a station and join the increasingly-crowded but refreshingly diverse virtual airwaves.
Phil Zimmermann is not exactly a household name, but unbeknown to most, his influence is felt in every home that has a computer. Zimmermann is the creator of Pretty Good Privacy - generally known as PGP. This software program, freely available over the net, enables anybody to encrypt their email.PGP was originally designed to help global human rights organisations that needed a way of communicating without endangering activists. It quickly became the de facto standard for email encryption because it was reliable, usable and free. But the virtually uncrackable program fell under the wary eye of the US government, and Zimmermann found himself at the centre of a three-year trial in the 90s.The case was eventually dropped, but Zimmermann's stand was critical in pushing the US government to back down and ease restrictions on the use and export of encryption. It also ensured ordinary computer users could continue downloading PGP for personal use.But Zimmermann is ready for something new. Last month, he announced he was leaving the encryption giant Network Associates - which bought his company, PGP, three years ago - and jumping to a small, Irish-based crypto firm, Hush Communications, as its chief cryptographer. "Hush is doing interesting things with a different approach," he says.Network Associates has also taken a different approach lately, deciding to no longer publish the source code of PGP. That bothered Zimmermann, an open source advocate. "I think it's important that crypto code be published for peer review," he says. Otherwise, there is no way of scrutinising it for possible back doors - secret   entries that could allow surveillance of encrypted messages.Zimmermann would appear to mesh well with Hush. An American company that says it relocated its headquarters to the Irish Republic to avail itself of the more supportive environment for cryptography development, Hush produces commercial encryption products and offers free, web-based encrypted email called Hushmail (www.hushmail.com). The company has a policy of providing its products free of charge to human rights and privacy groups. Last year, Hush paired with the UK privacy advocates Cyber Rights and Cyber Liberties to offer Britons free encrypted email that bypassed the restrictions of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers (RIP) Act. (Asked if Hush might consider moving its office to Britain post-RIP, Hush's Dublin-based chief executive Jon Matonis laughed. "No. Absolutely, we would not. It would be too restrictive.")Hush, which employs only non-US citizens as developers, keeps its intellectual property in crypto-friendly Anguilla, West Indies, and retains the services of eight law firms. Now it is in the   process of incorporating the PGP standard, called OpenPGP, into its encryption products. "Phil will have a quality assurance role, to make sure the next release of our products interprets that OpenPGP standard correctly," Matonis says.Zimmermann says he is particularly interested in Hush's server rather than the old PC-based approach to encrypted email. The server allows people to access their encrypted email account from any computer. Zimmermann also says he liked Hush's determination to make the encryption process almost invisible to the user.The complexity of using so-called public key encryption - which utilises a public and a private key to encode and decode mail - is considered a prime reason why most consumers and businesses have avoided using encryption. Hushmail stores both encryption keys on a secure server and the encoding process is done automatically by a web browser-based Java applet, or small application. "&#91;Hushmail&#93; is easily used by ordinary people who can sit down in a cybercafe and access their email," says Zimmermann.Hush has ambitious plans to expand in the e-commerce market. The server-based technology will also make online transactions secure, Matonis says, with encryption undertaken behind the scenes. Hush, which currently has 55 employees, will go after the same market as larger rivals such as Verisign, Entrust, Network Associates and Ireland's Baltimore Technologies.And with Zimmermann on board, the little company is sure to attract attention.
Last week's decision by eToys, the US online toy company, to file for bankruptcy ought to send a shiver down the spines of all remaining dot.com companies. eToys is the biggest casualty yet and the most worrying. It was once valued at an unbelievable $12bn on the stock market. Now it is worth nothing. Until recently it was possible to regard the shakeout as nothing more than the inevitable consequences of the predictable attrition rate among new companies - some 50% of which fail in their first four years. Now it is beginning to look systemic.If nothing else, the fate of eToys ought to blow apart the strange proposition that was all too freely adopted as part of internet business folklore: that first movers had an advantage. It was never true before the net came along (ask Microsoft, Dell or Compaq).Second movers usually have the advantage because they capitalise on the mistakes of the innovators. That is why Britain fought beneath her weight for most of the post-war years as others developed the inventions we failed to exploit ourselves.   Second-mover status gave Japan a huge competitive advantage as her industry improved on the designs of others - at least until the last decade when internal financial problems put the Japanese miracle into cold storage.But the worry now is not that eToys failed because it was an inexperienced first mover, but because the business model that it and thousands of others adopted was itself fatally flawed. The internet is not an obvious place to make a fortune out of selling old economy goods. Why?Because consumers expect rock-bottom prices while the company is still landed with the huge costs of marketing (including making itself known to the public) and delivery. It is a great model for me as a customer but not for the company trying to sell to me.It is different, of course, if you are selling new economy goods such as music or books that can be digitised and sent down the telephone as ones and zeros. In that case the middle person is definitely being shut out (though not entirely, because online sales breed new kinds of intermediaries such as streamers).It is fairly easy to sell commoditised old economy goods you don't need to touch   and feel - like books and wine - from the web, especially when there are valued-added services such as search engines to guide you to products you like. But this may not guarantee survival because canny customers can use the search engine then buy from the cheapest source elsewhere.The interesting question is what eToys may be telling us about Amazon's chances of survival. Amazon, the world's biggest book store, is a brilliant site for customers, up there with the very best. It has been fleet of foot and innovative - even if too heavy-handed in its interpretation of intellectual property rights.But that doesn't make it a viable long-term proposition. At the moment there is no imminent danger because Amazon has still got warehousefuls of money in the bank, thanks to the booty from earlier capital-raising exercises.This raises the new paradox of business-to-consumer (B2C) web companies that applies as much to Britain's Lastminute.com as to Amazon. Many of them only exist today on the back of money raised on the capital markets a year or more back. But it would never have been given had investors known then what they know now about the viability of the B2C business model.Amazon, like so many other web companies, is in a race to secure enough market dominance to be able to raise charges before it burns its way through its legacy money. Others are gobbling up competitors or forging links or mergers with old economy companies in order to survive.Some, like Confetti.com, the one-stop wedding services company, are doing both. It has taken over its main competitors and an old-economy catalogue company. Last week Sir Bob Geldof's Deckchair travel company laid off a third of its staff to   seek a link with a rival online company. Part of the problem facing companies like Deckchair is that airtravel companies such as easyJet and Go have successfully cut out the middleperson by selling straight to customers.It could be argued that Amazon itself only exists because of the failure of publishers to get their act together by selling books directly to the public and cutting out the intermediaries. No one, ultimately, can sell books more cheaply than the publisher (or author).This year will see an acceleration of three trends. First, online companies will continue to gobble each other up to get as close as they can   to a monopoly position so they can increase prices. Second, there will be "second generation" internet companies built to exploit the inherent strengths of the web rather than selling old economy goods in a different way.Third, old economy companies will pick up the remains of the failed dot.coms at bargain prices to provide an extra outlet (and shop window) for their wares.The most dramatic recent example is the John Lewis partnership. It was rather slow to embrace the net (unlike its subsidiary, Waitrose) but has now been catapulted into the vanguard by its take-over of the UK   arm of the troubled US e-tailer, Buy.com.In this way, the online companies that were supposed to replace old economy monoliths will in fact be swallowed by them once they have got their act together.We have been here before. Remember how the Today newspaper, the pioneer of new technology, was going to change the face of the newspaper industry? It did. It forced the rest of the industry to adopt the new technology much earlier than it would otherwise have done. Today closed down and the late adopters flourished.No one is talking much about first-mover advantage in the newspaper industry.
Global GoogleGoogle, the web's best search engine, has silently opened a UK site (www.google.co.uk). You can click a radio button to restrict searches to UK pages. There are other international versions too, such aswww.google.deandwww.google.fr, thoughwww.google.dkis a bookstore. Google has also launched an i-mode service, for users of Japan's mobile phone system, which you can find atwww.google.com/imode.Spaced outSome of the people who live in the South Pacific may see an unusual and very expensive firework during the next week, when Russia's Mir space station re-enters the Earth's atmosphere. But for the best view, an expedition plans to observe the re-entry from a chartered plane flying at 25,000 feet.Details are on the website atwww.mirreentry.com, along with a history of Mir and a QuickTime movie simulation of its expected destruction.Cool dudesOnline columnist Douglas Rushkoff, who teaches media culture at New York University, has been    interviewing people who create and flog popular culture to teenagers for America's PBS public broadcasting television network. The Merchants of Cool programme also has a website atwww.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/cool/.Although mostly text, the website does include some RealPlayer video clips to download.Yippie-yi-yoCountry and western songs are not likely to get many mentions here, but check out the chorus: "My dot com done come and gone/The wheels came off and it didn't take long/All that venture capital's spent/And our website didn't even make a cent."Rick Glaze is no rhinestone cowboy, but a business analyst with the ambition to become a Silicon Cowboy - which happens to be the title of his first CD.Lyrics and samples are atwww.siliconcowboyonline.comSearch and seeHere is an idea whose time has manifestly not come, at least in the UK. Room 102 (www.room102.com) is a search engine/directory that also serves up images of the sites it finds. You can have them in high bandwidth, low bandwidth or thumbnail format, unless you want plain text.The directory is the familiar Open Directory, Dmoz, which is also used by Google. Room 102 is more of demo: the company hopes to sell its SlideShow technology to every other portal site.Code 404It is a crushing indictment that many whole web sites are less interesting than some people's error pages, for which the code is 404. Seewhateverhost.com/404.htm, for example, orwww.cga94.com/notHere.htmfor a short, sharp shock.If you want more, Jenni Ripley (mentioned here before) is still collecting error pages atwww.plinko.net/404/. Don't forget to try her effortwww.plinko.net/404/404.htmUncool droidsWarner Brothers has released a "teaser trailer" and poster for its forthcoming film, Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone: go toharrypotter.warnerbros.com/web/dailyprophet/article.jsp?id=movie_trailer1.However, no   one has forgotten the trail of 15-year-old girls in England, Singapore and the US who have been put under pressure by Warner's lawyers for running Harry Potter fan sites. The fightback is continuing with the Defense Against the Dark Arts (DADA) project organised by Megora McGonagall, the American girl who runs the Daily Prophet fan site (www.dprophet.com); and Potter War (www.potterwar.org.uk), which is mirrored atwww.screamingfist.com/Pwar/.DADA is running an petition while other young victims are helping to organise a worldwide boycott of Harry Potter merchandise.New &amp; noted&#149; Eat like a hunter-gatherer with help from the Paleolithic Diet Page. a feast of links at:www.panix.com/~paleodiet/&#149; The world's greatest thinkers are being packaged atwww.boxmind.com&#149; Doomed? Vote atwww.dotdoomed.comon whether companies are hot or not.&#149; The red nose's home on the web atwww.comicrelief.comis hungry for money.&#149; Don't forget: the next commercial web event in the UK is Mother's Day on March 25;www.interflora.co.uk/mothersis just the start.&#149; It plays you:www.majestic.ea.com
How did you encounter computers?When I came out of high school I went to the Institute of Audio Research, a multi-track recording technology school. I learned how to record and mix bands and music. The first time I encountered a computer was using an ATM for a fleeting and practical need. That's still the way I use technology. I don't use it for the sake of it. I have an NEC Versa 4230 laptop PC because I'm on the road so much.Is the net living up to its potential?We've only really just begun. Over the past five years the internet has phenomenally changed the way single people get to know each other. We did a survey of singles in the UK and found that more than half felt they could fall in love with someone they met online. I call it falling in love from the inside out. As we as consumers get our needs met more easily, quickly and efficiently, we'll begin to derive real benefits from, and see the real promise of, the net.Is online dating capturing the imagination of the net community?Online dating has definitely come of age. In 1995 the concept was not necessarily understood and probably even deemed questionable. We've come to see that it's a sound business model - probably one of the better ones out there. Match.com is a subscription-based model. Our members can use many of the site's features free, including posting a profile, finding matches, reading and responding to dating-related content and attending some of our off-line events. If they wish to contact a match they subscribe. Fees are a month for &#163;17, six months for &#163;50 or a year for &#163;68. We've registered more than five million members, and have around 1.5m users on the site now, with at least 37,000 in the UK. We're registering around 14,000 new users a day.Do you feel the net is still male orientated?I think that's changing. Among my peers I see more and more women getting online. I think it's still a case of "if you build it they will come". If there's content and services available for women online that meet their needs, they will log on. When we launched Match.com in 1995, only around 10% of the demographic of the net were women, whereas it's now risen to about 40%.Is there a difference in surfing habits between genders?I think women use the net to make their day-to-day life easier. Their approach is practical. We book travel online, we date, we shop and do research online. I have a toddler and I'm constantly online answering the questions that a toddler asks, like "how does a fish breathe?". Men derive practical benefits, too, but I also think they have more fun online. They enjoy playing games and surfing to see what they come up with.Any favourite places on the net?Because of my toddler I'm constantly going to Ask Jeeves (www.askjeeves.com/). I use My Yahoo (my.yahoo.com/) everyday for stocks, movies and so on and I book my travel through Expedia (www.expedia.com).Visitwww.match.com
Digital blowOn March 1, Online reported on the problem of copyright violation through appropriation of the source code for web pages.This issue strikes at the heart of digital society. There are huge social benefits from the free reuse of source code, because otherwise everybody has to recreate the same basic techniques.But the original author should be rewarded for their work - if they give it away free, they can't earn a living.How can the web survive in these circumstances? The same question applies to "open source" systems such as Linux, and to the battles over Napster technology for bypassing copyright ownership. The lives of technologists, artists, and ordinary people depend on the answers.The Arts Council of England and the Cambridge University Computer Laboratory have recognised the need for debate that crosses the arts/technology divide, including opinion-formers, legal experts and policy makers. The resulting conference in Cambridge next month has a few places open to the public - details are at:www.cl.cam.ac.uk/CODE/Alan Blackwellalan.blackwell@cl.cam.ac.ukTaxi pleaseRe ordering a taxi via SMS (Online, March 1): What a ludicrous idea. Anyone who has ever used SMS or paging knows that messages cannot be guaranteed to arrive to a time like that. Your taxi may well turn up if your initial SMS arrives with the cab company within a reasonable time, but the confirmation messages are pointless and could arrive days late, if at all. As SMS facilities in European cities become more clogged with kids txtng 3ch thr, something ostensibly useful such as a way to book a taxi will become rapidly pointless, if it isn't pointless already.Sam Nelsonsam@cs.stir.ac.ukSuspicionSA Mathieson (Insight of the Law, Online March 1) quotes the idea that "there should be reasonable suspicion of &#91;benefit&#93; fraud before a &#91;bank&#93; customer's information is surrendered". Given the pressure claimants are under to have benefits paid directly into bank accounts (very convenient), the mere fact of claiming benefit seems to be sufficient excuse.D. CameronStoke-on-TrentBemusedTwo letters on March 1 regarding Freeserve make me wonder. I have signed up for Freeserve Anytime but am beginning to wish I hadn't. It barely works at all. Connecting to the service is a pain. The dialup number has two components, namely a six-digit prefix and an 0845 call number. The first six digits are supposed to access the special free terminal arranged with BT, which then enables contact with the 0845 number. Almost invariably when my dialer has got as far as the prefix digits there is a click, then the charming computerised BT lady voice announces: "The network is busy, please try later," or words to that effect. The following digits achieve nothing, although if you dial them separately, contact is established at once, but at a cost.On two occasions in the past week I have achieved access at the first dialing. Every other time I get the BT lady, and dial again and again, sometimes as many as 20 times before getting the proper connection noises.Three emails, a phone call to customer services and two expensive calls to the Freeserve "help" line only apologised and referred me to BT, who referred me back to Freeserve, saying there were not enough slots in the free connector for the number of customers, kindly explaining to me how the system works, which was interesting but didn't achieve anything.When eventually I do get through, I tend to do all my jobs at one go, which is not kind to other "users". As a senior nerd aged 83 how much time have I left?As your correspondent Jane Leaper remarked, anyone contemplating Anytime should think very carefully, and perhaps invest in a calendar rather than a stopwatch.Henry Hudsonhenry@henhud.freeserve.co.ukIn regard to David Ross's complaint on the tardiness of their email service, I have used the service for the past two years and have never encountered delays in receiving messages that could be attributed to FreeServe. The only delays have been when mail has been sent via a third party - where special interest group mail is sent through a moderator - who delays forwarding. I have come across friends who have thought that merely opening the Outlook Express inbox would automatically download mail from their ISP, not realising that they need to log on to their mail server.Thus they only got mail when they wrote a message and actively clicked the Send/Receive button.Des Geeredes@dgeere.freeserve.co.ukMy ISP is BTinternet, I use their &#163;9.99 per month service. I also use a telephone line from a cable company. But from March 31, to use my current service or similar service I will have to have a BT phone, which would be much more expensive. The only service open to those without BT phone lines is BT Internet Pay-as-you-go which I do not want. I have used BTinternet for several years and I had no wish to move website or change my email address but I will now be forced to as I will not be bullied into paying for one of BT's overly expensive lines.Andrew Aitkenandrew.aitken@btinternet.comI don't want to seem to be joining a witch-hunt, but has anybody noticed how appaling their off-peak service has become? Since Sunday (February 25) I have been unable to log on, getting the busy signal for hours at a time. An email (from work) brought an anodyne soother referring to their installation of more hardware. Surely this should have been done before they launched a new marketing drive?Tim Bloomfield(email address withheld)CorrectionsOn page 9, in our piece on booking cabs via SMS, the URL for the service, available in April, should have beenwww.obvious.co.uk.And on page 14, in our feature on web help for farmers, the address for Farming Online should have beenwww.farming.co.uk.Apologies for these errors.
Out of the SonicblueSonicblue, the company behind the Diamond Rio range of MP3 players, is now moving in on the CD personal market. Its debut player, the &#163;170 Rio Volt PSX100, spins CD-roms loaded with MP3 files, as well as standard CDs, CD-Rs and CD-RWs.Its unique feature, however, is that it is the first to go on sale in the UK to playback Windows Media Audio (WMA) files stored on a CD-rom. The format's efficient compression system means a CD-rom can store at least 17 hours of near-CD quality WMA music - seven hours more than the 10 hours of MP3 files it can archive.The player is also the first on sale to feature the ID3 tagging system which flashes up the name of the artist and the track on the player's backlit LCD screen.Coming at the end of the month is the Rio 800, Sonic blue's newest addition to its MP3 player range. The model shares its styling and many of its features with the existing Rio 600 model. It will play back WMA files, and Apple fans should note that it is one of only a handful of MP3 players that is Mac-friendly.The Rio 800 also comes with a voice recorder and 64MB storage - twice that in the 600. It is expected to cost around &#163;250.Pretty picturesPhilips is targeting gadget-grabbers with a new range of PC peripherals.Due at the end of March is the latest in its series of webcams, the &#163;100 PCVC750K. This oval-shaped camera sits atop a PC screen and takes both moving and still images.Its unique facility is its built in-scanner which provides real-time transfer of text, images and 3D objects to the PC. Gadget-lovers will also enjoy using its voice   recognition system that instructs the camera to automatically take a picture when the user says "cheese."Philips also plans to offer an LCD monitor with an integrated TV tuner. Due to hit the shops in October, the 17-inch screen includes Teletext. Its picture-in-picture technology gives the user the option of surfing the net while watching a TV programme simultaneously.The company has also unveiled the Fisio 610, a GPRS (General Packet Radio Service) mobile phone that is more akin to current GSM models than it is the handheld PC type GPRS prototypes paraded by other makers. There's no colour screen or HTML-ready web browser - rather the Fisio offers always-on, fast downloading of Wap sites. Like other mobiles in Philips' range it offers voice activated dialling and control. Expect to see it in the stores when GPRS networks are fully up and running in the summer. An entire range of Fisio phones is slated to reach the market in June.Other accessories Philips is promising this year include a trio of LCD projectors priced at &#163;2,000-&#163;2,900, new LCD and CRT monitors and a range of flat speakers.Mobile musicSony has become the latest manufacturer (after Samsung and Siemens) to offer a mobile phone that doubles as a music player. However, its CMD-MZ5 boasts a unique feature - an integrated ATRAC 3 converter. Using its accompanying analogue/ optical cable, music can be transferred to the mobile's Memory Stick storage card from any hi-fi device, not just from a PC. The phone also comes with a 64MB Memory Stick that the maker claims stores up to two hours of   near-CD quality tunes. Rival models only have 32MB of storage.The phone also has a long battery life. Sony claims that after listening to two hour's worth of music, the phone has 60 minutes of talk time left. Music can be listened to either via a pair of earphones or through attachable powered speakers.Other facilities include a Wap browser, the ability to send and receive email from an existing account, a 500-space phonebook, a calendar and four games.The phone goes on sale in May priced at around &#163;300-350.
When Rodney Ascher stepped into a San Francisco bar for a cocktail one evening, he had no intention of turning a quiet drink into the subject of a film, least of all a film people could carry around with them in their pockets."I happened to have a disposable camera on me and on a whim took 24 shots, thinking one might be suitable for the cover of a friend's punk rock album," he remembers. As things transpired, none of the pictures was punk rock material. However, with a little digital animation magic, they became the source for a miniature movie, a 30-second neon jewel created to fit a PDA (personal digital assistant).Most people still think of PDAs as electronic organisers in which to store addresses or make notes: sending email over a handheld device is still considered to be radical. With their tiny interfaces and even smaller memories, not even the most short-sighted of film makers could call the PDA a dream screen.But for Jason Wishnow, a 27-year-old digital movie pioneer and the founder of NewVenue.com , established in 1996 as the first curated website for films made expressly for the internet, the handheld device is the moving picture's new frontier. "Originally, I wanted to push the limits of the internet because that was a new,unexplored medium. Now the PDA offers similar   challenges to the early days of online film."The challenges facing anyone making a film for PDA are daunting. "Video on a PDA is like video on the web a few years ago - small, choppy and the less detail the better," says Wishnow. Aside from the compromising size of the screen and pea-sized memory, there's the fact that many PDAs can only play video in black and white and do not have sound. "They are day planners, they are organisers, they are modest productivity tools. PDAs were not built to be home entertainment centres," says Wishnow. "But because they are powered by a microchip, they can be."Seeing these technological shortcomings as a virtue, Wishnow launched the world's first PDA film competition in November. Known as The Aggressively Boring Film Festival, 69 digital artists and film-makers submitted entries that could be downloaded from the NewVenue website (www.newvenue.com/takeout) to the Sony CLI&#201; handheld device and played using the gMedia playback software produced by the Palo Alto-based wireless multimedia company Generic Media.Festival entries ranged from Dan Rootman and Chris Shiki's Bad Ass Jack and the Fat Stack, a grainy spoof   gangster flick with dialogue cards to tell the story in lieu of sound, to Louise McKissick's first prize-winning I Love You. This 15-second visual poem about the I Love You computer virus involves the artist's lips whispering sweet nothings to 3,000 ladybirds crawling on the inside of a tea cup.The technology for streaming video has greatly evolved. On March 1, Generic Media launched its gMovie Maker, allowing users to convert video, animation and still images into the gMovie format on Macintosh and Windows-based computers. The gMovie files can then be transferred to a handheld device using the gMovie player, which works on all Palm OS devices, not just the CLI&#201;. Although the system does not yet support audio, PDA videos can now appear in glorious colour.For McKissick, the mobile platform simply presents a new outlet for expression. "I'm always trying to put my work in an unconventional format. I like the idea of being in places where people don't usually expect to come across art." While for Ascher, the tech nology provides a new challenge: "You have to force yourself to pare down your work to the bare minimum and create really simple, iconographic images."Despite the merits of experimenting with a new technology and the creativity of the film makers, the future of streaming video on handheld devices doubtless lies beyond the realm of art house cinema. "Think about mobile TVs. Did they take off?" asks Brad Smith, the data editor at the wireless industry publication Wireless Week. Wireless video companies such as the San Diego-based PacketVideo are concentrating on promoting consumer content such as news headlines, sports highlights, games and online trading to   complement their web-streaming technology. "Streaming video to handheld devices is about providing people with information they need to know right now," says Lauren Cole, of PacketVideo's applications and services department.Nevertheless, Wishnow is not giving up on the fledgling art form. Having introduced the notion of video on PDA to the world with his film festival, he is revving up for the sequel: The Massively Boring Film Festival. "The notion of a 1.5 x 1.5 inch black-and-white film without sound may seem extraordinarily dull, but the limitations of the medium can actually be quite liberating for filmmakers," he says. "It's all about transcending the tedium."
You might not have a cool million for a real android but Sega is hoping its cheaper mini human-like toys will please the masses as its robotic hound Poo-Chi have more recently.Working with Tiger Electronics, Sega has come up with the BOT series of humanoid toys that can walk, dance and 'talk' with people through facial expressions, body language and messages that appear on its LCD face.While less sophisticated than Sony's Aibo cyber dog and light years behind Honda's life-size human-like   robot Asimo, Sega claims BOTs are the first humanoid toy robot to be marketed commercially.The first BOT to be launched this May, the C-Bot measuring 21.5cm tall and weighing about 400 grams, will be able to show emotions such as laughing and crying through its LCD, as well as using hand and neck movements to convey expression. The new droid will also be able to display on a monitor messages that have been sent to the owner over a mobile phone. Sega says that C2 will sell at around &#163;30.By the summer C-BOT will   be joined by M-BOT a 1,980 yen (&#163;12) robot that dances to music, and the W-BOT, a 4,980 yen robot that walks on two feet and can navigate its way around obstacles.Inspired by the success of Sony's Aibo, the BOTs now complete a family loosely based on Sony's more advanced robotic dog. After Sony's pet wonder sold out within minutes on the internet Sega came up with copy-cat but much cheaper Poo-Chi. The toy went on to sell more than 100 million units worldwide. Sega and Tiger hope to sell more than 1.5m units in the first year.
SavedBarrysWorld, the online gaming site (www.barrysworld.com), is continuing in business, though it went into voluntary liquidation earlier this year. More than 100 companies registered their interest with the liquidator, with Electron ics Boutique carrying off the prize.John Steinbrecher, EB's chief executive, said: "Until now, customers who purchased products in our stores with online gaming capabilities had to go elsewhere to experience this element of play. Electronics Boutique will now be able to provide an all-encompassing experience."Electronic Arts, the biggest video game publisher, has also added to its online capabilities. It has just taken over the Pogo games site, which has about 17m members. Excite@Home had dropped out of a deal to buy Pogo (www.pogo.com) and EA snapped it up for about a quarter of the price.MS gamingMicrosoft has unveiled the Links 2001 Course Converter (www.microsoft.com/games/links2001/), a free utility for people who own copies of LinksLS or Microsoft Golf. The converter will convert up to 36 golf courses into a   format that can be used in Links 2001. The game also includes the Arnold Palmer Course Designer utility, which enables PC golfers to create their own courses.Microsoft has also announced that a sequel to Asheron's Call, its popular online multiplayer role-playing game, has been under development for more than a year. The developer is Turbine Entertainment Software. Asheron's Call is only available via the Microsoft Game Zone atwww.zone.com.However, the Xbox teaser circulating recently is actually a spoof made for $60 by a 22-year-old American student, Roger Tinch. Daily Radar, a games news site, is hosting    the 18-megabyte movie atwww.dailyradar.com/features/game_feature_page_2379_1.htmlSnake's alive!You could appear in Konami's forthcoming Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty game on the Sony PlayStation 2 or, to be accurate, your name could turn up on a dead enemy soldier's dog-tag. The Japanese company wants your name, birth date, blood type, nationality and other details, and there is an entry form atwww.konami.co.jp/kcej/products/mgs2/mgs2name/index_e.html. The exact purpose of this is to be revealed. . .
Though worth &#163;100m today, Hermann Hauser, the co-founder of Acorn in 1978, says some of his best moments are when people come up to him in the street and say: "Thanks for the BBC Micro."Acorn's home computer - put on the map by the BBC in the early 80s - could have been a world beater that saw off competition from the US giants Apple and IBM. But, though Acorn itself has disappeared, its legacy is becoming more apparent.Less than four months ago, Element 14, a chip design company spun out of Acorn, was sold to the US chip giant Broadcom for around $600m in shares. ARM Holdings, another Acorn chip-design spin-off, has a market value of &#163;4.5bn.Though proud of Acorn's legacy, Hauser, now one of the biggest backers of technology in Cambridge through the venture capital firm Amadeus Capital Partners, believes Acorn could have survived.He says: "First, we should have really analysed how we compared to competing computers around the world. This would have shown us we had a real lead in terms of speed, price (&#163;299-&#163;399), operating system and expansion slots compared to our nearest rivals, the Apple II and Sinclair Spectrum."The BBC Micro was twice as fast as the Apple II, and could integrate text and colour graphics on the same screen. And it had built-in networking, which no other computer had at the time. You could even customise its hardware using BBC Basic rather then machine code."Having worked out it had a lead not just in the UK but globally, Hauser believes Acorn should have gone around the world persuading people to adopt its products as the industry standard. "Then, we should have licensed our hardware and software to anyone that wanted them," he says. If it   had done so, Acorn would still be collecting the royalties and IBM might never have been able to establish what later became the Wintel (Windows and Intel) hegemony.Instead, even when it received offers to license its technology, such as a request from the home computer company Commodore to use its Econet networking system, it said no. "We thought our wonderful, proprietary technology gave us an advantage over competitors, so we hogged it," says Hauser.Nevertheless, Acorn did want to sell PCs in the US. It set up a subsidiary with some managers it did not know very well and set about getting regulatory approval for its machines. This was very expensive and took a long time because of the unusually high number of devices that could be plugged into a BBC Micro. All had to be tested in connection with it, and the machine's radiation emissions also had to be reduced.Around $20m was sunk into the US operation, says Hauser, which contributed to the cash-flow problems the company experienced in 1983-5. Its share price plummeted and Olivetti, of Italy, bailed it out, eventually taking a majority stake.One thing it did get right - or almost right - was that it subcontracted the manufacture of its machines. However, its contracts with manufacturers were not flexible enough. So when it missed the Christmas slot for selling a new model, the Acorn Electron, which was followed by a dramatic downturn in demand for home computers, it could not stop its manufacturers making the machines.This was another blow to its cashflow. Research and   development spending was too high and several times the company appointed senior managers who were more interested in technology than in the day-to-day mechanics of running a business. Hauser is happy to admit that he is not a good manager, though his enthusiasm for ideas helped give Acorn the buzz of a leading research lab.He says: "The big obstacle to getting company culture right is to stop people falling out with each other. You also have to be tolerant. When one of our most brilliant members of staff told me he would be coming in to work on Monday dressed as a woman, I was a bit taken aback. But he showed me the research on transsexuals, we talked about it, and she and I are still great friends."The company culture was also reinforced over pasta. Hauser says: "If I was still in the office between 7pm and 8pm, I would be getting really hungry, so I would treat anyone else who was around to a meal at the Italian Kitchen."Many of the company's most successful products started there, and there was a lot of competition to produce the best ideas. Also, there was real excitement about chip technology, rather like the excitement generated by the internet more recently.The BBC spotted the trend early and made a programme called The Chips Are Down, which predicted there would be a computer in every home. "Some people thought this was the BBC getting weird," says Hauser. But at Cambridge University, where he studied physics and hung out with chip evangelists, "it was an idea we really believed in."Hauser believed that to design a really efficient computer, you also needed to design the chip inside it. Originally, Acorn planned to use Intel's 286 chip in its Archi-medes computer. But because Intel would not let it license the 286 core and adapt it, Acorn decided to design its own.This became the ARM (Acorn Risc Machine) chip, designed by Steve Furber and Sophie Wilson, and implemented by Jamie Urquhart, now a director of ARM. By then, most people were buying IBM-compatible PCs because they were cheap and lots of software was available. But because the ARM chip was so fast, there was a good market it.Apple wanted to use the ARM in its Newton handheld so ARM (Advanced Risc Macines) was spun off as a separate company with Apple as a shareholder. But as ARM sales grew, it did so wellon the stockmarket that it began to distort Acorn's share price. Eventually, a sitation developed where Acorn's shares were worth less than its 25% stake in the business.So Acorn, which had made BBC Micros for more than a   decade, was dissolved in 1999, with the proceeds of the ARM stake going to shareholders. Element 14 was sold to Morgan Stanley, giving E14's management the option of buying it within three months, and Acorn's set-top box technology was sold to Pace Micro Technology for a nominal sum.To Hauser, Acorn has metamorphosed rather than died. He says: "So many of the people I had worked with are still around as part of Element 14 (Stan Boland, the one-time Acorn head, and Sophie Wilson) or ARM.Lots of other companies, most but not all successful, can also boast a connection with Acorn. For example, Alex van Someren, the ponytailed chief executive of the internet security company nCipher, dropped out of Eton after Hermann Hauser told   him there was a job for him at Acorn when he left school.Before that, he and his brother Nicko made money selling peripherals for the BBC Micro, such as go-faster boards. And after Olivetti's involvement in Acorn, Hauser (then vice president of research for Olivetti) and fellow Acorn director Andy Hopper set up a research laboratory for Olivetti, from which many companies were spun out.These include Virata, a Nasdaq-listed telecoms company with a market value of more than $700m. It makes technology to expand the capacity of ordinary phone lines.In the US, employees of the one-time chip giant Fairchild Semiconductor are known as Fairchildren after going on to do great things in Silicon Valley. In the UK, Acorn has given rise directly or indirectly to more than 30 companies, and many Little Acorns have become multi-millionaires.It seems the BBC and its television programme, Micro Live, helped foster more than a home and school computer revolution, helping Britain into the digital age.
Destined to mediocrity, like ChelseaEuropean Super LeagueDreamcast&#163;39.99  Virgin Interactive *****Football games on the Dreamcast are a bit like Chelsea FC - all the right ingredients but the reality can be woefully inadequate. With its tasty graphics and relatively easy development environment, you would expect Sega's machine to be well stocked with talent. But, rather like those underperformers at Stamford Bridge, the Dreamcast is stuck with unplayable arcade conversions like Virtual Striker 2 and the tedious Sega Worldwide Soccer. While every footy fan has ample reserves of optimism, anyone hoping for a late winner will be sadly disappointed with the latest signing - European Super League.The game is not that bad, it is just depressingly average.   For starters there are only 16 teams, which even when taking account of the vagaries of licensing, seems overly stingy.Then there's the game itself. Marvel at Zidane's accurately modelled bald patch and the admittedly impressive stadia but groan as the match kicks off. Unless the sprint button is held down, the players move with   Le Tissier-like sloth, though without his control and poise; players often run past the ball rather than retrieving it. Throw in comical tackles, random shooting and a ball that fails to adhere to the laws of physics and you've got a dead cert for relegation. But play a little longer and the flaws recede slightly.Goals, while flowing too   readily, are satisfying, and the slow pace allows a measured build-up. The graphics are smart, with the realistic venues adding something. Of course, all this talk of the realistic this and the accurately modelled that, tells you one thing: on the pitch, the game is destined to mid-table mediocrity. (GH)Dice with Irvine but not MontoyaF1 Racing ChampionshipPC&#163;29.99  Ubi Soft	*****There's no shortage of F1 racing games, especially arcade racers running on games consoles. However, the serious player who wants a proper simulation is almost certainly playing Geoff Crammond's Grand Prix series, which started with Revs on the Acorn BBC micro. But GP3 is there to be overtaken.Coming up behind is Ubi Soft's F1 Racing Championship, the follow-up to F1 Racing Simulation, Monaco Grand Prix and other Ubi Soft efforts. Will the latest version, delayed until March 23, finally sweep past GP3?The answer, sorry, is that I can't say. I found F1RC virtually unplayable, not because of the quality of the game, but   because it was like taking a night drive wearing Raybans.F1RC offers an impressive range of adjustments, down to the rigidity of rear anti-roll bars. When it comes to the graphics, you can decide whether or not to have tri-linear or anisotropic filtering, or both. But the programmers have left out the virtual knob for screen brightness, and even with the monitor turned up, the image on my PC was mostly black. (Ubi Soft says it   was beta test code and no one else has had this problem.)Fortunately Ubi Soft has added a beginner mode for people who can't handle the amateur, pro and expert levels. This enables virtually anyone to win with any car. You can bounce off tyre walls and still extend your lead by 15 seconds a lap. In the dark.Step up to amateur, however, and it gets serious: the car becomes a pig to drive, and you can't treat the grass as an   extension of the tarmac. The awkward placing of the read-outs does not help, especially the rev-counter half-way up the screen on the right. Mastering F1RC will take time and effort - probably more than mastering GP3.But when you get really good, you will be able to take part in the equivalent of real grand prix races against 21 other drivers, either on the internet or a local area net-work. Direct connection and split-screen modes are provided for two-player battles.While Ubi Soft claims FR1C is fabulously realistic, with tracks modelled to the nearest centimetre, one thing punctures the pleasure: the cars and drivers are based on the 1999 line-up. You can dice with Pedro de la Rosa, and back-end Irvine's Ferrari, but you can't touch wheels with Montoya. This may not trouble the serious gamer, who will hunt the web for new cars to download, but it will disappoint anyone who wants to play the current season. (JS)A fun, vibrant user-friendly challengeGrandia 2Dreamcast&#163;39.99  Pinnacle/Ubi Soft *****It seems like only yesterday that Grandia, the Japanese role-playing game, was launched on the western gaming world. In fact, it was around the middle of last week; it's just that the sequel has been translated more quickly than its predecessor.Not that Grandia 2 is your typical rushed rehash. This is a more grown-up affair, with properly fleshed-out characters. The story also has a little more weight: as brooding youngblood Ryudo, you hook up with the pious Elena and others in a bid to swing the ultimate battle between good and evil.The graphics, too, are a world away from the bland shades of Grandia, although this has much to do with the fact that this is on Dreamcast instead of PlayStation. Both character models and backgrounds are far more vibrant and detailed, and the combat   animations are almost worthy of a PC game, although the characters' lack of faces means that empathising with your team is a doomed enterprise.One thing Grandia 2 has retained is the control system - no great shock, since the interface was undoubtedly one of the original's biggest pluses. Combat in particular is both user-friendly and fun. A hybrid of real-time and turn-based action, it is not dissimilar to that used in Final Fantasy. However, it does offer more possibilities: as well as simply attacking, defending and casting spells, you can evade attacks and even foil an enemy attack. You can choose to run away, or even avoid battles altogether. Not that you need to: even the bosses are relative pushovers.And this is the only area where Grandia 2 falls down. Not only are the battles easy, the puzzles wouldn't tax the average contestant on Who Wants to Be a Millionaire? This, combined with the linear storyline, makes it possible to finish a big game in less time than is usual for such a game. Having said that, it is refreshing to finish a game before the lease on your house runs out.  (AB)
Amazon, the world's biggest online retailer, was embroiled in a humiliating computer security row last night after it emerged that intruders had access to the credit details of thousands of a subsidiary's customers for four months.Bibliofind, which connects buyers and sellers of rare and secondhand books, has contacted users to admit that hackers penetrated its defences in October last year, managing to maintain undetected access to its 98,000-strong customer database until last week. During that time, they are believed to have downloaded names and addresses, credit card details and telephone numbers. It is understood that the attack was only spotted during a security review prompted by the site being defaced.Some customers have been informed by their credit card issuers that their cards have been suspended because security has been compromised.The extraordinary breach will come as a huge embarrassment to Amazon.com. The massive books-to-auctions operation, which took over Bibliofind in April 1999, has grown to become the net's biggest retail success with a reputation for electronic security that has helped it overcome widespread public fears about fraud.Yesterday, Amazon executives in Seattle, Washington, were distancing themselves from the episode. Callers were referred to Bibliofind, which Amazon insisted was an entirely separate operation.Bibliofind moved to assure customers that there was no evidence that any of the stolen information had been used to commit fraud.Its spokesman Jim Courtovich said: "We have no information at this time to suggest that customers' credit cards have been misused."He declined to go into detail about the circumstances of the violation, which is now the subject of an investigation by the US authorities.The site will no longer hold customer credit details. Instead, all payments will be made directly by the purchaser to the individual bookseller.Users of the site, which was closed down over the weekend after the breach was spotted, have been sent an email informing them that a security violation "compromised the security of credit card information". The email concluded: "To ensure this doesn't happen again, we have removed all customer credit card information, physical addresses, and phone numbers from Bibliofind's servers. We expect to bring the Bibliofind system back into operation shortly. We apologise for any inconvenience this may cause you."But in a development that will deepen the embarrassment of Amazon and Bibliofind, a British internet news website claimed yesterday to have evidence that the company had been warned on at least one occasion that its defences may have been violated.The Register published claims from an American internet retailer that he had detected a spate of attempted credit card frauds around October last year.Items of between $1,200 and $2,000 in value were ordered with valid US cards, most of them to be shipped to eastern European destinations. But the retailer became suspicious and contacted the individual cardholders."We asked them if they shopped online anywhere else, as we suspected someone's database had been hacked," the retailer told the Register. "The only common link was Bibliofind." He had contacted the company, but it denied its site had been hacked into.Last night, a Bibliofind spokesman said that any warning would have been fully investigated.Useful linksElectrohippies collectiveUS Cult of the Dead Cow hackers' siteSalford University institute of social research
The world's most famous coffee machine - the subject of the first live webcam broadcast - is to be consigned to web history.To net addicts yet to discover the more dynamic attractions of cyberspace, the Trojan coffee pot in Cambridge University's computer lab has held the same iconic status as Marconi's first crackling radio transmission or Gutenberg's first printed bible for almost a decade.Since it went live on the web in the early 1990s, the otherwise unremarkable filter machine - named after its home in an area of the lab known as the Trojan Room - has been watched filling up and emptying by an estimated 2.4m viewers worldwide.But yesterday it was announced that fans will have to find another mundane domestic appliance to watch when the university's computer department moves to a new &#163;15m building later this year and the Trojan pot is rendered obsolete.The cameras were first trained on the pot in 1991, when the internet was nothing more than an academic concept. With only one coffee machine to serve the entire seven-storey lab, researchers at the university wrote a program known as XCoffee to allow them to monitor the pot's contents on their computer screens and save themselves a wasted journey if it was empty.In November 1993, XCoffee made internet history when live images of the pot were broadcast on the fledgling world wide web."We never imagined it would achieve the cult status it has," said Quentin Stafford-Fraser, who wrote some of the pot's original software.
Glasgow city council has been forced to pull the plug on all public internet access at its libraries after children were discovered gathered around PCs looking at pornographic websites.The council was alerted by a concerned parent after her young child came home and said she had "seen a naked lady" at the library. Internet access has been shut down until the council can put filtering software in place.Unlimited access has been on offer since late last year when the city's libraries disabled filtering software that was considered too restrictive. The software had blocked access to generally inoffensive sites, such as national newspapers and magazines, if they contained keywords such as "sex".Glasgow city council has apologised and accepted full responsibility for the problem."We should have paid more attention to how our libraries' internet access was running. There was no filter and there should have been," a spokesman said.New filtering software had been due for installation at the end of this month to replace the overly restrictive system. But while unlimited access was on offer, the children of Glasgow were quick to take advantage of the situation.The problem for Glasgow's libraries is that most filtering software is a blunt instrument at best, and keeping inappropriate sites out of children's reach can also mean keeping adults away from information they want or need.Glasgow city council is well aware of the civil liberties issues. "The words filtered by the old software could stop an adult from reading an article about sex therapy in a national newspaper, for example," said the spokesman. "It was pointless having a system in a library that was so strict."Paola Bassanese, an analyst with internet consultancy Ovum, said most of the tools available now filter by keyword or specific internet address. To get around the restriction, sites can use code words that will sound inoffensive to a filtering system or change their URL."This kind of software is pretty limiting as it will filter out an innocuous site," she said. "There is no foolproof solution."Ms Bassanese suggests that libraries could put a computer chip on library swipe cards that would tell a computer what sort of internet access you should have: filtered for the under-18s and unlimited for adults. But she admits a solution that complicated may be too expensive for a library.Meanwhile, Glasgow city council hopes to have internet access up and running again - with new filtering software - by the end of this week. And the kids will be left to think of creative new search words to outwit the filters.Related articles09.01.2001: Out of harm's way23.01.2000: Blunkett's safety net will deprive schoolchildren of the naked truth11.05.1999: Net nanniesUseful linksGlasgow city councilSurfcontrolNet NannyCybersitter
Grocery e-tailerTesco.commight soon be delivering shopping to doorsteps in Seoul, chief executive officer John Browett told a retail conference yesterday.The group already has hypermarkets in Malaysia, Thailand, Taiwan and South Korea, but online operations only in Britain and Ireland."Clearly we want to take the model international. We have already taken it to Ireland," Mr Browett told the conference. He added that Korea and even the US might be next.Tesco.com, which took its first order in December 1996, is now the third-largest retail portal in the UK, beaten only by Amazon.co.uk and Amazon.com, according to the Nielsen ratings quoted by Tesco. Mr Browett estimated last year's sales at about &#163;250m - up from &#163;125m in 1999.He attributed Tesco.com's success to its ability to draw supplies from the parent company's national network of supermarkets, reducing costs and raising efficiency.A report last month showed that online's share of the overall grocery market remains small. In   Britain, internet grocery shopping accounts for only 0.4% of the market.In the US, the rate is 0.33%, and in Germany and Italy 0.1% and 0.02%. Web food shopping is forecast to grow rapidly. According to Datamonitor, the online grocery market is worth $3.5bn, and is set to become the biggest business-to-consumer sector.Reuters
Vivendi Universal, owner of the world's largest music publishing group, yesterday offered an olive branch to Napster, the online song swapping service struggling for survival.Jean-Marie Messier, Vivendi's chief executive, said the company had no argument with Napster if the service became legitimate. Vivendi, he said, would be prepared to license its output to Napster if the site could prove it was able to protect copyrights."I don't intend to take a position where we say we won't license our material to Napster," Mr Messier said. "Neither are we in a position where we need to license our catalogue to Napster as a matter of urgency. I am neutral."Mr Messier said he would license the company's catalogue under the same terms to any online platform as long as it fulfilled two criteria: full recognition of copyright and demonstration that encryption technology was secure."Why should we not be on Napster in a couple of months when it has demonstrated that it respects those two criteria, alongside MSN, Yahoo! or Wanadoo? I am not going to struggle against Napster. I just need to get my content out there to as many platforms as possible."Mr Messier, who was speaking at the Financial Times New Media and Broadcasting conference, warned that Vivendi would aggressively pursue online companies breaching copyright. The group last month announced the formation of rival online music alliance - Duet - with Sony of Japan.Napster promised in court last Friday to use a filter to prevent copyrighted music being downloaded from its site.That was a last minute attempt to persuade US district judge Marilyn Hall Patel to allow the service to survive, albeit radically reshaped.Judge Patel said on Friday that she would soon decide "not if, but what an injunction should look like".There are is still a row between Napster and the music industry over which side should bear the cost of providing secure, copyrighted material. The software to be installed on Napster's servers will block access to 1m music files.Leading record labels, including Sony, Warner and EMI, are suing Napster, claiming that it encourages copyright infringement.Last month they won a victory when a US court of appeals ordered Napster to stop trading in copyrighted material ahead of the conclusion of the trial.So far Bertelsmann, which owns BMG, has been the only of the five largest music publishers to take a stake in Napster, which has 65m users, and attempt to turn it into a legitimate membership business.Napster has offered $150m a year to the big five music groups over the next five years. Under the model, Napster would take 40% of revenues from its fee paying members and the music industry 60%.Mr Messier also disclosed plans to halve the number of staff at Uproar and Flipside, its two online gaming services, with the loss of 150 jobs. The   aim is to reach profitability by the end of the year.He also signalled that the collapse in internet-related shares had created opportunities for further acquisitions. "What are the consequences of the e-crack? The consequences are opportunities."Some of these businesses have become really cheap, and some of these businesses are really good," he said.&#149; Vivendi said yesterday it had agreed to sell its stake in AOL France back to AOL Time Warner, the US media and internet conglomerate formed by the merger of America Online and Time Warner, for about $700m.
The shares of number one net retailerAmazon.comsurged yesterday after rumours to the effect that the struggling company was in talks with Wal-Mart Stores to form some kind of strategic e-commerce deal.Amazon's shares, which have lost about 83% of their value over the past year, were up 23.75% on the Nasdaq stock market in early trading.Wal-Mart shares were up less than 1% on the New York Stock Exchange.This weekend, the Sunday Times newspaper in Britain, citing executives close to the talks, reported that Amazon founder Jeff Bezos had met with Wal-Mart's chief executive Lee Scott to work out a deal in which Amazon would handle Wal-Mart's online strategy, as well as develop a presence in the retailer's more than 4,500 stores.Under the terms of the deal, Amazon would receive a cash injection and a percentage of the sales it made through Wal-Mart, the Sunday Times said, although an equity investment by Wal-Mart into Amazon would be unlikely.Wal-Mart would not comment on speculation about their business plan. Amazon.com did not immediately return calls for comment.A handful of Wall Street analysts admitted they thought the deal would be a perfect fit, given Wal-Mart's failed attempts at building a strong presence on the web and given recent rumours that Amazon, like many e-tailers, has been thwarting off bankruptcy as it struggles to turn a profit.Wal-Mart is the largest retailer in the world, with fourth-quarter sales topping $56.5bn (&#163;38bn), and the company, which did not catch the dot.com fever until recently, only ventured into the fray when it relaunched Walmart.com in November last year. Last month, however,Walmart.comlaid off 10% of its staff in a move to conserve cash and focus its efforts on the site's technology.Since Amazon started selling books online in 1995, it has expanded its product offerings to include everything from music CDs to kitchen appliances, a strategy that has raised concerns that it was expanding too fast.Reuters
First there was online shopping, then came internet dating. Now to the burgeoning list of traditional activities going hi-tech, a British businessman has added another: arranged marriages.Sadiq Shah, from Luton, has launched a website aimed at Asian parents who are struggling against the tide of progress to find suitable spouses for their offspring.Within a month, the site,www.kuchkuchhotahai.net- named after the Bollywood movie Something Something is Happening Now - has attracted 200 members.Prospective brides and grooms, and their parents, can sift through a database which carries photographs of potential partners and personal details such as height, weight, likes and dislikes. Once a likely candidate has been selected, a fee of &#163;19.99 buys further information and a supervised introduction.Mr Shah, 33, a father of five who runs a fabric shop, is also planning a blind date service. The Cilla Black role will be left to the computer which will select two members it thinks are compatible. They will be contacted to see if they wish to meet.The service would breathe new life into a traditional practice, Mr Shah said. "Ten years ago things were different, but the youngsters who have been brought up in this country are well educated and want a lot more out of prospective partner and they want a say in the decision."Parents are finding that they have nowhere to go. We are saying to parents if you are not computer literate get the kids to help you. Work together to find someone that everyone is happy with."He added: "Traditions may change but arranged marriages are still going strong and research shows that arranged marriages are more successful than conventional love matches."
Due to the number of celebrities who will be taking them off, putting them on their heads or up for auction, Comic Relief 2001 will go down in the fundraising hall of fame as the  "pants" year. "Pants to poverty", this year's slogan, will be up there with such corkers as Hale and Pace's "stonk" song  (1991) and "the invasion of the comic tomatoes" (1993).From a marketing perspective, however, 2001 will also be remembered as the year charity went high tech. For Comic Relief's new media strategy this year is anything but "pants". Cisco, Oracle,   Energis, BT and Compaq make up the panoply of technology giants who have built the website - or online fundraising mall - atwww.comicrelief.com.With a new three-minute donation engine, a state-of-the-art database, e-commerce solutions, security firewalls, online tariff voting and 82 call centres (staffed by 15,000 volunteers), Comic Relief hopes to take fundraising to heights hitherto unknown. If 1999's bargain basement website collected £400,000, it will be interesting to see if it can exceed this figure with equipment worth at least £1m.From PR to sheer pocket-emptying effectiveness, Red Nose Day has always been the king of charity showcases. It gets an enormous amount of airtime, celebrity support (200 stars already this year) and press coverage. In 1988, the experience of a red-carbuncled Lenny Henry encouraging us to "hit those phonelines" as we sat back and watched the grand total shooting up miraculously was an early taste of interactive TV.From village cake stalls and sponsored streaks to 1999's successful campaign to "turn the web red" banner ad campaign, which is bigger this time, the organisers have had 13 years' experience in cross-platform interaction.This year, according to marketing director Amanda Horton-Mastin, new media technology is at the forefront of fundraising strategy. Only a month ago, you wouldnÍt have suspected   it: a basic "coming soon" site with Henry inviting you to check out "one of the most crucial websites around" was all that was on show. Then on February 19, a handful of journalists were invited to the launch of a "new interactive donation experience", a live web event featuring Lenny Henry and Joanna Lumley, "taking you through the steps leading to the galaxy of stars" which boasts that it features the names of every person to make an online donation.The idea is immediate gratification for anyone donating any amount of money (although   sadly, due to a "software error", my name won't be joining the likes of Michael   Barrymore). The network infrastructure and transaction system, designed by Cisco with   NatWest Streamline Merchant Services, can manage up to 200 consecutive donations a   second and, amazingly, was built in just three weeks - compared to a traditional turnaround   of two months.Kevin Cahill, Comic ReliefÍs CEO, believes its new system will change the whole process   of "giving online".  "The most exciting thing," he says, "is that it gives Comic Relief the   potential to reach the hearts and minds of people not just in the UK but throughout the   world. It's a tangible way of helping Comic Relief tackle poverty and promote social justice   in the UK and Africa, not just for Red Nose Day but on an ongoing basis."The internet has already opened up new avenues of fundraising in the charity sector. There   are now dozens of ethical shopping sites which support good causes by guaranteeing a   percentage of every transaction.   Sites such asshop2give.com,free2give.co.ukandwebcharity.com, which allows people to   buy, sell or donate using the e-auction format and even boasts a virtual thrift shop - Oxfam   in cyberspace.Most sites, however, lack the expensive credit card payment systems which   would make donating secure and seamless.   The e-commerce solution also means that for the first time Comic Relief can sell noses,   gimmicks, T-shirts and, significantly, two new Harry Potter adventures donated by JK   Rowling, due for publication on March 12."For the first time, this means we had to think   about designing the site for a global audience," says Horton-Mastin, "and being able to   handle 13 different currencies."But it's the good ideas in conjunction with the pride-and-joy payment systems which the   organisers hope will make the campaign a success. Ideas like Pantasy Football (thought up   by the lads at Cisco systems), an online game spoof of Fantasy Football launched on   Valentine's Day with the Daily Star which allows wannabe football managers to create their   dream team built from their 11 worst footballers, based on the performance of players in FA   Cup, Premier League and Worthington Cup games. Entries start at £2 with 80% of fees   being donated by the production company Dream League.During the two day event itself (March 16-17), while the focus will be on televised events,   Robbie Williams's "Bid it sum" live auction will be a strong contender for eyeballs.   Game-as-ever Robbie, the nation's favourite cheeky chappie, is giving up his kingsize bed,   Technics decks and a handwritten version of his hit single Angels to go under the hammer.   The actual auction will take place at Sotheby's on April 10, highlighted atsothebys.com/robbie, but bidding will take place on the official site and atrobbiewilliams.com.Pop stars Westlife and Craig David have also hitched their fan sites up to the mother ship   and will be offering free tickets and other paraphernalia.  Other web attractions accessed in the "Have a laugh" channel include web casts of   celebrity interviews (the marketing department cannot say who because it will be on an "on   the hop" basis), stand-up shorts and video streaming. You can already view the likes of   Davina McCall, Angus Deayton and Geri Halliwell doing have-a-go improvisations  with   pants, and play the boxers versus Y-fronts game.Then there's the much-hyped Celebrity Big Brother (a joint venture between BBC, Endemol   and Comic Relief), running from March 9-16, which will attempt to mimick the success of   the Channel 4 gameshow, with telephone voting (25p a minute) and regular web bulletins to   keep us up to date on which stars are killing who. According to reports, participants are   rumoured to include Frank Skinner, Mariella Frostrup and Chris Evans, while Mel B has   had to drop out due to exhaustion. The online voting mechanism which will connect you to   a tariff line before reconnecting to your ISP, is apparently "the first of its kind", but only   works from direct dial-up modems.And when the stage is packed up and the whole stonking circus over for another two years,   Comic Relief will live on in its new virtual form. With a database containing the details of all   who have "given it sum", the charity hopes to keep the web community alive 365 days a   year with email updates and online attractions such as comedy casts, news and a permanent   resource for schools. The site is currently advertising something called Web Nose Day, a   website design competition for schools.  ItÍs the online donation mechanisms, however, which the organisers hope will become the   "killer app" for charities.Last year, Comic Relief raised a record £35m, which will be   distributed among a host of causes in the UK, Africa and globally. This time around, with a   bit of luck, it could make more than all the profits of all the dotcoms in the UK in 2000 put   together. Just imagine.
They are among the greatest thinkers of the day, driving forward an understanding in a range of disciplines from the origins of the cosmos to the nature of consciousness. But from today, 12 of the world's leading academics will be available to expound on their latest theories at the touch of a button.Richard Dawkins, evolutionary biologist, Niall Ferguson, controversial history professor and the media's current academic favourite, and Sir Martin Rees, the astronomer royal, are three of the eminent dons who will deliver interactive, online lectures on a ground breaking internet site to be launched today.In a development which may herald the web's coming of age as a powerful educational tool, the series of "e-lectures" will cover topics as diverse as the human genome project, Shakespeare's Othello and the relationship between power and money.Alongside the eminent British contingent, will be three leading American academics, including Steven Pinker, the world-renowned professor of brain and cognitive sciences at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.His lecture, the Ingredients of Language, poses some fundamental questions. "How does language work?" he asks. "What is the trick behind our ability to share so many different kinds of ideas, merely by making noise as we exhale? ... the prediction that regular forms are generated by rule whenever memory fails helps to make sense of the many puzzles of language, such as how children learn their mother tongue, where language resides in the brain and why no one really seems to know the plural of Walkman."Richard Halkett, who set up Boxmind - the company producing the e-lectures - with two fellow Oxford graduates three years ago, said: "Everybody has heard of Richard Dawkins, Niall Ferguson and the others. They might have heard them on the radio or seen them on television but very few will ever have had the chance to hear them deliver a lecture. Now they can log on and see them put forward their greatest theories."Boxmind claims the site will blow apart traditional approaches to study. Because the lectures are not delivered by a live webcast but by a broadcast of filmed material, users can stop the action at any point and follow the extensive links on each page for in-depth background information on specific points. The lectures can also be rewound and examined line by line for weaknesses in the argument.The technology used for the site -www.boxmind.com- is as inventive as the concept. Each lecture screen is split into four. In the top left, a talking head delivers the lecture, while synchronised slides run in the top right. In the bottom right there is a synchronised transcript of the entire lecture - complete with embedded footnotes - next to the relevant web links.The 12 lectures will form the foundations of a growing archive. But there is one drawback: the resource is open to members of the public only until the end of the month. After that, the lectures will be licensed for use by individual universities, which will also be able to have their own academic staff delivering lectures in the same way."It is a pity that the public won't be able to access them," said Mr Halkett. "But the reality of internet businesses since the dot.com collapse is that we have to make real money."The technology driving the site has potential far beyond academia. One option already under discussion is a deal with publishers for similar sites to tie in with new book releases, especially in the booming popular science market. That opens the possibility of readers being able to log on and have ready access to leading authors - Stephen Hawking, for example - to take them through their latest work.The launch of the e-lectures is also likely to intensify demands for high quality online learning. So far the internet's potential as an educational resource has been limited by the sheer volume of information it carries.In February last year, David Blunkett, the education secretary, announced plans for the world's first national e-university, offering a "British university education" worldwide.But since then the grand plan has foundered, with many sceptics dubbing it an irrelevant white elephant on a par with the Millennium Dome. The government itself admits that the project is at least four years from fruition.But Mr Halkett said the new e-lectures were proof that the internet could be made to deliver. "We started off building an online library but we quickly realised how scarce decent material is out there. We decided to produce our own and now we have a lecture series which offers dynamic, unrivalled access to the most persuasive thinkers of the day."Heavy hitters in the groves of academeThe site's first 12 lecturers are:Richard DawkinsFellow of New College, Oxford, and Charles Simonyi, professor of the public understanding of science. Lecture title: Survival of the Fittest - the Fittest What?Niall FergusonProfessor of political and financial history, at Oxford. Lecture title: The Cash Nexus - Money and Power in the Modern World.Sir Martin ReesAstronomer Royal and Royal Society professor at Kings College, Cambridge. Lecture title: Cosmic Evolution.Daniel DennettProfessor of philosophy, and director of the Center for Cognitive Studies at Tufts University, Massachusetts. Lecture title: Consciousness: More Like Fame Than Television.Peter AtkinsSmithKline Beecham fellow and tutor in physical chemistry at Lincoln College, Oxford. Lecture title: The Second Law.John KayFellow of St John's College, Oxford, and visiting professor of economics at the London School of Economics. Lecture title: The Foundations of Corporate Success.David WomersleyFellow and tutor in English literature and senior tutor of Jesus College, Oxford. Lecture title: Tragedy and Individuality in Othello.John SearleMills professor of the philosophy of mind and language, University of California at Berkeley. Lecture title: Consciousness, Free Will and the Brain.Sir David WeatherallRegius professor of medicine at Oxford. Lecture title: The Human Genome Project and the Future of Medical Practice.Ian StewartProfessor of mathematics at Warwick University. Lecture title: Order and Chaos in Mathematics and Nature.Nicola LaceyProfessor of criminal law at LSE. Lecture title: Criminal Law and Modern Society.Steven PinkerPeter de Florez professor in the department of brain and cognitive sciences at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Lecture title: The Ingredients of Language.
On the Richter scale it measured 8.5 in Seattle. No, not last Thursday's earthquake. The really seismic event occurred on Tuesday in the US Court of Appeal, currently home to the saga that Microsoft ridiculously calls the Department of Justice vs innovation and others describe as nothing less than the battle for the future of the internet.But it now looks as though Microsoft may have landed itself a Get Out Of Jail card, despite having been found guilty of using its monopoly powers to violate anti-trust articles. It is a remarkable turnaround. Only last June, District Court judge Thomas Penfield Jackson issued a final ruling, calling for the company to be split into two parts: one focused on building its operating system, the other on applications and the internet. Consumer groups were delighted.But after two days of appeal hearings, you can see the tide turning in Microsoft's favour. Harry Edwards, chief judge at the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, criticised Jackson's attacks on Bill Gates, saying judges had no right to 'go run off our mouths'.Until now, Gates has been the arch villain in the biggest anti-trust trial of all time. His earlier court appearances drew so much flak that he was forced to relinquish his role at   Microsoft. In addition, Microsoft last week appointed Rick Belluzzo as president. A former group vice-president, Belluzzo is seen as the man to open up a more consultative dialogue with the government.So now it is Jackson who finds himself on the receiving end. Almost overnight, he has become the man who, in the incipient days of Dubya's laissez faire Republican administration, finds himself out in the cold, castigated for trying to break up the world's most successful company.The problem for Jackson and the DoJ is that times have changed since the case against Microsoft was launched back in May 1998. Other big beasts, such as AOL Time Warner, are stalking. Suddenly, Microsoft doesn't look so scary, especially given that its market capitalisation has crashed from $600 billion to barely half that now.Factor in a profits warning, analysts' downgrades and gloomy predictions from Intel and Dell, and you could argue, as Microsoft is trying to, that the context is entirely different to that of 12 months ago.It is a confusing turn of events but, then, as Alan Greenspan once put it: 'The world of anti-trust is reminiscent of Alice's Wonderland: everything seemingly is, yet apparently isn't simultaneously.' Last week the Wonderland judiciary had a rethink.
The world's first online fraud museum, offering the latest artefacts of hi-tech criminal culture, has been launched by a group of US internet security experts, to the alarm of police and banking organisations.For a signing-on fee of $99 (&#163;69), the guide, described by one visitor as eye-popping, explains in painstaking detail how credit card numbers can be stolen over the internet or by telephone and then used to order products online.Alongside examples of real e-mail scams used to fool trusting web users into parting with their gold card numbers, bank account details and internet passwords, the Ad Cops exhibit includes an insider's explanation of what the combinations on different card types mean, and how to establish the credit limits and validity of the cards once the numbers have been obtained.The information is detailed, right down to the ideal modem speed for masquerading as a trader to pilfer credit information.Daniel Clements, president of Ad Cops, insisted that the museum was a legitimate resource, which was designed to keep online retailers and banks up to speed on the latest scams."Adcops' primary focus is to restore, regain, or establish profitability for the merchant. He is the one paying the bill for all net fraud."The registration fee would act as sufficient deterrent against the would-be fraudster looking for a few lessons, he added. But British police and internet security experts yesterday criticised the site as irresponsible.A spokeswoman for the national criminal intelligence service said: "More and more criminals are moving into counterfeit credit cards because they believe it is easy to make large amounts of money. Any information which highlights the ease of this crime could encourage people to get involved."Matthew Whitaker, of the Credit Card Research Group, which is funded by the major UK card issuers, said: "This information certainly seems dangerous."Consumers are protected from fraud but this is still thieving and people have to pay for it further down the line in the form of higher card rates or charges."Internet card fraud remains less of a problem in Britain than in the US, where the boom in online shopping has provided a fertile ground for criminals.But even in this country, electronic fraud is on the rise; as a proportion of online retail transactions, it is more prevalent than conventional fraud is on the high street, according to industry figures.Visa, for example, says that 47% of all complaints and disputes it receives over payment across the EU are internet-related - a statistic made more startling by the fact that only 1% of its European transactions are online.
The free online estate agent, easier.co.uk, yesterday abandoned its search for a buyer and ceased operating its website.The company had put up the 'For Sale' sign in November 2000, after spending millions of pounds on a massive TV and billboard campaign.Its revenues - based on a model of selling customer details to third parties - failed to compete with such a level of spending. Shares, once worth over £3, ceased trading at 16.5p.Easier announced its closure with a simple message on its website, and by emailing its 70,000 registered users."It is with great regret that I must inform you that as of February 28 2001, the easier.co.uk web site will cease operation," the email message said."Please do not reply to this email as there will be no one to read your mail."Related articles21.11.00: Online estate agent puts up 'For Sale' sign19.09.00: Home shopping on the net
Farmers reeling from the shock of the latest outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease are being encouraged to log on to the web for emotional and practical support.Dedicated agricultural sites are offering up-to-the minute news alerts as well as opportunities for farmers to email any concerns directly to vets across the country.FOL Networks, which runs online discussion forums for farmers in the livestock industry, says the net can help contain a crisis, particularly when a disease first breaks out in a local rural area. The organisation's marketing manager, John Swaby, explains: "When there was an outbreak of BSE, a forum was set up quickly. Farmers were able to talk about it with each other and they gained a lot of support and information."Despite the latest hammer blow of foot-and-mouth disease, there are signs that UK farmers are increasingly turning to the web in the hope that new online services could generate long-term improvements for their crisis-ridden industry. Struggling farmers are now being offered everything from up-to-date sheep market reports accessible over WAP phones to sites providing cheap deals on second-hand machinery such as tractors and combine harvesters.FOL Networks runsFarming Online, which gives UK farmers detailed weather forecasts so   they can improve yields by applying fertiliser at the right time. On the site, farmers can also access the latest prices for wheat, barley, oats and potatoes.And in a further move to help the depressed industry, FOL has set up an electronic trading exchange formilk quotas, which lets farmers efficiently buy and sell litres of milk without paying commissions to traditional brokers.Swaby says the web's increasing ability to deliver fast price information means that struggling UK farmers will be better placed in the long term to make more profitable decisions. "Imagine   you have a load of grain in your silos waiting to be sold. A farmer can sell that at any time. If he reads on a site that the grain price has never been so high, he might decide to go with that. It helps in everyday decision-making during the period they are hoping to sell."The latest crop of supportive online farming services are not solely about information-sharing and community building.Farmecis now running an innovative online European marketplace for new and second-hand agricultural machinery. Equipment is independently inspected before it goes on to the site.Paul Bassett, Farmec's chief executive, says UK farmers can now go online and access cheaper second-hand machinery from the continent. He explains that tractors bought from farms in Europe are often in a better condition than their UK counterparts because of different farming practices and climates."In the UK we tend to buy big tractors and work the guts out of them. In countries such as Holland and Belgium they do not necessarily work their tractors as hard as we do. Our weather conditions are also a lot worse than they are, for example, in France and Italy."Later this year,First4Farmingis planning to launch an electronic marketplace for agricultural suppli ers, distributors and manufacturers so they can trade quicker and more efficiently in feeds, fertilisers and chemicals. All the traditional paperwork such as invoicing will be done online. Nick Evans, First4Farming's managing director, says the e-marketplace will be followed up early next year with a portal dedicated to farmers.On the site, farmers will have personal accounts so they can check their orders of grain and arrange deliveries to be made to their farms. "The internet in itself will not improve the world price of grain, which is governed by many other factors. It is about removing the time-consuming costs and enabling farmers to run their businesses better," Evans explains.Despite these positive online initiatives, there are plenty of sites on the web that reflect the depressed nature of the UK farming industry. Many farmers are literally in despair about how to make a living after being subjected to a barrage of crises they feel unable to control.Sites such asFarming Help, offer links to online rural crisis networks that offer emotional help to farmers who, in some extreme cases, have been driven to the verge of suicide as they do not know how they will support their families.Stephen Howe, the editor of Farmers' Weekly, says the crisis gripping UK farming is one of the reasons farmers are showing signs of being more responsive to the new   solutions offered by the internet. "Everyone is concerned about profit margins. Margins are very tight or non-existent in most cases. Farmers will get involved with anything that could improve the situation."Howe says support for the internet is across the board and not just restricted to younger farmers. Web-based services not only help with record-keeping, he explains, but farmers can comply online with government directives by, for example, submitting electronic statements reporting the movements of cattle.However, e-commerce for the agricultural industry is still very much in its infancy and Howe feels there are still a lot of big questions to be answered about how quickly it will take off and whether the entrepreneurs driving the changes willbe able to make a sizeable return on their new dot.com ventures.It's not just entrepreneurs who are eventually hoping to reap big profits from agricultural sites, farmers themselves are also getting involved. There are three farmers behindSheepsmart, which   provides sheep market prices in real time. Simon Barnes, who owns a 365-acre organic farm, north of Dumfries in Scotland, says he volunteered to help with the site because of the shortage of easily accessible market information. "We're nosey sods and we like to know what price our neighbours sold their sheep at," he jokes.But he knows the online service is already influencing farmers' decisions. "If it was a disaster on Monday you might think twice about taking your sheep to the market on Tuesday."Barnes has just launched a Wap phone-based service that relays sheep prices to farmers. The new service is calledSheepsmart mobileand Barnes anticipates it could help put pressure on buyers to pay the best market rates. The Wap service lets farmers see what trades are being done at other markets while they are at ringside.With fully-fledged e-commerce yet to take off, Barnes believes that the web's biggest contribution so far has been to help cash-strapped farmers diversify by enabling them to promote farm shops and accommodation facilities. He runs a bed-and-breakfast service which, he says, has taken off since he set up his web site atwww.borelandfarm.co.uk.But with such a large farm to manage, when does he get the time to log on to the net? "I use it between 11 at night and two in the morning," he explains. "I'm not a great sleeper. The beauty of it is that it can be accessed 24 hours a day."Although the Countryside Alliance has postponed its march on London until at least early May, passions are still running high. In the wake of the BSE crisis and the latest potentially crippling outbreak, farmers are fighting for their self-respect and survival. Once this crisis subsides, the web, with its tantalising promises of greater long-term efficiencies, is likely to continue to pick up support."The future for farmers is not to tighten their belts," argues Farmec's Paul Bassett. "They have to come into the new technology."
Toyzone.co.uk, the high profile toys e-tailer backed by entrepreneur Tom Hunter and TV presenter Jonathan Ross yesterday added to the carnage in the e-commerce sector by closing the business,  writes John Cassy .The 15-month-old company's decision to shut its doors came a day after the online toy sector's biggest player, eToys, filed for bankruptcy protection in the US."We've been out in the market for the last six months trying to raise money with no luck, and when the market leader with revenues of $160m a quarter files for bankruptcy, you realise you've absolutely no chance of getting finance," said Matthew Freud, the PR guru who co-foundedToyzone.co.ukin November 1999."We had a robust business model and were making money on every shopping trolley, but ultimately investors just don't have an appetite for B2C plays."A year ago reports suggested Toyzone could be floated for &#163;250m.Marketing, fulfilment and technology were all outsourced, meaning there would be very few job losses, Mr Freud said.Toyzone generated sales of around &#163;2m. Mr Hunter, who earned the title of Scotland's second richest man after selling his Sports Division retail chain to JJB Sports, was the firm's biggest shareholder.
An American father who is taking a Welsh couple to court over the custody of twin girls bought on the internet has been arrested on suspicion of child abuse.US police said they were investigating allegations that Richard Allen had sexually molested two teenage sisters at his home while they were babysitting.A 13-year-old girl said an assault took place at Mr Allen's home in November last year. Her 14-year-old sister later said she had also been molested. Mr Allen is being held on $100,000 (£71,000) bail at a detention centre in southern California.The arrest comes just seven days after detectives quizzed Judith Kilshaw, the British woman at the centre of the internet adoption affair, over the alleged theft of travellers' cheques used to fund the trip to the US with her husband Alan.Mrs Kilshaw was released on police bail without charge.The two couples hit the headlines after it emerged that the Allens claimed already to have adopted the baby girls before the Kilshaws took them to Britain.Mr Allen, who served a writ on the British couple after they appeared on the Oprah Winfrey show, claims that he and his wife, Vicky, paid a fee to adopt the twin girls when they were six months old. He says the Kilshaws then abducted the children and took them to Wales.In their defence, Mr and Mrs Kilshaw said they had used the internet to find the girls but they had not discovered the babies were already with Mr and Mrs Allen until they travelled to San Diego, California, to adopt them.At this point Mr and Mrs Allen say the twins were snatched back by their biological mother, Tranda Wecker, 28, a twice-divorced hotel receptionist, and an internet adoption broker Tina Johnson.In a fourth investigation, Mr and Mrs Kilshaw visited Mold police station in north Wales last week to provide statements about Ms Johnson.Mr and Mrs Kilshaw were reported to have paid Ms Johnson a "non-refundable arrangement fee" of £8,200 after she promised to find a child for them.Related articles22.01.2001: Things get worse for 'bizarre' Kilshaws20.01.2001: Couple's four-day journey to notorietyLeader: Put children firstThe issue explainedAdoptionAudio24.01.2001: Helen Carter hears the Kilshaws silenced for the first timeUseful linksBritish Agencies for Adoption   and FosteringDepartment of Health   adoption pagePrime   minister's adoption reviewKidscape   children's charity
Internet technology group Bright Station yesterday postponed indefinitely the flotation of Smartlogik, its knowledge management software division.The company, run by entrepreneur Dan Wagner, had intended that Smartlogik would make its stock market debut at the start of this year, but changed its mind because of hostile market conditions for technology companies."The flotation ofSmartlogikis planned for when market conditions improve," Mr Wagner said.Bright Station reported an operating loss on continuing operations of &#163;16.8m, excluding exceptional items, for the year to the end of December.Losses for the quarter were &#163;6.7m, excluding an exceptional cost of &#163;3m, compared to &#163;4.6m for the previous three months.The firm said losses were due to expansion and invest ment in technology and employees. Revenues for the year were &#163;8.5m, compared to last year's figure of &#163;9.3m.Bright Station's business portfolio includes the Sparza e-commerce firm, which took on the technology used by failed e-tailer boo.com, and OfficeShopper, where revenues grew 79% over the year to &#163;1.6m. Bright Station has &#163;16m in the bank, which Mr Wagner said was "more than enough" to take the group to profitability in early 2002.
Global wordsAn ambitious plan to develop a contemporary version of the Rosetta Stone - the granite slab that translated Egyptian hieroglyphics into ancient   Greek - is being built by a team of international language experts. According to the founders of the Rosetta Project, between 50% and 90% of the world's languages are predicted to disappear in the next century.The project is ongoing and native speakers are encouraged to participate. An online database is available atwww.rosettaproject.org.The top 400The UK fared well last month in the list of the    most famous 400 people on the internet, compiled by ranking the number of times each name comes up on the search enginewww.alltheweb.com. Sting was the most famous Brit on the net at number 11. Elton John came in at 13, ahead of Tony Blair at 17, one place above Jenifer Lopez.Give itThe idea of a virtual high street is nothing new, but ItsGoodToGive.co.uk is one of the few to offer a more ethical deal. Every time you buy from one of its partner sites,ItsGoodToGivewill donate 50% of all revenue raised to its partnership charities. These include the RNIB, the Royal British Legion and the British Heart Foundation.Users can divide this donation to either each of the 15 chosen charities or to the one of their choice.Women onlyPink Noisesis an electronic music site specifically for women. Edited by the New York-based Analog Tara, the site is well designed and offers artist profiles, interviews and some pithy essays on music culture.LandN55 is a collective of Danish artists who have hatched a beautifully idealistic project to set up a network of communally owned land (or LAND) over the web. Anyone who has LAND can donate it, and anyone can use LAND for    any purpose - as long as they agree to leave it exactly as they found it. LAND has already been made available in Denmark, Norway and the US. Each LAND should be referenced and marked out by a specially constructed Cairn. A set of grid references can be found atwww.n55.org.de.Fax offA number of MPs have asked their constituents to stop using FaxYourMP.com, the website that does exactly what its name suggests. They may not reply but you can still register your protest atwww.FaxYourMP.com.WorkspheresThe Museum of Modern Art in New York is exhibiting Workspheres, celebrating innovative computer design and the future of the office. There is a smart-looking accompanying website atwww.moma.org/workspheres/swfs/workspheres.htmlWap watchFully searchable, basic medical advice can be found at www.pocketdoctor.co.uk, and you can send someone a Wap birthday card at www.wapcardz.com. There is also a very good online journey planner at www.railtrack.co.uk/wap.New &amp; noted&#149;  The Royal Mail has put a list of all UK postcodes online. Type in the address you need atwww.royalmail.co.uk/paf&#149;  Cheap Magazine subscriptions are now available atwww.emagazineshop.com&#149;  The site atwww.stagnites.comoffers weekend breaks, shopping and a survival guide.* Tracy Hogg Enterprises Inc:www.babywhisperer.com&#149;  The Rosetta Stone for Whassup can be found atwww.budweiser.com/whassup/languages.Six of the bestElection countdownHow to votewww.homeoffice.gov.uk/electionsOperation black votewww.obv.org.ukSatirical spinwww.Spinon.co.ukIndependent informationwww.parliamentaryelection.comLive news feedwww.campaigning.co.ukUnlimited coveragewww.guardian.co.uk/ countdown
Macromedia's Flash is a much maligned piece of software. According to the usability guru Jakob Nielsen, "99% of the time the presence of Flash on a website constitutes a usability disease." For Nielson, Flash has encouraged "gratuitous animation" that has caused sites such as Boo.com to be such a disaster.But Flash has developed a loyal following among media designers, animators and art students. Now, Flash animations are to be given a new dimension, one that attempts to take their work seriously as art.Last week the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London hosted the first episodes of Map 50 - an online "soap" set in the north-east quarter of the captial. In all, 63 episodes - nine from seven different groups of artists - have been produced. Every Friday, seven concurrent episodes are launched atwww.map50.com.Each episode takes place at a specific grid reference taken from a page of the London street atlas, one grid reference an episode. The story follows a homeless woman as she attempts to cash false giro cheques around Hackney and Stoke Newington. Using elements of documentary, CCTV footage and photography, the story unfolds into what its makers describe as a catalogue of "petty fraud, substance abuse and bloody violence".   This is no cute animation.The effect is undeniably gritty, but one imbued with a clear social agenda. Map 50 has been plotted by Joe Lawlor and Christine Molloy of the Desperate Optimists, an Irish-born partnership that settled in London a year ago. The pair have backgrounds in performance art, but they began experimenting with Flash two years ago. Now, all their work is online."Flash is really powerful," explains Molloy. "You have to get over that. Then you can make work that shows what you can do, rather than trying to find the limits of the program.""But that's just a symptom of software being used in its early stages," continues Lawlor. "The main advantage, for artists, is that you don't have to spend years at college learning code. That makes it very attractive."The makers of the Map 50 project come from an arts background and the work is sponsored by the Arts Council. But commercial designers are making equally challenging work using Flash. Hi-Res, an Anglo-German design group based in east London, has made commercial websites for Sony and the Beatles.Last summer Hi-Res burst on to the scene with Soulbath.com , a site that spread like wildfire among the design and animation communities. Soulbath acted as a calling card and a call-to-arms. It offered state-of-the-art Flash animation, and it   had no commercial client."It was a very special experience," says Alexandra Jugovic of Hi-Res. "We just put it out there and we got back tons and tons of email." Among that response was an email from Darren Aronofsky, the director of the critically acclaimed Pi. Aronofsky immediately commissioned Hi-Res to design the site for his latest film,Requiem for a Dream(now on current release). The site mixes up elements from the film with influences from net.art projects and what Hi-Res calls "the beauty of malfunction." The result was one of the most original film websites ever produced."We are completely aware that a site like Requiem for a Dream is a marketing tool," admits Florian Schmitt of Hi-Res. "But there's an artistic sentiment to everything we do. We were never asked by Darren to compromise."The groups have followed up the success with another film website for Wayne Wang's forthcomingCentre of the World. The film tells of a tech stock speculator who cashes in on the market and embarks on a trip to Las Vegas with a stripper - a kind of Leaving Las Vegas meets Last Tango in Paris for the dot.com generation.Wang filmed special footage for the website so that Hi-Res could recreate the atmosphere of a strip joint. From a design point of view   the result is spectacular; a glossy, rather than sleazy, representation of the film's twilight nature. The site even includes a secret entrance to the girls' dressing room where a chatbot - with whom the user can communicate - reveals elements of the story.Next month, the Lux Cinema in London will host the first FlashLights prize. The entrants will be shown on screen and &#163;1000 will be awarded to the winner. Some of the work will be from designers and some from fine artists, although telling which is which is becoming increasingly difficult."Its really important to look at Flash in the context of the arts," explains Lena Russell of Pandemonium - the group hosting the prize. "It could easily be seen as just a tool to sell things. But the design and animation communities who have been making it their own are really vibrant and strong. We now want to place them alongside artists of other disciplines."Five flash Harryswww.once-upon-a-forest.comJoshua Davis's celebration of what the web is meant not to be. No easy navigation, no faqs nor help. But you will find poetry hidden in the source code, sublime use of sound and visuals to die for. One of the most beautiful sites on the web.www.digital-experiences.comEast London's Digit are among the rising stars of new media design. Last year they won a Bafta for their work for MTV, but here they offer a peek at   their ideas before they go through the corporate mill.www.presstube.comWitty, New York-based site that describes itself as a "high bandwithanimation tunnel". Great music and bleeding edge visuals.www.futurefarmers.comKooky Californian designers who make some lovely Flash work for a number of corporate clients. However, their home page is as gratuitous as it is fun.www.praystation.comVirtuoso performances of Flash art. New material often added daily.&#149;  New episodes of Map 50 will be launched every Friday until April 6.&#149; Hi-Res will be part of Arts Online Emerging Technologies Commissions: 52 Hoxton Square 2 on March 9.&#149; The FlashLights Prize will be awarded at the Lux Cinema, London on March 8.
Mario TennisGame Boy Color	&#163;24.99  Nintendo 	****Buzz Lightyear of Star CommandGame Boy Color 	&#163;24.99  Activision	*There tends to be two types of Game Boy games. The enjoyable ones that make you forget the limitations of the ageing handheld format - most Nintendo games, Tetris, the odd Konami effort and so on- and the formulaic platformers and shooters that make up the rest.Mario Tennis is a good example of the former, while Buzz Lightyear is typical of the latter. Following Golf, Mario Tennis is the latest N64 sports conversion that adds longevity and strategy to what it lacks in graphical oomph. Starting with a weak character, the aim is to train your budding Henman or Hingis and battle for the big   honours. The typically cutesy Nintendo style masks a tricky challenge, with hours of practice needed for court success. After a while you'll be volleying with the best of them, although the rigid Game Boy controller pad doesn't help. Throw in some amusing side games - try hitting Donkey Kong's bananas - and you've got another Nintendo winner.But while Tennis has its frustrating moments, especially when battling with the controls in a lengthy deciding set, at least you want to persevere.Buzz Lightyear of Star Command, on the other hand, offers no such incentive. Viewed from above, your task is to guide the Toy Story hero up the screen while avoiding baddies. This would be easier if Buzz didn't move around the screen like a recalcitrant steamroller. If you are forced, or bribed, to sit through the 12 levels, you will find little variety and, aimed at children or not, the horrendous controls and collision detection make this a real turkey. Forget Lightyear; if you want a real Game Boy buzz play a few sets of Mario Tennis.  (GH)Moto GPSony PlayStation 2	&#163;39.99 Namco	**The first thing you will say when Moto GP loads is: Wow, the graphics are wonderful. It looks just like an arcade game, which is, of course, where it came from.After that you may well say ouch, then arrrrgh, as you fly over the handlebars and bounce down the track. Moto GP has an arcade mode and a simulation mode. It is not a good idea to try the simulation mode first. In arcade mode you can win the first race without practising (well, on the easy level), and without ever falling off. In simulation mode, it is hard to get around a corner.In other words, Moto GT is not for the impatient. It takes a while to develop the smoothness of line needed to compete. You have to be slower than you think into    corners, and faster out of them. But tune your skills and it is worth joining a team and playing one or more seasons. The five different tracks look remarkably realistic, though there are not enough of them. Even an occasional bit of rain   would add variety.If racing gets boring, Namco has provided a series of challenges, such as "pass 15 bikes on the first lap". Success earns small rewards. You can also trounce your friends in split-screen two-player mode,   at least until they get the hang of cornering.In the end, Moto GT is much more like Ridge Racer 5 than Gran Turismo 2. Still, it is probably the best superbike racing game you can get.  (JS)
Cracker gameCodemasters hopes to beat the software pirates who duplicate Sony PlayStation games by trying something new. LMA Manager 2001, the football management game now due on March 16, will include self-modifying   code to detect pirate CDs and "automatically instigate a number of subtle changes that adversely affect gameplay," the company says. For example, over time, the performance of the player's chosen football team may become worse and worse. Simon Prytherch, the game's producer, says: "Even if a pirate cracks this system and makes illegal copies, the people who may use pirate CDs won't trust it to run properly and hopefully &#91;will&#93; buy the full copy of the game at retail."One potential problem is that lots of geeky people may want a pirate version of LMA just to find out if the self-modifying code really works.Online duelRage has just launched its online football management game, Internet Football Club,    atwww.internetfootballclub.com, and registrations are being taken now. The season starts on March 19. It is fun to play against other people, except   the ones who won their leagues in the test version.The new game provides competition for Anco, the company that kick-started the business in the early 80s with Football Manager II on the Sinclair Spectrum home computer.But Anco is already retaliating atwww.PlayAsManager.comwith the net's first football management game in 3-D. The fee for playing a season in the Premiership is &#163;11.75. Teams in lower divisions are cheaper.Rage's IFC will be free for the first season. After that, "amateurs" can play a limited version of the game free, while "professionals" will pay &#163;9.99.Wap playNokia, the mobile phone company, has signed deals with two British software houses to develop games for Wap (Wireless application protocol) phones. Eidos Interactive will produce five, starting with Gangsters, which should be available in the first half of this year. Rage Software will produce games for the Nokia Mobile Entertainment Service. Nokia runs a Forum to help Wap developers atwww.forum.nokia.com. Separately, nGame is launching a string of games for Wap phones and interactive TV sites via its website atwww.ngame.com.
The most valuable part of your computer system was not supplied by Intel or Microsoft. You created it. It's your data.If you were to lose your email, address book and financial records, it could take hundreds of hours to reconstruct or recover them. Worse, it might be impossible. If you were to lose your business records or the only copy of a blockbuster, the cost could be enormous. And it could happen easily, especially if you use a handheld or notebook computer.You can lose data through hardware and software failures, and through human actions, such as deleting   files by accident. You can lose everything if your computer is damaged, lost or stolen, which means portables are very vulnerable - just ask the Ministry of Defence.The solution is a "back-up": a security copy on removable storage such as CD, tape or floppy disk.Obviously the copy must be kept separate from your PC, in case of theft. If you run a business, back-ups must be kept "off-site", preferably in a fireproof safe. If the volume of data is not too large, you can upload it and store it on the net at XDrive, Bitlocker, MyDataHaven and similar sites.By now, at least 90% of you are feeling guilty. Everybody is in favour of backing up data but few people do it, or do it often enough, including me.But I am not saying you should take a full four-hour back-up of your hard drive twice a day. You only need to back up data you can't afford to lose. And you don't need to back it up again   unless it changes.Remember, you can always reinstall the operating system, and many new computers come with a bootable "recovery" CD that will return it to the factory state. You can also reinstall applications programs and games, though it may take time. What you cannot easily recover is personal data, unless you have backed it up.HardwareFor home users, the main choice is between Iomega Zip disks that store 100 or 250 megabytes, and CDs that store 650MB or more. Although I use a Zip drive for temporary storage, I prefer CD-R (recordable) discs for permanent back-ups because they are cheap. You can buy 50 CDs for &#163;16, so 1p buys 20 megs.Ideally, the back-up drive should be built in to the computer, but you must remember to remove and file back-up disks somewhere safe. If you have more than one stand-alone computer, you could also consider   buying a portable drive that plugs in via a USB serial port or parallel printer port.SoftwareBasic back-up software is included in Windows - see Start|Programs|Accessories|System Tools, if it is installed. Better programs are often supplied free with back-up hardware, such as Iomega's 1-Step Backup, or can be bought separately. You can use back-up software to capture everything on your PC, and after that, take "incremental back-ups". In other words, back up only the files that have changed. The software will know which files to back up. It will also compress the back-up file (so it takes up less room) and split it over a number of disks or tapes.However, it may not be quite as easy to restore the back up after a disaster, or retrieve a particular file in a hurry. It is, therefore, useful to keep plain (uncompressed) copies of important files on floppy or CD. If you can't get your computer   up and running, you can still read these files on a different machine.Another program worth considering isSecond Copywhich will keep a back-up copy of designated files, updating them as you work. Iomega's QuikSync works in a similar way.Which files?You can find which files have changed recently by searching for them by date. In Windows, for example, open Windows Explorer, select My Computer, and press F3. Select the Date tab in the dialogue box, and click the appropriate radio button. This routine lets you search for all files created, modified or accessed between two dates, or within a specified number of months or days.Ideally, you should keep all your important data in one directory such as My Documents in Windows, or My Data on a different drive or a Mac. That will make it easier to back up. You can create subdirectories, such as My   Mail, and then tell your programs to use these directories by default.With Outlook Express, for example, you can change the directory by going to Tools|Options, clicking on the Maintenance tab, and pressing the button marked Store Folder. In Microsoft Word, go to Tools|Options and click the tab for File Locations. Choose the Documents entry, click the Modify button, and navigate to the directory you want.You may also want to back up some files that you cannot move, such as your internet bookmarks. In Windows, copy the whole directory structure under C:\Windows\Favorites, though you can also export Internet Explorer bookmarks as a single file. Select File|Import and Export and a Wizard will take you through the procedure. With Netscape Navigator, keep a back-up of the Bookmarks.htm file.Do it now, before it is too late!
Ever been stranded in a foreign city with no taxis to be found? A short message service - shown at the GSM Mobile Congress in Cannes - could mean your ride home is just an SMS away.The idea is you send an SMS text message from your mobile saying where you want to go and you receive confirmation saying who the driver is, his mobile, the cab registration number and so on. The message also tells you how soon the cab will arrive. You get another SMS when the taxi arrives.The software for U-go is being developed by Logica, a UK computer services company, but the idea and specification were dreamed up by brothers Lionel and Eli Cohen, of the London-based Obvious Solutions.Lionel says: "We got the idea after having to wait so long for cabs in the city after working late. But we soon realised the service would be even more useful for people travelling abroad."Travellers don't need to know a local taxi number to use U-go and the instructions can be as simple as typing in the name of the place you want to be picked up from. Alternatively, using a phone with a built-in global positioning system like one soon to be sold by Benefon, users could just select 'Taxi'   from a menu and it would relay their location to the taxi firm."Obvious, Logica and Hewlett-Packard imported two London cabbies to ferry visitors around Cannes, where the largest European mobile phone exhibition is held every year. Tony Lazzam, one of the drivers, says: "It's in its early stages, but I think it could be a big success."Obvious plans to sign up reputable local firms in major European cities and across the UK. The first two companies to sign are Radio Taxis and Addison Lee, a large minicab company, in London. Once the service goes live in April, users can register by typing in their mobile number and payment details at the service's web site.They can also set up short cuts for regular trips so that, for example, "h" means pick me up from the home address specified and "h2w" means take me from home to work.The SMSs are logged on a computer server run by Logica, which interacts with the cab companies' computerised despatch systems. For smaller operations, which still write everything on   paper, Logica is developing an internet site they can use just for SMS bookings. SMSs are also used to send instructions to drivers.Logica and the Cohen brothers hope to make money by charging users and cab firms an SMS booking fee of around 50p each and, if providing the service in conjunction with a mobile operator, they will get a share of the 10p SMS charge.The service is still being refined. My booking to go from: Cannes station to GSM (my abbreviation for the  Palais des Festivals et des Congres exhibition hall) was replied to quickly. But when I typed in "cash" in response to a request for a payment code, nothing happened, requiring a call to Eli Cohen's mobile. This may be because Obvious is planning to bill to credit cards or mobile phone bills.Nevertheless, the service was good enough to wish it had been running after 6pm last Thursday. On a cold winter evening on the Cote d'Azur after the Nokia party, there were no taxis either at the taxi rank on La Croisette or at the Noga Hilton. One exhibitor from Wireless Entertainment Services said he had walked five kilometres to his hotel, swearing in Finnish all the way.&#149;  From April the service will be available at:www.Obvious.com
The Sendo, a combined personal digital assistant and mobile phone, is reasonably small with no antenna sticking out, but has a large, bright TFT colour screen with a resolution of 176 by 220 pixels. It is a triple-band phone, so it will work in most major American cities as well as most of the rest of the world. There is constant internet access using general packet radio service and, to get large quantities of data in, there is a high-speed serial port using a cradle with a USB serial bus connector and fast infra-red.The Z100's operating sys tem, based on Microsoft's Stinger smart-phone platform, is designed to be used with one hand. There isn't a touch screen: everything is controlled using a four-direction pad. The software suite includes mobile Outlook to keep contacts and address books synchronised, and an email application that also handles text messages. Unlike its Windows CE equivalent, this program counts the characters in a text message, so you can hone your prose to fit in 160 characters.The email software allows easy access to mail servers for most people, and there is also   fax send and receive.Stinger's new web browser supports HTML 3.0, Wap 1.2 (the new version) and Compact HTML, and has the security to handle m-commerce. But while there is Jscript support, the browser won't run Java applets, ruling out some online gaming.To sell Stinger to the mobile phone networks, Microsoft is pushing its advantage in server side applications. The network can configure the browser settings over the air, and while some users may not like the network doing remote configuration most will find it   easier than typing in loads of IDs, addresses and passwords. Other software isn't finalised, but there will be Windows Media Player with support for MP3, a calculator, Solitaire and another game.The Z100 also has a stereo headset, and cards that can store up to a few hours of music. Getting music files into the device is easier with swappable cards but the cradle and USB port are similarly MP3-friendly. Downloading MP3s over the air will not be possible at launch but may follow.Future accessories are likely to include a camera, fold-up keyboard and a Bluetooth adaptor. Third party applications will be supported, with tools to write them in the next release of Microsoft's Visual Studio.The biggest problem with the Sendo Z100 is timing. Sendo is aiming to do tests with network operators this Autumn,   which could mean it will be in the shops for Christmas, but these things always take longer than expected. Realistically, it could be a year off. And when you want something badly, that's a long time.
The New Economy is widely assumed to be intrinsically "good", in contrast to the
    Old Economy, which was all about making money and leaving the planet in a mess.It is easy to see where such ideas come from, but this is a dangerous assumption.
    Mines, steel mills and the classic elements of the Old Economy conjure up images of
    environmental degradation and oppressive labour conditions, while dematerialisation
    obviously consumes fewer physical resources.The danger in equating the New Economy with a better economy lies in the
    assumption that this will be inevitable - and therefore requires little thought or
    action on behalf of government, business or consumers.That is not the case, as a year-long study reports today. The Digital Futures
    project, managed by Forum for the Future, brought together think-tanks such as
    Demos and the New Economics Foundation to study the social and environmental
    implications of electronic commerce. Their conclusions are launched today at a
    conference in London and in a book* detailing the analysis. 
    Their research revealed the extent of New Economy complacency. Of 150
    businesses, large and small, two-thirds said that social and environmental issues
    were important to them, four out of five believed the positive effects of
    e-commerce on society would outweigh the negative, the ratio of positive to
    negative statements on environmental impacts was more than four to one, and
    almost two-thirds agreed that e-commerce would enable companies to be more
    responsive to ethical and environmental concerns.So what's the problem? The same people then admitted they were doing little to
    make it happen: four in five companies do nothing to measure or manage their
    environmental impacts. Two-thirds do nothing to measure or manage social impacts.
    Four out of five do nothing to measure or manage transport impacts, or offer staff
    training on environmental or social issues.This alarming gap prompted the Digital Futures team to pose a few infrequently
    asked questions; why global e-businesses would necessarily be more socially and
    environmentally responsible than traditional ones; whether connecting everybody to
    the net would help bind society or tear it apart; what transport patterns would look
    like in an e-tail economy; and whether there was any chance of long-term thinking in
    a society working to ever shorter timescales.Most answers were inconclusive, and that is important. The shape and impact of the
    e-conomy are not inevitable and will not be determined by technology. They will
    depend on decisions taken by governments and institutions, the actions of
    businesses and other organisations, and how consumers react. 
    Take the question of the digital divide. Connecting everybody to the net will not of
    itself attack inequality and exclusion.There are clear dangers that the e-conomy
    will widen divisions. It is concentrated in an area bordered by London, Cambridge,
    Birmingham and Bristol. E-businesses look first for consumers among the affluent.
    The ability to trade efficiently over long distances threatens local economies.A similar scenario can be painted for the environment. More international
    purchasing means more airfreight. Remote shopping could result in streets clogged
    by retailers' delivery vans and their exhaust fumes, while consumers make more
    adventurous shopping trips.E-commerce does not even mean that consumers will be empowered. The growth of
    auction sites and price- oriented search engines could make it difficult even for
    concerned consumers to understand the social and environmental implications of
    their purchases. This is not to say that e-commerce will be bad for society, just
    that it could be. There are opportunities to tilt the balance towards the positive,
    but they need to be grasped.Government needs to embrace social and environmental aspects in its e-strategy
    rather than treating sustainability separately. This could include boosting the role
    of post offices as hubs of local economies, requiring regional development agencies
    to help create local electronic markets, and stimulating consumer awareness. 
    Business can do plenty- search engines could help identify products according to
    social and environmental criteria rather than merely price; co-operation on
    distribution can avoid the plethora of delivery vans. The new economy can be
    cleaner, greener and more inclusive, but only if it is made so. If not, it could
    accentuate the worst characteristics of the old.&#149;  Digital Futures: living in a dot-com world (Earthscan, March 2001).
As you go about your business today, you may think you enjoy relative anonymity and privacy. Not so. In fact, Britain's virtual net curtains are twitching as never before, with new technology adding even greater prying power to the country's one million surveillance cameras.In the past, tracking the movements of the population at large has been impractical - it took a lot of effort and manpower just to watch what one person was up to.But, along with the government's acquired abilities to track its citizens as they move about the internet through the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act, computerisation means we can also be tracked in the material world.Moreover, it can be done cheaply, with increasing accuracy and almost invisibly. Your mobile phone constantly gives your approximate position. More precisely, you can be watched walking the streets, your car is (routinely) tracked along major roads, and card-based transactions leave a virtual paper trail.On the front line, catching all who cross their gaze, are surveillance cameras, of which Britain has more than any European country. Most, at the moment, are connected to video-tape recorders. But computerisation is coming, allowing cameras to "recognise" a face in a crowd.In 1998, the London borough of Newham connected the US firm Visionics' software to cameras covering one shopping area,   and this year will extend the system to its fifth. With the face-recognition software, Bob Lack, group leader of security services, says Newham has improved crime rates relative to other boroughs. "In street robberies and burglaries in particular, we've seen a dramatic drop," he says (although some academics say that cameras merely displace criminals to other locations or activity).The system tries to match faces on Newham's cameras to a "watch list" of between 100 and 150 active criminals, chosen by a Metropolitan Police committee. The software shows probable matches to a Newham employee - who does not see the suspect's name, criminal record or the likelihood of the identification being correct. The operator decides if the match is valid and whether or not to contact the police. The pictures can even be passed on electronically."We don't build a database of where people are," says Tim Pidgeon, Visionics' business development director. He says that would breach the Data Protection Act, as it is illegal to build a database on the activities of the public.But business appears to be booming. Visionics has tried the system with a different   watch-list - of known football hooligans - at a West Ham match against Manchester United in January last year. And other local authorities are considering the system, which costs from &#163;15,000 to scan a single camera feed and uses standard surveillance cameras.Some ports and airports have joined Newham. BAA told Guardian Online that unofficial trials were held at Stansted airport by a "control authority", but would not give further details.According to some, there are far better ways than face scanning to track "suspect" citizens. "Number-plate recognition is far more accurate and user-friendly," says William Webster, a lecturer in public management at Stirling University.Automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) arrived in the UK in 1997, when the City of London police installed cameras that scan the plates of every vehicle entering and leaving the Square Mile - a concept dubbed the ring of steel. "The cameras are very overt. It's all very open," says a police spokesperson. "We're not interested in monitoring people's movements, we just want to provide them with a safe environment."Other forces using ANPR include the Metropolitan Police, West Midlands, Thames Valley, Cumbria and Avon &amp; Somerset. Some use fixed cameras, some mobile units in vehicles, while others won't say.Unlike Newham's controlled watch list, ANPR checks plates against live   databases: Avon &amp; Somerset's vehicle-mounted system refers to a local list, the police national computer in Hendon and the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency in Swansea. Data protection rules prohibit building general databases, so these systems don't retain computerised data. They simply alert police if they read a suspected vehicle's plate - although the City of London force retains the videotapes for several months.The traffic information provider Trafficmaster plc owns a far more widespread plate-reading system, with 8,000 cameras on trunk roads to monitor traffic speeds (its motorway cameras use a different system). The cameras, normally an eye-catching blue, cut the first two and last single digits of your plate, and transmit the remainder to Trafficmaster's headquarters in Milton Keynes. By watching for the same partial plate number   further up the road, the firm gauges traffic speed.However, Trafficmaster says its cameras misread about one plate in four - good enough for traffic speeds, but not for criminal investigations. "Police authorities have phoned about armed robberies, and we haven't been able to help," says a spokeswoman Claire Schofield. She adds that Trafficmaster's licence prohibits it from cross-referencing the number plates. Most of the incoming data is rapidly dumped, and only four or five people have access to the camera feeds, she says.Ian Brown, a researcher in computer security at University College, London points to an even simpler way to track citizens. "Imagine the uproar if, five years ago, the police had suggested everyone should carry around a personal location detector at all times," he says. "In five years' time, people will be accepting just this."Bringing about that change is the near ubiquitous mobile telephone. At the moment, when switched on, the units transmit their identity. Base stations within range and with capacity reply, and the phone "handshakes" - logs on to - one of those stations, the call strength indicator on the mobile goes up and you can make calls.But, as a result, your network always knows roughly where you are, if the phone is switched on.BT Cellnet already uses base-station data to provide relevant traffic news, and believes it is accurate to 100 metres in cities, although that accuracy falls to within 15 kilometres or more in the countryside, because of the smaller numbers of base stations. "If we're required to give evidence for court, we are only able to say the person was within 35 kilometres,"   says John Cross, head of network security for the firm.That is because mobile phones will not necessarily log in to their nearest base station. Weather conditions, local topography and cell congestion mean a phone may connect to a base station further afield, he says. "We get requests from the emergency services for greater accuracy, but we just can't do that."UCL's Brown argues that mobiles can be traced to within tens of metres in cities, by measuring its distance from three or more base stations through timing delay on signals, and using a technique called triangulation. BT Cellnet's Cross says this is possible but very difficult: digital mobile phones link to only one base station at a time, and signal distortion by weather or geography would often ruin such calculations.He adds that location data is retained for a few months, but only a handful of people can see it, although the network will pass the information to the police. Orange says it operates similar policies, holding location data for six months, releasing it only under a formal Data Protection Act order from law enforcers or solicitors, or by order of a court.That information could become more accurate. Third-generation mobile phones will increase location accuracy to within tens of metres worldwide, using satellite-based global positioning system (GPS) technology. You could find yourself getting text messages advertising shops you are passing. Meanwhile, your   network will be keeping extremely accurate tabs on you.Banks, too, will pass on location data under order. Cash machine usage and electronic card transactions let a bank locate you - or at least your card - with precision at the time of transaction.As with the mobile phone networks, the location information is invisible to call-centre operators. Martin Whitehead, head of information security for Co-operative Bank, says he operates a "need-to-know" policy: about a dozen people have access to the exact time and location of cash-machine transactions. However, he and other bankers are concerned about the social security fraud bill going through the House of Lords. This could grant the Department of Social Security (DSS) and its local authority agents wide-ranging access to bank records."It won't include people's names, but it may have identifying data," says Caspar Bowden, the director of the think-tank, the Foundation for Information Policy Research.Whitehead says he fears the worst if the DSS gets wide access.   "We've been the subject of fishing expeditions &#91;wide-ranging "trawls" for data&#93; from the DSS and local government agents," he says, adding that the bank has refused access - but may not be able to under this bill. He says there should be reasonable suspicion of fraud before a customer's information is surrendered.The UK has the physical infrastructure for near-Orwellian surveillance, with one million cameras, several thousand number-plate readers, and the majority of the population carrying mobile phones and using transaction cards. It is only laws such as the 1984 and 1998 Data Protection Acts that stop this infrastructure being used to its full invasive capacity.Collecting and cross-referencing population-wide intelligence has been suggested elsewhere. Last December, the Observer uncovered a memo by Roger Gaspar, the National Criminal Intelligence Service's deputy head, saying the government should retain the details of every phone call made, every email sent, and every web-page viewed - for seven years.The government said it had no plans to implement this scheme. But with the political parties scuffling to appear toughest on crime, how long before such generalised, cross-referenced surveillance is mooted for the material world?Is it easy to travel without being detected?Could an individual, with enemies able to access any computerised system, avoid automated detection while travelling from, say, Glasgow to London?First, he or she should use cash. Credit or debit cards leave a detailed electronic trail, mostly fed to central systems in real time. A mobile telephone's location is tracked, but an unregistered pre-paid mobile could solve this - as could robbery. Police think that phone theft is one of the main contributors to the recent rise in violent crime.Travelling south by road could be tricky. Several police forces en-route, such as Cumbria, West Midlands and the London Met, use automatic number plate recognition cameras, to check vehicles against central databases. And the fugitive may want to avoid A-roads, if suspicious that the Trafficmaster network of number plate-readers could be subverted.So perhaps it would be safer to take public transport: train tickets can be purchased with cash, without identification. Surveillance cameras are used at stations, but the British Transport Police, who monitor the output, says it does not employ face recognition software, and Virgin Trains says its trains do not have cameras, although new ones will. Of course, using the West Coast mainline exposes our fugitive to other risks - such as lengthy delays just outside Preston.
