Over the past week I've been reading Fatal System Error by Joseph Menn, an unhelpfully-titled book that takes you deep into the heart of how gambling sites (often tacitly controlled by organised crime) fought off distributed denial-of-service (DDOS) attacks in the early 2000s.They succeeded – upon which the people behind the botnets creating the DDOS then decided it was simpler to work on the raw material they already had: thousands and thousands of PCs running Windows which they could control, to the extent of extracting personal and, crucially, financial data. That led in turn to sites such as CarderPlanet, where criminals would buy and sell details of millions –millions!– of credit cards, social security numbers, and so on.And making sure that the botnets kept being topped up were organisations like the Russian Business Network (RBN), a shady organisation apparently based in St Petersburg, which has proven peculiarly beyond the reach of the law – perhaps because, as is alleged, one of the key figures in it is related to a senior official in the city. (If the RBN is ringing a bell, we'vewritten about it before; it's believed to be behind the evil piece of malware known asCoolWebSearch, or CWS, which many people have found impossible to eradicate from their PCs. In June 2007, Trend Micro noted that it was one of the most widespread spyware infections in the UK: "With over 60 different variants, this spyware is significantly more complex than average making it harder to detect and remove.")Menn's book is riveting, as much for the terrifying detail it includes – both about gambling sites (I'd never have trusted any online poker site before, and after reading this I'm even less inclined to) and the extent of botnet infection and the feckless lack of high-level international cooperation – especially by George Bush's administration – that allowed their architects to enrich themselves.And then this week, a couple more data points. First, ComputerWorld pointed to a study suggesting that1 in 10 of Windows PCs is still vulnerable to the Conficker worma year after it was so widely publicised. (Also worth noting from December:one Chinese ISP hosts 1 in 7 of Conficker infections.)Then Intego, the antivirus people, sent me an excited email saying that it had updated its VirusBarrier X6 product to scan the iPad. "VirusBarrier X6 was the first anti-malware program to scan iPhones and iPod touches and is now the first to scan the iPad," it announced breathlessly.A little puzzled, I emailed back, asking what it was looking for, exactly. Aside from infected Microsoft Word documents, what sort of things could it be scanning for? What iPhone, iPod Touch or iPad-specific viruses are there?No reply.There's a simple reason for that, of course. There aren't any viruses for the iPad, or iPod Touch, or iPhone. If you're using them to log in to your bank, or eBay, or PayPal, then you can be completely confident that there aren't any keyloggers watching what you type and sending it to a website somewhere in Russian or China.Yes, I'm aware that there have beenproofs-of-concept attacksagainst the iPhone OS: one which would put up a message on any jailbroken machine where the owner had installed SSH, andcould turn them into part of a botnet controlled from Lithuaniaby changing its default password (so the owner couldn't). That's bad, right? Yes, it is. But it only happened if you hacked your machine about. (Interestingly, the problem waseven worse on Android phones, as that doesn't have Apple's restrictive App Store system.)The enormous irony is that the people who would be affected by this are a subset of those who complain about the limitations of the iPad and iPhone – that they don't allow you to program them directly, in the way that general-purpose computers do. So they hack their iPhone to be able to do what general-purpose computers do. And they get hit just like people using general-purpose computers do. And please, don't tell me about your marvellous antivirus package. I'm afraid I trust those about as much as online poker sites. Botnet creators have specialists who find zero-day (unnoticed) weaknesses in programs such as Internet Explorer, Microsoft Word, Excel and Powerpoint, and Adobe's Acrobat Reader and Flash player to infiltrate your computer.Just as most people don't manage to touch the edges of the processing power of their computers, most also don't need the capability to program them. The ability to run absolutely any program that can be found anywhere is actually a hugedisadvantagewhen you're using a browser that is full of security holes that will let programs download and install themselves (which applies to Internet Explorer, and Firefox, and Apple's Safari: theyall have security flaws).What people actually need for many of their computing tasks is computers that are much more like appliances: restricted to doing just a few things really well. I don't ask my dishwasher to wash clothes, and I don't wash plates in the washing machine. Similarly, people don't travel to their local bank branch in a rocket. A bicycle or car or even walking does just fine. Our problem has been that for years computers didn't have quite enough power to do what we wanted, so we demanded more; but despite Microsoft retrospectively discovering that the internet is full of bad people, Windows's security isn't good enough. We need appliance-like computers that do less, not more.I think that the iPad, which is already the best-selling tablet computer in the world – as Apple has announced 450,000 sales, and that's before it begins selling the 3G version at the end of this month, and before it starts selling internationally; the world market for Windows-based tablets was estimated at 1.25m – actually holds out the best hope for people who don't want to have their bank login details and credit card details and pretty much everything else siphoned off to enrich criminals around the world. Menn's book is a salutary reminder that those people exist, that they're very busy, and that they're on the case all the time targeting Windows users.Brian Krebs, a security researcher who used to write a must-read column for the Washington Post on online security,put it bluntlylast October:"An investigative series I've been writing about organized cyber crime gangs stealing millions of dollars from small to mid-sized businesses has generated more than a few responses from business owners who were concerned about how best to protect themselves from this type of fraud."The simplest, most cost-effective answer I know of? Don't use Microsoft Windows when accessing your bank account online."He suggested using a Linux-on-USB-stick approach, where you'd reboot from it any time you wanted to do some online banking. Some might find that a slight hassle. Less hassle though than finding your account has been cleaned out.But now of course there are alternatives. You might think that the iPad is expensive (and we don't know how much it will cost here in the UK). That's certainly true. But until we see the shape of tablets running Google's Android or even ChromeOS – expected later this year – the alternatives, it seems to me, are stark. You can get a USB stick and install Ubuntu on it (free) to fire up your PC when you want to do some banking (might seem like a hassle); you can buy an iPod Touch (£120 or so, no fussy contracts); or you can await an iPad (price unknown) or Android/ChromeOS tablet (price and release date unknown).That's only if you value your financial and personal privacy, obviously. (And none of those will save you from being phished; just remember, Amazon, eBay and PayPal only and always include your user name in the subject of their emails; and banks never email you. If they do, go to the main site, not via the link in the email.)Only if we get to a situation where easily-attacked machines are in the minority of systems accessing the net, not the majority, are we going to be safe from botnets. That day might never come. But it's as well to make sure you're not among those being targeted.It's true, by the way, that internet service providers could do a lot more: it's a big pity that the digital economy bill didn't include some sort of responsibility on them to limit botnets by cutting off people whose machines are clearly infected (which would do a lot more for the economy than "temporarily suspending" the accounts of people accused but not proven to have grabbed a few torrents).But in the absence of that, your online security is in your own hands.And I think that if you're looking at a Windows PC right now, you might want to reconsider who's going to see your login details as you check your bank account. You think I'm exaggerating? But you haven't read Menn's book. I have. Still certain that the iPad is pointless?
And... relax. A mere 539 days after the government announced thatLord Carter(remember him? No, us neither)would be creating an "action plan" for the digital media economy– a Digital Britain, if you will – a press release lands in Monkey's inbox: " The digital economy bill has now been published as the Digital Economy Act 2010, following royal assent." There were casualties along the way: Channel 4's bid for public subsidy, the government's replacement ITV regional news plan. After more than 18 months of consultation, draft and final reports, argument and counter argument, the legislation supposed to set the policy framework for the UK's digital media future was bundled through the House of Commons with unseemly hastein a two-hour debate on Wednesday night. At least now battle-fatigued media lobbyists can now take a well-earned rest. And then start preparing for theTory communications bill.
Forget multi-tasking, the big news at yesterday'siPhone OS 4.0event was Game Center, a new online social gaming platform for iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad gamers. According to Apple the service will allow users to invite friends to play against and to start a multiplayer game through matchmaking. You'll also be able to earn and track achievements, and compare high scores on a global leader board.Perhaps the most important element, though, will be app discovery. Users will be able to see what their friends are playing, creating an easy means of finding interesting new titles amid the tens of thousands on offer.Of course, this will have interesting ramifications for the third-party social gaming networks already operating in the iPhone space.Openfeintboasts almost 20 million registered users, and there are others like Ngmoco'sPlus+andScorelooppicking up plenty of interest. These networks are busytelling the pressthat they're not worried, but the fact that Apple will be able to build Game Center functionality into the SDKs that go out toalldevelopers, and that the service will be able to every iPhone user who updates to the 4.0 OS suggests the marketplace is going to become rather difficult."In terms of the games community I think the Game Center announcement has taken everyone by surprise," says Tim Harrison, ex-EA Mobile and Vodafone exec and founder of theMobile Consultancy. "Everyone felt that at some point Apple would take some of the core networking services in-house, but I don't think most people expected the company to come out with the OS 4.0 update. Certainly the likes of Openfeint and Scoreloop probably felt that they would be bought, and that they would form the core of the social services, so to speak.Although the Xbox Live comparisons are easy and convenient, Harrison is not sure that they're entirely relevant. "I understand looking through some of the detail on the SDK that the hosting is going to be someone else's responsibility, Apple isn't going to do the hosting, so it's not going to be exactly like Xbox Live for iPhone. But some of the simpler functionality which up until now has been up to independent platforms is now going to be owned by Apple." Perhaps the key similarity then, will be the sense of robustness and reliability when it comes to matching gamers and allowing them to play together."I think the most interesting thing actually is, these days you can't talk in terms of simple game creation SDKs, you have to have a whole package," says Harrison. "If you look at what Apple has been moving toward in terms of its advertising models on iPhone; well, now they're adding the social and community elements to the platform, and I think they're also going to be increasing the range of billing options - that's the holy triumvirate that you need to create monetisable mobile games in the future."Look at what's been happening on the social networks and on the web, particularly the success of stuff from Zynga like FarmVille - it's not just about the gameplay, it's absolutely about the social experience and also the ability to be able to bill in innovative ways. This marks the first serious step that Apple has made in terms of pulling all three of those elements together and providing developers with a highly monetisable social game playing ecosystem."Okay, so the underlying message is, iPhone owners can prepare themselves for a flood of highly addictive social farming sims, which can be taken anywhere.Anywhere...
The recent – and very welcome - pause in big game releases will break next week whenSplinter Cell Convictionarrives.  I've been playing the finished game over the last few days and  - ahead of the official Guardian review next week - here are my impressions so far.First up this is definitely a more gritty affair than previous Splinter Cell games. The interrogation sequences – press B and watch as hero Sam Fisher smashes his victim over a piano, wall, whatever comes to hand – are unashamedly brutal. Gadgets are still important though but Conviction often feels like Splinter Cell Unplugged.While Conviction is more action orientated than older SC games, strategy and planning still count. The new "mark and execute" feature allows you to tag enemies before bursting in and dispatching them in one shot. This ability is only available after a hand to hand kill though, and sneaking and stealth are still absolutely key.  One level – set in a car park – was infuriatingly frustrating and made me realise that my patience for stealth games is not what it was. Maybe I've gone soft but skulking around the shadows while trying to avoid cameras and guards is not the best way to relax during an evening gaming session. If you crack – like I did – and try for Rambo-style shootout tactics then prepare to fail. One or two hits are enough to down Fisher and you soon go back to setting off car alarms to distract guards instead. The Metal Gear Solid style sneaking is – thankfully – not used on every level and there is variety.  The Batman style "death from above" action comes into its own later on, for example. Shooting is obviously a huge part of the game too and the controls work well. There are plenty of nods to Gears of War/Mass Effect 2 style combat tactics, with use of cover vital to success. Overall though Conviction is certainly more accessible than older Splinter Cell games.The AI – so important for a stealth game – is generally fine. If you get seen your enemies close in effectively, aided by a "Last Known Position" outline of Fisher.  You can very easily get outflanked, or at the very least annoyed by the repetitious threats delivered by your enemies. But there are still occasions when your assailants ignore the nearby death of their colleagues. At one point a gormless guard ignored the explosion that took out three of his comrades and carried on patrolling as normal before I put him out of his misery.The potentially quite interesting plot is let down by the facial animation graphics. These are way below the standard set by Mass Effect 2 and kill any potential empathy with the characters.  Perhaps realising this the developers beam words like "anger", and other emotions that Fisher is supposedly feeling, onto the walls during cut-scenes. Actually the presentation is excellent throughout, with objectives similarly beamed onto walls and weapon upgrades – essential for some of the weedier pistols – all handled intuitively.What else then? The graphics are decent enough with some welcome variety in levels (fairground to office block to, er, spoilers). All the levels so far are very much penned in though, with some intrusive boundaries - invisible walls are back! - stopping you from roaming. Then there are the impressive Assassin's Creed–style crowd based levels, with an enjoyable fugitive chasing sequence the highlight of these.Unless there is a *major* plot twist I am pretty much at the end of the single player game. However, multiplayer is a huge part of the package and likely to be the main selling point. Sadly, given that the game itself isn't released until next Friday, I haven't been able to test this yet. With the single-player so far lasting around 10 hours – probably less for experienced Splinter Cell fans – the multiplayer will be key to whether the game gets those higher review scores. The co-op mode – which apparently takes around 6 hours to complete – looks especially promising.The Splinter Cell Conviction review will go live next week then but what do you think. Played the demo? Planning to get next Friday? Or still too busy with Final Fantasy XIII, Battlefield and the rest?
Last week, I was reviewing From Software's stylised RPG, 3D Dot Game Heroes, for the Official PlayStation Magazine, when I made the mistake of actually watching the story summary at the beginning. Now, this visually arresting game is something of a comic homage to Zelda so shouldn't be taken too seriously. However, its 'plot' - about six powerful gems that have been separated up throughout a kingdom and now must be saved from an evil knight - seemed to absolutely typify the key failure of the RPG genre (as far as I'm concerned): awful, awful, generic narratives.Fantasy novels deal with grand, sweeping eternal themes of honour, betrayal, war and the supernatural struggle between good and evil, and this is partly because they tend to draw their themes and conventions from iconic mythological texts (Tolkien, for example, was heavily influenced by Celtic, Nordic and German folklore). But when these tropes are transferred to videogames, with the grandeur and historical influences stripped from them, they've often led to generic plots concerning dark sorcerers and powerful gems that, well, as Morrissey once put it, say nothing to me about my life.Science fiction, however, has often dealt with very specific contemporary fears, providing incisive social and political commentary on key issues. While Tolkien was writing Lord of the Rings, George Orwell and Ray Bradbury were formulating their great works of dystopian terror, Nineteen Eighty Four and Fahrenheit 451, and those stories still have something intrinsic to say to us about the power of the state and the threat of surveillance culture. I'm not saying they were better, but I'm not sure that similar, quantifiably relevant lessons can be drawn from Frodo's adventures in Middle Earth - though I am prepared to be proved cretinously wrong.And I think, because of this, because of the contemporary relevance, and the natural cohesion between technology-inspired fiction and video game hardware, the most interesting games I've played have tended to belong in the science fiction rather than fantasy genre. Bioshock and Deus Ex make compelling points about genetics and society, Half-Life 2, Beneath a Steel Sky and the Fallout series play on our fears of apocalypse, while Syndicate and Snatcher both made interesting additions to cyberpunk lore. As for MMOs, I just find the vast socio-political depth of Eve Online much more interesting than the endless quests and raids of WoW.But, more importantly, what doyouthink? Which of these two staple genres has made the most profound impact on games - and gamers?
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Apple is taking on the might of Google in the digital advertising industry, hoping to see-off the search engine giant's attempts to build a powerful position in the burgeoning mobile advertising market.The move, however, is unlikely to thrill Apple's mobile phone network partners, such as O2, Orange and Vodafone in the UK, as it looks set to undermine their own embryonic attempts to try and grab a slice of the mobile ad pie.Unveiling the latest version - OS 4 - ofthe software for its highly successful iPhone, which finally brings multi-tasking to the device, Apple boss Steve Jobs also announced the launch of iAd.The new mobile advertising platform is designed to allow iPhone app developers to create in-app advertising. Currently anyone who clicks on an advert in a downloadable app is bounced out of it and onto the advertiser's webpage. As a result, Apple reckons many users are put off clicking on adverts. In contrast, iAd will allow full-screen video and interactive advertising content to be served within an application. The adverts are dynamically and wirelessly delivered to the device. Crucially, Apple will sell and serve the adverts and developers will receive 60% of their iAd revenue. The videos, by the way, are of course in HTML5 and not Adobe's Flash which Apple is still waging war against.The move comes after Apple was beaten by Google in the race tobuy mobile advertising group AdMoblast year. That deal is being investigated by the US authorities. In January, Apple acquired rival Quattro Wireless, experts at embedding adverts in applications, for $275m (£180m).To date, mobile advertising has been all about making existing online advertising more relevant for mobile users when it appears on a handset's small screen. Some of the world's largest mobile phone companies have alreadybandied together to offer advertisers more informationabout what their customers are doing while browsing the mobile web. Existing online players such as Google, meanwhile, reckon the future lies in linking search results with mobile-specific information such as location.Apple, however, seems to reckon mobile advertising and online advertising are two distinct things. Jobs reckons the iPhone has created a new advertising category through the 185,000 apps that are available to download from its store."These 185,000 apps don't exist on computers," he said. "This is a new phenomenon, this is the first time this kind of thing has ever existed. We never had that on the desktop, so search was the only way to find a lot of things."The fact that Apple will host the ads also suggests that the Cupertino-based powerhouse will exert some quality control over them, just as it does for apps."I think there will need to be some boundaries. Like, you can't run just ANY ad on ABC. There are some ads you can't run. But these advertisers are paying to run ads… I'm hoping there won't be anything other than a light touch,"he said.Jobs described iAd as one of the seven "tentpole features" of iPhone OS 4 - incidentally did he deliberately mean to go after the Biblical allusion? It is perilously close to the Seven Pillars of Wisdom, a phrase made famous by TE Lawrence (of Arabia)'s autobiography which comes from the Book of Proverbs "Wisdom hath builded her house, she hath hewn out her seven pillars".The other 'pillars' are multi-tasking, the ability to organise apps into folders - useful as iPhone users have now downloaded four billion apps - enhanced mail, iBooks for the iPhone, some new features to keep business users happy, and a new game center.Many iPhone users and even more developers have been pushing for the iPhone to be able to multi-task ("if it can carry on playing music through the iPod feature when doing other things such as browsing the web why can't it run my app in the background", they have asked, not unreasonably.)But in order to preserve battery life, Apple has picked seven services which can be run by applications while the phone is running something else. They are background audio (so apps like Pandora can be used while doing other tasks), voice over IP (so users can receive Skype calls even when they do not have the app running or the phone is asleep), background location, push notifications (so you can get your Twitter alerts while accessing other apps), local notifications, task completion (so you can jump to something else while a web page loads or video downloads to a news app), and what Apple calls 'fast app switching' - essentially it keeps all the data about where you were in the app so it can easily jump back to it.These features will appear this summer on the iPhone 3GS and iPod touch 3G (that's the one from late last year).Bad news is that iPhone 3G and iPod Touch 2G devices will not support multi-tasking.The iPad, meanwhile, will get OS 4 in the autumn. Oh and Jobs said Apple has sold 450,000 of them so far and stil intends to be in international markets "later in April".The team at CCS Insight summed up iPhone OS 4 in their customary succinct manner:Apple previews iPhone 4 software shipping mid-year. States 450k iPads sold to date. 7 key areas: multitasking, folders (multiple apps on one icon), enhanced email (unified inbox), iBooks, enterprise features, social games platform and iAd. Analysis: iAd platform (60/40 share) will be cornerstone to continued iPhone success monetising free apps and furthering developer appeal. Offers Apple lead over Google in mobile advertising. iPhone's dominant position in mobile games extended with social elements. Multitasking limited to key use cases but a step forward.
One of the UK's three biggest internet service providers has vowed not to co-operate with measures to combat file-sharing set out in the government's controversial digital economy bill, expected to receive royal assent within days.TalkTalk, with more than 4 million UK internet users, said that "many draconian proposals remain" in the bill, including some that would allow content companies to force internet service providers (ISPs) to block the connections of customers suspected of online copyright infringement.TheOpen Rights Group, which campaigns for individual rights online, criticised moves to rush the bill through parliament before the election, saying "measures to allow disconnection of individuals from the internet, for undefined periods of time" and web blocking laws were pushed through "with no real scrutiny and limited debate".MPs and Lords complained that sites such asWikileaksor evenGooglewere at risk of being blocked under an order by the secretary of state, because a new clause inserted by the government on Wednesday night provides powers to block sites that "have been, are being or are likely to be used for or in connection with an activity that infringes copyright".That could spell trouble for Wikileaks, which carries copyrighted material supplied by whistleblowers, such as theUS Army video released last week showing the killing of Iraqi civilians.But photographers and artists celebrated after the government dropped a clause that would have allowed "orphan works" – whose owner cannot be located – to be used commercially at minimal cost. "The UK government wanted to introduce a law to allow anyone to use your photographs commercially, or in ways you might not like, without asking you first. They have failed," said Stop43, a site set up by more than 16,000 members of the photographic, imaging and advertising industries to lobby against the clause.The bill is certain to pass into law after being rushed through two key stages in two hours on Wednesday night in the House of Commons. It will require ISPs to send letters to anyone accused of infringing copyright by the owner of the copyrighted material; repeated accusations would lead to "temporary suspension" of their internet connection, which could involve either blocking it or slowing it down.Andrew Heaney, TalkTalk's director of strategy and regulation, said the proposals were "draconian": "This is made all the more appalling by the ability of big music and film companies to influence government and the absence of any proper debate or scrutiny by MPs – only 5% of MPs turned up for the brief debate yesterday and the other important parliamentary stages will be bypassed in the wash-up process," he wrote on thecompany blog.But plans for a £6 annual tax on landlines, which had been part of the originalDigital Britainreport in June 2009 which was then made into legislation, were dropped from the finance bill when the Tories made it clear  they would oppose it, potentially derailing the entire bill.Tory opposition also meant that there will now be no funding drawn from the BBC licence fee for "independently financed news consortiums", which would have made local news to replace regional bulletins on ITV1 — though that might be revived if Labour wins the general election.Thousands of people used sites such as writetoyourmp.com and 38degrees to complain about the anti-piracy measures in the bill, on the basis that they would criminalise people and did not assume the innocence of the accused – and would be expensive to defend against. Tom Watson, the Labour MP for West Bromwich East and former Cabinet Office minister, rebelled against the bill and voted, with six other Labour rebels including Diane Abbott, against the whip for the first time in his nine-year parliamentary career.The digital economy bill had substantial backing from the content industries, including record labels and film-makers and distributors, which claim that they are losing £400m a year through online piracy and file-sharing. It emerged when the bill passed through the Lords that a key amendment had been drafted by theBPI, which represents UK major record labels.The Open Rights Group, which is opposing the measures against file-sharing on the basis that they assume guilt on the part of those who operate internet connections, and that they will discourage hotels, libraries and shops from offering free wireless internet, called the passage of the bill "an utter disgrace".Jim Killock, its executive director, said: "This is an attack on everyone's right to communicate, work and gain an education. Politicians have shown themselves to be incompetent and completely out of touch with an entire generation's values. There are thousands of activists working with ORG planning to show up at hustings, demand answers from candidates, and who are willing to punish those who voted for this at the ballot box."
Protesters outside Parliament on 24 March protesting at the digital economy bill. Photo byAmil Mohananon Flickr.Some rights reservedThe digital economy bill received its final reading in the Lords on Thursday afternoon, with no amendments made - meaning that it has passed all its Parliamentary hurdles and can now pass to royal assent. That triggered a wave of official responses from creative industries and others. See if you can spot who's on which side...Feargal Sharkey, Chief Executive of UK Music commented:"UK Music welcomes the creation of the Digital Economy Act. Firm foundations are now in place on which to develop the UK's digital economy. The UK's music industry has no urge to look backwards and, as we have consistently stressed, legislation is not a means to an end. It is a spur to action. We acknowledge that the real work begins now - both in terms of developing a Code of Practice with industry partners and Ofcom, cooperating with Internet Service Providers, and by opening up even more legitimate ways for fans to enjoy the music and creativity that they love. As outlined in Liberating Creativity, UK Music's manifesto for the commercial music sector, we have ambitions to be a world leader by 2020. To realise this goal it is clear that we must meet these challenges and proactively embrace our digital future in the weeks, months and years ahead."BPI Chief Executive Geoff Taylor said:"The Act's measures to reduce illegal downloading will spur on investment in new music and innovation in legal business models. An internet that rewards taking creative risks will mean more British bands enjoying global success, more choice in how to access music online, and more jobs in our fast-growing creative sector. These measures will not eliminate all piracy, but they will go a long way towards reducing illegal freeloading and will help to build a more sustainable ecosystem for content on the internet. We are acutely aware that music fans are at the heart of our business as it embraces the digital age. Hand-in-hand with the new measures, we will continue to expand the exciting range of legal services that offer vast catalogues of music to stream or download and which reward artists for their work. We will underpin this with industry initiatives, such as the recently launched Music Matters campaign, to raise awareness of these offerings with UK consumers. We will now work diligently with other stakeholders, including ISPs and Ofcom, to develop the Code of Practice that will bring the Act into effect."Publishers Association Chief Executive Simon Juden said:"The cross-party support for the peer-to-peer proposals in the Digital Economy Bill proves just how important these measures are. High-quality content needs to be monetised and protected if its production is to be sustainable. As publishers are increasingly investing in the creation and delivery of digital content, so the measures passed today will help to secure that investment. We look forward to working with Government, Ofcom and ISPs on implementing the legislation. For publishers, the proposed reforms to orphan works were also of considerable interest. We are disappointed that Parliament has not been able to agree amendments to Clause 43 which accommodate the concerns of photographers, and has instead decided to remove the Clause from the Bill altogether. For the Clause to fall at the final hurdle after so much amendment and debate suggests this really is a missed opportunity. Legislation to unlock orphan works would have had a significant and tangible effect on the accessibility of our cultural heritage."The Open Rights Group's chief executive Jim Killock said:"This is an utter disgrace. This is an attack on everyone's right to communicate, work and gain an education. Politicians have shown themselves to be incompetent and completely out of touch with an entire generation's values. There now thousands of activists working with ORG planning to show up in hustings, demand answers from candidates, and who are willing to punish those who voted for this at the ballot box."Shireen Peermohamed, partner and intellectual property specialist at Harbottle &amp; Lewis, the London media and entertainment law firm, said:"One of the most controversial aspects was the clause which would have given wide powers to block access to Internet sites carrying illegal downloads. This has been replaced by a clause allowing the government to block sites which the Court considers are likely to be used to infringe copyright, or which are carrying infringing material. Whether this is giving the government the same wide powers dressed up in different language remains to be seen. Frankly, though, I doubt whether any Court would allow a site to be blocked without good evidence about what is happening or is likely to happen on it, and the outrage about government intervention may well be an over reaction."John Kennedy, chairman of the IFPI, which represents around 1400 major and independent record companies worldwide, said:"The passing of the Digital Economy Act in the UK recognises that if a country is to have world-class creative industries, then it also needs laws that will effectively protect their rights from the crippling problem of digital piracy. The new UK legislation is a decisive step towards dealing with P2P and other forms of illegal distribution in a way that can substantially reduce the problem. Most importantly, it recognises that internet service providers have an essential role to play in curbing online piracy and reducing infringements on their networks."The law firm Eversheds commented:"The Bill was passed in the face of much popular opposition to the copyright infringement provisions as well as very vocal lobbying from ISPs and others who will be required to implement the new provisions - at some cost to them. We can expect opposition to intensify as the clampdown on copyright infringement begins in earnest and consumers find themselves accused of breaking the law. Meanwhile some commentators have already pointed out that technology savvy infringers can - and will - take steps to circumvent detection, leaving open the question, who is the government really targeting?"Christine Payne, Chairperson of the Creative Coalition Campaign and General Secretary of Equity, said:"Today marks a groundbreaking day for the UK's creative industries. On behalf of the businesses and trade unions represented by the Creative Coalition Campaign, we want to thank members of both Houses for voting to support our sector against the damaging effects of online piracy. For too long, this illegal activity has been threatening the livelihoods of thousands of workers throughout our sector. Looking to the future, we now face the challenge of ensuring that the system outlined in the Bill functions properly in order to allow industry to focus on developing new business models that can flourish without having to compete with illegal file-sharing, downloading and streaming. Only with this protection will the UK's creative industries be able to continue to invest in the TV programmes, films, books, sporting events and music which are loved by millions across the UK and throughout the world."Lavinia Carey, Director General of the British Video Association, said:"The BVA is delighted to see the Digital Economy Bill successfully passed with clauses in place to protect copyright holders from peer-to-peer file sharing as well as from illegal sites offering copyright material for free. As a nation we should be enormously proud of our home entertainment industry which produces a wealth of extraordinary material to be enjoyed by millions. Illegal consumption of this material is effectively stealing and squeezes the industry's budgets, which in turn stunts the creativity of content and innovation we have come to enjoy."Ford Ennals, Chief Executive of Digital Radio UK, said:"We welcome the clear policy direction and legislative framework that is now in place giving us a foundation upon which to build a secure and prosperous future for radio and significant benefits for listeners. The switch to digital radio will also deliver opportunities for growth and greater competition within the industry as more commercial stations gain the ability to transmit nationally, and community and small local radio stations gain greater access to FM."Mark Friend, Controller, Multiplatform &amp; Interactive, BBC Audio &amp; Music, said:"Passing the Digital Economy Act into law is an important milestone in securing radio's place in a multi-platform digital world. It sets the stage for broadcasters and manufacturers to deliver the benefits of digital to UK radio listeners, including increased choice, quality and functionality."
Video games come under the specific "scrutiny" (if that's the correct word) of the digital economy bill in just two clauses – 41 and 42. These clauses reform  game classification under the video recordings act of 1984, a slab of legalese which governs the possible censorship of violent titles.They also rule that regulatory responsibility for games should be separate from movies. At the moment games are classified by both the industry's own Europe-wide ratings system, Pegi, and by the BBFC – clause 42 effectively removes BBFC from the equation.News reports suggesting that the Video Standards Council will now immediately be carrying out all games certification under the Pegi standard are a little premature, though."The DEB says that there will be a video games authority, it doesn't specify exactly what that that authority will do, or how it's going to do it," says Jas Purewal a lawyer who runs theGamer/Law blog. "It says that after the bill has passed there will have to be a secondary piece of legislation to actually set the authority up and specify what it's going to do. It's widely known that authority will be the VSC and that the VSC will use Pegi, but that's not in the DEB itself."So further legislation is required to specify the new regime, and Purewal also suggests that the European Commission may need to be notified of any new laws in this area. With several steps to be taken, then, and a general election looming, full legal implementation of a Pegi-dominated ratings regime is likely to be months away…In the meantime, it's also likely that the tightened copyright laws will have an effect on gamers – especially those who download pirated software."As a result of the DEB, there will now be greater facility for cooperation between ISPs and copyright holders to ensure that copyright materials are not illegally downloaded", says Purewal."Piracy is one of the great problems facing the industry, so I'm sure publishers and developers as copyright holders will look to see if they can use the provisions of the digital economy bill to protect their products. You could well be seeing publishers taking enforcement action against illegal downloaders in an effort to curb game piracy – the DEB mechanisms are intended to make enforcement easier."But of course, legally pursuing consumers has hardly been PR magic for the music industry, and with gamers already becoming frustrated by increasingly invasive DRM measures on the latest releases, there could be some serious controversy ahead.
The BBC has announced that it'll be releasing fourDoctor Who Adventure Gamesto tie in with the latest series of the hit sci-fi show. Mac and PC owners will be able to download each episode from theDoctor Who website, starting in June.Fans worried about the authenticity of the titles should be impressed by the involvement of senior Doctor Who staff. Steven Moffat, the head writer and executive producer on the show will also be one of the executive producers on the games, and they'll be scripted by Phil Ford (co-writer of the Waters of Mars episode) and James Moran (Severance, Torchwood Children of Earth). Plus, Matt Smith and Karen Gillan have provided full voice-overs, as have other members of the cast. The games will be developed by Sumo Digital, the Sheffield-based studio behind the likes of Outrun 2006 and F1 2009. Hmm, a Doctor Who racing game, then?Don't be silly. Charles Cecil the founder ofRevolution Softwareis also onboard as a producer. He created the excellentBroken Swordseries of twisty, engrossing adventure games, suggesting the Doctor Who titles will work within a similar genre. It also looks as though story threads will run between the TV episodes and the games, so narrative is clearly going to play a major part of the interactive editions.As Piers Wenger, head of drama at BBC Wales put it: "There aren't 13 episodes of Doctor Who this year. There are 17 – four of which are interactive. Everything you see and experience within the game is part of the Doctor Who universe: we'll be taking you to places you've only ever dreamed about seeing – including locations impossible to create on television."And to further excite Timelord fanatics, the press release adds, "The exact titles of the four episodes are being kept secret for the time being, but the four original stories will take players on a journey throughout time and space, including one location from the Doctor Who series which has never been seen before on screen. Players will encounter new and original monsters, in stories which form part of the overall Doctor Who canon."Of course, the BBChinted in Januarythat it would be looking at creating interactive content around its key brands, appointing ex-EA bigwig, Robert Nashak as EVP of digital entertainment. Back then, however, it seemed that it would all be about the corporation's commercial arm, BBC Worldwide, investigating the revenue-generating possibilities of games based around Dr Who, Top Gear, etc. But the Doctor Who Adventures titles will be free.Whatever the financial model, it's reasonably impressive that the BBC, usually rather conservative with such technological initiatives, has leapt in to the emerging arena of cross-platform entertainment. But it does have some catching up to do...The concept of movies and TV shows that cross over into the online interactive space is nothing new. A growing range of digital media agencies and non-traditional development studios have been creating experiences like this for the last decade. Channel 4 is hugely active in this space, and has been since running the experimental interactive show, Dubplate Drama in 2005, which allowed viewers to vote on the outcome of each episode. Nowadays, alongside its E4 Games site, it has a dedicated cross-platform development team that commissions interactive content to accompany its TV shows.A key example isMisfits, the teen-orientated super hero comedy, which had a major online presence orchestrated by London developer,Six To Start. "It was obvious to E4 that they should do something online," says chief creative, Adrian Hon. "It's a young audience – the Skins audience – and a genre show. If you want to engage with these people and get them excited, you have to do it online. We worked with E4 to figure out the sort of community and experience that would really get people engaged, and to get fans of the show doing more stuff."The core of it was a website where you could get exclusive content and play games related to that week's episode. The element that people were really interested in was the social stuff where we tweeted as the characters both during the show and between shows. Simon had a Facebook feed where he put up content – it was the first time a UK broadcaster had done that."Channel 4 Education is also a major experimenter with interactive content. Commissioning editor, Alice Taylor, has overseen a range of fascinating projects, including the cautionary social networking adventure,Smokescreen– also by Six to Start – which has just won the Best Game award at theSXSWfestival. Right now Brighton-based digital entertainment studio,Littleloud, is filming a new interactive drama for the channel entitled The Curfew – written by games journalist Kieron Gillen.It's a genre that goes back to the groundbreaking YouTube 'reality' show, LonelyGirl15 as well as Bebo's Kate Modern and Sofia's Diary series', which placed linear narratives within the conventions of social networking and content sharing sites. And in the US, there'siCarly, a TV show in which a schoolgirl sets up her own web TV series. The accompanying website is filled with games, as well as blog posts and photos added by the characters.But the transformation of TV shows into games, and the development of online TV-style dramas, is just the beginning. What we're also seeing is a move in the opposite direction – with games becoming more like television. This is sometimes very subtle – the use of an episodic structure in "interactive dramas" like Heavy Rain and Alan Wake for example. This is also much more obvious in episodic, digitally distributed games likeTelltale's Sam &amp; Max and Monkey Island series', and theBlue Toad Murder Filesfrom Buzz-developer,Relentless Software.The latter is a classic murder mystery thriller in the style of those Sunday afternoon Agatha Christie shows, and it consciously uses – and mutates – narrative devices taken from the TV format. According to producer Jade Tidy this was a complex process, "We got a few early script drafts, including one from a TV script writer and what we found out very quickly is a complicated murder mystery script might work well for TV but isn't very fun when you add interactive elements, as it becomes frustratingly difficult to follow what's really going on in the story."We decided early on in development that we wanted a story arc across all the episodes (rather than standalone episodes with no connecting storyline), so we outlined the plot for the whole series before concentrating on the script for each individual episode. The fact our puzzles are quite strongly connected to the storyline has proved more difficult to work with than the episodic nature of the storyline."When Relentless started focus testing the game they made an interesting discovery – participants were adapting their viewing behaviours, merging the relaxation of watching TV with the attentiveness of games playing. "The first couple we watched play the game started off very analytical – almost how someone who hasn't been a tester before would imagine they should be like. Then after about 15mins they sat back and snuggled up to each other, just as you might with your other half watching a film! They were very engaging to watch, the girl would mimic the characters, repeating 'MURRRDER' or the 'dun, dun, duhhh' music and although they were quite supportive of each other when puzzle solving, there was still a lot of competitiveness between them."Through experiences like these, traditional barriers between interactive and linear broadcast content are crumbling. And in the background, the delivery platforms are changing too. A growing number of TV sets now come with internet connectivity (Samsung's Internet@TV range, for example, which even have their own app store), while more and more people are using services like iPlayer to watch traditional TV on the net.Indeed, viewers are now creating their own converged entertainment experiences by texting, messaging and tweeting during shows – and this is something TV companies are keen to tap into; "social viewing" is an emerging field, a means of employing audience chatter into the very makeup of the show. In 2008, for example, MTV in the US realised that around 40% of 20-year-olds were using the internet while watching television, and so launchedBackchannel– a sort of competitive Twitter service, designed to run alongside its teen soap, The Hills. Developed by New York agency Area/Code itallowed viewers to make snarky comments about characters– the funnier the remark, the more points they scored."Audiences are in the most part happy to use TV as a mild anaesthetic, but there are a growing number of people who have their laptops open at the same time as watching TV," says Rik Lander, founder of cross-platform development company, You Are Here.  "These people are not simply seeking to turn their brains off with TV and we believe they should be served by TV offering them participation."Lander is veteran of the web drama genre, having worked on several examples, including the BBC's 2006 interactive soap, Wannabes. He runs a website namedVonviral, which collects and comments on web-based dramas – he also lectures on multi-platform drama at the National Film and Television School. He uses the brain-twisting phrase360 cross-platform pervasive transmediato describe the burgeoning combination of TV and interactive mediums and sees a future in which interactivity becomes a staple element of familiar TV staples."When we watch TV we are passive, when we use internet enabled devices we are active – sending messages, bidding in auctions, buying things. [Last year] We used funding from Media Sandbox to devise formats for TV shows where audiences could have a massive impact on the outcome of the show through familiar forms of interaction. We tested several types of formats. A quiz show where studio contestants can buy answers from the audience. An impro game where five actors are directed by the TV audience to create a drama over 25 minutes. A reality show and a panel show."The latter, named Viral Spiral, is apparently with production company Leopard films who are presenting it to broadcasters.In the very near future, Hon suspects the concepts of social viewing, interactivity and web functionality will all align to create fully synchronized multimedia assaults. "If I was the BBC I'd think it was really smart to start doing enhanced iPlayer shows, so you have your window showing video from the programme, then you've got other stuff going on around it."The big problem is keeping up with all this. Imagine if you're watching Lost and you have to keep up with one guy's Facebook and someone else's twitter feed – it's too much of an effort. It needs to be, push one button and it happens. I wouldn't be surprised if something like that came out of the US soon, something for young adults like MTV or Nickleodean. That would be a smart move – something truly, truly cross-media …"So a game based on the series is a good beginning for the Doctor, but what he really needs is a converged, pervasive social transmedia experience - and he'll need more than a(obligatory Doctor Who reference coming up)sonic screwdriver to build one of those...
Celebrities hoping for a quiet life may be worried by iPhone apps and websites such asCelebAroundandPapture, which let users track celebrities around London.While feeding the gossip culture, this could make it even harder for celebrities to lead relatively normal lives when they are not "on duty", so to speak. It could also increase the risk that comes from the tiny proportion of celebrity stalkers that are far from normal themselves.Papture co-founder Amanda Gold says: "Until now, gossip hungry fans would rely on magazines and celebrity news sites for their celebrity fix. But, with the launch ofpapture.com, celebrity journalism is in the hands of everyone. Now anyone with a smartphone or camera can become the paparazzi."And if you don't care much about celebrities, at least the apps provide some indication of the hotspots you might want to visit. "When people choose a restaurant, bar or club to go to, it's often based on who has been there before. This is giving people access to the entertainment industry's little black book of the best places to go," Danny Hayward of Matrix Picture Agency, the company behind CelebAround,told the London Evening Standard.The paper gave examples: "For instance, in the last week the app shows that Kate Moss ate at J Sheekey, rock band Kasabian were staying at the Sanctum Soho Hotel, while rapper Jay-Z went to Merah nightclub in Wells Street."There might be a problem if a lot of amapapzis turn up at once, which could be one reason why CelebAround delays its feed. Papture doesn't. But Gold, whose co-founder is her brother Edd, says:"In contrast to competitors, who significantly delay their feed by at least twelve hours, Papture provides real-time celebrity sightings. Our current iPhone app already offers real-time sightings and our next version, which is launching imminently, will offer live celebrity sightings; and a push alert system where the phone will buzz/vibrate when a user is within 500m of a celebrity, or their favourite selected celebrities have been spotted."Another advantage, says Gold, is that the amateur snappers may be on the inside, while the pros are standing around outside.I asked Gold if this would create a potential hazard for celebrities, but she said: "Within the game of celebrity there has alwaysbeen a trade-off; give up part of your personal life in exchange forbeing able to promote your latest products. For example, a wide range of celebrities are on Twitter to promote themselves, and in exchange they let fans see into their private lives. Papture just takes this concept into real life rather than through a computer/phone."Major celebrities are already followed by legions of fans wherever they go: Papture is unlikely to change this. Papture will be able to provide more fans with the information, but those who actually 'follow' a celebrity are likely to be there already!"Whether these technology-driven developments can be stopped is another matter. Location-awareness is being driven by celebrity revelations on Twitter, by social networking apps such as Foursquare and Gowalla, and by the iPhone's inclusion of geo-location data in the photos that people upload to sites such as TwitPic and Flickr.And like real paps, some amateurs could see the lure of financial gain. Both Matrix and Papture get the right to sell the pictures that users upload, and to take a percentage of the profits.
Google is looking to expand its sales teams by hiring another 500  staff worldwide, having announced that the recession is over.Google has around 600 staff in its main London office in  Victoria, including sales staff and a big proportion of its mobile development teams and there are currently more than100 vacanciesfor that office alone, including YouTube ad technology specialist, managers for print content partnerships and an analytics expert for sales.Photograph:caccamo/Flickr/Some rights reservedGoogle has cut some staff numbers including 100 recruitment staff early last year and 200 sales and marketing staff last month. But hiring otherwise continued in 2009, albeit at a slower rate, and the company said it had "over-invested in some areas in preparation for the growth trends we were experiencing at the time".Chief executive Eric Schmidt had said during company results inOctoberthat Google would be stepping up recruitment, particularly in advertising from sales to mobile search.2007 and 2008 were boom recruitment years for Google, up 57% and 20% respectively, but staff numbers fell by 2% at the end of 2009 to 19,835 full-time employees.If you're happy to rely on Google as an economic indicator - things are  looking up. Either that, or it's a clever strategic move to take  advantage of the downturn to claim a little more space for itself.A spokesperson toldMediaweekthat the hires were designed to keep Google's momentum in the search business while building up expertise in display, video and mobile. "We're investing heavily for the long term to maintain and increase the company's pace of innovation. This means an investment, first, in people."
The digital economy bill was an ambitious piece of legislation designed, among other things, to overhaul the broadcasting industry, start the ball rolling on radio switchover, ensure high-speed broadband access for all, and deal with internet piracy.Gordon Brown regarded it as an attempt to equip Britain for the digital ageby providing the infrastructure needed to ensure the country's creative industries could flourish.A lack of parliamentary time ahead of the general election torpedoed several key measures in the bill. And a process that would normally involve several weeks or even months of legislative scrutiny was squeezed into a two-hour Commons debate last night, during which the rest of the bill was largely waved through by MPs.Today the bill is being considered for a final time in the Lords, where peers are expected to rubber stamp the legislation.OfcomA clause widening Ofcom's power to oversee "all media" rather than merely TV and radio was opposed by the Tories and dropped by the government earlier this weekas part of "wash up" horsetrading with the opposition to get the rest of the bill through.Two other clauses were passed, giving Ofcom new responsibility for producing regular reports on the evolution of the internet in the UK and looking at how on-demand TV and other websites are contributing to "public service objectives". That amounts to little more than a recognition that public service broadcasting content will increasingly be delivered over the internet as well as on TV.Internet piracyMost of the controversial parts of the bill are contained in clauses 4-18, which deal with the contentious issue of illegal downloading and how best to tackle it. Moves by backbench MPs to defeat measures forcing ISPs to restrict or cut off their customers' internet access if they habitually download films or music illegally failed.The most incendiary part of the bill - clause 18 - which handed the high court powers to grant injunctions forcing ISPs to block access to online sites, was withdrawn. However, it was replaced by a government amendment which will effectively achieve the same outcome by different means.Other clauses, including one that gives Ofcom the power to impose fines of up to £250,000 on ISPs who don't act against persistent offenders, went through. Cue fury from those, including privacy campaigners, who claim this infringes the rights of internet users.Internet domain namesClauses 19 and 21 give the government the power to intervene when new domain names are registered, after consulting Ofcom. The regulator is now likely to keep a careful eye on companies who register ".uk" sites to ensure they are not doing so for "illicit use" – ie illegal downloads. Currently, domain names are handed out by an independent body.Channel 4Clauses 22 and 23 will prompt changes at Channel 4. The broadcaster's remit will be rewritten and extended so its original requirement to make innovative content for minority groups applies to its online activities as well as television. It must also produce news and content for children and teenagers, addressing the concerns of campaigners who claim children's TV is in the doldrums.Commercial TVThere is more broadcasting housekeeping in clauses 24 to 28, which creates single channel three franchises for England and Scotland, a measure that will save ITV plc and STV some money. England currently has 10 regional channel three franchises, all owned by ITV plc, while STV owns the two Scottish licences, STV and Grampian.The licences for Telextext on ITV and Channel Five, a service which many viewers – particularly the elderly – still use, will expire in 2014, the bill confirms. Ofcom will be given the power to rule on their future after that, but if those licences are renewed they must be on "commercially viable" terms. In other words, ITV and Five must be able to make money from them. Both would rather use the capacity teletext occupies for more profitable services.ITV replacement news servicesThe government's decision to withdraw clause 29 marks the end of an acronym – IFNC. Independently financed news consortiums, which would have made local news to replace regional bulletins on ITV1, foundered in the face of Conservative opposition.The government alsofailed to sign contracts with the preferred bidders for three IFNC pilots– which did not need parliamentary approval via the bill – before Whitehall closed shop for the election.If Labour forms the new government after 6 May, they could yet be revived.Digital radio switchoverOn to clauses 30-40, which tidy up some of the radio licences in preparation for digital switchover. The government is handed the power to set a date for switchover, as it did for television, but despite industry pleas, there no date has been enshrined in law. Radio groups believe an announcement about when the analogue signal will be switched off would help them sell digital to a sceptical public.Video gamesAnother industry that was the subject of intense scrutiny in the original Digital Britain report – video games – is also dealt with in just two clauses. Games that include violence or encourage criminal activity will be regulated more tightly. Regulation of games will be removed from the British Board of Film Classification, and handed to the Video Standards Council, but that is unlikely to fundamentally alter the way the current ratings system.Intellectual propertyClause 43, a controversial measure which would have allowed organisations to use "orphan works" – content whose owners cannot be found – has been jettisoned. That will not please public institutions such as the British Library, which wants to make more of its vast catalogue of works available online but must overcome huge copyright problems in order to do so. It will cheer rights owners, including photographers, who argue the change would allow publisher to take their work without paying for it, simply by claiming their owners could not be traced.Two other clauses were passed, raising the maximum penalty for a criminal conviction for copyright infringement, such as copying DVDs, to £50,000; and absolving libraries of copyright infringeemnt for lending ebooks and audiobooks.
• Guardian editor-in-chief Alan Rusbridger reviews the iPad&gt;&gt;Guardian"When I look at the New York Times app on this I can't decide if it is brilliant or terrible."• Review: The Apple iPad&gt;&gt;TechCrunch"While I won't say we're witnessing a miracle here, for folks who need to do a little browsing and a little text editing – along with a little gaming, a little file sharing, a little photo viewing, and all the rest – the iPad is definitely a device worth the investment."• How to (sort of) take photos with your iPad&gt;&gt;Mashable"All that you need to take photos on your iPad is two apps, CAMERA-A for the iPad for $.99 and CAMERA-B for the iPhone 3GS (free)."• Apple iPad components cost $259&gt;&gt;Business Week"Much of the iPad's component costs went toward making the device appealing to use, says iSuppli principal analyst Andrew Rassweiler, who supervised the 'teardown' analysis of the product. More than 40% of the iPad's costs are devoted to powering its touchscreen display and other components of the computer's user interface."• iPad's early app economy&gt;&gt;paidContent"Perhaps surprisingly, 35 percent of iPad apps are games - way ahead of entertainment and education apps in second and third place."• The iPad is Apple's re-conception of personal computing&gt;&gt;Daring Fireball"I was right that The Tablet would be Apple's reconception of personal computing... Apple hasn't thought of everything with iPad, but what they've thought about, they've thought about very deeply."• The iPad's scary counter-revolution&gt;&gt;FT"Last Saturday, a man in brown from UPS came to my door with an Apple iPad. On Sunday, Twitter brought adoring sighs from people who had also bought one. On Monday, the internet delivered a backlash."• Apple rejected iPad app for using pinch to expand gesture&gt;&gt;AppleInsider"When the application was initially rejected from the App Store, Apple sent a letter to the developers noting that the pinch to expand feature is "associated solely with Apple applications." The form letter-like e-mail also mistakenly named another application, leading Sykora to assume that Web Albums HD is not the only software that has been rejected for its use of pinch to expand."• iPad etiquette: The 'official' FAQ&gt;&gt;Wired"If Steve Jobs had not wanted you to use your iPad on the shitter, he would have put a camera in it. Even better, it's just big enough that you won't inadvertently drop it in the loo..."
Check out the exclusive trailer of upcoming racing game Split/Second: Velocity. Will it replace Sonic &amp; Sega All-Stars as my racing game of 2010?Set within the world of a hyper-competitive reality television show in a made-for-TV city rigged for destruction, Split/Second: Velocity is an intense action racing game in which competitors can trigger events that take out opponents or completely change the track – a bit like a grown-up version of Mario Kart then.The game is due for release on 21 May for Xbox 360, PS3 and PC. It has been created by Brighton-based developer Black Rock Studios – the team behind 2008's critically acclaimed Pure.Split/Second: Velocity was selected as best racing game in the game critics awards at the E3 last year. Black Rock said it approached the game as if it was a blockbuster movie rather than a game, with influences from titles such as Terminator 2, The Empire Strikes Back and Bad Boys 2.
Protesters on April 1 before the second reading of the Digital Economy bill. Photo byWilliam Marriageon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamFollowing the Digital Economy bill with Twitter hashtags on TV &gt;&gt; dale laneIf you have a hackable TV.... being a Linux-based set-top box... and expertise in Python, you can give Parliament its own Twitterfall.1 in 10 Windows PCs still vulnerable to Conficker worm &gt;&gt; ComputerworldAnd 25 of every 1,000 systems are currently infected with the worm, according to Qualys, a security risk and compliance management provider. Oh joy. Just to remind you, those infected machines are the source of spam, DDOS attacks, phishing sites and malware.&#10;&#10;Should the cost of malware-infected PCs be part of the TCO (total cost of ownership) of a Windows machine?Rough Type: Nicholas Carr's Blog: The iPad LudditesA response to Doctorow, Zittrain, Bray and others who don't like the iPad's controlled, restrictive design that says "In the end, progress doesn't care about ideology."The iPad is Steve Jobs' final victory over the company's co-founder Steve Wozniak - SlateWoz was the hippy idealist who created Apple computers for tinkerers and hobbyists, but Jobs has take the company and its products in exactly the opposite direction. The iPad "has far more in common with the television than the personal computer," says Tim Wu.Traveling with E-readers, Netbooks, and Other Small Gadgets (Including the iPad) - TSA Blog"Electronic items smaller than the standard sized laptop should not need to be removed from your bag or their cases. It's that simple," says  the TSA's Blogger Bob. The instructions of real-life US airport security officials will, however, vary.Trust and reputation systems: redistributing power and influence - Craig Newmark"People use social networking tools to figure out who they can trust and rely on for decision making. By the end of this decade, power and influence will shift largely to those people with the best reputations and trust networks, from people with money and nominal power. That is, peer networks will confer legitimacy on people emerging from the grassroots."Surprise, Surprise, the JooJoo Is a Turd &gt;&gt; Daring Fireball Linked List:Linking to Engadget, which points out that the JooJoo - which can play Flash! - when it plays Flash becomes glacial. Still want it on that iPad?iPhone OS: 25 Things It Really Needs (Even Now) - PCWorldA wishlist from June with updates that reflect the arrival of the iPad...Don't Steal From a Compsci &gt;&gt; A Rambling SlateiPhone and laptop stolen. But quickly reunited with owner due to GPS location sensor. Moral: always lock your phone (screen, SIM and phone) - otherwise the bad guys will disable the GPS. Then you won't find it.The Twitter Platform's Inflection Point &gt;&gt; Fred Wilson"Facebook (and Twitter) have also spawned the social media agency business, helping businesses and brands market themselves in social nets, which may be even bigger than social gaming when you add up all the companies in it. That business opportunity is directly analogous to the search agency business that got built on the back of Google as it scaled into the business it is today. So it is clear that you can build large businesses on top of a social platform like Facebook and Twitter. And because Twitter is so open and so lightweight, I am surprised that there aren't more "new kinds of killer apps" .."IBM breaks OSS patent promise, targets mainframe emulator - Ars Technica" IBM is threatening to pursue legal action against TurboHercules, a company that sells services relating to the open source Hercules project, an emulator that allows conventional computers with mainstream operating systems to run software that is designed for IBM System Z mainframe hardware."Is iPad a game-changer? - Dave WinerDave Winer continues his thoughtful exploration of the pros and cons of iPads and netbooksThe Digg iFrame Toolbar is Dead - DiggNew Digg CEO Kevin Rose says "framing content with an iFrame is bad for the Internet" so "I'm happy to say we are killing it when we launch the new Digg."Crippled iWorks apps for iPad causes confusion and frustration &gt;&gt; ZDNet"The problem is that is documents are synced to the iPad and then synced back to a Mac, the formatting and information is lost," says Adrian Kingsley-Hughes. "That's bad news for anyone who doesn't have a backup, and still very annoying for users who have put in the time editing documents on the iPad."Why the iPad and iPhone don't Support Multitasking - Robert LoveIt has nothing to do with processing power and battery life, or their tiny (256MB) memories, according to an Android expert. The problem is that Apple hasn't yet implemented a way for third-party apps to save their state - unlike Google Android, which has Bundles.10 Google Chrome Extensions for Boosting Your ProductivityExtensions are relatively new to Chrome but some useful ones are appearingHorizontal Attention Leans Left - Jakob Nielsen's AlertboxIn tests, says Nielsen, people spent more than twice as much time looking at the left side of the page as they did the right. Web designers should therefore "stick to the conventional layout, because it works perfectly with how people look at Web pages."The Real iPad Review - Adam KmiecAdam Kmiec's nearly-3-year-old daughter absolutely loves her iPad. "Will you love it?  The simple answer is YES…so long as you have the mindset of a 3 year old."Microsoft's mystery event revealed - CNetOn April 12, Microsoft will launch two slider phones "code-named Pure and Turtle, each with a touch screen and keyboard, a source told CNET". These are from the Danger/Sidekick business that Microsoft bought.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
American presidents used to promise a chicken in every pot. If it were up to Google it would be a smart  meter in every home.In an initiative with theClimate Group, thecompany this week wrote a letterand hosted a summit at its Washington DC offices to urge Barack Obama to  adopt a goal of providing every household with real time information about their electricity use."By giving people the ability to monitor and manage their energy consumption, for instance, via their computers, phones or other devices, we can unleash the forces of innovation in homes and businesses," says the letter, signed by more than 40 leading businesses and environmental groups.As the roster of signatures - which includes Nokia, General Electric, AT&amp;T, Intel and Hewlett Packard - suggests Google is not the only company to see huge potential in upgrading America's antiquated grid with modern information technology.More than 200 start-ups are now working on energy information devices to provide consumers with actionable information on how their electricity is generated, eg coal or solar; the cost of running appliances; and the price according to the time of day.Google has already launched itsPowerMeter, a free web device  thatallows people to track their electricity use from their computers.The companies claim devices such as these can make an immediate difference in behaviour, getting people to switch off lights or do their laundry at night, when electricity is cheaper.Charlene Begley, the chief executive officer of GE's home and business solutions, said they were finding a 7% to 10% reduction in energy use after installation of real-time metering devices.But there is a lot the companies still don't know. How much information do consumers really want? Do they want to be nagged to switch off the lights every night, or will they rebel? It's not even clear how they want that information delivered: by smart phone, computer widget, or television (if at all). "We are not ready to place a bet on any one format," said Lorie Wigle, the head of Intel's eco-technology unit.Who owns the highly personal information collected in private homes? How do you protect consumers' privacy? "It could be very attractive to package this and sell it in all kinds of ways," said Leslie Harris, president of the Centre for Democracy and Technology. Then there is the problem of hackers.And, even as the Obama administration funds the roll-out of some 18 million smart meters (with some $3.4bn alloted under last year's economic recovery plan) it remains unclear who is to pay for the transition.The summit was told the administration has to do more to promote the deployment of new technologies, such as offering rebates to consumers and helping companies with the initial expense of smart technology.Begley said it could cost GE more than $200m to develop a refrigerator capable of automatically adjusting functions according to the time of day. "We have to be able to show shareholders a promising return," she said.It is also crucial to reassure consumers that they will indeed be better-off having the new technology in their home. In Texas and California, initial limited rollouts of smart meters have generated thousands of complaints and even lawsuits claiming that the meters led to much higher electricity prices.California's regulatory authority ordered anindependent audit of the smart meters deployed by one company, Pacific Gas &amp; Electricity. In some cases, customers reported bills three times higher than normal even when they were away on holiday.For the rollout of a new technology that doesn't look very smart.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Video games have been interested in mimicking real-life physics since the days ofPong– a tennis simulator in which a 'ball' bounces across a screen.Physics engines, the back-end programming which makes this simulation possible, have become ever more sophisticated. The 2004 game Half Life 2 was widely praised for its realistic physics. There's a genuine pleasure in seeing the movement of physical objects portrayed accurately, and fans createdvideosto showcase how accurately the game modelsfalling cratesor topplesfence panels.But now that games have proved they can reproduce reality so beautifully, a more recent crop have played with physics in fascinating ways. The beautiful, atmospheric gameAnd Yet It Movestakes place within a ripped-paper collage landscape in which the player has to rotate the world in order to navigate it. Up becomes down, left becomes right and the direction of gravity changes. It's similar to the 2008 gameEchochromein which players navigate a world based on MC Escher physics.A simple, yet incredibly satisfying free online game isContinuity. In the game, the player runs a stick figure from place to place, opening the door to the next level: but each level is arranged over multiple panels which can be shuffled. You may need to jump up into one panel, then shuffle them so that you fall back into a different one. The game's world is both totally impossible and strangely intuitive.The emergence of these games could be compared to painting's journey fromphoto-realismtoabstract work. Like all art forms, games can reflect reality back to us, but also show us things that could never exist.
The government forced through the controversial digital economy bill with the aid of the Conservative party last night, attaining a crucial third reading – which means it will get royal assent and become law – after just two hours of debate in the Commons.However it was forced to drop clause 43 of the bill, a proposal on orphan works which had been opposed by photographers. Theywelcomed the news: "The UK government wanted to introduce a law to allow anyone to use your photographs commercially, or in ways you might not like, without asking you first. They have failed," said the site set up to oppose the proposals.But despite opposition from the Liberal Democrats and a number of Labour MPs who spoke up against measures contained in the bill and put down a number of proposed amendments, the government easily won two votes to determine the content of the bill and its passage through the committee stage without making any changes it had not already agreed.Tom Watson, the former Cabinet Office minister who resigned in mid-2009, voted against the government for the first time in the final vote to take the bill to a third reading. However the vote was overwhelmingly in the government's favour, which it won by 189 votes to 47.Earlier the government removed its proposed clause 18, which could have given it sweeping powers to block sites, butreplaced it with an amendmentto clause 8 of the bill. The new clause allows the secretary of state for business to order the blocking of "a location on the internet which the court is satisfied has been, is being or is likely to be used for or in connection with an activity that infringes copyright".The Liberal Democrat MP John Hemming protested that this could mean the blocking of the whistleblower site Wikileaks, which carries only copyrighted work. Stephen Timms for the government said that it would not want to see the clause used to restrict freedom of speech – but gave no assurance that sites like Wikileaks would not be blocked.Don Foster, the Liberal Democrats' spokesman for culture, media and sport, protested that the clause was too wide-ranging: "it could apply to Google," he complained, adding that its inclusion of the phrase about "likely to be used" meant that a site could be blocked on its assumed intentions rather than its actions.The Lib Dem opposition to that amendment prompted the first vote - known as a division – on the bill, but the Labour and Conservative whips pushed it through, winning it by 197 votes to 40. The next 42 clauses of the bill were then considered in five minutes.Numerous MPs complained that the bill was too important and its ramifications too great for it to be pushed through in this "wash-up" period in which bills are not given the usual detailed examination.However the government declined to yield – although it hadalready done a deal with the Torieswhich meant that a number of its provisions, including clause 43 and the creation of independent local news consortia, would not be part of the bill.
The brainchild of British developer Michael Birch and his Californian wife Xochi, it was the only website that mattered in the playgrounds of the UK and Ireland when it hit the peak of coolness in 2007. Among 13- to 16-year-olds, Bebo was the place to be seen online, where members could blog, email each other, upload videos and design quizzes – while many adults just didn't quite get it.But just three years and one enormous acquisition later by US giant AOL, which paid $850m (then £420m) in cash to buy the site in 2008, Bebo looks likely to close – redrawing the landscape of social networking sites and handing a big chunk to Facebook. AOL, which surprised even web evangelists with the scale of its payment for Bebo, has said it can no longer fund the social networking service, which has some 12 million users, telling employees it would sell the site or close it this year.A leaked internal memo from the AOL Ventures' executive vice-president, John Brod, said the company – which has been undergoing extensive restructuring – had decided Bebo "was a business that has been declining and, as a result, would require significant investment in order to compete in the competitive social networking space"."Social networking is a space with heavy competition, and where scale defines success," he said, adding that a decision must be made about the future of the site by May. Bebo was founded by Birch and his wife in 2005 and after moving to San Francisco, they successfully grew the company and the site, peaking with around 40 million monthly users globally in early 2008. It was then that Birch achieved every startup web developer's dream by selling to AOL for such a fortune – even more than the $580m Rupert Murdoch's News Corp bought MySpace for in 2005.The deal was due to a cleverly devised, strategic programme of marketing projects and high-profile media partnerships devised by the former chief executive, Joanna Shields. Also a former Google executive, Shields displayed characteristic nous by leaving AOL 14 months after the acquisition – and last week accepted a senior role at Facebook in Europe.Bebo has not fared as well since the AOL deal. "Bebo needed investment and engineers," said one source close to the deal. "At one point, we had 40 engineers when Facebook had something like 2,000. You can't produce a good product fast enough at that scale. In fact you can't even keep the site running properly."The lack of technical support became evident with downtime increasing significantly as the site was not maintained. "At one point the site was down for three full days in one month. There are no sites that should do that, let alone a site as big as Bebo," the source added.In its early days as a cool, innovative web startup, Birch and his team had "winged it", said another source, who criticised AOL's decision to try to broaden Bebo's userbase beyond young teens. "AOL understood what the site needed but didn't do their due diligence. It was a crazy, emotional deal with all the ego that goes with that, and once they got their hands on the platform they realised it needed a lot of work. It all started to tumble down. And you can't serve an audience a half-baked product."UK law student Sam England was a typical, keen Bebo user at school – until Facebook began expanding internationally beyond its origins on US college campuses. "Everyone used Bebo and MySpace, and they kind of co-existed. Bebo was a bit more childish, but your friends were on it. The main change was when Facebook opened to everyone. It's not about features, it's about that mass of people and a design that appeals to everyone," he said.Figures from marketing firm comScore show the dramatic shift – Bebo's monthly users in the UK fell by 60% from February 2009 to February 2010 to 3.8 million, while Facebook's grew 24% over the same period to 28.1 million. MySpace fell 50% to 3.5 million.Analysts blamed Bebo's decline on AOL through unsuccessful attempts to broaden its audience base and a lack of substantial funding from the outset. To many in the industry, AOL is still tarnished from one of the most high profile and least successful deals in internet history – its acquisition of Time Warner in 2000 at the height of the dotcom boom. The move away from dial-up – on which AOL originally built its business in the late 1990s – to broadband and the fragmentation of the media side of the business contributed to a $99bn loss two years later."Bebo was well positioned initially but lost money from that valuation [when it was sold to AOL] pretty fast," said Gartner's Research vice-president, Jeff Mann. "In the past six months we've seen social networking become a winner takes all market – and Facebook is a big winner. Even in Europe, Facebook is one of just one or two top sites in the key markets, and that's because of the network effect. People go where their friends go.""Mann is not optimistic about its future: "It is possible that a buyer could come forward, or a marketing agency might want to take the site in a totally different direction. But Bebo does not have much value and is not cheap to run. To succeed it needs a massive injection of cash."Facebook's dominance will clearly be bolstered if Bebo does close, but the site is not the only show in town in social networking – though much smaller, other sites flourish in specific niches such as LinkedIn, the business networking site or the games site Club Penguin.Other big website purchases that probably still make executives wince include ITV's acquisition of Friends Reunited in 2005, which was last year sold for £25m.  "Rise and fall of BeboJanuary 2005Husband and wife team Michael and Xochi Birch launch Bebo from their San Francisco living room. The couple, veterans of a number of joint dotcom startups, paid $8,000 (then £4,240) for the domain name Bebo, because it was snappy, available and meaningless.May 2006London-based venture capitalists Benchmark see the potential and invest £8m in the company for a 15.7% stake. By August 2006, the site has 25 million users around the globe. It was particularly big in Ireland, but had very few users in America, a trend which continues today.July 2007The site scores a big online hit with the interactive teen drama KateModern. A multitude of companies partner with the site on the back of that success, including Yahoo, Microsoft and Apple. BT and Viacom make approaches to buy Bebo, but their offers are rebuffed.January 2008Bebo voted best social networking website by the consumer magazine, Which?, ahead of Facebook and MySpace.March 2008AOL pays $850m for Bebo, which has amassed around 40 million users. AOL chief executive, Randy Falco, says the deal is "a tremendous acquisition and one I think is game-changing for AOL".May 2009Joanna Shields, Bebo's chief executive, leaves AOL. She is now working for Bebo's archrival, Facebook.6 April 2010AOL announces it is likely to close or sell Bebo, after being trounced by Facebook in the social networking wars. According to figures from ComScore, Bebo's global unique visitors in February totalled 12.8 million, which was down 45% on February 2009. Facebook had 462 million visitors, MySpace nearly 110 million, and Twitter 69.5 million.
Block 1Will it pass or will it get derailed? The committee stage/third reading of the Digital Economy bill is due to be debated tonight.This has two sides going to war - no, not the Tories and Labour, but the "creative industries" (emphasis on "industry") and the digital rights groups (emphasis on "rights").You can watch it if you like liveover at the Parliament site- but then of course you miss everyone's insightful comments.At present they seem to be discussing the Finance bill - it's all about money for homes and who has a "major interest" in the property. Stephen Timms - who also leads on the Digital Economy bill - is leading for the government at the moment on the bill.In the chair: Sir Alan Haselhurst, the deputy speaker. They really are rushing this through.Block 28.53pm:OK, and they're off. Starters orders. A handful of people in the chamber.Block 38.53pm:And yes it's Stephen Timms leading for the government. He's got a long night in.Block 48.54pm:Clause 1 being discussed: about importance of getting Ofcom to facilitate investment in broadband. But this is the bit that's under threat. The wash-up really does whizz along. "In order to be helpful to other members.. I'm not moving that clause this evening."Block 58.56pm:So what does that mean for notspots in rural areas, he's asked. 2megabits per second by 2012 (yawn) and Timms says: "we need the landline levy.... not sadly in the finance bill but will be in the finance bill that we will introduce straight after the election." Some hollow laughter from the Tories...Block 68.58pm:Don Foster asks why broadband landline tax dropped if there's a majority in both houses for it. Speaker tells him not to ask. (It's the wash-up fix-up.)Noes have it - clause 1 is dead.Ayes have it - clause 2 lives.Ayes have it - clause 3 lives. Democracy in action!Block 78.59pm:Tom Watson is up. Moving amendments. Can he move the house? "The speed with which we've have to submit amendments has been.. lightspeed." Basket of amendments about definitions and scope of the bill.Amendment 36 amends subclause 4.1. Oh lordy. About the assumption of liability of people who receive notifications. "Replaced with words of neutral meaning to provide reassurance to .. anyone who shares a network.. so the legislation does not assume guilt." Seems good to us.Block 89.01pm:Tom Watson still going. P2P filesharing: trying to give a definition that narrowly defines it rather than wide definition of copyright infringement which will "save embarassment".Points to the Gene Hunt Labour poster..Block 9Sat here watching the proceedings while eating some rhubarb crumble cooked by my wonderful wife, by the way. (It certainly makes me think: yes, MPs do work for you. Especially at this time of night. ) Reporting from home beats sitting in the Parliamentary gallery. Did we even have live Parliamentary feeds in 2005? Certainly gives you an idea of what the wash-up is like - probably rarely seen before.Block 109.04pm:Intervention from female MP (don't recognise her) who says it's more important to get it right than do it in a hurry. Tom W agrees that it's better to remove clauses 11-18 which is his principal aim overall.What we can't tell from this is whether the government is just going to steamroller this, or whether Tom Watson's intervention will make some difference.Block 119.07pm:He's also bravely going to try to define P2P because he thinks the government didn't do too well. And he has a new clause 3. (Didn't that just pass?)Block 129.09pm:Speaker asks if the amendment be made. This gets support from David Drew. He points out that the bill needs "proper scrutiny" and that he didn't speak in the second reading the other day because he'd hoped that the government would halt it."What seemed a technical bill has become quite an emotive and.. dangerous bill."Block 139.12pm:There's not a huge number of people in the Chamber. Now a Labour member who looks more like David Davis saying the bill needs "properdemocraticscrutiny".Drew again: "this is getting me more of a postbag, and certainly an electronic postbag, than many other things." He would rather get on with the election rather than understanding the DEBill, he says.Block 149.15pm:three ministers have contacted Labour MP who say that they are deeply unhappy with the wording of the bill, which has become much broader since Lord Carter worked on it.Block 159.17pm:"Lord Carter would be proud of the new [Tom Watson] clause 3... it's as much carrot as it is stick. It's that stick that Lord Mandelson introduced and which has completely distorted the bill." Lord Mandelson, stick? Perish the thought.Block 169.18pm:Paul Farrelly (I think), Labour, sating that it should have had pre-legislative scrutiny. In a committee. Line by line. Lots of people agree. But not ministers.Block 179.19pm:Derek Wyatt saying he had to use the internet to find out what clauses had been removed from the bill rather than the Vote Office (in Parliament), which he finds "upsetting but not surprising".Says that "we will chase around endless ISPs just changing our email address" if they're disconnected. That it's pointless.Block 189.23pm:letter from the BPI and the Creative Industries saying they've waited four years for legislation against online piracy. "But.." from the Tory side, points to the idea that information needs to be spread around. "I think there may be an element of not only uncertainty but even impossibility in restraining..." And that there should be proper pre-legislative analysis.So basically everyone who has spoken since Stephen Timms has been against what's being proposed in the bill. "I think it's a bad bill in the sense that it's being rushed through, and because the Prime Minister has set out in his five pledges ... to rush this through.. and there are paper amendments coming down from the Lords... this calls for proper scrutiny.."Block 199.26pm:"This is not the Dangerous Dogs bill. This is a very very different bill."Block 20Yet another MP: "The proposals in this bill wouldneverpass a house committee." Is there anyone in there who's favour of this?Block 21Phooey. I'd like to tell you who the MPs are, by using theBBC Parliamentfeed, but it's showing the Lords. Why, BBC, why?Another older member notes: "I've had a lot of representations, mainly by email which is a bloo-- a nuisance. And from young members of the Labour Party who say their peer-to-peer connections are going to be clamped down on and get them into trouble."Block 229.30pm:Austin Mitchell rises (I think he was just speaking): the danger is that filesharing, p2p, is going to endanger the connection for the whole family. "I'll have to give way to another silver surfer."Block 239.32pm:"What happens if you have a young band of transcendent genius like... Stiff Little Fingers who are denied their intellectual property rights?" From an old, balding MP.Mitchell replies that it can be done by altering the provisions of the bill with proper scrutiny.Block 249.34pm:John Hemming - member of the BPI, PRS, has run e-commerce for 10 years - says "this bill is a complete mess". Most people using these systems are young, so the money to be gained is small."First problem is trying to deal with a very very very very very complex issue in the wash-up. Appreciate the industry had to wait four years but that's not a reason to do it in one night. Drop clauses 11-18 and look at them in next Parliament.""Look at Wikileaks." (He's been reading our stuff.) "It holds government copyright material. They would want to apply to have Wikileaks banned in the UK. That's clearly in the bill as it stands."Block 259.37pm:John Hemming: "I do a little bit of computer programming in respect of my casework system.." Blimey. Geek MP. "Just as with code, for laws we have scrutiny. Although these amendments are to be welcomed... Wikileaks is a good example to be looked at, websites that give freedom of information... sure that the government doesn't want to do that. But don't put through new clause 1, or 18 - I understand 18 won't be moved." It won't?Block 269.39pm:Ahh, thanks Twitter - the BBC Parliament feed is showing the Commons feed.http://www.bbc.co.uk/iplayer/playlive/bbc_parliament/. Caption-arama! Although of course it is going to require Flash. Or HTML5 video for you iPhone users.Block 279.40pm:Bill Cash (Cons) says that they need to go after people who are doing it professionally. (Strange how when you can't see the names that the MPs seem much more reasonable.)Nick Palmer for Labour saying that when he had a video game that it got pirated. It's like the geek parliament tonight.Block 289.44pm:Ed Vaizey, shadow culture media sport minister, says it's pathetic for Labour to complain about lack of scrutiny - that they've had loads of chance. So now he gets challenged to explain why they would do.Political knockabout ahead.Block 299.45pm:Vaizey says that Conservatives support the bill in principle and says to Labour MPs that it's all their own fault. Nyah. Gets challenged by Chris Chope (Cons) to say what he would put in place.Which he then declines to answer. Tom Watson says that Vaizey is a friend but that that's "intellectually disingenuous."Vaizey says he should have had a word with Gordon Brown, who's a close personal friend of Watson's.Block 309.47pm:Stephen Timms stands up - first time in an hour or so - and says he will want the House to "resist" Watson's amendments.Tries to make it all sound not too evil - just sending letters to people.Block 319.48pm:Don Foster for the Lib Dems says that it should also be part of the bill that industry must make it easier for people to get access to material at a fair price.Timms says yes, of course, sure, mm-hmm. "My sense is that there is a pretty broad acceptance across the house... that legislation is appropriate for dealing with it. There is definitely significant harm to the creative industries... estimated at £400m for the music, film and TV industries in the impact assessment of the bill... this is a very serious problem."Block 329.51pm:Bill Cash again. Making a vague point about just stopping the pirates making money.Timms says this part is about the particular problem of P2P "which is at the moment the lion's share".What about Hemming's point about Wikileaks? Timms hasn't dealt with that at all."The house needs to recognise the strength of feeling on the other side of the debate, in terms of the number of people who are affected." Well, OK, but why don't they have MPs pinging their side in the house, voting down Watson's amendments?Block 339.54pm:How will it work? Copyright owner -&gt; ISP, ISP -&gt; letter to person in charge of that account. "I challenge anybody to suggest that it is not a proportionate response to have a letter sent."Amendment 36 (Watson?): Timms says we should get the person in charge of the internet access to make sure it isn't used for unlawful access. Clearly these two sides aren't going to agree - the MPs have pointed out the flaws and it hasn't meant a thing.Block 349.57pm:Tom Watson says that the amendment tries to get people to say whether infringement is for financial gain - so that industry gets an idea of how widespread commercial piracy is, and whether there could be a fair use clause in copyright reform.Block 359.59pm:Tom Watson looking unhappy at Timms avoiding dealing with the question.Now Timms gives way to John Randall (Cons, Uxbridge) MP who says they had a case in his constituency where the IP wasn't unique and the ISP wrote to someone who had nothing to do with it. So there's possibility of innocent people being accused.Timms says there is question with mobile networks. But that at this level of the bill - this clause - it's about a letter being sent. Hemming asks about the IP again. Timms says, clearly not familiar with this, that it is clear which service provider has provided the connection... the ISP gets the information... the ISP does know who is responsible for that account.Mark Todd, of Derbyshire South (Lab) asks why the test is an "apparent" copyright breach. "Demonstrating precise copyright ownership isn't as straightforward as might be assumed."Block 3610.04pm:And once more Timms says it's about a letter being sent.Text of the amendments being put forward:One setBlock 3710.06pm:And now they're on to the 'sending letters' clause. Tom Watson on his feet with his amendments.And here's asecond set of amendments for the bill.It's almost impossible to understand how these things work unless you're a lawyer or an MP, I think....Block 3810.10pm:Always fabulous to see what's going on in the background. Bloke behind Tom Watson looks like he's doing the crossword, though I suspect it's much more about trying to figure what the amendments will do to the bill.Mark Todd again: how are they so sure that they'll be able to demonstrate their copyright ownership?Why is it that nobody is in favour of this bill apart from the government minister? Even Ed Vaizey, for the Tories, effectively washed his hands of it.Oh - the MP who referred to Stiff Little Fingers is Stephen Pound, Labour. Nice one Stephen. He is speaking up, asking about copyright protection. So he's in favour of the bill, I guess.Block 3910.14pm:Don Foster, Lib Dem culture/media/sport, moving his amendment. "Having spent over 1 hour debating 1 clause of a 50-clause bill with one hour for all the rest... it's frankly disgraceful".Block 4010.16pm:"There will be no time to discuss clause 43" - bad luck photographers - "or to ask the government why it's backing down in independently-funded local news consortia". Yup, wash-up isn't good for much.Block 4110.19pm:Don Foster is talking about a super-affirmative resolution. Wasn't that a track by Muse?Block 4210.22pm:Stephen Timms back again. On the Don Foster amendments. "There will not be technical measures imposed until Ofcom has concluded its report." (90 days? Not clear.)On the point of his concern about undue power to a future secretary of state.. "it would be controversial... so he has to have regard to Ofcom's recommendations..""But I think he has made a telling point.. Parliament should have the opportunity to scrutinise the order... allows a superaffirmative procedure, which is quite unusual". OK, what is a superaffirmative resolution? Does that nice Mr Google or Mr Bing know?Block 43In case anyone hasn't noticed this in the comments, we do love this comment from Twitter:"RT @graphiclunarkid: Oh how I wish Parliament had a Twitterfall screen set up above the Speaker's chair. #debill "Block 4410.26pm:Clause 4 goes through.Clause 5 goes through.Clause 6. Amendment 15, 49, 23, Don Foster on his feet.Block 45Interesting point from stardancer69 in the comments:The technology is already way ahead of [the lawmakers] and can easily circumvent the strictures which they at the behest of the music and movie industries are seeking to impose. Check out virtual private networks on Google. Giganews  already offer it for free on their top package. Not only will it disguise from your ISP what you might be doing with your internet connection, it will also allow you to appear to be operating from an IP address in a totally different part of the world! And it is all strongly encrypted.Works for the Chinese to route around the Great Firewall..Block 4610.29pm:It's basically Tom Watson and Don Foster against all the rest of them. They could have a fight, I suppose. Diane Abbott seems to be waiting for a turn to speak, or perhaps she's just going to livetweet this.Watson making the point that for people running a small business from home that disconnection isn't proportionate.Block 4710.30pm:Denis MacShane, ex-president of the NUJ, says that if you create something it shouldn't be given out free on the internet. I'm watching him free on the internet, but let that pass - we paid for it with our taxes.Tom Watson slaps MacShane down: "he's just wandered into the chamber and expressed his astonishment.... our constituents who may lose their livelihood as a result of this being bounced through in an hour."MacShane says he's been following it closely. "I have honourable friends who say others do not have the right to protect what they have created ... because of concerns about open Wi-Fi." OK, so MacShane is speaking up for the content side. "I welcome this explosion of content provision.. but must not deny the creators... "Block 4810.33pm:Stephen Timms agrees that commercial provision shouldn't be something that coffee shops etc have to think twice about. But that there shouldn't be a "large, potentially growing" loophole in what is being done.Block 49Thanks to @cmsdengi in the comments who's found what a superaffirmative procedure is:First, the Minister lays his regulatory reform proposal before Parliament "in the form of" a draft order together with a full explanatory document. Following the 60 day period of Parliamentary consideration, during which time the proposal is referred automatically and simultaneously to the Committees appointed by Parliament for the purpose, the Committees make their first report to their respective Houses. If the reports are favourable, the next stage is for the Minister formally to lay a draft order in each House, along with an explanation of any changes made compared to the earlier proposal. If the Minister is minded to accept any changes that are proposed to the draft order by the Committees or others between this stage and the final vote on the order, he must formally take up the draft order he has laid and replace it with another which incorporates the changes.OK? Clear as.. er.Block 50Just to help @jacktatum in the comments, who wants a summary of what's gone on so far: as I understand it, clauses 1,2,3,4,5 have gone through. Looks like 6 is going to go through.Clause 6 being voted on. Goes through without amendment.Clause 7, again with some Don Foster amendments.Block 5110.38pm:Clause 7 goes through.Clause 8 has some amendments to be debated. Except they come from the government. "What we're doing is removing the clause 18 text that was inserted [in the Lords]. New clauses 1 and 2 introduce an amended clause 18."Clause 18 is quite a tangle but it's about themeasures that can be taken against websites which infringe copyright.Timms says government doesn't want to block freedom of speech.OK, but how do you stop the US government applying to block Wikileaks, as John Hemming asked earlier?Block 5210.42pm:Weirdly, it's the Lib Dems who are being the opposition in this: the Conservatives briefly had Ed Vaizey - can't see if he's still there - and Adam Afriyie, but they've not taken part in the debates at all apart from an aggressive grump from Vaizey where he told Labour MPs that if they didn't like it they'd have to lump it.Don Foster, Lib Dem shadow culture/media/sport, says the amendment has "many faults". Too wide-ranging. "Puts sites such as Google at risk". Sites which have infringed copyright "or are likely to". And doesn't cover all ISPs - so people could just switch provider. Lib Dems will vote against.Ooh, Adam Afriyie must have seen me typing. He's speaking.Block 5310.46pm:However Afriyie only seems to want to make a political point that it was the Lib Dems who included it in the Lords. (Err, it was the Conservatives with the Lib Dems, Adam.)Block 5410.47pm:Amendment 2 gets a bit shout - and so it goes to a division. "Clear the lobbies!" shouts the clerk. Everyone goes off for some coffee, I think, or something stronger. Lynne Featherstone limps off. She it was who said earlier that it was important to get it right, not to rush.OK, brief break then.Block 5510.49pm:It will take about 10 minutes for the division to be completed and counted. As it's crucial to the bill - it's the government trying to make its clause work - the outcome now could be the beginning of the end, or the beginning of a new beginning.Block 56As Matt Wells points out in the comments, "Ben Bradshaw is on Newsnight now... Paxman says he will have to 'go to a vote' soon. Don't be fooled by low numbers in the chamber, the government will get their guys and gals out of the bars and TV studios when the division bell rings and this bill will be forced through..."Block 5710.56pm:OK, are you all doing a sweepstake on the voting here, like the Grand National?Block 5810.57pm:OK, here we go. Ayes - 197. Noes - 40. So that's the Labour and Tories whipping through their amendment.Block 5910.58pm:Clause 8 as amended, 9, 10 be part. Yup, they're in.Clause 11 with 44,45 amendments. Yup, that's in.Clause 12-14. All passed.Clause 15 .. with amendment 3.Clause 16 and 17 ... go in.Clause 18. Ayes. Government says no. Noes have it.Clauses 19-28. Blimey, this is wrapping up like that.Clause 29. No.Block 6011.00pm:Clauses 30-42 stand part. Yup.Clause 43: No. Bad luck photographers.Clause 44-48. "The ayes have it, the ayes have it."Clause 49, as amended (by government): ayes have it.Clause 50, clause 8 amended.This is zooming through.New clauses 1 and 2 added to the bill.Block 6111.02pm:From the division, it has simply been thrown through.All the schedules except for 2 go through.Amendment 10 goes through.Ooh, the mace is out. "I beg to report that the committee has gone through the bill...." Huge uproar. "Question is that the bill now be read a third time." Aye from the government, huge shout of "Nooooo!!!" from the Lib Dem benches.Block 62That big shout of "Nooo!!!" could have been a thousand souls crying out as one at the sight of the government shoving through 41 clauses of a bill. The third reading is the final step that brings it to the end.Block 6311.05pm:So they now go to a division - the formal vote. Expect a result in about 10 minutes' time.So, briefly, to the question of amendments getting put down and then withdrawn. As I understand it, MPs realise that they won't be able to get time to have a division (formal vote) on every amendment that they put down, so they have to choose the battles that they fight carefully. If they feel that the government is going to listen to them enough to shade or tweak the implementation of the bill, then they withdraw the amendment. Though perhaps a passing MP would like to clarify. There's only been two divisions on the whole procedure here tonight - on the government amendments (it won easily) and the third reading which would mean it has passed (it's expected to win easily because it will have Tory support).So I was wrong - I've been saying for months that the government wouldn't have time to implement the Digital Economy bill. Of course I was working in my naive way off the usual timetables that bills go through - which includes a line-by-line committee stage. That didn't happen here.And we still don't know whether Wikileaks would be safe from the "copyright infringement" clause that is now part of the bill.Five more minutes to the conclusion..Block 6411.11pm:OK, here we go. Vote result imminent.Block 65Time for a quick Twitter quote from @bpiboycott: "You are now watching 100 MPs about to vote on something they haven't been following but will vote how the whips have told them to. #debill" (thanks @nothingelseis)Block 6611.13pm:And so it comes to this.Ayes - 189Noes - 47.So some people changed side. "Oh dear" comes a voice. So that's the bill passed and into its third reading and done.Block 67Some more explanation on those dropped amendments from Tom Watson onTwitter: "If you push a vote it takes 20 minutes. I'd have lost all of them so using limited time to make points instead."Block 68Tom Watson alsosays on Twitter: "First time i've ever broken the whip in the chamber. I feel physically sick." So we know where one of those 47 came from then.Block 69OK, we'll move to our own wash-up (of rhubarb-crumbly plates) once I've figured out whether clause 18 was removed, or just tweaked.Block 70OK, people have been confused, I think, by the fact that clause 18 wasn't included in the bill. This doesn't mean that there isn't a blocking clause.Onthis page, Ben Bradshaw moved: "'(1)  "The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about the granting by a court of a blocking injunction in respect of a location on the internet which the court is satisfied has been, is being or is likely to be used for or in connection with an activity that infringes copyright."That's the one that Don Foster got so angry about (see the 10.42pm paragraph) because it's too wide-ranging. That's the one that the first division (and really the crucial division) was about. Which the government won.Block 71So this is how it ends: not with a bang, nor even a whimper, but a wash-up fix-up. As one MP - Bill Cash? - said, "This is not the Dangerous Dogs bill. This is far more important." However we're going to have to adjust to it.The lack of engagement by the Tories - and Ed Vaizey's taunting of the Labour benches - may come back to haunt them if they win: it's going to cause all sorts of roadblocks for the digital economy. And it may come back to haunt them if there's a hung Parliament, since this won't be popular with the Lib Dems.Block 7211.29pm:So thanks all for reading and commenting. Let's hope we don't have to do that again, though. Signing off to write a blogpost rounding it up.
When I reply to or forward messages from my Hotmail accounts, the original message disappears. This happens in most, but not all, cases. Do you know if this is a Hotmail issue or something to do with the settings on my laptop? I am using Firefox.Ian NeilThe problem seems to be a known bug in Firefox: it'sBug 538892 at Bugzilla.It affects Mac OS X and Unix as well as Windows versions, and aGoogle searchsuggests it is hitting quite a lot of people.One possible remedy is to try waiting at least 30 seconds after each action.You could use a different browser for Hotmail, or do your email via the free desktop program, Windows Live Mail. If you don't have it, you can download a copy fromhttp://download.live.com/wlmail. It also works with Gmail, Yahoo Plus and other email services.
Britain risks being left in the digital slow lane due to the failure of legislation that would have paved the way for the next generation of super-fast mobile phone networks to get through parliament before the election.It means that millions of British mobile phone users face watching their smartphones, such as the iPhone, become dumber as the Britain's mobile phone networks face a capacity crunch. It also puts in jeopardy plans to auction the old analogue TV signal in the first half of next year, which could have provided a much-needed windfall for the next government.It means that consumers in the US, traditionally seen as behind Europe in mobile phone technology, will be able to enjoy the next generation of mobile broadband technology, called Long Term Evolution – or LTE – years before their counterparts on this side of the Atlantic.It also puts the merged Orange and T-Mobile in limbo. They have already agreed with the European commission to give up some of their existing mobile phone spectrum in order to avoid having their link-up scrutinised by the competition authorities in the UK, but there is no mechanism for that spectrum to be sold on, nor do they know how much new spectrum at other bandwidths they might be able to acquire in future.A whole package of mobile spectrum liberalisation, the result of years of arguing, had been working its way through parliament as astatutory instrument. It was accompanied in its progress by the Digital Economy bill. Fears were raised earlierthis weekthat the secondary legislation might not make it through and today it emerged that while a slimmed down version of the Digital Economy bill will make it into the so-called "wash-up" ofpre-election lawsthe statutory instrument on mobile phone spectrum will not.A spokesperson for the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills admitted "there will be no debate before the general election" and so the legislation will not make it.The mobile phone companies had been arguing with the regulator, Ofcom, for several years about using their existing spectrum for the next generation of super-fast mobile broadband services. The argument had been fierce as the spectrum gifted to O2 and Vodafone to run voice services back in the 1980s is particularly good for running existing mobile broadband in rural areas – and their rivals do not have any of it – while T-Mobile and Orange own most of the spectrum which is deemed perfect for LTE. The new entrant British operator 3, meanwhile, only has spectrum that wasauctioned in the dotcom boom. The other four networks also have some of that 3G spectrum.In order to clear the logjam, the government appointed an independent spectrum broker, Kip Meek, to try to thrash out a deal. The plan involved caps on the amount of wireless spectrum the networks could own but did allow them to take part in an auction of a further spectrum – including the old analogue TV signal – planned by Ofcom for the first half of next year. While that auction was not expected to raise anything like the £22.5bn the original 3G sale had netted in 2000, it would still have raised hundreds of millions, possibly even a few billion pounds.The deal also involved extending indefinitely the 20-year licences that the mobile phone companies picked up in the dotcom boom for so-called 3G mobile data services. In fact it emerged last week that 3 had already factored the extension of the licence into its financial figures and it may now have torestate those results.The fact that the statutory instrument has not made it into law means the whole spectrum liberalisation plan has been thrown into doubt. The Conservatives, if they win the election, are expected to take a hard look at the plans, not least because the original scheme was to be put in place by Ofcom and the Tories are considering dramatically reducing the regulator's scope. Ofcom had planned to sell the old analogue TV signal, which is close to the old voice spectrum owned by O2 and Vodafone, along with some new spectrum that is perfect for super-fast broadband in urban areas, in the first half of next year. That timetable now looks very optimistic.In stark contrast, Verizon Wireless in the US will start rolling out LTE services to millions of customers later this year. In its tests, it has found that LTE has an average download speed of 5 to 12 Mb a second – even faster than the average British residential broadband link and much faster than today's 3G services.
Was your MP at the Digital Economy bill second reading and debate on Tuesday evening? Almost certainly not - but you can find out for sure by usinghttp://www.didmympshowupornot.com/, where you feed in your postcode and through the magic of the Guardian'sPolitics APIandTheyWorkForYou's API, can tell you if the MP for your constituency turned up at the reading.It's not perfect - the postcode checker uses the 2005 constituencies, rather than the redrawn 2010 ones (give us time - we're still feeding it all in), although the links to Guardian content do reflect the 2010 changes.So will this make a difference to the debate? Probably not in its own right. But apps like this will make candidates aware that we are looking more closely than ever at what they're doing, and not doing. True, it's impossible for them to turn up to every debate or reading of every bill. But some bills really have national impacts - and the sound and fury on both sides over the bill indicates that it might have been worth turning up for this one.Update: Kerry McCarthy, now Labour candidate for Bristol East and the MP for Bristol East from 2005-2010, calls didmymyshowupornot a "dishonest use of online campaigning" (ouch) and then goes on in her Twitter stream tosaythat there was a good turnout on the Labour benches with quite a few speakers,and that"by comparison with many debates it was a good turnout, most MPs watch on TV unless they plan to speak" and that "as a whip I don't have speaking rights, so I was in Chamber for parts, watched rest on TV while working."For our full coverage of the bill, keep reading the site: we're going to try to keep on top of it as it unfolds. (The government has already had toabandon its proposed £6-per-year landline broadband tax, for example.). And meanwhile, there's a neat mashup (below) running on YouTube - a site which the Open Rights Group claims could be blocked under the proposed not-quite-yet legislation.Whether that is true or not is open to question: the test is whether a "significant proportion" of its content is copyrighted. I'm far more concerned, personally, about Wikileaks, which does nothing but hold copyrighted information - such as theunprovoked US attack on Iraqi citizens and Reuters journalistswhich killed a dozen people. Do you really want the ability to know that sort of thing suppressed?(I don't think Sion Simon, who features in the video, is actually in favour of the bill, judging from thedebate transcript. Then again as heseems to be trying to describe Tom Watson as Luke Skywalker and Peter Mandelson as Darth Vader- leading one MP to remark that that makes him, Simon, into Yoda - it's rather hard to figure out which side of the debate he's on.)
MotoGP 09/10 may just be the first instance of an officially licensed racing game arriving in time for the start of the new season – although, as the name suggests, this evocation of motorbike racing's blue riband formula kicks off with the 2009 season's curtain-raiser at Losail.This year's correct rider roster, new tracks (including Silverstone, whose glorious reconfiguration could put it up there with the likes of Spa and Laguna Seca as one of the world's very best tracks) and the new  600cc Moto2 formula will be available to download, pleasing sticklers for authenticity.Motorbike racing games always negotiate a fine line between authentic handling and instant playability, and MotoGP 09/10 veers strongly towards the latter. It's very much an arcade-style game, rather than a simulator – even when you turn off the driver aids, you can still use other riders as a brake, and you only really risk coming off your bike when you find yourself on grass or in gravel with your knee down. The handling, too, is very forgiving indeed. But that is infinitely preferable to finding yourself half a lap behind the rest of the field.An almost bewildering amount of game modes should satisfy all punters. Career mode is the main one: it lets you design your own livery, take on a press officer to drum up sponsorship and business, and work your way up from the 125cc formula, enhancing your reputation with every wheelie, slipstream or clean section. Championship  casts you as the 125cc rider of your choice; if you finish the season third or better in the championship, 250cc is unlocked. Arcade mode puts you under time pressure, but you earn extra time by slipstreaming, pulling wheelies, executing clean sections and so on. Which will please those who are nostalgic for the likes of Super Hang-On.Graphically, MotoGP 09/10 is impeccable, with crisp graphics in slightly washed-out colours, good camerawork, impressively rigorous renderings of the tracks and realistic-looking weather effects (although wet tracks are much grippier than they would be in real life). You can operate front and back brakes independently (the latter gives you an unrealistic rear-wheel slide, handy when you run wide in corners, or for those who favour the backing-in style), and you have to press a button to tuck in on straights (negating your ability to get your knee down), or else the other riders will blast past you. Overall, the control system – it's always tricky to evoke a feel of handlebars, weight distribution and braking using a joypad – strikes just the right balance, although those who are amateur bike-racers in real-life would argue that it is dumbed-down.MotoGP 09/10 wasn't made with such people in mind, though and as long as that doesn't trouble you, you should enjoy it very much indeed. Another impressive British-developed game.
In a CNN interview, Newsweek's tech columnist Dan Lyons admitted to not having an iPad, about which he'd written acover story, whereas rivalTime magazinehad Stephen Fry and an interview with Steve Jobs. Basically, Apple encourages publications to compete for its attention, and Newsweek used to get attention when its tech columnist was Steven Levy, author ofInsanely Great. Now it doesn't get anything from Apple because it hired Lyons, who famously writes a blog as Fake Steve Jobs.He told CNN:"Their head of PR told my predecessor, Steven Levy, to pass* word to the powers that be at Newsweek that Apple wasn't happy with the idea that they were going to hire me. Yes, that happened. And apple plays this game. I mean, notice who got iPads and who didn't get iPads. Notice who got access and who didn't."* Corrected from password in the transcript.In anemail to Business Insider, however, Steven Levy said this was a "false claim":"Dan was hired after I left and I had no input whatsoever into his hiring. I did not lobby against his hiring, nor did Apple ask me to lobby against it."Lyons promptlyadmitted his mistake, telling Business Insider: "What actually happened is that the complaints from Apple happened immediately after I was hired at Newsweek, not before. This all happened two years ago and I just remembered it wrong. I made an off-the-cuff remark on the air and what I said was incorrect." He adds:Here is what happened. My hiring was announced on June 13, 2008. But my start date wasn't until September 2008.On June 30, 2008, I got an email from my editor at Newsweek saying that Apple was already complaining about me being hired -- before I had even started working at Newsweek.I followed up and was told that Steven Levy had told the Business Editor at Newsweek that he (Levy) had talked to Apple PR and that Apple PR was not pleased that Newsweek had hired me.Sincethis story has cropped up here before, it's good to have a fuller version.It is, of course, inevitable that companies will have priorities when dealing with publications. Apple couldn't be expected to provide every single publication with a pre-release iPad, or invite every interested publication to the launch. However, most companies try to deal fairly with the major publications and leading journalists in their field, even when they expect negative coverage.But if it is favouring Time and excluding Newsweek, Apple isn't dealing fairly with the press and therefore, ultimately, the public.
The announcement thatAOL is likely to close or sell off the social networking site Bebocomes as no surprise to industry watchers, marking the latest in a string of acquisitions that seem to have become the kiss of death for web startups.Two years after an $850m (£748m) cash deal that surprised even the most optimistic pundits, AOL has said it can no longer fund the social media service and yesterday told employees it would sell the site or close it completely this year.Bebo's popularity peaked in 2008, at about the time of the sale, but steadily declined as Facebook aggressively expanded its international user base, particularly in the UK.According to figures from ComScore, Bebo's global unique visitors in February totalled 12.8 million, which was down 45% on February 2009. Facebook had 462 million visitors, MySpace nearly 110 million, and Twitter 69.5 million.One source close to the company said Bebo had suffered from AOL's strategic changes and a lack of funding that made it impossible for the site to compete with Facebook, which now dominates the social networking market.The source described Bebo's demise as the inevitable outcome when digital media startups are bought by more established companies. "You set out with a certain strategy and aim for a certain user experience, and they change it," the source said. "They get rid of staff and cut costs, and it still doesn't work. Years go by and the business declines. And it's not unique to Bebo – look at Friends Reunited, Skype, MySpace ..."Another source described the lack of funding by AOL as critical to Bebo's struggle since it was bought. "Bebo needed investment and engineers. At one point, we had 40 engineers when Facebook had something like 2,000. You can't produce a good product fast enough at that scale. In fact you can't even keep the site running properly."At its peak, Bebo was the most popular website for younger teens. The company, founded by UK developer Michael Birch and his partner Xochi in 2005, moved to San Francisco, where it grow virally with its biggest audiences in the UK and Ireland.Bebo hosted a number of well-publicised web video dramas including KateModern, which attracted significant media attention and advertising, but were essentially designed to market the site as a media-focused property and make it more attractive for sale, a campaign successfully overseen by former Google executive Joanna Shields.Shields was the architect of the cash sale but subsequently left AOL in May 2009 and launched a digital media content venture with Elisabeth Murdoch's Shine Group four months later. Earlier this month Shields left the Shine joint ventureto take a senior sales and business development role at Facebook Europe.
Microsoft has announced this morning that it's moving the UK release date of hotly anticipated psychological action thrillerAlan Wakeforwardto 14 May.The game, about a horror author who seeks refuge in a small village when stricken with writer's block, has been one of the most anticipated Xbox titles since it was announced five (count 'em) years ago.And in a related story, the annual video game festivalGameCityhas scored another impressive coup. Having just started a series of special monthly events, the organisers have lined up an onstage Q&amp;A session with Sam Lake, the writer of Alan Wake.At noon on 24 April, he'll be at the Broadway Cinema in Nottingham, answering questions from the audience as well as GameCity director Iain Simons.Just thought I'd let Gamesblog readers know as this has been one of the games that's appeared regulary in Chatterbox discussions. You'll need to book tickets in advance. All the details areright here.
Dawn of War 2 marked a turning point in the Warhammer 40,000 universe, at last becoming the kind of RTS it always should have been to differentiate itself from the mighty Command &amp; Conquer. Gone were the intricacies of resource management, in came fewer units with a greater range of RPG-like powers and a whole host of new fans.This mission pack (which you'll need the original DoW2 to play) concentrates on fine tuning that same formula. There's new planets to explore, some new heroes (including a new "warrior mage" class) and a plot full of treachery and surprise. However, you're still restricted to only four heroes per level, each with up to three followers in tow. As if to compensate for this paucity of firepower, there's loads of new items to be discovered – so many, in fact, that it's lucky you can sell them for extra experience points, because there's no way you'll ever use them all.This time round, some items or decisions force your heroes to develop "dark" powers, with the subsequent loss of their more saintly equivalents. It's a weird kind of internal morality system that litters the game with corrupted items, promising more in terms of underhand tactics or visual effects than they actually deliver. And although there's now a steady stream of optional mission goals – for example, saving trapped allies – this is balanced by fewer side missions, making the game significantly shorter but also more focussed.Unfortunately, Chaos Rising is not the perfect fix we might have hoped for, leaving untouched the most annoying bits of the original game. So, even though the levels are challenging and feature multiple objectives, every time you die you have to restart them from the beginning. As this includes a pointless return to the mission menu you have to wonder why a quicksave function was still not added.Yes, it makes the game more challenging, but it's also the kind of user-unfriendliness that explains why PC games are losing out to their shallower but slicker console rivals. It's also annoying that enemy AI shows a marked reluctance to use the whole map or reclaim lost choke-points, making for an unnecessarily linear single player experience. The exception to this, of course, is the multiplayer mode which now supports 4-player co-op battles and remains as gloriously unpredictable le as ever.Chaos Rising is a big, challenging slice of realtime strategy that the latest Command &amp; Conquer 4 has tried (and failed miserably) to emulate. The really annoying thing is that is could have been even better.
If you're currently in possession of a pre-school child you'll no doubt be acquainted with Peppa Pig, the award-winning animated series, which usually involves the eponymous heroine jumping in muddy puddles, accompanied by the rest of her jolly family.Last year, the vast merchandising machine powered by this amiable cartoon belched out a reasonable Peppa Pig video game – and now here's another helping of pixellated porcine pleasure. Like its predecessor (which shifted a whopping 200,000 copies), Peppa Pig: Fun and Games is a collection of 11 quaint mini-tasks, situated in various areas of Peppa's world. In the front garden you can pop bubbles or wash Peppa's bike; in the back, there are ducks to feed and apples to pick. A couple of the options are more creative, allowing players to build simple pictures out of fuzzy felt pieces, or dress up Peppa in a variety of costumes.Although the suggested age range is 3-7, I'd say it's aimed at the younger end of that demographic – even more so than the first Peppa Pig game. While that title featured reasonably complex challenges – such as preparing and tossing pancakes and flying kites – this one is just a series of simple interactions, bereft of gameplay mechanics such as scoring and "enemies". The box says it's all about developing hand-eye coordination and concentration skills, which is all very well, but it would have been simple to add skill levels and a more demanding set of tasks for older Peppa fans.As an adult gamer I was also disappointed that there weren't more mini-games this time – Nintendo crammed almost four times as many on its DS hit 42 All-Time Classics, and with websites like Cbeebies and Poissonrouge.com offering similar experiences for free (although substantially less portable of course), you may feel slightly short changed. However, the presentation is lovely, with all the music and voices from the cartoons, as well as pixel-perfect renditions of the key characters. And three-year-olds don't tend to have the same concept of value as their parents, so my sons didn't complain about a lack of variety, or that most of the challenges are variations on the same theme.I can't help but expect more from a full-price DS release, but can see this will be a valuable commodity on long car rides and boring trips to relatives' houses.
The government is to sacrifice clauses enabling the national rollout of replacement ITV regional news services and giving Ofcom more power as part of last-minute political horse-trading to get the digital economy bill passed into law.Labour's proposal for a£6-a-year tax on fixed-line phones to fund the rollout of superfast broadband, part of a separate finance bill, has also fallen at the wayside as the government attempts to push through legislation in the "wash-up" before parliament is dissolved later this week.Ben Bradshaw, the culture secretary, has tabled three amendments to the DEB, which passed its second reading late last night with broad cross-party support. About 30 MPs were present in the Commons for the second reading debate.The bill will now be rushed through its committee stage and report stage, to be followed by a third reading and final vote in a two-hour Commons debate tonight from 8.30pm.The final vote on the DEB, which includes controversial measures that could result in illegal filesharers having their internet connections suspended or copyright-infringing websites being blocked, is expected at about 10.35pm.Bradshaw has tabled amendments to remove three clauses followingdemands made by shadow culture secretary Jeremy Hunt yesterday.The first would have given Ofcom more regulatory powers; the second enabled the national rollout of replacement ITV regional bulletins produced by independently financed news consortiums; and the third related to licensing.The removal of the IFNC clause, which would have enabled Ofcom to allocate funding and appoint consortiums to run services across the UK, is a further setback for the plan, which now looks to be dependent on a Labour victory on 6 May. The Tories have said they will scrap the IFNC plan if they win the election.The government could theoretically still run the three IFNC pilots – in Scotland, Wales and the Tyne Tees and Border region.However, contracts with the three preferred bidders for the IFNC pilotsare now unlikely to be signed before the election.The pilots were due to run until 2012, followed by a national rollout of the IFNCs. If Labour wins on 6 May it will have to introduce new legislation to enable the national rollout.With Liberal Democrat support for the IFNC clause, the government was likely to have been able to win the vote after the third reading for the DEB tonight."As we have previously said, there will be no further steps taken until the election outcome is known and the position on future funding is clear," said a spokeswoman for ITV. "We will then decide how to proceed in the context of the company's ongoing strategic review. Whatever the outcome of the general election, ITV remains committed to great regional and national news and our approach to this going forward will form part of that strategic review."Another casualty of the wash up-negotiations is thegovernment's controversial plan to levy a £6-a-year tax on all fixed-line phones to fund the rollout of superfast broadband. The levy was part of the finance bill which will go through the Commons sometime between 5.30pm and 8.30pm today.The Liberal Democrats have said that they will vote against the DEB tonight if key amendments are not made to controversial clauses relating to website blocking, licensing and peer-to-peer filesharing.Hunt is reluctantly backing anti-piracy measures but warned that if the Tories win the election then any legislation that turns out to be "flawed" or have major "unintended consequences" will be scrapped.Assuming the DEB passes the vote tonight it will then head to the Lords, where any new amendments will be voted on before the bill passes into law.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
On this week's programme, Aleks, Bobbie, Charles, Keith and Kevin talk about the new developments in entertainment tech. From the money behind music streaming service We7 to innovations that popped up in the wee hours of the recent X48 XNA Microsoft GameCamp, fun gets deconstructed. But in a good way.The crew also say goodbye to Bobbie and Kevin, who leave the warm embrace of the podcast for pastures new.Don't forget to ...• Comment below• Mail us attech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates• Join ourFacebook group• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Just two very quick announcements from Bizarre Creations, the developer of Project Gotham and Metropolis Street Racer, now very busy on the intriguing street racer,Blur(due out on PC, Xbox 360 and PS3 next month). As of yesterday, the online multiplayer beta is open to all Xbox 360 owners with Gold accounts - and it's free to download. The mode allows racing against up to 19 opponents, and it'll be interesting to see how the  promise of the 'Ultimate Powered-Up Racing Experience' translates to the online environment.I'll have a go later on but let's get some Gamesblog readers on there too (just log in to Xbox Live and head to the demos section) - then let us know what you think in the comments section below. Bizarre Creations has always been an innovator with connected racing games, the Xbox Live support for Project Gotham providing a mass of modes, competitions and TV-style highlight-viewing experiences. And as Blur promises a sort of cross between Burnout and WipEout (urban racing with short-cutsandpower-ups), it's a compelling Xbox Live proposition.Elsewhere, the developer has alsodropped the priceof its excellent Xbox Live Arcade shooterGeometry Wars Retro Evolved 2. Until Sunday you can download it for 400 points rather than 800. If you've yet to have your brain fried by this glorious hark back to the uncompromising shooters of the 2D era, now's your chance...
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
The social networking website Bebo could close this year after its parent company said it would not continue to fund the service.More than 12 million regular users could see their profiles deleted after AOL told employees yesterday it would either shut or sell Bebo this year.AOL makes its annual filing for Bebo in the UK to Companies House today and will confirm that it wants to cast off the worldwide social networking siteit bought for $850m (£550m) two years ago.At the time of the sale Bebo, which was founded by British-born Michael Birch and his partner Xochi  in 2005, claimed to have around 40 million monthly users worldwide. That figure has dwindled as rival site Facebook has swallowed up the social networking market.A spokeswoman for AOL said Bebo had 12.8 million users worldwide in February 2010. Facebook has more than 400 million active users, with 35 million of those updating their status each day.Although Bebo has been overshadowed by its rivals in the US, the service has proved popular in Britain whereit once threatened MySpace's positionas the premier social networking site before Facebook began to dominate.In an email to employees yesterday, Jon Brod, head of AOL's startup acquisition and investment unit, AOL Ventures, said: "It is clear that social networking is a space with heavy competition."Bebo, unfortunately, is a business that has been declining and would require significant investment to compete in the competitive social networking space," he said. "AOL is not in a position at this time to further fund and support Bebo in pursuing a turnaround in social networking."In a statement the company said it would be "working quickly" to determine if there were any potential purchasers for Bebo, which has 40 employees worldwide."The company's current expectation is to complete our strategic evaluation by the end of May 2010," it said.Last month, AOL announced the closure of many of its European offices after failing to reach a target to cut a third of its worldwide workforce through voluntary redundancy. The move followed an announcement last November that it was seeking to cut 2,500 jobs across the world.
The digital economy bill (DEB) looks set to become law after the Conservative shadow culture secretary, Jeremy Hunt, today gave thecontroversial legislationhis reluctant support during its second reading in the Commons.However, Hunt also said during the DEB debate that if a Tory government is formed after the 6 May general election it would drop any "flawed" legislation.If the DEB is voted through the Commons late tonight, the wide-ranging legislation, which includes controversial measures that could see the internet connections of illegal filesharers suspended or copyright-infringing websites blocked, will head to the last minute "wash-up" period of fast-track negotiations before parliament is dissolved later this week.Hunt said that the Tories would remove clauses giving the media regulator, Ofcom, more power, ditch plans to replace ITV's regional news bulletins with independently produced alternatives, and current provisions on orphan works and extension of licensing.However, he categorically guaranteed that Channel 4 would not be privatised under a Conservative government and, reluctantly, that controversial anti-piracy measures would be backed because to block them would cause too much damage to the creative industries."[The digital economy bill] could have been massively improved if there had been more scrutiny at the committee stage … why is it debate on such a critically important bill has been left to the last minute?" Hunt asked MPs during today's debate. "There are parts of the bill that we will reluctantly let through. Digital piracy is a very real problem for our creative industries ... We do accept that action needs to be taken to ensure the internet is a functioning marketplace and that copyright infringers do not get away with their actions scot free."Hunt added that if the Conservatives win the election they would use "every parliamentary means at our disposal" to remove clauses if legislation turns out to be "flawed" or have major "unintended consequences". He argued that there would be time before proposals, such as anti-piracy measures, had to be put in place to make sure there are "proper safeguards" in place."These measures are so critical for 2 million jobs for people in the digital and creative industries that if they [the clauses] are completely deleted or removed there would be an economic cost," he said.While the government holds a significant voting majority, Conservative support has been seen as crucial because the fast-track wash-up process of negotiations only deals with unopposed legislation.Harriet Harman, the leader of the Commons, opened the DEB debate this afternoon by seeking to address mounting criticism that controversial clauses in the bill have not been given enough debating time.Harman said that after the general election a "super affirmative" process, which includes a full public consultation, would be undertaken to address any issues before the bill passes into law.The culture secretary, Ben Bradshaw, added: "If [the digital economy bill] gets on to the statute books it will be with the co-operation of the opposition party and hopefully the Liberal Democrats and others too. Most of the bill enjoys good cross-party support. It is not true, as some have claimed, that the provisions of this bill have not been subject to considerable discussions."Critics of the bill, which include the Open Rights Group, the Liberal Democrats and internet service providers, argue that legislation of such importance is not being enough time to be properly scrutinised and have called for it to be re-introduced in the next parliament."This bill is the victim of one of the worst lobbying scandals of this parliament," said Jim Killock, executive director of the Open Rights Group. "Parliamentary scrutiny must be applied. Over 20,000 voters have written to MPs and raised funds for adverts, because we know disconnection of families for allegations of copyright infringement is a draconian punishment, and need to be fully debated, not rammed through at the last minute."• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
I'm looking for a laptop for home entertainment, surfing the internet, photo editing, watching TV, YouTube etc. My specification includes a dual core processor with 2GHz+ speed, 17in screen, 300GB+ hard drive, and 3GB+ RAM, with Windows 7 Home Premium as the operating system. The models I'm considering are the Samsung R780, Toshiba Satellite Pro L550-17U, and Hewlett Packard Pavilion DV7-3101sa. My budget would ideally be close to £600. Is there any major disadvantage with the AMD Turion II Dual Core processor in the HP over the Samsung's Intel Core i3 processor, and also which is better: Windows 7 Home Premium 64 bit (HP) or 32 bit (Samsung)?Neil ChiversThree people have asked very similar questions, and you're all in what's known as the "desktop replacement market". In other words, you're looking for a big screen and fast processor, but are not concerned about weight or battery life. However, if you could find room for a desktop PC, you'd get a much faster machine with a bigger screen for less money. It would also be much easier to upgrade, so it should last longer, and ergonomically speaking, it would be better for your health. I still feel it's important to give this advice, even though no one takes it.Most companies offer desktop-replacement laptops with a choice of processors, and today's top-of-the-range models should have Intel Core i3, i5 and i7chips, which are now appearing in 32nm versions codenamed Arrandale. The Core i3 is the entry-level version and lacks the Turbo Boost feature that amounts to slight overclocking when the processor is fully extended, but it's still much more powerful than the old 45nm Core 2 Duo chips (codenamed Penryn) in most current laptops. After these come what Intel calls Pentium and Celeron chips, though this is now a matter of price/performance and branding rather than technology. (For example, a Pentium Dual Core chip could be a 45nm Penryn or a 65nm Merom design. It's not a Pentium in the old sense.)You can check the performance of the various chipsusing the benchmarks at Notebook Check. Tick the box that says "Still available (not archived)" then click Restrict to get a smaller table. You can also tick the four or five chips you might buy to restrict the table to those. Doing this will give you a good idea of the (lack of) speed of the Turion II. Since you don't plan to use your PC for gaming, a slower chip should not be a real problem. However, if you plan to edit high-definition video, get as much processor power as you can possibly afford.Although it's common for people to buy computers without seeing them, I'd recommend getting hands-on experience if you can. This will give you a feel for the keyboard and screen and you can listen for fan noise. Based on my experience with a dv2 and looking at the dv7 in PC World, I'd probably go for that, but your taste may vary. In any event, run some web searches to see if there are any common problems with whichever model you choose. No brand is wholly without some design and reliability problems.When it comes to the choice between the 32-bit and 64-bit versions of Windows 7, the 64-bit version is better. It is more secure, and can use all the RAM your PC can handle, whereas the 32-bit version can only provide about 3.5GB of free memory. The drawbacks are that the 64-bit version does not have as many drivers for peripherals, and will not run 16-bit software. This can be a problem since some 32-bit programs may still have 16-bit installation routines. Finally, the 64-bit operating system will only provide its full benefits with 64-bit software, though it will obviously run 32-bit programs. Nonetheless, Windows 7 looks like marking the shift from 32-bit to 64-bit computing in the mass market, in much the way that Windows 95 took us from 16-bit to 32-bit computing.Check the Windows 7 Compatibility Centerfor the status of any important software.
Microsoft's new Windows 7 operating system reached10.23% market shareby usage last month, according to theNet Applications website. It has grown from about 2% in October, and is now more widely used that all non-Windows operating systems added together.Windows 7 took roughly five months to reach the 10% level, which compares with 16 months for Windows Vista.Its growth came mainly at the expense of Windows XP, which fell from 70.5% market share in October to 64.5% in March. Over the same period, Windows Vista's market share fell from 18.8% to 16.0%, and Windows 7 is due to overtake it this summer.Windows' overall market share slipped by a percentage point from 92.5% to 91.6%, partly under the impact of the growth of the smartphones included in Net Applications' figures. The rest of the market includes Macs (5.3%), Linux PCs (1%) and Apple iPhones (0.5%).Google's Chrome web browser also showed impressive growth in the latest monthly figures. According to Net Applications,Chrome's market share grew to 6.1% in the month to March, behind Firefox (24.5%) but comfortably ahead of Apple's Safari (4.7%).Over the past six months, Chrome has gained 2.55 percentage points of market share, against Firefox's 0.45, Safari's 0.23 and Opera's 0.20 percentage points. Microsoft's Internet Explorer has lost 3.99 percentage points, with its market share tumbling to 60.65% -- a decline that could get worse if the "browser ballot" screen has an impact in Europe.Chrome appears to have benefited from the launch of versions for Mac OS X and Linux at the end of last year. Previously it was a Windows-only browser. It could get a further boost if Chrome OS is a success on netbooks, and could easily surpass 10% by the end of this year.According to Net Applications, Microsoft'sIE8 is now the world's most popular browser, with a 23.7% share of the market by usage. After IE8 come IE6 (18.4%), IE7 (13.2%), Firefox 3.6 (11.3%), Firefox 3.5 (.3%) and Safari 4.0 (3.8%).Microsoft is now preparing to launch Internet Explorer 9, a faster and more powerful browser that will not run on Windows XP. This could well increase fragmentation that must already have made web site development and testing more difficult -- and more expensive.Net Applications bases its monthly releases on monitoring 40,000 websites with around 160 million unique visitors. Their accuracy is, of course, open to question, but they're a useful guide to market trends.
Some depressing news came in over the Easter break – Dundee-based developerDenkihas been forced to downsize after failing to find a publisher for its excellent XBLA word puzzler,Quarrel. The company will now seek to self-publish its titles, but this will mean the loss of most of its staff as the studio streamines its operations down to a single development team.On the Denki website, under the header,Black Easter Monday at Denki Towers, the company's MD, Colin Anderson, has written a impassioned blog post, criticising mainstream publishers for their conservative approach to commissioning new projects:"Despite the game being finished, super polished, and everyone who plays it having great fun with it, we've slowly been remembering why we got out of the traditional games industry for so long and escaped to Interactive Television in the first place: this industry doesn't value good games.  Players do, but the games industry doesn't.  Instead it values low risk games – not even 'calculated' risk games, just low risk. And that leads to bogus sweeping generalisations such as 'Gamers don't play word games'."We've heard that from a lot of people, but never from the gamers who have actually played Quarrel and now can't wait to add it to their collections when it launches.  We've also realised that if we continue to spend time looking for a publishing partner who believes us, then instead of releasing the game this year we'll almost certainly end up running out of cash."During a period in which the casual gaming scene is undergroing explosive growth, at a time when companies like Popcap, Playfish and Zynga are effectively setting the agenda for mainstream game culture, it seems extraordinary that this has occured. Quite apart from the fact that veteran gamers DO like the occasional word game (the dedicated gaming press bestowed dozens of awards on emergent word puzzler Scribblenauts last year), when you have an enormous and voracious non-hardcore market opening up, does it really matter what core gamers think anymore? Sure, it does if you're releasing Triple A first-person shooters onto the Xbox 360 and PS3, but not if you're bringing out an offbeat, family-orientated puzzler on a digital platform.Of course, if Quarrel wasn't a great game this would be just another sad story of a small studio going under in a hazardous business climate. But, as I discovered when Ivisited the company last year, Quarrel is lovely; an inspired and irresistable combination of Scrabble and Risk, immediately playable, but yet truly deep and expansive. I suspect, with the benfit of hindsight, Denki may have played things differently - it may have much sooner opted for the emerging model of self-publishing titles across XBLA, iPhone, Android, PC, Facebook and all the other digital platforms. But I've heard from a Denki spokesperson that the company was committed to pursue a publisher for this title, due to the way the project was funded. They were trapped into the traditional publishing model, and it has all but destroyed a development studio of considerable verve and stubborn individuality.What message does this send out to other mid-sized developers looking to make a mark in the established games business? It says that there is a tear opening up in the heart of it all - as it has done in movies. At one end there are the massive, bloated, multi-million dollar blockbusters, and at the other, the little indie titles rapidly populating the new digital landscape. In the middle? Well in film that is now rom-coms, knock-off horror flicks and asinine thrillers. In games? Perhaps it'll be a lot of wannabe shooters, Wii family titles and licenses.Of course, you may never have heard of Denki; you may fail to see why its misfortune can be extrapolated out to a significant industry event. But in some ways, Denki was Britain's answer to ThatGameCompany or Keita Takahashi. It should have been properly valued. Certainly, judging by the flood of sympathetic comments on its website, it was respected by peers. Paul Farley of nearby mobile and iPhone developer Tag Games wrote:"Denki not only make truely innovative games they also do it quietly, with integrity and no little talent. The problem is clearly not the Denki 'product' but the broken games industry ecosystem. I know it's little comfort on a day like today but the publishers that have created and sustained this broken system are next in line."Apparently, the Denki staff were told yesterday that almost 20 of them would be losing their jobs. They went to a nearby pub and a few of them hatched plans to set up in small independent teams, to complete some of the company's other forthcoming projects, or at least take its spirit into new ventures. We'll watch and hope.While there is some optimism in the UK industry - the government's decision to look into tax credits for the sector may well improve matters (if it is ever realised) - stories like these hint at a deep malaise.
A cyber-spying operation traceable to China stole classified Indian security documents and obtained emails from the office of the Dalai Lama, according toan eight-month investigation.Hackers misused online services, including Twitter, Google groups and Yahoo Mail. The companies' systems were not themselves compromised, but their services were used to send instructions to compromised computers, ultimately taking orders from servers based in Chongqing. Email addresses found by researchers could also be linked to individuals in nearby Chengdu.The intruders penetrated dozens of high-level government networks, embassies and international organisations and stole confidential, sensitive and private documents, according to a report by US and Canadian researchers based at the Munk school of global affairs, at the University of Toronto.The report, Shadows in the Cloud, stresses there is no evidence that China or any other government was involved in the cyber-spying network. But it adds: "An important question to be entertained is whether the People's Republic of China will take action to shut the Shadow network down."It points out that the hackers may not have political motives and that it is possible another government is running a "false flag" spying operation.It concludes that the network is probably run by individuals with ties to the Chinese criminal underworld, but that some of the information gathered may end up in the hands of some part of the Chinese state. Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Jiang Yu said: "I don't know what evidence these people have, or what their motives are." She said China could investigate if it were provided with evidence, adding: "Our policy is very clear. We resolutely oppose all internet crime, including hacking."The report comes shortly afterGoogle closedits Chinese mainland-based search service, citing increased internet censorship and a Chinese-originated cyber-attack that targeted the emails of human rights activists as well as intellectual property.The Toronto researchers, from the Information Warfare Monitor and Shadowserver Foundation, warn that organisations are increasingly dependent on the security of the bodies with which they exchange information, adding: "The vulnerabilities of one actor can quickly and unintentionally compromise unwitting third parties." Greg Walton of the foundation said the report was a wake-up call for governments and other bodies. While some states, including the UK, had already begun to take targeted malware attacks very seriously, others had been complacent, he said.The UK intelligence and security committee's annual report for 2009-10,published last month, noted: "We have been told by GCHQ [the government communications centre] that the greatest threat of electronic attack to the UK comes from state actors, with Russia and China continuing to pose the greatest threat."Walton said educating users was essential, adding that the attacks were effective not because they were particularly sophisticated in technical terms, but because of their "organisational sophistication and adaptive social engineering". Hackers knew whom to target and how to ensure they opened malware-laden emails.Investigators used a range of techniques such as analysing malware samples and registering expired domain names previously used in attacks as command and control servers. This allowed them to monitor incoming connections from computers that had been compromised and collect information on both victims and the methods used by hackers. They also traced email addresses.The researchers thought one hacker had links to the University of Electronic Science and Technology in Chengdu. A spokeswoman said the institution had not seen the report but was surprised by the claim. Investigators linked another hacker's account to a Chengdu resident,who told the New York Times: "That is not me … I'm a wine seller."The network stole Indian government material including security assessments in sensitive regions and documents about the country's relationship with other nations. It also obtained reports on Indian missile systems by compromising the systems of independent analysts and took a year's worth of emails from the Dalai Lama's office. Personal information about individuals – including travel details and banking documents – was compromised."We have heard about the hacking report and the concerned department is looking into the case," Sitanshu Kar, spokesman for the Indian defence ministry, told Reuters.
When I read about Gordon Brown's plan to give the UK more broadband, I couldn't restrain my laughter. Isn't this the same clown now busy circumventing democracy to take away broadband from Britons who already have it? And what good would broadband do them if they're punished for using it (or even being suspected of using it)? Laying cables would be a waste of resources if people are not allowed to use them.Brown did suggest another possible use for broadband. He said that it would enable MPs to better communicate with their constituents and keep track of what they want.There is a real need to improve such communication in Britain today.Just now, thousands of Britons are trying feverishly to tell their MPs what they want: to reject the digital economy bill. But the message is only slowly getting through. Is this due to a lack of internet bandwidth? Or might the problem be at a higher level in the political system?If Brown's broadband plan had been carried out already, it might indeed help MPs do what their constituents want – but not the way he has in mind. More Britons with broadband could mean more Britons accustomed to filesharing, more Britons who realize that sharing is good, more Britons prepared to demand that their government serve them instead of the record companies, and more Britons supporting the Open Rights Group by telling this to their MPs now.But you don't need broadband to communicate with your MP. If due to insufficient bandwidth you find it difficult to send your MP a video recording, you can use email, a phone call, even a paper letter if you arrange for delivery before next Tuesday. A singing telegram might make a powerful impression, but hurry before they extend the copyright on the song.If the government were to stop slavishly obeying the record companies as it formerly obeyed George Bush, and turn its attention to the real issue – how to support the arts in the digital age without impeding sharing – there is no shortage of methods it could try.My 1992 proposal for a special tax to be distributed to artists, with the money partly shifted from the most popular ones towards those not quite so successful, is still applicable. Meanwhile,many artists support themselves already with voluntary payments by their fans. If we make it easier to send these payments, with a send-one-dollar or send-one-pound button on every player, this method would work even better. And without disconnecting anyone!Richard Stallman is the founder of theGNU ProjectandFree Software Foundation
• Apple sells 300,000 iPads on first day&gt;&gt;NYTMore than one million apps and 250,000 ebooks were bought on release day in the US.Photograph:nDevilTV/Flickr/Some rights reserved• What are iPad owners downloading?&gt;&gt;NYTThe top three application downloads so far are the rather mundane productivity apps for word processing, spreadsheets and presentations; Pages, Numbers and Keynote - that arguably should've been native. The games Real Racing HD, Scrabble and Flight Control all make the top ten, as does SketchBookPro and the astronomy tool Star Walk. All these cost between $8.99 or $9.99 apart from Star Walk, which is $2.99.• How to watch web video on the iPad&gt;&gt;NewTeeVeeWhich sites behave in the iPad's Safari browser, which don't work because they still rely on Flash and which make you choose between a mobile version and the full web size.• Track iPad sales in real-time&gt;&gt;MashableTheChitkaadvertising network is estimating the number of iPads sold bytracking how manyaccess the internet. Not foolproof methodology but a fairly good guess. No suprises that highest iPad use in the US was in California.• Video:  Five sweet apps to break in your iPad&gt;&gt;WiredWired recommends the Beautiful Planet HD app, created by two travelling journalists, says the iPad will be an interesting platforms for musicians and gets very excited about the Marvel Comics app.• The iPad passes airport security&gt;&gt;The FirewallIf you wondered whether you'd had to unpack an ipad at airport security (You did? Really?) then this piece is for you...• iPad Peek simulates your site on an iPad. Not.&gt;&gt;Podcasting NewsBe wary of sites promising to render your own site as it will appear on an iPad, for they are false prophets. And they won't wrap the text properly, etc.• Dr Seuss comes to the iPad&gt;&gt;MashableAs Mashable says: "The app reminds me a lot of the digital book programs for the Mac and PC in the late 1990s. Those CD-ROMs added animations or page manipulations for kids, along with some ways to interact with the story.. " Almost like Apple took an existing idea, packaged it well and sold it for a lot more money. Exactly like that, in fact.• The first iPad compatible vest is here&gt;&gt;MashableThe point at which we realise the iPadcalypse is nigh, and finally move on to something else...
The back at work Tuesday edition of Chatterbox
It's the big day for the digital economy bill - 6 April, second reading and perhaps some debate in the house of Commons. Gordon Brown is also expected to take a trip to Buckingham Palace to ask the Queen to dissolve parliament so there can be a 6 May election. (Blimey, hope she's at home.)The Open Rights Group has already taken out adverts in the Guardian and Times newspapers demanding that MPs give the bill "proper" debate -assertingthat"On Tuesday, the digital economy bill, with all its myriad problems, will be voted on its second reading – after the election has been declared. It will then be pushed through 'wash-up' – and become law without full scrutiny"Certainly there is a lot of concern among people who see multiple flaws in the bill as presently set up – and as it seems to be altered by thenew clause 18being introduced by the government.There is also opposition to the bill from photographers, who complain that its treatment of orphan works is unfair.All sorts of questions remain: will the Liberal Democratsbe able to derail itfrom moving into, and through, the wash-up? If it passes, will hotels and libraries and teashops and McDonalds shut down their open Wi-Fi? And if it passes and a Tory government comes in, and slices and dices Ofcom as it has indicated it would want to, will its effectiveness in monitoring processes in the bill be affected?If you need a reminder of themajor points in the bill, don't be embarrassed. It's a very complex and very controversial piece of legislation – probably the most unpopular to have ever been proposed for pushing through in the wash-up.
Apple has had a pretty good Easter. Itsold more than 300,000 iPadson its first day - though of course that "included deliveries of pre-ordered iPads to customers, deliveries to channel partners and sales at Apple Retail Stores."Note that "deliveries to channel partners" - that means "shops". Which means that there aren't actually 300,000 iPads in peoples' hands just yet. Even so, it still went well:"Apple also announced that iPad users downloaded over one million apps from Apple's App Store and over 250,000 ebooks from its iBookstore during the first day."So now the big question: was that good, or bad, or somewhere in the middle? The debate about whether the iPad istoo locked-down, or whether the people who are arguing it's too locked-down areignoring the factthat most people never have and never will written a program and really don't need a machine that gives them access to all the world's programming languages, continues. (I'll write about it later this week.)Let's return to the big question - good, bad or indifferent sales?Piper Jaffray had been predicting 5.6m will be sold this year (calendar year 2010), but on getting those official Apple numbersrevised it downwards, to 4.3m. Forrester is rather less positive:it thinks 3m. iSuppli has the frankly hard-to-believe7m in 2010, tripling by 2012.Piper Jaffray also had astudy on Monday which spoke to 448 iPad buyers which suggestedthat:&bull; as with the original iPhone, 74% of first-day iPad buyers were Mac users&bull; 66% own an iPhone, and 99% of those plan to use their iPhone alongside their new iPad (durr!)&bull; only 13% of those surveyed had an Amazon Kindle, and more than half of those said they would replace their Kindle with an iPad.So that's not surprising - owners of Apple gear tend to be first in line for more Apple gear. (It's what kept the company in business through its darkest hours, now nearly 15 years in the past.)What's harder to discern is whether the iPad will be viewed as a terrific new way to get online and Do Stuff, or whether it will fade into a little space, rather like the unexpandable, overpriced G4 Cube, launched in summer 2000 and put on ice less than a year later.CRN, which writes about channels (that's stores and resellers to you or me) thinks that it "changes everything for business computing":"Look for the iPad to eat into PC and laptop sales. That's no small statement. But it is absolutely going to happen. It's the right price with the right functionality. And it is going to move into corporate America just like the Mac did when PCs ruled the earth."It's a frankly surprising statement from a site that's focussed on business computing. But it has the ring of truth. The reason why previous tablets running Windows didn't take off is that the interface was dire. (All you tablet users looking round for your stylus so you can hunt-and-peck an angry response: first keep reading.)Windows is not imagined as a touch-screen interface. Not at all. It expects that you will attach a keyboard. The tablet was just a laptop without the keyboard (sometimes with the keyboard underneath). The fundamental flaw in Microsoft's tablet strategy was that it never took the huge step of deciding that it needed to have a completely new interface for Windows to adapt to a tablet interface. The task was too big: because Microsoft doesn't do the hardware, it couldn't know what its hardware partners might want to make. It couldn't predict. Its very size meant that it was paralysed in trying to adapt to a new, smaller market.As evidence of just how sick the tablet market is, earlier this yearIDC analyst David Daoud projects unit sales of non-Apple slate and convertible tablet PCs will fall from 1.32 million in 2008 to 1.25 million this year.That means that Apple is almost certainlyalreadythe biggest tablet/slate supplier in the world, and that if even the lowest of those forecasts above comes out even close to right, then it has 66% of the tablet/slate market.At which you have to say: pwned that market.In fact: this is starting to look like a pattern.iPod: came into a market that was small; reshaped, established and dominated it.iPhone: came into a market (smartphones) that was small (compared to the phone market); reshaped it and is moving towards dominance, especially through its apps market.iPad: yeah, well, tablets. Huh.And that's before we talk about the content markets on those products - which are part of the virtuous circle that they use to sell them. iPod: music through the iTunes Store. iPhone: data on the move. iPod Touch: apps for games and other stuff. iPad: books, films, TV, magazines, music... and photography. Have you see theGuardian's Eyewitness app(available in the UK once the iPad is)?It all adds up to one conclusion: the iPad is a success, and there are plenty of other reasons (new iPhone version, falling prices with higher demand, potential for larger screens/cameras/other features) that will keep it selling. So for those saying you'll never buy one, and that they'll prise your laptop from your cold, dead hands - quite possibly. But lots of people around you will have iPads. Bit like iPods and pretty much every other MP3 player, perhaps.But if you're hating the iPad, we have something you'll enjoy. Just press the button – and the Apple product is gone.
People queing for an iPad on Saturday. Photo bykennejimaon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamTaiwanese Website says new MacBook Pros/Airs starting production this month &gt;&gt; 9 to 5 MacMacheads, start your rumour engines. Oh, you already have.Apple's iPad: The End Of The Internet As We Know It? - NPRA US National Public Radio story that you can listen to (3 minutes 32 seconds) or read the text. Critics such as Jonathan Zittrain, a law professor at Harvard, and Paul Sweeting, an analyst with GigaOM, warn of the dangers of a closed anti-internet device, but people queuing to buy iPads are happy to submit themselves to Apple's control.I'm Really Worried About What Apple Is Trying To Do With The iPad - Jeff Jarvis"The iPad is retrograde. It tries to turn us back into an audience again. That is why media companies and advertisers are embracing it so fervently, because they think it returns us all to their good old days when we just consumed, we didn't create, when they controlled our media experience and business models and we came to them," warns the Media Guardian columnist.Adobe Could Be Your Security Weakest Link - PCWorld Business Center"Malicious code developers have figured out that Adobe is a fairly ubiquitous cross-platform target that doesn't have the same level of maturity for developing secure application code as Microsoft, and other operating system vendors," says PCWorld.IPad Taps Familiar Apple Suppliers - Wall Street JournalA summary of the tear-down analyses done by companies such as iFixit Inc. and UBM TechInsights.Stop Commercial Orphan Works Exploitation in the UK Digital Economy Bill &gt;&gt; stop43.org.uk"The UK Government wants to introduce a law to allow anyone to use your photographs commercially, or in ways you might not like, without asking you first."Songbird Singing A New Tune - Songbird BlogMore accurately, Songbird will stop singing an old tune: the open source replacement for iTunes is dropping support for Linux, though it will continue to work on Windows and Mac versionsTowel-folding robot won't do the dishes - CNETWorth a click to see the YouTube video of the Willow Garage PR2 (a general-purpose humanoid robot with two seven-axis arms) folding small bits of cloth...Scrabble for the iPad: stir in some iPhones and it's the best $1,000 you ever spent on a board game - Engadget"It's pretty metaphysically silly to be playing a board game your parents bought at a yard sale for $2 on a $500+ iPad, in conjunction with two or more $200+ iPhones" says Engadget. (The iPhones work as tile racks.)You Are Not a Gadget: The Continuing Case Against Web 2.0 - ReadWriteWebA review of Jaron Lanier's new book, You Are Not a Gadget: A ManifestoE-Books on the iPad: iBooks vs. Kindle for iPad - ReadWriteWebA short comparison of iPad apps (it's not comparing an iPad with a Kindle).Fake Steve Jobs on the iPad, conflict of interest, and Apple's draconian PR tactics - CruchgearRough transcript of a TV interview on CNN where Newsweek reporter Dan Lyons (aka Fake Steve Jobs) says Newsweek wasn't sent an iPad, unlike rival publications. Basically, if Apple doesn't like you, you're excluded.CycleStreets: UK-wide Cycle Journey Planner and PhotomapBelieved to be the first site to have incorporated the Ordnance Survey's free 1:10,000 StreetView mapping.Nokia N97: as advertised v real life &gt;&gt; YouTubeTurns out the N97 isn't quite so smooth as the advert makes out. Can you believe that?How I'd Break Your Password &gt;&gt; Lifehacker"Let's see... here is my top 10 list. I can obtain most of this information much easier than you think , then I might just be able to get into your e-mail, computer, or online banking. After all, if I get into one I'll probably get into all of them."Guardian on an iPad &gt;&gt; JonathanHaynesCome on, you have to say that's nice.ISO OOXML convener: Microsoft's format "heading for failure" &gt;&gt; Ars Technica"Although Microsoft's Office Open XML (OOXML) document format became an ISO standard two years ago, the company still hasn't built any software that truly complies with the standard." That includes Office 2010.Apple iPad: The Right Gadget For The Wrong Consumer &gt;&gt; Forrester Blogs"Apple will sell 3 million iPads in 2010. For context, twice as many E Ink eReaders will sell this year. Walt Mossberg loves the iPad and says it's nearly a laptop killer. So why are we so conservative with our numbers?&#10;Because the iPad is the right device for the wrong consumer."&#10;&#10;Perfect for the laptop user, but assumes that their data lives in the cloud - which it doesn't, says Sarah RotmanOrdnance Survey Opendata &gt;&gt; OpenStreetMap WikiIn which OpenStreetMap considers what precisely to do with the Ordnance Survey data that has fallen into its lap.Cory Doctorow, You Are a Consumer, Too &gt;&gt; GizmodoAt Gizmodo, Joel Johnson is unimpressed with Cory Doctorow's call not to buy the iPad. "The old guard has The Fear. They see the iPad and the excitement it has engendered and realize that they've made themselves inessential—or at least invisible. They've realized that it's possible to make a computer that doesn't break, doesn't stop working, doesn't need constant tinkering. Unlike a car, it's possible to design a computer that is bulletproof."Steve Jobs makes surprise noon appearance at Palo Alto Apple store for iPad opening day - Mercury NewsSteve Wozniak brought his Segway and joined the queue in Valley Fair to recapture his lost youth, while Jobs turned up in Palo Alto "wearing a black hoodie" but failed to queue for an iPadAn open letter to the people of the world - Fake Steve JobsWhy are you lining up like a zombie for an expensive piece of consumer electronics, a product for which there is no shortage and which, let's face it, nobody really needs? Fake Steve has the iPad nailed...Marketing DAB radio: misleading listeners only damages the medium - Grant GoddardThe Advertising Standards Authority [ASA] has found, again, that a DAB advertisement was misleading.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
