Orange yesterday appointed Tom Alexander, the car racing enthusiast who co-founded and then floated Virgin Mobile, as head of its UK business with the task of reviving the fortunes of the third-placed mobile phone operator.There was speculation last night that his appointment could herald the arrival of several of his former Virgin Mobile colleagues at Orange to help him turn around the business, which has lost out to rivals such as O2 and T-Mobile.The move is part of a shake-up prompted by the arrival of Olaf Swantee, who joined Orange's parent France T&eacute;l&eacute;com as head of mobile operations for Europe and the Middle East in August. Last month Eric Abensur, head of Orange UK's broadband business, left. Director of corporate communications Scott Jacobson is also understood to be leaving.Mr Alexander, who became a multi-millionaire with the flotation of Virgin Mobile in 2004, will take over from Bernard Ghillebaert, who is taking a new group-level role, in December. News of his appointment was rushed out by Orange yesterday as news of Mr Ghillebaert's departure leaked. Mr Alexander is understood to be holidaying with his family and was yesterday at Disneyland in Florida.Since his departure from Virgin Mobile, with a payoff of more than &pound;5m, he is understood to have been working with three former colleagues as a consultant to, among others, Irish entrepreneur Denis O'Brien. Mr O'Brien is understood to have been investigating the possibility of launching a mobile phone business in the US with the help of Mr Alexander and his team, though the idea was dropped.When he left Virgin Mobile, after its merger with cable operator NTL to create Virgin Media, Mr Alexander said he had no desire to seek further full-time employment. "I've got cars I've never driven, a family I hardly ever see and a house in France I hardly ever get to visit," he said.He is believed to have been lured away from his consultancy business with a promise that he will be given the resources to return Orange to its former glory. The company has gone from the darling of the mobile phone industry under founder Hans Snook to an also-ran in the UK market under the seven-year ownership of France T&eacute;l&eacute;com.The UK business has seen profits drop as rivals have pushed prices down. It has 15.2 million mobile phone customers but its share of new business has declined.Mr Alexander is likely to bring with him some of the team who helped him turn Sir Richard Branson's mobile phone business from a start-up in 1999 to a company worth nearly &pound;1bn when it merged with NTL. All but one of the original Virgin Mobile team - Virgin Media's head of marketing, James Kidd - have left the business since the merger.
The asset's coordinates are longitude -0.098610, latitude 51.519699. At least that's what the read-out on my computer screen says. I've never heard my son, Robbie, described as an asset before, but I guess there's a first time for anything. Two minutes later, I get an update. He's barely moved, since he's walking at an unbelievable 1.1 mph. It's definitely him. No one else can dawdle like that. I switch the screen over to a Google Earth satellite map and follow his return to the building.Robbie is wearing one of the first GPS tracker jackets, launched this week in the UK by Blade Runner, the clothing manufacturer that specialises in equipment for the police and security services and which recently brought out the first school uniform in slash-proof Kevlar, in partnership with Asset Monitoring Solutions (AMS), a market leader in tracking and security technologies.And he's impressed. Not so much with my ability to know where he's been, but with the jacket itself. He'd been decidedly sniffy when I'd shown him the promotional picture of a three-year-old wrapped up in a twee puffa jacket."I'm not wearing that," he announced. When you're nearly 12, street cred counts for a great deal. But the jacket that turns up is black, urban and edgy, with a sewn-in iPod holder. He nods: "Nice."But it's the technology that is likely to appeal to the people who are buying it, because at &pound;250 - or an extra &pound;80 if you want it with a Kevlar lining - and a monthly &pound;10 satellite tracking charge, it is not cheap. It is simple, though. It runs off a web-based system, so there's no software to load or minimum PC requirements; you just get your own user login and you're up and running. Or walking very slowly, if you're Robbie.The small rechargeable device - it has a 15-hour battery - fits neatly into a pouch inside the jacket. You switch it on when you leave the house and what you get is nothing less than the ability to know where someone is - within four square metres - anywhere in the world. You can watch them move, check where they've been and get updates every 10 seconds. You don't even need to be permanently logged on to your computer, as you can have email alerts sent to your Blackberry or text messages to your mobile.It sounds ideal for a certain type of over-protective, borderline paranoiac parent with too much time on their hands, and Adrian Davis, Blade Runner managing partner, admits that is part of the target market. "There are parents who are very concerned about their child's safety," he says diplomatically, "and this will give them peace of mind."But he is also keen to point out there are wider applications. "If your kids are doing adventure sports, like snowboarding, you can always know where they are. And if they get into difficulties, they can set off an alarm that tells you their location."The GPS can be set up in almost any way you like. You can geo-fence it so you only get alerts if your "asset" steps outside a certain boundary, the school for instance, and you can set a curfew so it sets off an alarm after a particular time. Yet despite these Big Brother overtones, Martin Taylor, sales director of AMS, suggests the benefits can cut both ways. "Kids want their independence," he says, "and parents might be more willing to allow them to go out more on their own if they could check up on where they were from time to time and know they would be immediately informed if there was any trouble."There has also been interest from companies whose workers spend a lot of time in potentially hazardous situations alone. There is one small fly in the proverbial; if you take the jacket off or lose it, the whole thing is pointless. Then again, with the amount of stuff Robbie has lost, I'd probably be less interested in knowing where he was than locating his clothes anyway.Playing safe: The tracking technology boomPersonal CompanionTracker developed by Globalpoint Technologies which relies on technology pioneered by the Ministry of Defence to track and monitor anything to within a few metres. The device, which is about the size of a mobile phone, can fit into a pocket or schoolbag and has high-sensitivity GPS, which allows it to be used indoors.  Parents log on to a website using a secure password to monitor their child's whereaboutsPersonal LocatorsUS company Wherify offers a multi-coloured device, worn as a wristwatch, which operates in a similar way to the Personal CompanionToddler Tag (right)A child-safety monitoring system from Connect Software that can be sewn into clothing. Smaller than a domino, the device emits radio waves and works with a reader to monitor a child's movement. It raises an alarm when a child moves outside a certain rangeLoc8tor PlusLoc8tor plus can be used for a number of children at the same time. It consists of four tags the size of a stamp and a homing device the size of a television remote. If a child wanders outside the preset area, the tag sends an alarm signal to the handset. Flashing arrows direct you to the missing child, up to 600ft (183m) awayChip locatorsProfessor Kevin Warwick, of Reading University, developed technology that made it possible for children to have a chip inserted under the skin, allowing them to be trackedKaren McVeigh
Apple has just announced its fourth quarter results. They're pretty good. Actually, better than that.Revenue: $6.22 billion, up 28.5%; net quarterly profit $904 million, up 66.7% (representing $1.01 per diluted share, up 38%). Gross margin was 33.6%, up from 29.2 percent in the year-ago quarter. International sales accounted for 40 percent of the quarter's revenue.(The latter is interesting: despite the weak dollar, which you'd think would mean that international revenues would be bigger, but they're exactly the same asa year ago.)Apple shipped 2,164,000 Macintosh computers (+34% on 4Q06), exceeding the previous quarterly record for Mac shipments - set in the previous quarter - by 400,000. It sold 10.2m iPods during the quarter (up 17% on 4Q06). 1.19m iPhones were sold in the quarter - so that's 1.389m sold in the year. Another 8.621m to go...Here's the boilerplate:"We are very pleased to have generated over $24 billion in revenue and $3.5 billion in net income in fiscal 2007," said Steve Jobs, Apple's CEO. "We're looking forward to a strong December quarter as we enter the holiday season with Apple's best products ever."Apple now has $15.4bn in cash, zero debt, and Peter Oppenheimer, the chief financial officer, forecasts revenues of $9.2bn for the first quarter of 2008 (which includes the Christmas period) and earnings per share of about $1.42.In other words, they're rolling in it. Totals for the year just past: 5.9m Macs shipped, 51.5m iPods, profits total of $3.49bn on revenues of $24bn. And note that this is with one-and-a-bit quarters selling iPhones, and without Leopard, which is expected to goose sales of Macs in the coming months.The interesting questions: -is the rise in Mac sales the vaunted "halo effect" so long predicted finally coming to pass? -are iPhones pushing up the profit margin, or depressing it? -will international revenues grow if the dollar falls any further?Some have no doubt: "There's no question that Mac sales are still having a halo effect from the iPod and iPhone," Tim Bajarin, president of technology consulting company Creative Strategies, told Reuters.Meanwhile shares of Apple rose 6% in after-hours trading.Updated:some points from theconference call: Apple guesses that up to 250,000 iPhones went to unlockers or would-be unlockers. Japan is still the toughest market for Apple, but Asia-Pacific is the fastest-growing region for sales.Europe has grown faster than the US for all four quarters (could be the dollar weakness?), and has risen by 47% (so how then is the international revenue only the same?). iPhone revenue in the fourth quarter was $118m, but for each phone sold its revenues are put together over 24 months.Back-to-school sales resulted in the all-time high: it's those college (and some university) students doing it.More:thefull transcript is at Seeking Alpha.
Fed up with the next-gen console war? You're not the only one. EA executive vice-president Gerhard Florintold the BBCon Friday that the current business model of competing consoles is making life complicated for developers and publishers (incredible!) - "We want an open, standard platform which is much easier than having five which are not compatible," he continued.The story then drags in analyst Nick Parker to comment, "gaming will just require potentially a £49.99 box from Tesco made in China with a hard drive, a wi-fi connection and a games engine inside. It's basically a boiled-down PC."Of course, this is by no means a new idea. The BBC report mentions the MSX, a Microsoft-led attempt to create a standard home computer platform in the mid-Eighties. Successful in Japan and Korea for several hardware generations, the machine never became a global standard, missing out in the US and UK to the 8bit Commodore and Spectrum machines and later the IBM PC.This isn't even the first time EA has flirted with the concept...In the early nineties, the company's founder, Trip Hawkins, left to set up the 3DO company and to launch the 3DO console, a 32bit CD-ROM based machine, which set out to be, yes, an open standard. the idea was that other manufacturers would build their own versions with 3DO drawing in royalties on hardware and software sales.However, as Ars Technicapoints outthe concept failed, partly because the retail price was too high ($700), with the likes of Panasonic and Toshiba unwilling to subsidise the price of the machine. There were other issues too, though - lack of third-party developer support, particularly in Japan, and an architecture that was quickly over-shadowed by the more 3D-capable PlayStation.Nick Parker's concept of a glorified set-top box with powerful gaming features is not entirely new either. You may remember VM Labs'Nuon, a high-end DVD player specification with built-in games platform. Several manufacturers included the technology in DVD machines released in the early 2000s, but the format never gained widespread support.What's different now - or whatwillbe different in 8-10 years when its time for a technological refresh? Microsoft and Sony have both pumped millions into their warring machines only to see a lower spec unit come along and outsell them - it could be that, come the next generation, they might be more receptive to a lower-risk group initiative. Also, the simple gaming options offered by cable and satellite TV providers through their set-top boxes have prepared a sizeable audience for the concept of an integrated entertainment unit.What do you think? Can a single console, backed by Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo (and probably Sky, BT or Virgin, as well as other technology manufacturers) represent a realistic alternative to the fiendishly competitive roller-coaster business we've been enjoying for the last thirty years? There's a tendency in the world of gadgets to believe that convergence isalwaysdesirable for consumers. It doesn't usually pan out that way - if it did, we'd all have lobbed away our iPods and digital cameras in favour of high-end mobiles.• This article was amended on 22 June 2009. The original referred to EA's founder, Trip Hawkins, as "co-founder". This has been corrected.
I've been in Vancouver for theAssociation of Internet Researchersannual conference for the past week and have returned to far more playability in theWikiGamedemothan I could ever have dreamed of. Thanks to DennisChow, designer-turned-coder who's taken the lead in the weeks since MichaelBruntonSpall's laptop blew up (commiserations, Michael!).Thedemois still very rough around the edges, but players can now explore the Church, the train station and the toilets. You can solve several puzzles too! Even better, at the good DennisChow's suggestion, you can continue to help us write the thing!We have a selection of objects which only require one or two sentences of description each. We'd absolutely love it if you'd contribute by adding in your descriptions of one or more of 'em! If you're so inclined and have a moment or two to spare, the list continues over the fold, or you can add your descriptions to the wikihere.landscape paintings (in the church)church pulpit (clearly in the church)mounted deer's head (in the pub)sticky blob of gum (in the pub)railway ticket turnstiles (in the train station)national rail uniform (in the train station)burly guard's uniform (outside the train station)sagging houseplant (in the ticket office)a banana skin (in the bin)an empty can of spam (in the bin)a shattered egg (bin)old newspapers (bin - headlines and copy ideas are great!)an empty pop bottle (bin)2 hypodermic syringes (bin)a rather rude novelty hand (bin)child's retainer (bin)
"Four fresh-out-of-college girls share an apartment in Los Angeles and star in a reality show filmed by a guy who is their friend. Except -- this isn't a reality show. All the dialogue is scripted. And it isn't on TV: It will be the first made-for-MySpace video series, to be aired exclusively on the Internet. Each episode will last a mere three minutes," reportsForbes.A peek at "Roommates" looks like a video version of much of what already goes on inside MySpace: Girls dance around in their bikinis, flash their lacey under things and shake their barely covered bums at the camera. Says one of the girls in the trailer: "It's just like college but without the classes!"The show is being sponsored by Ford, and in one episode, one of the girls buys a Ford Focus. As Forbes says, it's like a return to the early days of sponsored "soap operas".
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
In Sunday's Observer, John Naughton's regular column (it's in the Business section, if you're wondering)this week tackled the Storm worm:It first appeared at the beginning of the year, hidden in email attachments with the subject line: '230 dead as storm batters Europe'. The PC of anyone who opened the attachment became infected and was secretly enrolled in an ever-growing network of compromised machines called a 'botnet'...Storm has been spreading steadily since last January, gradually constructing a huge botnet. It affects only computers running Microsoft Windows, but that means that more than 90 per cent of the world's PCs are vulnerable. Nobody knows how big the Storm botnet has become, but reputable security professionals cite estimates of between one million and 50 million computers worldwide. To date, the botnet has been used only intermittently, which is disquieting: what it means is that someone, somewhere, is quietly building a doomsday machine that can be rented out to the highest bidder, or used for purposes that we cannot yet predict.Key things about Storm: it's a peer-to-peer controlled system; infected machines only do things very occasionally, so the effect is hard to notice (unlike earlier viruses/worms, which were more like Ebola - you really knew your machine had been hit). And it may contain keyloggers watching what you're up to and where you go.'If it were a disease,' says one expert, Bruce Schneier, 'it would be more like syphilis, whose symptoms may be mild or disappear altogether, but which will come back years later and eat your brain.'For instance, it will send 1,800 spam emails in a five-minute period - and then stop. (Secureworks has somemore detailabout what it does inside your machine.) Another data point not mentioned in the article: there have been dozens, hundreds of variations of the worm. It keeps changing: youcan't be certainthatyourantivirus program will detect it. (Judging by what I've been reading, at least.)Time magazine calls it "the worm that roared", but actually it's not like that. It's the worm that's sitting there doing nothing very much, as far as we can tell. Schneier, in anarticle for Wired, says he's "worried about what Storm's creators are planning for Phase II."Aninteresting postfrom Spamnation, back in April, who found someone who had not only applied the worm - disguised as a "patch" - to her machine, but then forwarded it:It so happens that I know the person who did this. She is highly intelligent, an acknowledged leader in her field, with tremendous practical experience earned over many years of living in different cultures. She is unquestionably nobody's fool. Yet all it took was one little email marked "ATTN!" and she was ready to not only compromise her own machine but to do the virus-writer's work for him by forwarding the message on to her co-worker, advising them to do the same. You couldn't scam this woman in the real world, but on the Internet she's the easiest of marks. Something about technology seems to just switch off people's defences.How do we solve this? As the man said when asked for directions, "I wouldn't try to go there from here." Solving Windows security issues always seems like that to me, I confess.
A couple of things we didn't mention from last week that you might want to discuss (if you haven't already in Chatterbox of course). First, the news that GCHQ is running an in-game recruitment drive, via its adverting agency TMP Worldwide and in-game ads specialist, Massive Inc. Beginning at the end of October, the recruitment ads will be seen in a variety of relevant Xbox 360 titles including the predictable Splinter Cell Double Agent and Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas as well as Need for Speed Carbon, because members of the British Intelligence services need to be able to source and heavily customise Japanese sports cars at a moment's notice.The big debate online has been: will game players make good spies? Well, gamers are pretty good at sitting still in front of a screen for hours on end performing repetitive tasks - which is the real-life lot of most intelligence operatives. Sadly, it is unlikely those who reply to the adverts will be told, "Ah, I see you've performed well on the Call of Duty 4 beta - here's a Walther PPK, you'll be leaving for Tehran in an hour." (morehere.)The other story was Capcom's Gamer Day event in London. Here the company unveiledStreet Fighter IV(follow the link to see the official trailer), which may or may not be 2D with Okami-style visuals. Also, Bionic Commando is being exhumed for PC, Xbox 360 and PS3 with lead character Nathan Spencer voiced by Faith No More crooner Mike Patton.Downloadable game announcements included overhead shooter, Rocketman: Axis of Evil and Games Workshop conversion, Talisman, as well as familiar updates, Commando 3 and Super Street Fighter II Turbo HD Remix. (Morehere.)Capcom even had room for some new 'IP' - the action adventure title, Dark Void, from Airtight Games, promising. "fast-paced vertical combat mixed with mid-air and on-foot action." Oh and Lost Planet is breaking out of its Xbox orbit and heading to PS3 with new multiplayer maps and characters, but no significant in-game additions. Also the criminally under-bought Okami is off to Wii, complete with a new control system.On the subject of Wii - and perhaps of interest to those excited by the Street Fighter IV news:Guilty Gear XX Accent Corewill be hitting Nintendo's console. Usually written off as a hardcore fighting game series, the Guilty Gears titles are in fact, an extremely balanced and entertaining. If you still have a Dreamcast hidden away somewhere, I advise you to dust it down, get on eBay and search out a copy ofGuilty Gear X. Or just dust down your Wii next February and buy the latest edition.
You wait all year for a Games Festival and then two turn up at once. TheLondon Games Festivalkicks off today while Nottingham's GameCity, which we'vecovered elsewhere, starts later this week. LGF has a prettypacked schedulewith niche fringe stuff -Guy Debord's The Game of War- rubbing shoulders with the BAFTA's and Golden Joysticks.I'm heading down to the South Bank for tonight'sVideo Games Liveconcert. And with the likes of Halo and Mario getting the full treatment it could be crushingly embarrassing or oddly uplifting - I can't imagine it being dull. Other highlights of the week include theWill Wright lectureand theEyes on the Gamediscussion with Peter Molyneux.I'll probably skip theGames based learning in Scottish schoolsseminar. Likewise theMobile Game Competition, where you can pitch your mobile game ideas to EA, who must see the 2500 pound prize as a small price to pay. But on paper London Games Festival looks like a decent event, worthy of attention from southern based gamers.
Britain's traditional reluctance to speak directly for fear of causing embarrassment or offence has survived into the new world of blogging and instant communication across the world.Far from turning into a frank, straightforward nation, the country has invented hundreds of new euphemisms to add to its ancient store of phrases such as "my unmentionables" and "the departed".Modern employment rules and 24-hour media scrutiny of politics have played an important part, according to the new edition of Oxford University Press's dictionary of euphemisms. Personnel departments, variously disguised as People, Human Relations and the use of similar, softer names, have an arsenal of restructuring, furthering your career, and other terms for the sack which imply no personal incompetence.Warfare has seen the celebrated invention of "collateral damage", adopted from the United States, a nation which is also keen on dodging the blunt, according to the book, How Not To Say What You Mean. The Americans have carried the tradition of turf accountant (for bookie) and rodent operative (for ratcatcher) into the IT world, with computer bug-hunters rebranded as digital scatologists. Computer geeks have also added to death's central place in the world of euphemisms. Dying in the web world is variously described as "sent to the archive", "exported to a flat file" and "buying the disk farm".The speed with which euphemisms themselves may become unacceptable is also highlighted by the book's author, retired academic Robert Holder. The relatively modern term of "timeshare", for example, is rapidly being replaced by "seasonal ownership".The dictionary acknowledges a handful of additions to the very rare category of euphemisms which have a known coiner - most famously the term "wardrobe malfunction" for clothes which slip to reveal intimate parts of the body. This was the invention of the singer Justin Timberlake after the exposure of his fellow performer Janet Jackson's right breast in a show at Houston in 2004.Curious local examples are a little more common.The Yorkshire seaside resort of Filey is the only place in the world where dying is referred to as "going to the North Riding". This stems from the traditional local government boundary which divides the town, with most people living in the East Riding but the cemetery just across the old county border.Other euphemisms for death, from "pushing up the daisies" to "promoted to glory", remain central to the collection, along with reams of expressions for sexual and lavatorial doings.Drink is also well-represented, with a BBC website survey finding 141 terms for drunk, to which bloggers promptly added more than 50 others.The new entries take their place beside thousands of lasting expressions, including the simplest of them all - the use of the word euphemism itself. This was playfully substituted for lavatory in Edward Albee's play Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf and later adopted by the bestselling children's author Dr Seuss, whose child hero in It's Grinch Night innocently asks for permission to "go to the euphemism".In other wordsCorridor creeping- having an affairCouldn't be reached- was avoiding questioningBy mutual consent- sackedCut the pigtail- quit before you're sackedFace made for radio- uglyFailure of memory- lyingInterpret pragmatically- ignoreNegative patient care  outcome- deathOperation Sunshine- US Pacific H-bomb testsPersonnel ceiling reduction-  the sackPreowned- secondhandTaskforce- committee hastily summoned to deflect criticismTroop redeployment- retreatWatercooler moment- office networkingElevator eyes- looking someone up and down
Video games are among the nominations for children's Baftas for the first time this year. The annual honours have been renamed the British Academy Children's Awards to reflect the "ever-widening" array of entertainment available to youngsters, organisers said yesterday.The games nominated for the new category include Buzz! Junior: Jungle Party, Crash of the Titans, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, and Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga.Tricky TV's Stephen Mulhern has been nominated in the presenter category for the second year alongside six-time nominee Neil Buchanan of Art Attack, Justin Fletcher from Something Special and Barney Harwood of Smile.In the feature film category Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix faces competition from the animated Happy Feet and Flushed Away and fantasy adventure Bridge to Terabithia. Children will vote for their favourite film in the only public award, the Bafta Kids' Vote.Jocelyn Stevenson, chairwoman of the academy's children's committee, said: "Our children deserve a varied diet of genres and formats, but as we now officially know from the Ofcom report on the Future of Children's Television, indigenous drama and factual programming are endangered, heading for extinction."These nominations highlight the enormous amount of talent and expertise we have in the UK in children's media, and what it is we must fight to protect."Television presenter Keith Chegwin will host the ceremony on November 25.
Disgruntled fans of Sheffield Wednesday who vented their dissatisfaction with the football club's bigwigs in anonymous internet postings may face expensive libel claims after the chairman, chief executive and five directors won a high-court ruling last week forcing the owner of a website to reveal their identity.The case, featuring the website owlstalk.co.uk, is the second within days to highlight the danger of assuming that the  apparent cloak of anonymity gives users of internet forums and chatrooms carte  blanche to say whatever they like.In another high court case last week, John Finn, owner of the Sunderland property firm Pallion Housing, admitted just before he was due to be cross-examined that he was responsible for a website hosting a scurrilous internet campaign about a rival housing organisation, Gentoo Group, its employees and owner, Peter Walls.Exposing the identity of those who post damaging lies in cyberspace is a growth area for libel lawyers.Dan Tench, of Olswang, the law firm representing Gentoo, said: "This case illustrates an increasingly important legal issue: proving who is responsible for the publication of anonymous material on the internet. This is likely to be a significant issue in defamation cases in the future."The website Dadsplace, set up to campaign against perceived injustices in the family courts, had a forum where anonymous postings made various accusations against Gentoo, Mr Walls and his staff.Those posting the comments went to considerable lengths to hide their identity, and Gentoo's lawyers ran up a bill estimated to be about &pound;300,000 - which Mr Finn will now have to pick up, along with any damages awarded - taking the case to court and amassing circumstantial evidence that he was behind the website.Revealing the Sheffield Wednesday fans was comparatively easy since there was no secret about the website owner. The next move was to apply for a court order requiring him to reveal the identities of "Halfpint" and the other fans behind what the club's lawyers described as a "sustained campaign of vilification". Fans made serious allegations against the club's chairman, Dave Allen, and directors and shareholders.The club's lawyers asked the judge, Richard Parkes QC, to order disclosure about the identity of 11 fans.But the judge decided some fans, whose postings were merely "abusive" or likely to be understood as jokes, should keep their anonymity.The judge ordered that three fans whose postings might "reasonably be understood to allege greed, selfishness, untrustworthiness and dishonest behaviour", should be unmasked. Their right to maintain their anonymity and express themselves freely was outweighed by the directors' entitlement to take action to protect their reputation, he said.Court orders obliging websites to disclose the identity of users posting anonymous defamatory remarks began in 2001.Dominic Bray, of K&amp;L Gates, Sheffield Wednesday's solicitors, said: "There seem to be quite a lot of websites that are using their anonymity to make comments about people and think that there shouldn't be any liability for it. But the internet is no different to any other place of publication, and if somebody is making defamatory comments about people then they should be held responsible for it. What these cases do is just confirm that's the law - the law applies to the internet as much as it does to anything else."
The Sunday Times Magazine has a huge piece onGoogle. Who's looking at you?, by former Observer (etc) regularJohn Arlidge, who visited the Googleplex like a good travel writer. It shows how the behemoth looks to someone who isn't a tech specialist, which is to say, scarily like some sort of Big Brother operation that wants to plant chips in our brains and track us everywhere:Google's overall goal is to have a record of every e-mail we have ever written, every contact whose details we have recorded, every file we have created, every picture we have taken and saved, every appointment we have made, every website we have visited, every search query we have typed into its home page, every ad we have clicked on, and everything we have bought online. It wants to know and record where we have been and, thanks to our search history of airlines, car-hire firms and MapQuest [sic: he means Google Maps], where we are going in the future and when.But don't worry, it's all for your own good:Brin and Page were obsessed with recording, categorising and indexing anything and everything, and then making it available to anyone with internet access because they genuinely believed -- and still do -- that it is a morally good thing to do. It may sound hopelessly hippie-ish and wildly hypocritical coming from a couple of guys worth £10 billion each, but Brin and Page insist they are not, and never have been, in it for the money. They see themselves as latter-day explorers, mapping human knowledge so that others can find trade routes in the new information economy.Sadly, if you read the story online, the Times Online's Web staff havelost almost all the last page of text(page 43 -- roughly 25%, at a crude estimate) and it ends in mid air: "If, however, you share your web history with Google, it will know that you like Italian food best because you search for it the most, and it will know the area you."Since this is a colour magazine story, you will naturally expect a feeble conclusion, but here it is anyway:[Google] does not simply want to be a good search engine on the web, it wants tobethe web. Will it get there? In the end, it's up to us. Google has only gone from being the most famous misspelling since "potatoe" to a verb recognised by the Oxford English Dictionary because you, me -- in fact, almost all of us -- use it. If we carry on logging on, it will carry on growing. And growing. If we don't, it won't. The choice -- the click -- is ours.That would have been reasonable enough a few years ago, but it ignores all the interesting questions about what happens when Google pwns the Web, if it doesn't already. Google isn't just harvesting clicks, it is changing the whole online environment for the worse.For example, many sites are no longer designed just for readers, and sometimes not for readers at all: they are designed to score well in Google, and in particular, to drive revenue from Google AdWords.And for the tens or hundreds of millions of sites that live or die by AdWords, Google has life or death power over them. It can change the rules at any time, and you are not entitled to know this. Nor are you entitled to know what the rules are.As I've said before, Google acts as its own policeman, prosecutor, judge, jury and executioner, and you have no right of appeal. The best you can do is suck up to Google and hang on to a percentage of the money your efforts generate, while Google rakes in billions.Google is, of course, benign, but there is always a feeling that power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely. Come back in five years when Google is 100 times more powerful.
When Microsoft boss Steve Ballmer spoke at last week's prestigious Web 2.0 conference in San Francisco, he announced a public beta test version ofPopflyto try to impress the crowd. Because it's based on Silverlight, Microsoft's alternative to Adobe Flash, it can certainly do some nice visual tricks. Its practical value is, of course, another matter.Popfly is an online system where anybody can create a graphical web page, a mashup or a Windows Vista Sidebar gadget by "drag and drop" programming.The term "mashup" comes from the music business where it is used for mixes made from two or more different songs. In web 2.0 terms, it means combining data from two or more sources. One of the best known mashups takes government crime figures for Chicago and plots them on aGoogle map of Chicago.When Yahoo! launched a beta test site for creating mashups in February, it had the idea of streams of data being changed and combined: the result wasYahoo! Pipes. Popfly uses a different kind of imagery that's much more like object-oriented programming. Everything comes in a red box or block, and you create your mashup by linking red blocks together.The Popfly toolbox already contains dozens of blocks. Look under Display, for example, and there are blocks such as Bar graph, Carousel, Chat bubbles, Page Turner, Photosphere and Slideshow.Other blocks offer streams of data, including RSS feeds of news reports, Twitter and Upcoming. There are also blocks such as Combine, Filter, Sort and Timer so you can do things with data along the way. If you can't find the sort of block you want, you can create one.Each block contains lines of computer code, so when you link them together, you are actually writing a program. What's cool is that it doesn't feel like it.Popfly has lots of nice visual effects, but I found some things didn't do what I expected, and it wasn't always easy to see why.For example, I did an extremely simple mashup to fish 100 random Paris Hilton pictures from a search engine, and display them in a mini-album on my Facebook profile page. Actually it showed only 20 images, and it didn't display them on Facebook: it just put alink to the albumon Popfly. It was easier to post it to a blog: even I can manage a one-line copy-and-paste operation!There are several sites doing the same sort of thing as Pipes and Popfly, and Intel has just unveiledMashMaker, promising "Mashups for the Masses". Google also has the Google Mashup Editor, which is only suitable for programmers. No doubt there will be many more.Microsoft's mantra is "developers, developers, developers," and naturally it wants to make programming accessible to people with no programming skills.Given enough pre-created blocks, I can imagine lots of people connecting two blocks, or even a few, if it does something they really need. But a mass market? I don't think so!
As she touched down in the heat and dust of Karachi last week, Pakistan's Benazir Bhutto could be seen smiling and waving - and checking her BlackBerry. Nothing unusual there: Bill Clinton, Oprah Winfrey and David and Victoria Beckham are among the 11 million users more or less addicted to the mobile email gadget. The bad news for those who take offence at the sight of someone punching its mini-keyboard at dinner, in the theatre or on holiday is that the BlackBerry's assault on our lives has only just begun.What started in 1999 as a business tool and a status symbol for executives - and then acquired the nickname 'the CrackBerry' as users found their lives unmanageable without one - is about to invade the home. Its creator, Mike Lazaridis, now a billionaire inventor, told The Observer that he plans to turn the BlackBerry into a must-have device for ordinary families.Undaunted by rivals such as Apple's iPod, he hopes teenagers will embrace the device and predicts it will become the 'remote control to your life'.A free piece of software, BlackBerry Unite!, available in Britain next month, will provide groups of up to five users with access to shared calendars, pictures, music, documents and other content. The home computer will effectively act as a controlling hub, much like the IT department in an office. In Lazaridis's optimistic vision, parents will buy BlackBerrys for themselves and their children so they can all co-ordinate their busy lives in a social network - a small and secure version of Facebook.'We made it a social networking site for the home, as opposed to the web,' said Lazaridis, who hit on the idea of a mobile emailer during a midnight to 3am writing blitz after nursing his baby son to sleep. 'The web is about beyond your family; the BlackBerry is about within your family. You can set up birthday parties, trips, anniversaries, events, holidays on your device and it gets synched to all the other devices.'You can start putting in things like your son's soccer practice so you remember to go there and he remembers to be ready. There's so much value in being able to organise your life. You never have to turn on your computer again: you can do it from the device."Lazaridis  checks his own BlackBerry every time it vibrates with a new message - about 200 times a day. He added a light sensor that automatically dims the screen so users can discreetly check them in darkened cinemas and theatres. He brushes aside suggestions that he has created a monster of modern living, describing the era of fax machines and telephone messages as 'the Dark Ages'.He said: 'You could look at it and say there's a potential to get really carried away with the information flow and feel, like there's something lacking in your life if you're not getting an email every 30 seconds, but the fact is it allows you to leave your office and not feel like you're out of the loop.'You can now go visit customers and clients and not feel like you've got this mountain of emails to get through when you get home or decisions that got made without your involvement.'But isn't there something worrying in the restless urge to check emails every five minutes at the dinner table? 'There is another way of looking at it. By using the BlackBerry you can get everything done so that when you do sit down it doesn't need to go off, Lazaridis said.'Life is getting more complicated. It didn't get more complicated because of email, it just got more complicated because we're more well off and we have more opportunities for free time and activities. All this opportunity to do more is facilitated by instant communication. If we didn't have BlackBerrys we'd find it more difficult because we'd have to wait till we got home and power up the computer. That's an achievement. That's progress.'Deadly serious about technology and its potential, Lazaridis has donated millions of pounds to research into quantum computing and nanotechnology and his hobbies include quantum physics. 'You sit there and wonder what can't these things do?' he says. 'The limitations are entirely up to the laws of physics. Things like battery life. You're going to find the devices that best conserve batteries are the most likely to be most successful.'But if there is a battery breakthrough in the next five years, all bets are off. Then all the cool stuff can happen.'Tapping into successBorn1999Worldwide users11 million.Famous ownersPrincess Beatrice, David and Victoria Beckham, Bill Clinton, Tom Cruise, Madonna, Karl Rove.What they say'I mean it's the greatest. It's going to change your life. Love it, love it, love it, love it.' Oprah WinfreyUnusual useSupermodel Naomi Campbell was accused of beating her former assistant, Amanda Brack, with a BlackBerry in Brazil after a piece of luggage was left behind.What's in a name?BlackBerry was chosen after a six-month consultation with branding experts. 'It was love at first sight,' said Lazaridis.Not be confused withBlackberry crumble.Home of the BlackBerryResearch in Motion's headquarters is in Waterloo, Ontario, where tourist attractions include the Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics.Do sayWho needs an iPhone?Don't sayIt might be important, darling.
James Fallows moderates a discussion with Google co-founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page at a Google event, Zeitgeist '07.
Lexus GS 450H hybridPrice:&pound;41,275Miles per gallon:35.8Seats:7Good for:High dramasBad for:Low profilesThey used to take place late at night in the kitchen, one of you perhaps cradling a stone-cold cup of tea, the other neurotically wiping the surfaces. But now, according to research from BMW, couples don't have arguments at home. We have them in the car. Our lives are so hectic that the only time we can find for a good domestic is the two hours stuck on the M4 en route for Sunday lunch with the in-laws. BMW believes this is because we now see cars not so much as vehicles but as an extension of our homes - an extra room where you can't be interrupted, where you feel secure... and where no one can go stomping off to bed. It's all part of a psychological process called 'cocooning' or, more catchily, 'car-cooning'. The leathery, technical embrace of the car removes you from the chaos of daily life and gives you time to think and sing, and argue, in peace.If this is the case, the interior of the Lexus 450h is not so much a cocoon as a health spa, mountain retreat and duvet day all rolled into one. From the outside it's just another snooty transporter for men who see the world in terms of bottom lines and golf swings. It's understated and yet, on closer inspection, hugely imposing. Like a perfectly creased French cuff emerging from a tailored sleeve, its every detail hinting at a life less hassled.It's one of the most technically advanced cars ever to roll into town. From the keyless entry to the self-closing boot, and from the parking camera to the adaptive cruise control which automatically adjusts your speed, the 450h is a Solomon's mine of glittering gizmos. But the real fancy-pants stuff takes place beneath the bonnet. You see, the 450h isn't just a planet-stomping corporate hog, it's also in touch with its ethical side, courtesy of some very clever hybrid technology.For those not familiar with hybrid motoring, the idea is that the energy usually lost as heat when you brake is trapped, stored in large batteries and then used to power the car's electric engine. Only when more power is needed or the batteries are flat does the petrol engine seamlessly cut in. All hybrid cars therefore have two engines - which explains why they are more expensive, but not how they manage to squeeze both engines and a rack of large batteries into the space previously occupied by only one engine. The upshot, however, is massively increased fuel consumption and hugely decreased emissions, so much so that this two-tonne executive saloon is congestion-charge exempt in central London - which just seems plain unfair. Rarely, it seems, has so much effort been made to assuage the eco-conscience of the guilty motorist.One of the other, lesser, bonuses of the hybrid is its utter silence. Touch the start button, the dash lights up and... well, that's it. It makes no noise whatsoever. You simply glide off with nothing but the crunch of gravel to tell you that you are moving.And as most arguments seem to end in glowering silence, it seems appropriate that this car-coon shouldn't make a squeak.martin.love@observer.co.uk
London Games Festival & GameCityLondon, NottinghamThe 2007 London Games Festival starts on Monday, but, as the lowest profile event ever to shun publicity, you could be forgiven for mild surprise at that fact. Events include the spectacular Video Games Live (pictured) at the Royal Festival Hall, at which the Royal Philharmonic takes on tunes from Mario to Halo; the BAFTA videogame awards and Text 4 Treasure, an urban mobile phone-centric treasure hunt. It overlaps neatly with Nottingham's GameCity, which starts two days later and includes Who's Afraid Of Videogames, a discussion about censorship and public understanding of game content; a keynote speech from Tetris inventor Alexey Pajitnov and the world's first ever showing of the Wii's new Star Wars game, in which you're finally able to wield a light sabre with the Wii-remote - something many have spent unhealthy amounts of time thinking about since the very first moment they picked one up.&#183;Various venues, London, Mon 22 to Nov 4,londongamesfestival.com; Nottingham, Wed 24 to Oct 28,gamecity.orgSkateXbox 360, PS3Over the years, few games have had the temerity to challenge the iron might of the Tony Hawk's Pro Skater franchise, and none have even been a contender - until now. Electronic Arts' take on skateboarding is inspiringly different from the market leader, most dramatically in its controls, which puts ollies, flip tricks, spins, grabs and grinds at your disposal using just the two joysticks and triggers. Learning to time your shifts in body weight until the perfect moment to launch a trick makes for a palpably different, more visceral sensation compared with Tony Hawk's more conventional reliance on button combinations. Despite its superior physics and jaw-dropping video editing and screen-grabbing features, some of the challenges feel dull and repetitive, while others can be a downright trudge. It's still a great game, but one that may be even greater in its inevitable future iterations.&#183;Electronic Arts, &pound;50The Legend Of Zelda: Phantom HourglassNintendo DSPrincess Zelda (reincarnated in this game as a lady pirate called Tetra) is kidnapped by a ghost ship, catapulting Link into his accustomed miniature heroics. Taking its looks from Windwaker, Phantom Hourglass is a thoroughbred DS game, with all its controls implemented via stylus and touch screen. It's a joyously intuitive way to explore, fight beasts, solve puzzles and - new for this instalment - scribble handy notes on your map. Action takes place on islands and immaculately designed dungeons, broken up by sea voyages in a boat you're encouraged to upgrade. Charming visuals and music and myriad little diversions make this a magical, highly rewarding game.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;30
The TV LinksdisclaimerAccording to a report inThe Guardian: "A 26-year-old man from Cheltenham was arrested on Thursday in connection with offences relating to the facilitation of copyright infringement on the internet, Fact said."The arrest and the closure of the site - www.tv-links.co.uk - came during an operation by officers from Gloucestershire County Council trading standards in conjunction with investigators from Fact and Gloucestershire Police.Fact claims that tv-links.co.uk was providing links to illegal film content that had been camcorder recorded from cinemas and then uploaded to the internet. The site also provided links to TV shows that were being illegally distributed.It's a pity the Gloucestershire Police started with such small fry. There are a couple of multibillionaires called Larry Page and Sergey Brin -- the founders of Google -- who provide vast numbers of links to content that is being illegally distributed. Indeed, as everyone knows, they actuallyhostplenty of illegal content on their own video site, YouTube, which has a UK operation.Is the message that it's less criminal to host illegal content on YouTube than it is to to link to it from a site such as TV Links? Or is it just that FACT (Federation Against Copyright Theft) and the police won't tackle anybody with enough high-powered lawyers to fight back? IsThe New Freedom blogcorrect in saying: "They just have so much money that they have become above the law."Of course, there is a difference between building a site around links to content that could be presumed to lack copyright clearance and linking unintentionally from a site set up for a different purpose. However, I'm not a lawyer so I don't know how significant this is. (Is shoplifting OK if you have a proper job but criminal if you're unemployed and starving?)It will be interesting to see who FACT picks on next. There are plenty of newspaper journalists who nowadays, as part of their proper jobs, link to YouTube videos and other internet content. It would be amazing if every single bit of material -- some of it "repurposed" -- had full and correct copyright clearance.In future, do I risk being thrown in the slammer for linking directly to a YouTube video? What if I just say "go to Google and search for [YouTube xxx yyy]" or whatever? Oh dear, I forgot, Google's illegal so that will have to be closed down.Perhaps I am already breaking the law by linking to Google, YouTube, TV Links, Pirate Bay and other sites that link to illegal content because this must also count as contributing to "the facilitation of copyright infringement on the internet" -- and, by the way, I expectyouare breaking the law if you link to or even read this story.Indeed, iflinkingis illegal, we might as well shut down the Internet, because there is no practical way anybody can guarantee the legality of what's on the end of any link. Even if you could guarantee it at the time of linking, there's no guarantee it would still be legal less than a second later, or for the rest of time.Update: Amusing in context, see this earlier Guardian articleTV quick!, about sites that provide links to TV programmes.
MondayWikiGame Week 12: moving forwardNintendo joins blue chip giantsGames and robot sexTuesdayRider Spoke: Game meets bikes meets London city streetsHMV game zonesArt imitating game worldsGameCity: some highlightsWednesdayOrange Box of delightsGameTribe: MMOs for all?ThursdayParents sexist when it comes to gamesGame City tackles Columbine controversyGameCity organiser speaksUnbearable cuteness of mobile gamesFridayThe Church's paradoxical messageAssassin's Creed interview
Things are a lot more relaxed at the final day of theWeb 2.0 Summit, the high level pow-wow of internet types and money in San Francisco, and the audience is a little thinner.That might be because today is pretty eclectic; bio-tech, mapping, internet video and a dash of Google. I'm only going to be around for part of it, but we're starting off with J Craig Venter, the bio-engineer . Guardian fans might have heard a lot from Craig recently - we had along interviewwith him, someexcerptsfrom hisnew book, and the Science Weekly podcast has aseriesof audiointerviews: definitely worth listening to. Anyway, Craig's on stage with Tim O'Reilly; let's get to it.What's the impact on you of knowing your genome? "It affects some of your thinking in terms of what there's a likelihood of happening - without having the entire genetic code, you really can't know what's at risk. People today are operating with a quarter to a third of the information, so we need to rethink the way we look at it. I have some genes associated with cardiovascular disease and some associated with longevity. Some people wish it had changed my behaviour, but not really. There is now a beginning of preventative medicine - we like to pay for disasters, we don't like to pay to prevent them.""There are new scientific developments every day related to genetics: I immediately go on the web and look at my genome. It's fascinating to do that. Some of the traits are pretty bizarre, and there's going to be a challenge with the non-scientific public interpreting that information."How much does it cost to sequence your genome? "Mine probably cost in the order of $70m. The last few base pairs cost a tiny fraction of the cost of the first two. Right now we think we can do a genome for around $300,000, but in one to two years we'll be down to $100,000 or below."What does he think of the startups in this space, like23andMe? "The consumer revolution needs to be thought out a bit more carefully. At the end of 2001 the assumption was that we all had the same genes with tiny variations, but now we know it's much more complex. Some companies are using just a fraction of the code, and that could be misleading."What about not just reading the genome, but writing it? "I've been trying to digitise biology; now, with synthetic genomics we can remake genetic code in the form of DNA. We're learning how to write the genetic code, how to design life.""We're currently weeks to months away from being able to synthesise bacteria."He says that he's looking bio-engineer fuel, but that ethanol is now off the list. "It's good for drinking, but if you were designing a fuel from scratch, it wouldn't be ethanol.""Within this century, people will sit down at computers and design new plants to live in specific conditions in specific places. We have to take the question of intent seriously, but at the moment there aren't many people with this ability. I think bio-hacking, where kids can make diseases, is a little dangerous. We're recommending that all the companies that create pieces of DNA have to have their requests screened."
Google's money-making juggernaut rolled on as the world's top internet search company produced a 46% leap in profits to $1.07bn during the third quarter of the year. The Silicon Valley behemoth enjoyed growth in the popularity of tailor-made Google personal homepages. It reaped the benefit of improved mobile phone searches and broader use of its on-line document-sharing applications.As its shares rose $6.14 to a new high of $639.62, Google said its revenue had jumped by 57% to $4.23bn fuelled by a 45% surge in so-called "paid clicks" - the number of times users alighted on advertising links."Search quality improvements are paying off, especially internationally, where we're doing better and better in each country," said chief executive Eric Schmidt on a conference call.He added that the usual summer seasonal lull in traffic on Google's site had been milder than expected: "We were very pleasantly surprised."The figures, which were at the top end of analysts' expectations, came out amid renewed controversy over unauthorised material on YouTube, the video-sharing site bought by Google for $1.65bn last year. Nine leading media companies including Microsoft, Disney, Viacom and rival video-sharing sites Dailymotion and Veoh announced a pact to crack down on proprietary movies, television clips and music posted on the internet without permission.The companies will use hi-tech software to identify copyrighted material, and they will exchange information about the identity of people who post pirate content.Google has declined to join, maintaining that such industry-wide agreements are likely to be overtaken by technological innovation.
That's Gutsy Gibbon, akaUbuntu 7.10, and I'm not saying that it beats Apple's next version of OS X, aka Leopard, but as I'm writing this post, Leopard is still seven days away. I've only got two hours left on installing Ubuntu 7.10 on my old first gen PowerBook. Now, I won't claim to be a Linux power user. Hardly. My main machine is the last generation iBook before Apple switched to Intel. I also have an old, P-III Dell. That's dual-booted with Windows XP and Ubuntu.I have played with Unix for years, trying all kinds of distros from Mandrake, Yellow Dog, PPC Linux, SUSE and some older distros that run on old 68K Macs. I have an old Mac SE/30 that I absolutely love and still enjoy using for writing projects.In the past, I have tried Linux and then usually given up because I just don't have the time. I know that most Linux users will call me lazy, but Linux does take an investment from the user, an investment that most people, including me, won't make. But after a lot of buzz, I decided to give Ubuntu a spin. The live CD won me over. I was able to use it on my Dell and an old IBM ThinkPad work machine. I was impressed that it worked with both laptops. One of my gripes with Linux was it seemed like a return of the bad old days of Windows with insufficient driver support, and again, I'm not really hardcore enough to compile my own drivers.But Ubuntu just worked. The install, disk partitioning and boot manager were straight forward. The package and update managers handle all of the dependencies, which stymied me when I first tried Linux. My Unix knowledge was confined to the basics from back in the day when I had to know Unix to use the internet and when I built news websites.But I'm pretty agnostic when it comes to operating systems. OS X really does combine the power of Unix with the ease of use of Apple systems, but it is not without its irritations. I actually find Windows file manager better to use than Apple's. Linux, especially with distros like Ubuntu, has come a long way in terms of usability for mere mortals. It still is work, but not as much as it used to be. It initially took me 20 minutes to get the codecs to play DVDs. My better half made fun of me for weeks on that count. I have been disappointed for PowerPC support for Linux. I finally had to use the simplerXubuntubecause Gnome and KDE were slower and less stable than OS X on my old PowerBook.As I said, I'm pretty agnostic when it comes to operating systems. I like to play with things, more than the average person, but a lot less than the average Linux enthusiast. I use computers to do things, and most of the things I know about computers come from the computers not doing what I wanted them to. Most people give up. I'm a bit more stubborn than most people, and I'm a bit geekier. I think Neal Stephenson summed it up best in his extended essay,In the beginning was the command line:It simply is the case that we are way too busy, nowadays, to comprehend everything in detail. And it's better to comprehend it dimly, through an interface, than not at all.He makes a helluva lot of other points, which are worth reading, and free. I've still got an hour left on this install. Will Linux ever reach that point where the interface catches up with Microsoft and Apple? Do Linux programmers actually care? If you don't use Linux, what would it take for you give it a go?technorati tags startTechnorati Tags:Linux,operating systems,Ubuntutechnorati tags end
What's your favourite piece of technology and why?My BlackBerry Edge. I like that it's got this thing called BlackBerry Chat – it's like MSN – you can just talk with your friends for free and send "voice notes", which can turn out some very funny situations.Is it good for your art?Yeah, I get emails from my manager about stuff. But it's not imperative to my art.When was the last time you used it, and what for?About two minutes ago, to check an email from my manager: just to say I'd been added on the playlist at Capital.What additional features would you add if you could?It would be amazing if you could watch videos and stuff on it. You can open attachments, but if you could do it like you can on a computer that would be brilliant – open music files and stuff. I'd like to see my new video for the songRock'n'Rollat the moment – it's supposed to be in today.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years time?I don't know. You never know with technology nowadays. I've only had mine for a couple of months and I'm not bored of it yet: I wish I was because it's quite unsociable. I should really put it away more.What one tip would you give to non-BlackBerry users?Keep it that way. Before I had one I hated all my friends who had one – Crackberries. But now I have one I can't get enough of it.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm quite a nerd. I'm well into gadgets and gizmos.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Probably my Bose sound system at home – it's linked up to my TV, radio, gaming, iPod and surround sound. It was about £2,000.Mac or PC?Mac. When I first got into music I wanted to explore writing my own using Logic or something, and it's just easier on the Mac with all the shortcuts and stuff. Plus they are better looking.What song is at the top of your iPod's Top 25 Most Played?Er, probably Bucket by Kings of Leon.Will robots rule the world?I don't think so because you have to program them, but I am quite scared about the future. It'll get to a point that everything is so virtual that you don't have to do anything.What piece of technology would you most like to own?In the film Clueless, Cher Horowitz had a computerised wardrobe: I'd quite like that.Remi Nicole's single, Rock'n'Roll, is released on November 12 and the album,My Conscience and I, on November 19.
Twine screen shot from Read/Write WebToday, at the Web 2.0 Summit, Radar Networks is announcing an invitation-only beta test of its new "semantic web" application,Twine. The press release says:Twine provides a smarter way for people to leverage and contribute to the combined brainpower of their relationships. "We call this 'knowledge networking,'" said Radar Networks Founder and CEO Nova Spivack. "It's the next evolution of collective intelligence on the Web. Unlike social networking and community tools, Twine is not just about who you know, it's about what you know. Twine is the ultimate tool for gathering and sharing knowledge on the Web."It's being touted as aThe Start of Web 3.0which is almost annoying enough to make me ignore it. However, Richard MacManus atRead/Write Websays "while the app isn't ready yet for the public, I was impressed with what I saw in Nova's demo." He says:The aim of Twine is to enable people to share knowledge and information. At first glance it is very much like Wikipedia, but there is a whole lot more smarts to the system. Spivack described it to me as "knowledge networking" -- ie it aims to connect people with each "for a purpose". It's not based around socializing, but to share and organize information you're interested in. Using Twine, you can add content via wiki functionality (there are many post types), you can email content into the system, and "collect" something (as an object, eg a book object).Again, it's an area where there's plenty of experimentation with little in the way of results, in terms of doing something useful for a large number of people. Whether Twine can do it is anyone's guess. However, if I was my money, I'd be thinking in terms of extending Facebook or, for the corporate market, building on top of Microsoft SharePoint.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
In a discussion on the Guardian blog earlier this week, I floated the idea - well, meme says it better, with its implication of popularity mixed with unprovability - thatPorsche might be the most "environmental" carbecause, it's claimed, more than half of those built are still on the roads. That means that the energy and materials put into building them haven't been dissipated in some scrapyard, but are still beingamortised, little by little.The same doesn't generally apply to computers, though. We buy them, keep them a few years and then replace them with a shinier model. It doesn't matter whether you keep the old one around or dump it, you're still using up non-renewable resources - the energy used to extract the minerals, and the minerals themselves.The pressure group Greenpeace has done a little to make consumers and manufacturers more aware of the effects of this merry-go-round, although I must say that its efforts on the computing front have lacked the rigour that one hopes for in other areas. When it launched itscomparison on the "greenness" of competing PC and mobile phone makers, it had to admit that the "audit" relied on companies' claims - not what they actually do. This meant that a company only had to announce that it would in future recycle everything to leap up the scale.Similarly, Greenpeace has taken aim at the iPhone, but asTony Smith pointed out at The Register, had to sheepishly admit that the device does actually comply with European hazardous substances rules and Apple's pledge on reducing use of certain substances. (One of them is phthalates, a substance found in babies' toys, which I found myself writing about endlessly in the 1990s as a debate ping-ponged between manufacturers, the European Commission and green pressure groups over bizarre questions such as how manyminutesa child might suck a rubber duck for. I kid you not.)As Smith says, what's missing from the Greenpeace grumbling is "a document that, rather than whining about one vendor not moving as quickly on this issue as Greenpeace and others would like, shows consumers which handsets on the market contain the least quantities of hazardous chemicals".Still, some people are trying to move in an ecological direction all on their own. Recently I met Xavier Petre, a founder and the chief executive ofUnited Pepper, a startup which is aiming to make the computing industry more green, one peripheral at a time. He's beginning with webcams (called "Lili") and USB hubs ("Oscar"): the green aspect is that their coverings and as much as possible of their bodies and contents will be made ofkapok fibreand organic cotton, made by people on a FairTrade scheme. For the future, he hopes to introduce a mouse and a card reader made on similar lines.They're attractive designs which emphasise their organic origins: these look like living objects on your desk, rather than boxes to be stacked. (The webcam's arms can be bent to grab a screen's top, for example.)I know, I know - you're thinking that those are never going to solve our problems. Except that an approach like this is the sort of small-scale, ground-up one that can yield benefits."It's easier for rivals to use [oil to make] plastic than kapok," Petre acknowledges. "But when you get the product into the shops, there's barely any price difference between theirs and ours. Sure, webcams are commoditised; but we're adding functionality."He wants to use aluminium recycled from used cola cans for some of the frames (though that's proven difficult: "They don't say yes or no," he says in frustration). And getting factories to produce in the comparatively small quantities he's ordering (or, alternatively, finding wholesalers willing to make large enough orders to sustain a big factory contract) is also difficult.But isn't the problem, I asked, that consumers are at heart selfish? Porsche owners don't buy them because they're "green"; they like the marque and the speed. We don't care about recycling our computers. Why would lots of people buy green webcams?"Everybody is responsible for something," was Petre's reply. "When you buy a cheap T-shirt, you have to take responsibility for what you're buying, for how it was made when you put your money on the counter."It's a laudable aim. Oscar and Lili should be coming to shops near you soon. Some revolutions start small. And the good thing about webcams and USB hubs is that they hardly ever get thrown away. In computing terms, they're Methuselah. And if we're going to stay on this planet in any comfort for any length of time, that's going to be increasingly important.
TheNYTreports that Churches are using the latest videogames to encourage a hard-to-reach demographic into the fold. Controversially, the game some of them use is the violent and 18+ game, Halo 3. The question, the article asks, is how far the Church should go in recruiting young people. The question I ask is, at the time when the industry is trying its darndest to educate parents and carers about he age ratings system, what kinds of mixed-messages are they sending out?Those buying it must be 17 years old, given it is rated M for mature audiences. But that has not prevented leaders at churches and youth centers across Protestant denominations, including evangelical churches that have cautioned against violent entertainment, from holding heavily attended Halo nights and stocking their centers with multiple game consoles so dozens of teenagers can flock around big-screen televisions and shoot it out....Witness the basement on a recent Sunday at the Colorado Community Church in the Englewood area of Denver, where Tim Foster, 12, and Chris Graham, 14, sat in front of three TVs, locked in violent virtual combat as they navigated on-screen characters through lethal gun bursts. Tim explained the game's allure: "It's just fun blowing people up."The violence issue is almost a moot point;recent controversy in this country aside, the Church's history is bloody. But the attitudes of the pastors are a bit irksome:John Robison, the current associate pastor at the 300-member Albuquerque church, said parents approached him and were concerned about the Halo games' M rating. "We explain we're using it as a tool to be relatable and relevant," he said, "and most people get over it pretty quick."Sure, it's every adult's decision to purchase an M game for their kids, but when a moral authority like the church does it, it undermines the work which the games industry's been toiling over since the age ratings were put into place - and any argument which the industry has when more serious allegations arise.Halo 3 has a 12+ PEGI rating in Europe
Perhaps the dark horse of this year's pre-Christmas blockbusters, if only for the medieval setting and lack of big guns,Assassin's Creedis an action adventure set in the 12th Century. Containing elements of stealth, platforming and action and seemingly inspired by Verve'sBittersweet Symphony video- where Richard Ashcroft barges through some punters on the pavement - AC is more ambitious than the average gaming biggie. I've played a small part of the game and found the controls "interesting" - ie not exactly intuitive - and this was one of the topics I recently discussed with the creative director Patrice Desilets.The historical setting makes AC look very different to most videogames. Was this a conscious decision to try and do something different?I think it's safe to say that the Crusades are an area we've wanted to explore for a long time, but we've been waiting for technology to reach a point where we can do it justice. It's not enough for us to simply set the game here - we needed to capture the experience of living during this tumultuous time: The fusion of European and Middle Eastern art and architecture. The hustle and bustle of medieval city life. The intrigue and political machinations of regional leaders. The gritty nature of ancient combat. The air of mystery that surrounds the secret societies that rose to power around this time.We also choose this setting to keep a strong focus on the crowd. The team decided to focus on crowd and freedom of movement to deliver new emergent types of gameplay. The Crowd has been designed as a living &amp; breathing obstacle that you can influence though your second to second actions as well as through longer term strategies. Basically we want to provide gamers with a level of immersion that was not possible on previous consoles. What better setting for interesting crowd gameplay then narrow medieval streets filled with merchants, nights, public hangings and all of the street life from this gruesome time?We also think gamers want more then another Hallo or GTA clone. Maybe there is room for games to bring to life the kinds of settings that movies have made so memorable. Movies like Braveheart or Kingdom of Heaven both share this epic feeling we try to achieve in Assassin's Creed.What are the main influences - both gaming and non-gaming - when making AC?It may look quite strange but I would say there's a direct connection between our inspiration for the story and the setting and the game mechanics. A book called Alamut was an influence. Though this book is a fictional work, it's based on the Historical Clan of Assassins and it prompted the team who were passing the book around to do further research about the Assassins and their time period - the 3rd Crusade. The more we discovered about these people, the more we wanted to make a game about them. Even the Assassin's Creed "Nothing is True, Everything is permitted" fits the game medium perfectly and eventually became the game's title as well as inspiration for a new type of gameplay. Is there a better setting for crowd gameplay that narrow streets from the epic time of the Crusade?You can apply the creed to the game itself - traditional game design rules that enforce linear level design and restricted gameplay are thrown away. The player is given the freedom to experience this adventure in a manner that fits their individual play style.The game also takes its influences from modern elements like parkour running/jumping. We all think that the sport of free-running is incredibly cool and wish we could do it in real life so it seemed like a logical thing to try to deliver in our game. The idea of climbing anywhere happens to suit our master Assassin well and it turns out that having this ability in narrow medieval streets filled with large stone buildings and gothic details creates great gameplay too. Mixing modern free-running with a crusade setting ended up working so well for us that we extended this approach throughout development into a bunch of different aspects of the game including the story and art direction.You seem to be taking a number of elements in the game - platform, stealth, RPG etc. What are the main gameplay features?Our goal with Assassin's Creed was to use the new tech to deliver new types of gameplay and a more relevant experience. We have created a unique gaming experience that we call a "Flower Box" game. It's a sandbox experience that is heavily story driven. The player has the freedom to complete missions when they want and using that strategy that they find the most satisfying but all of these missions are tightly woven into an intricate story and are essential to the big reveal at the end.Not only you'll be to able to travel freely from on city to another but we are also trying to do something a little different that was not possible before. We focused on building a character that can do over 1000 contextual moves, and paired this new freedom of movement with a highly interactive environment and crowd lets players develop their own style. Any architectural detail that sticks out more then 2 inches can be used as a hold for your hands or feet. Not only can you create your own path on the rooftops you can also create your own flashy or subtle style for doing so or skip the roofs entirely and use a strategy through the crowd. Place a highly mobile and skilled Assassin in a fully interactive living environment and the possibilities are endless.So basically the pace of the game really depends on how you play it. For instance in Assassin's Creed there aren't any "fighting" or "platforming" sections. All the gameplay elements are embedded together. Gamers will be able to use any gameplay ingredients such as free running, crowd gameplay etc to create their own experience.Some people think it's slow paced because they think Assassin's Creed is a stealth game. It's true that we have a feature called social stealth. This is a rule that says that you are hidden as long as you are behaving in a socially acceptable way. But this rule results in a much more fast paced type of gameplay than traditional stealth. We wanted a more action packed type of stealth and one that really takes advantage of all of the work we have put into the crowd simulation. Instead of using the hidden in shadow rule we used the rules of everyday life. You are hidden when you are behaving in a socially accepted way. Think about walking around in a crowded city like New York or at a crowded concert. In crowded circumstances it is very easy to go unseen by simply obeying rules that everyone knows: follow the crowd flow, walk at the right pace, don't aggressively shove people out of the way to make room for yourself, don't start yelling at the top of your lungs, etc. We have put these everyday social rules into the game. Which means that our rules are intuitive and also a lot of fun to break because you don't get to go around shoving people and causing commotions in everyday life.How important is the horseback action to the game? Is it just a mode of transport?It's more than just that. You can ride your horse at multiple speeds from a very slow walk that allows you to sneak past guards without attracting their attention to a very fast gallop that will leave all of your enemies in the dust. Besides riding around, you can also attack enemies on horseback with your sword, you can use your horse to reach higher locations by standing on it to jump onto near by objects, you can make your horse jump over obstacles and even ride it on top of rooftops and jump from roof to roof. Your horse will follow you around if you get off of it. Which I think is cool because it kind of makes it feel like he's your pet. And your horse may even rear and kick enemies if he gets agitated.How difficult is it to get convincing crowd AI?The crowd and the AI systems have always been a core component of the gameplay. To say that this had a huge impact on the team is an understatement: we've put a massive amount of engineering effort in realizing an AI system that makes a large medieval town come alive. We're aggressively using technologies and strategies that are truly pushing the limits of what next-gen consoles can deliver.Most of the development effort has gone into making crowd gameplay. This means that the crowd is more then just window dressing that walks around in a believable simulation of everyday life, each civilian is a gameplay component that can either help or hinder the player's progress.In order to create a crowd that the player can use as a strategic advantage we had to build a layered system. This crowd system has 4 layers in total. The lowest level handles the individual needs of the population and creates believable street life when the player does nothing, the highest overarching layer manages the crowd's global Alert State, dictating the amount of crowd panic and triggering specific military tactics. In between that there is a whole lot of code to handle crowd allegiance so that the townspeople's attitude towards you evolves based on the actions you have taken.It is quite complicated when you dissect the system in technical terms but to a player the system will be very intuitive because the rules are based on everyday life. If you do things that are socially acceptable you are anonymous and therefore hidden, if however you start behaving in an abnormal way climbing walls in broad daylight or pushing people around you are likely to attract the attention of the crowd and they may then alert the guards or your target.The controls are crucial in a game like this but my initial play suggested they take some getting used to. Is this a concern of yours?Altair has over 1000 different contextual moves. Obviously finding a way to map that on to a controller is a challenge. We did not want to confuse people with a million combos to memorize so we had to take a different approach to controls. We were inspired by a pupeteering concept. A triangle is mapped to your character's head, square to your character's weapon hand, circle is mapped to your free hand and X is mapped to your feet. Each body part then reacts contextually to the situation you are in. If you are in a fight context and you press free hand it will allow you to grab and throw an opponent, if you are in a crowd situation free hand will allow you to push the people out of the way. It's a new concept so it takes a bit of time to get used to but once you get it the controls are intuitive.How do balance the desires of players who want to run through hack and slashing and those who want to stealthily explore the rooftops?We don't try and balance desires - you get to do it the way you want! There are some missions that will be easier to accomplish if you use the rules of social stealth and blend with the crowd while others favour an all out aggressive attack, but every missions has tons of possibilities available. We want players to experiment with the rules and their abilities and come up with their own Assassin style.Is there online play? If not, what were the main reasons in avoiding it?There is no online gameplay because our plate was already plenty full. With Assassins we wanted to fully leverage all that the new consoles have to offer so we developed a brand new engine and tools. It's our own proprietary tech that allows us to have over 150 individual AIs running at a single time and huge cities where everything is interactive and climbable. Add that to the fact that our mandate was to come up with a new IP that redefines the action adventure genre and you can see that we had our work cut out for us. We chose to focus on delivering a truly fresh single player experience.The Wii has blown the games market wide open. How much impact does the growth in casual gaming have on your creative process with AC?The Wii is all about casual games. In terms of processing power and graphics capabilities the Wii is roughly equivalent to the PS2 and the first Xbox. On the team and at Ubisoft in general, we are big fans of the Nintendo approach. I like the controller and the fact that the Wii is bringing a new audience to games but Assassin's creed would never run on the Wii hardware. There's a big audience that's looking for immersive gameplay and a cinematic entertainment experience with graphics that rival the best CG. It would be sad for everyone to jump on the casual games band wagon now because I think that we are very close to delivering the best of both worlds. A game with the very best production values that's accessible enough for the mass market.
A coalition of nine of the world's leading media companies has struck a cooperation pact aimed at cracking down on people who infringe copyright on the internet, but Google is conspicuously absent.Microsoft, Walt Disney, Viacom and Rupert Murdoch's Fox Networks have pledged to use hi-tech filtering software to block uploads of any movies, television clips and music which are restricted by copyright. The popular video-sharing websites Dailymotion and Veoh are signatories, as are MySpace, CBS and NBC. All have agreed that to keep personal details for 60 days of everyone uploading content to their sites.But Google, the owner of the world's biggest video sharing website YouTube, is absent. So are a handful of other major players including Time Warner.Television companies in particular, including the BBC, have waged a long battle to prevent clips from popular shows such as 24, The Daily Show and Top Gear from appearing free of charge online.Philippe Dauman, president of Viacom which owns channels such as MTV and Nickelodeon, said: "We are delighted that so many leading companies have come together behind a set of principles that provide a framework for intellectual property to live in harmony with technical advances."Several of the participants, including Viacom, have sued Google over unauthorised clips on YouTube. Google executives have argued privately that technological innovation to identify problem clips is a better long-term solution than industry-wide agreements.Under the pact, participants have agreed that as long as members follow all the guidelines, they will not hold each other responsible when copyright infringements occur.
How does Rupert Murdoch feel about the idea that Facebook, the fast-growing social networking site founded by 23-year-old Mark Zuckerberg, might be worth $10bn (&pound;5bn) or more?The answer seems to be both pleased and grumpy: as he sat on a sofa at the Web 2.0 Summit in San Francisco with Chris DeWolfe, the founder of the rival site MySpace - which Mr Murdoch's News Corporation bought two years ago for $536m - he swerved away from the question of whether Facebook, with  47 million users, was overvalued, or what MySpace, with 110 million users, is worth. "I would say we're different [to Facebook] and in spite of all the hype we seem to be growing faster," Mr Murdoch said. The rival's valuation? "What it really does is it tells you that News Corp is totally underpriced," Mr Murdoch shot back.The question, though, is how any of these sites can be worth such large sums. Facebook is expected this year to bring in just $150m of revenues through adverts and extras - about $3 per user per year, or less than 3 pence per week.The vast valuation of Facebook has emerged from the talks that the company is holding with Microsoft and Google, as well as venture capitalists. Two options are on the table: $300m to $500m-plus for a 5% stake - enough money to keep Facebook going until a stock market flotation. The other offer is believed to be a lucrative one in which Microsoft or Google would provide the ads for Facebook's users outside the US.Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, was asked about the talks when he was discussing Microsoft's possible future acquisitions at the conference yesterday, but he remained coy."There aren't many things in the $6bn to $15bn price range - you're talking about a handful of companies," he said. "We've got a great partnership with Facebook on the advertising side, and we'll see where it takes us."As for Mr Zuckerberg, he thinks the social networks business is still in its infancy. "We're talking about the set of connections that everyone has in real life," he told the conference. "All we're trying to do is take those connections and map it out. Once we have an accurate model, we can help people to share their information more effectively. But it's going to take 30 years  before this becomes a really mature platform."Mr Zuckerberg's dilemma is that to reach the finishing line of the flotation, he needs more cash - but does not want to give anything  valuable to rivals. That is not the shareholding; it is knowing which adverts the users of Facebook will respond to. That is where the real value in social networks resides: knowing what like-minded people want to buy.Inflated valuations do not pay the bills for Facebook's multiplying number of computer servers and bandwidth required to run a state-of-the-art service, or the burgeoning number (300+) of staff.For all the big "social networking" names - MySpace, Facebook, Bebo, LinkedIn - the only way to make money is through advertising. Microsoft already controls Facebook's banner ads inventory in the US, which is reckoned to net about half of the $150m (&pound;75m) revenues the site should garner this year. It is thought Mr Ballmer has already offered either to take a stake, or the ad deal.Asked whether he was happy with the Microsoft deal, which lasts until 2009, Mr Zuckerberg said that Facebook and Microsoft were "both pretty pleased" with the situation - but refused to comment on other potential investments.That may be significant, for the future of making money from social networks is reckoned to lie in having the best advertising network (or platform): being able to thrust carefully targeted pieces of text, pictures or even video in front of people's eyes. The more adverts you serve across many networks, the better you know which ones work. If Microsoft gets to find out what Facebook's users like - even anonymously - it will gather a body of data that will be unrivalled. In August 2006, Google signed a deal in which it will pay News Corporation $900m in stages until 2010 to be the exclusive provider of ads and search for MySpace and other Fox sites.The danger though is that it could leave the big sites with nothing more than a huge herd of users to look after, while the companies that once positioned the adverts on them become more powerful.Writing on the Valleywag blog - which monitors the movements of Silicon Valley - Owen Thomas, its managing editor, said the big players wanted to learn from Facebook. "They can take their learnings and run the results across their entire ad networks, improving their targeting. And they'll build relationships with large advertisers. The long-term benefits will accrue to Facebook's new minority investor. And Facebook? Once the deals expire, it will have to start from scratch." In a world where the most powerful - like Mr Murdoch - started building their bases early, that would be a disastrous end.
The chief executive of eBay has admitted her disappointment at the way the company handled the purchase of Skype, the online telephony service it bought two years ago.After failing to achieve its targets, the internet auction giant revalued its $4bn takeover of Skype earlier this month. The London-based company - which allows people to make free telephone calls over the internet – had its price written down by $1.4bn, leading chief executive Meg Whitman to say yesterday that the handling of the buyout had been a "mistake"."Obviously we're disappointed by the writedown, but the price of inaction is far greater than the cost of making a mistake," Ms Whitman told a conference in San Francisco. "Skype has huge potential."Ms Whitman said that in retrospect some of the criteria given to Skype founders Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friss had not been in the best interests of the young business."The earnout created certain incentives that weren't necessarily bad," she told an audience at the Web 2.0 Summit, which is being held in San Francisco this week. "But what we needed to do was take some of the pressure off and not worry so much about revenues and operating margins. We want to continue to grow this very interesting company without the negatives or the incentives that weren't dead on with our strategy."Skype's founders caused a stir this month when they announced that they were stepping down from the company, netting themselves $530m in the process. The writedown drastically affected eBay's quarterly results, announced earlier this week, which saw the company post a net loss of $936m for the third quarter of 2007, compared to a profit of $281m in the same quarter of 2006.Ms Whitman confirmed that she was closing in on a successor to Mr Zennstrom, who had been the company's chief executive."There's been tremendous interest, particularly in Europe where Skype is a household name, so we're looking at internal candidates and external ones," she said.After the announcement of the falling profit, analysts suggested that eBay may be in trouble thanks to a slowdown in the growth of its basic online auctions and sales."We think eBay is facing a worst-case scenario in its business," said Deutsche Bank analyst Jeetil Patel. "We think that eBay's core business is deteriorating to the point of pressuring volumes due to higher ad costs, less user loyalty – which in turn could affect revenue and profit growth beginning in the next several quarters."But Ms Whitman rejected such criticism, saying that the company remained and was committed to improving its auction and sales services and generating greater profits."More than $50bn of goods were sold on eBay last year. If we were a retailer - which we're not – that would make us one of the top five or six in in the world. But as your core business begins to slow down, you go right back to where you started, which is customers. We have made more changes to the site in the last three or six months than we have in the last three years."She hinted that the company might begin to make use of its other areas of expertise – such as fraud prevention - by selling its services to other internet companies."We've developed expertise over the years in spotting fraudulent activity," she said. "We have well over 2,000 people in customer service who are focused on that, we have tremendous fraud modelling, and now we are able better than ever to catch fraud listings. There's actually quite a bit of industry co-operation on this and there could be more. You have to stay ahead of the curve."
Microsoft's chief executive Steve Ballmer today confirmed that the software giant remains on the lookout for big money acquisitions, but refused to confirm whether he was preparing to take a share of popular social networking site Facebook.Asked whether was still in an acquisitive mood after a string of high-profile investments, Mr Ballmer said that the Seattle-based software company would be likely to buy many smaller technology firms over the coming months."We'll probably buy 20 companies a year for the next four or five years," he told an audience at the Web 2.0 Summit in San Francisco. "Most them will be footnotes – we're talking about acquisitions of $50m, $100m, $200m. Those are good acquisitions that are important to us and of strategic value."When questioned about rumours that he is lining up a potential $500m investment in Facebook which would value the social networking site at around $15bn, however, Mr Ballmer remained tight-lipped."There aren't many things in the $6bn to $15bn price range – you're talking about a handful of companies," he said. "We've got a great partnership with Facebook on the advertising side, and we'll see where it takes us."Microsoft recently spent $6bn on buying aQuantive, an internet advertising network, as it attempts to catch up with Google by cashing in on the lucrative online ad market. Mr Ballmer said that he believed there was still a long way to go, and that the market still had a lot of room for competition."Most of what goes on today in syndication is done in simple text advertising that's sold by auction. If in future it's sold in video and pictures as well as text, it's got to evolve.""You've got to have a very strong advertising platform that delivers all payloads to all media with all business models: deliver to TVs, PCs, phones, and you want to be able to sell demographics and behaviour. I think the syndication business will get redefined over the next five years – it's a fairly narrow business at the moment, and I think it's going to change."Mr Ballmer - a famously energetic and frenetic speaker - said he remained optimistic that Microsoft could compete with Google in the online advertising market, comparing his company's efforts to a child playing basketball."I would say 'hey, you're just three years old and we've got you in there playing basketball with the 12-year-olds," he said. "You're growing up quick and you're getting better by the day. You might not be able to dunk right now, but when you're six, seven or eight, you're going to dunk – and you're going to dunk on the other guy so big."
The internet, the first time around, was wonderful for Dixons. It invented Freeserve and had the sense to sell it quickly, obliging somebody else to work out how to make a profit from a business which gave away its service for free.Web 2.0 is another matter. Dixons has become DSG International and its customers are now educated in the ways of the net. If they want advice, there are still shops with flesh-and-blood sales people. But when it comes to buying gadgets, the first stop is too often a price-comparison website. Stores are becoming collection points, which is not what DSG had in mind when it agreed prime-site rents.Price deflation - which has always been the unhappy lot of electrical retailers - is now vicious. The boffins at the Office for National Statistics yesterday said prices of electrical goods are falling at the fastest rate since they started to keep records.DSG's share price is going the same way. Yesterday's near-9% fall took the shares to their lowest point for four years, and an exit from the FTSE 100 index looms. Go further back, and DSG is also priced at 1999 levels, before the great Freeserve lift-off. It's starting to look serious.The company did its best to sound cheerful yesterday. Like-for-like sales rose 5% in the past 24 weeks as flat-panel TVs continued to sell well. But price pressures were reflected in a 0.6% fall in gross margins, not helped by the fact that the PC World chain found itself with too many laptops and those same TVs were priced at 30% less than last year. Meanwhile, the Italian adventure goes from bad to grim: like-for-like sales there have been falling by more than 10% in recent weeks.A new chief executive, John Browett, arrives from Tesco in December and will find spirits low among DSG's fans. Nick Bubb, analyst at Pali, has kept faith longer than most, but cut his recommendation on the shares from "buy" to "hold" yesterday. Hopes for a 5% increase in the dividend have vanished, he thinks. Others think next year's battle is simply to avoid a cut in the payment to shareholders; if you think the fight can be won, your reward will be a yield of 7%.Catastrophe for DSG has been predicted many times in the past and Lord Kalms, the former chairman, used to reply that it was a question of waiting for the next big thing. Usually something did turn up - VCRs, Walkmans, computer games, wide-screen tellies - and the stores were invigorated.The difference this time is that new gadgets are arriving faster than ever - the latest iPods, sat-navs, high-definition sets - but profits have stalled. High-street retailers are being squeezed by the changing nature of distribution.DSG has embraced internet selling as fast as anybody; it has also showed imagination with the launch of Tech Guys, advisers on your wired woes. But the pace of change isn't slowing, and DSG is struggling to keep up.It looks to be one bad Christmas away from a crisis.The Ashley factorMike Ashley should give up the business of flogging sports kit; he's too good a fund manager. Just three days after Sports Direct, Ashley's operation, lifted its stake in Umbro to 15%, a bidder has appeared sending the shares some 27% higher.Not just any bidder, either. Nike has Umbro in its sights, and clearly thinks the little matter of England's likely failure to qualify for the Euro 2008 football championship is no impediment to long-term glory.Buy at the moment of maximum uncertainty, they say, and Nike seems keen. Talks are at an advanced stage, and Umbro, after 80 years as a stolid British brand, may soon be injected with American pizzazz.Sports Direct's likely windfall is a cue to examine its other share purchases. We know about the stakes in Amer, a Finnish skiing equipment business, and Adidas. Those were valued at &pound;82m and &pound;180m respectively at the end of July.But look at this statistic, courtesy of Philip Dorgan at brokers Panmure Gordon: Sports Direct's share buy-back programme has now reached 98.9m shares at an average price of 138p each, including 12.9m this week.The analyst calls it "an unparalleled spending spree for a company whose profit and loss account is under such severe pressure." Indeed so. Dorgan reckons the group has taken on debt of around &pound;650m, which is quite something for a company with little freehold property and a market capitalisation of just &pound;970m.But another effect of the buy-back is fascinating. Ashley's personal holding is now 66.1%, up from 57% at flotation. You might say he's already one-fifth of the way towards taking the company private again.nils.pratley@guardian.co.uk
The chief executive of eBay has admitted her disappointment at the way the company handled the purchase of Skype, the online telephony service it bought two years ago.After failing to achieve its targets, the internet auction giant revalued its $4bn takeover of Skype earlier this month. The London-based company - which allows people to make free telephone calls over the internet – had its price written down by $1.4bn, leading chief executive Meg Whitman to say yesterday that the handling of the buyout had been a "mistake"."Obviously we're disappointed by the writedown, but the price of inaction is far greater than the cost of making a mistake," Ms Whitman told a conference in San Francisco. "Skype has huge potential."Ms Whitman said that in retrospect some of the criteria given to Skype founders Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friss had not been in the best interests of the young business."The earnout created certain incentives that weren't necessarily bad," she told an audience at the Web 2.0 Summit, which is being held in San Francisco this week. "But what we needed to do was take some of the pressure off and not worry so much about revenues and operating margins. We want to continue to grow this very interesting company without the negatives or the incentives that weren't dead on with our strategy."Skype's founders caused a stir this month when they announced that they were stepping down from the company, netting themselves $530m in the process. The writedown drastically affected eBay's quarterly results, announced earlier this week, which saw the company post a net loss of $936m for the third quarter of 2007, compared to a profit of $281m in the same quarter of 2006.Ms Whitman confirmed that she was closing in on a successor to Mr Zennstrom, who had been the company's chief executive."There's been tremendous interest, particularly in Europe where Skype is a household name, so we're looking at internal candidates and external ones," she said.After the announcement of the falling profit, analysts suggested that eBay may be in trouble thanks to a slowdown in the growth of its basic online auctions and sales."We think eBay is facing a worst-case scenario in its business," said Deutsche Bank analyst Jeetil Patel. "We think that eBay's core business is deteriorating to the point of pressuring volumes due to higher ad costs, less user loyalty – which in turn could affect revenue and profit growth beginning in the next several quarters."But Ms Whitman rejected such criticism, saying that the company remained and was committed to improving its auction and sales services and generating greater profits."More than $50bn of goods were sold on eBay last year. If we were a retailer - which we're not – that would make us one of the top five or six in in the world. But as your core business begins to slow down, you go right back to where you started, which is customers. We have made more changes to the site in the last three or six months than we have in the last three years."She hinted that the company might begin to make use of its other areas of expertise – such as fraud prevention - by selling its services to other internet companies."We've developed expertise over the years in spotting fraudulent activity," she said. "We have well over 2,000 people in customer service who are focused on that, we have tremendous fraud modelling, and now we are able better than ever to catch fraud listings. There's actually quite a bit of industry co-operation on this and there could be more. You have to stay ahead of the curve."
·Facebook founderMark Zuckerbergdida turnon Wednesday afternoon and then promptly disappeared. And on Thursday a planned visit to the conference by Facebook execs failed to materialise - apparently they're all busy in Palo Alto. Are they finally signing the deal onthat big investment?·Jaikuco-founderJyri Engestrom, who justsoldhis business to Google is getting ready to move to the US. But, he says, the plan is to move to London after a while - interesting, because that's believed to be the heart of the "Gphone" project (a misnomer, since it's ludicrous to imagine that Google is building an actual device - much more likely to be building some kind of software-based mobile platform).·MySpace's evening event to celebrate the opening of its new San Francisco office brought a touch of LA to the Bay - beautiful people, sleek surroundings. Held at the Museum of Modern Art, was stuffed full of pretty SoCal boys and girls rather than SF's usual grungy, flannel-clad indie kids.Rupert Murdoch- surrounded by a gang of slavish devotees - held court for longer than might be expected, before being whisked away.·The biggest celebrity in the house after Digger was Web 2.0's newest wunderkind:MC Hammer. Adoring fans chased the Hammerman around the Palace Hotel with verve (one even got his plaster-cast arm daubed with the great man's signature). After Jemima'srecent experience with the man formally known as Stanley, I finally feel like I'm part of the new Valley bubble.·Flickr cofounderStewart Butterfieldmay be going onextended paternity leavefrom the popular photo-sharing website, but he was lurking long enough to introduce some soon-to-be-released features. That's under wraps for now, but Flickr developerDan Cattdid reveal that the main motivation behind it all was to find the perfect pictures ofbacon.
Just been playing around with Popfly, and I thought I'd put a little Paris Hilton picture book on my Facebook page. It's set to show 100 random pictures of French hotels, scraped from the Live picture search engine, but for unknown reasons, it only shows 20. And it doesn't show up on my Facebook page either: it just installs a "click to view" link. No, I didn't read the help pages. I would have watched one of thehelp videoson MSN but it'snot found. Fortunately I don't have to program things for a living, or I'd have starved. I'm sure you can do better.....An even simpler approach is to take an existing Popfly thingy and tweak it. But so far I haven't found anything worth stealing tweaking.I've moved the gadget below the fold.....
Mobile game publishers are beginning to realise that console conversions and current movie tie-ins are not the only way to attract phone owners. Simple, well-designed games could well be therealfuture of this embattled sector. They've always been around, Western companies like Morpheme, Digital Chocolate and Handy Games have been bashing them out for years with varied levels of success. But getting the all-powerful network operators to commit to original titles that don't have 3D visuals (oh god, who cares?) and don't have console brands attached is an ongoing headache. Or at least, itwas.As mobile industry veteran and PR fixer Brian Baglow attests, "I think the casual market is offering the most innovation and ideas out of leftfield right now. The tie in with consoles isn't really gaining a lot of traction and there will be a lot of resistance to incorporating mobile into a game in all but the most simplistic and obvious fashions. Some of the new mobile specific ideas however are really good fun and promise to throw up the first mobile superstar/s which spread onto all of the other platforms over time."I agree with Brian - mobile developers (and operator portals for heaven's sake) need to have more faith in the creativity of this industry. In the same way that the mainstream videogames feel they must gain legitimacy by leaching ideas, staff and brands from the movie business, mobile game makers pilfer console mainstays in a desperate bid to gain attention.Thing is, the customers aren't biting - at least not in hugely significant numbers. We're still at the stage where only a tiny, tiny minority of mobile owners download games (5% is the commonly employed statistic). Console cash-ins probably won't boost things significantly, even if services like N-Gage make it easier for customers to choose and buy titles.Cute is the future. Well, the near-future. Cute games that work on a small screen. And here are five interesting new examples...ET (Ojom)Fortunatelynota mobile conversion of the legendarily bad Atari 2600 game. Instead, this curious movie tie-in is a collection of 47 mini-games, some of which look to be based on classic eighties coin-ops (but with ET in them) and all of which contribute toward an over-riding puzzle game theme. The little fella still melts you're heart, even when rendered in about forty pixels and blundering around a quickie rip-off of Robotron.Beez (Hands-On)Another nice variation on the block-sorting puzzler - this time your a bee seeking to pollinate as many flowers as possible, following the correct patterns (shown at the base of the screen) and racking up combos. There's a clever slingshot flight technique to master allowing quicker clearing of the levels and lots of hidden score-multiplying extras. Sweet as honey.My Model Train 2 (HandyGames)This sequel to HandyGames' fun little train sim (morehere) presents 25 new levels and lots of fresh features. The idea is still the same - you're given a series of travel objectives and must find the quickest route through the rail network while picking up passengers and watching out for other trains. You've also got to operate all the correct swtiches and signals and ensure you've got enough coal and water to keep going. The seasonal graphical theme just makes it even cuter.Pub Mania (Gameloft)Serve-'em-ups are all the rage on mobile with titles like Diner Dash and Cake Mania swooping across from the PC casual gaming scene and flourishing beautifully. This is Gameloft's take on the genre which involves serving customers in a series of beautifully detailed pubs and bars, bringing them beer, taking away empties and trying to squeeze like-minded groups of strangers onto tables together in order to pack in the punters. It looks lovely and there are so many witty touches, like jokey speech bubbles and the chance to upgrade your pub's interior with extra items like jukeboxes.Magical Hammer (Capcom)This, I suppose, is a bit of a standard block-sorting puzzler, a simplified take on Bejeweled if such a thing is possible. You get a grid of coloured blocks and must direct your character up and down a ladder either side to bash out specific pieces, thereby lining up three or more of the same colour. Yeah, you might have heard something along these lines before. But this one's by Capcom and features some of the cast of Darkstalkers - and has some challenging little mini-games. It's also extremely compelling, mostly because the interface is quite restricted, so it places considerable demands on your planning skills - especially when you're trying to cue up horizontal lines, which you have no direct control over. If you don't already have 700 block-sorting puzzlers on your phone and have a soft spot for cult Capcom characters, this is a nice little download.
Doodles byJon Burgerman, world-renowned artist and level designer, who will be taking part in the GameCityart clinic.Okay, we've done quite a bit onGameCitythis week, so here's a final piece - at least for today. I managed to get some questions to organiser Iain Simons about the event, and about whathe'smost looking forward to. I hope by now you've been tempted to put aside some time between October 24-28 for a trip to Nottingham. If not, try this...So what are the elements of GameCity you're most excited about?Two things I guess. I'm very interested to see how the'who's afraid of videogames'sessions for parents are received. Attempting to specifically throw open gaming to new audiences usually yields unexpected results... Other than that,Takahashi. I'm really pleased we've been able to show so many other less high-profile developers and titles. Theindiecade studiohas some amazing and often less well profiled work - and to have Alex from WeeWar along is a great addition.What kind of support are you getting from the industry? is it easier than last year?Again, this year the support from the development community has been fantastic. The kinds of extra miles that all of the developers have put in this year is just so encouraging. From volunteer portfolio clinics to bespoke papercraft made by Takahashi, the creative community has been incredibly generous. This year too, publishers have been a lot more imaginative. Activision in particular has really understood what it is we're trying to do and has had a really collaborative approach to what's possible. I should also mention that Sony/SCEE has been fantastic - particularly with sending senior art guys like Sam Coates to spend time talking to students atAngel Row.Is the festival known in America and Japan now? I'm hoping Lorne Lanning took back some good experiences from last year...I don't know about Japan, but certainly in America, Lorne and Jamie Fristrom have been enthusiastic evangelists of the festival. I was delighted, and to be honest surprised how many developers knew about the event at GDC. There were a few great pieces of work we were really hoping to bring over to show this year which didn't quite work out - we're hoping by next year the word will have spread slightly more to publishers.What are some of the new venues you're using this year?The big addition is the use of the market square, which is going to provide a great centrepiece to the event. Beyond that, it's a mix of cinemas, cafes, bars, bookshops and of course Indian restaurants.How many events are there this year, compared to last time?Last year we had just over 40 - so far this year there's going to be about 75, including the fringe events which the community have curated all by themselves. For us, this year is very much about proof of concept, making sure that this really does work and that people want to come to it. All the signs are that that is the case. I think GameCity 2008 is going to be quite a step-up in developing the festival. This is a terrible bad-habit of mine, but to be honest a lot of my thoughts are about that at the moment. We've got some great ideas and I think it's going to be quite a different event.
Okay, I know I wasraving about the arrival of Speedball 2on Xbox Live Arcade but after ploughing through an oddly underwhelming hour or two on the game last night I'm slightly disappointed. Was the game really this frantic? Was it always this hard? Why are the "enhanced" graphics so appalling? Nostalgia is the main reason - I haven't played the game for about 15 years and it's easy to get misty eyed over stuff you played as a teenager. And maybe I was expecting too much but I certainly didn't remember the annoying bug/feature at the start of a match that prevents you from going for the ball.Admittedly once I'd got over the fact that this is basically a 16 year old Amiga game and not the future of online gaming then the solid action began to get more enjoyable - a win or two did wonders. But retro enthusiasm clearly paid a part in my pre-release excitement. Sensible Soccer - the one we've all been waiting for, honest - shouldn't suffer from this. I played the game last year and it still stands up. Speedball 2 is merely average in comparison. Anyone else enjoying Speedball 2 as much as they hoped?
Tim O'Reilly takes the stage to welcome Meg Whitman, the CEO of eBay. He thinks in many ways it was the first big Web 2.0 success story - but they're also the first to experience a slowdown in the business.This could be interesting."If we were a retailer - which we're not - we'd be the fifth or sixth largest in the world. But as your core business begins to slow down, you go right back to where you started, which is customers. how do you reinvent your core business to meet the needs of customers. We're actually in a reinvention of some of the core flows, . We have made more changes to the site in the last three or six months than we have in the last three years.""What's the biggest risk you've taken? Probably around our search and find technology. In the past, where everything was auction based, the thing that made most sense was to find "time ending soonest". Now as 45% of our sales are fixed price, that's not relevant, so we're actually had to create a new search-and-find metaphor.""We have about 1.6m people worldwide who make their living selling on eBay. There are always people who made their business. The casual sellers represent about 50% of the gross merchandise volume and about 95% of the sellers. We look at the number of users we have, which has slowed but it's still going up.""We began to see PayPal becoming the effective way to pay on eBay. It's now 85-90% of payments. We saw that it had effectively become the wallet on eBay. We think the future for PayPal is very bright.""Could PayPal become not only your wallet, but your identity on the web? We've thought about it a lot, and there are some very interesting long-term possibilities. The thing you have to remember is that we are handling people's money. The other thing is that identity and reputation, people do give negative comments so I can't have you completely manage your reputation.""We know that we were only here because of a disruptive innovation. To some extent we've become an establishment company, we've become a larger company and you have to behave differently. There's a certain growing up that I don't think is necessarily inconsistent with innovation."What about crime? Is everyone starting to deal with the fact that not everyone can be trusted? "I would say that we believe people are basically good. The vast majority of people - less than 1/100th of one percent cause problems. Given the scheme of what's going on, it's a tiny percentage and we've developed expertise over the years in spotting fraudulent activity. Well over 2,000 people who are focused on that, and we have tremendous fraud modelling, now we are able better than ever to catch fraud listings. There are two powerful aspects of this: what we know about our own fraud models on eBay and also in terms of PayPal. We've just announced a co-operation, so there's actually quite a bit of industry co-operation on this and there could be more. You have to stay ahead of the curve."She bats off questions about a rumours of a merger with Yahoo."Obviously we're disappointed by the writedown, but the price of inaction is far greater than the cost of making a mistake. Skype has huge potential and we're going to focus on delighting the user and we've got a great new Skype client coming.The earnout created certain incentives that weren't necessarily bad, but for a oyung company... what we needed to do was take some of the pressure off and really get to the next generation client and not worry so much about revenues and operating margins. We want to continue to grow this very interesting company without the negative or with the incentives that weren't dead on with our strategy.Now we're looking for a new CEO. There's been tremendous interest, particularly in Europe, so we're looking at internal candidates and external ones.It's put a lot of distance between it and its rivals. Two years ago when we bought the company, we were very worried about some of the competitors. Where many young companies go awry is try to do too many things and not do any of them well. There are some basic things I think need to get done.What about new companies? Etsy.com? "It's a cute little company, I like what they've done. We need to do everything we can to invite those sellers onto eBay - we just launched eBay Neighbourhoods, which allows people to link up over shared interest. There's more going on in eBay than just buying and selling, it's social commerce - it's not just an in and out."You're one of the leading women in hi-tech. How can we encourage more women? "Even at the entry levels there are fewer women. You can see it even at this conference. It's a tough issue and over time there are going to be more women in engineering disciplines coming out of our universities, so generationally there will be a change there. But we've also done some things at eBay to make it more welcoming to women. I think there is more work that can be done there."Q&amp;A from the floor.
So things are in full swing here at the Web 2.0 Summit in San Francisco - yesterday saw a number of talks includingFacebook's Mark Zuckerberg, Rupert Murdoch elucidating on hisplans for the futureandChris DeWolfeof MySpace.Today kicks off with a couple more heavy hitters: Microsoft CEOSteve Ballmerand eBay chiefMeg Whitman. Let's hope they get some tough questions - Ballmer, on Microsoft's many problems and theVista 'flop, and Whitman on the difficulties with Skype and the company's eternal strife in trying to expand (not leastinto China).We start with Ballmer, in conversation with conference chair John Battelle. More details after the jump.Battelle starts by asking Ballmer how things are going with Facebook. "We've got a great partnership with Facebook on the advertising side," says Ballmer, laughing. "We'll see where it takes us."I'd probably tell you I'm happy with everything and that there's a lot more work to be done. It's like asking somebody what you think of your kids. You wouldn't sit in front of 1200 people and say 'I really like Sammy but Aaron really upsets me'. We've got opportunities for improvement, and people. In our enterprise business we're going gangbusters - really - but there's so much we've barely scratched. In the online business we've got our work cut out for us - we're in the game, we've come from nowhere quickly. But we're a relatively small player compared to the market leader. In our games and devices business, what's not to love about Halo 3. There's a lot of good and a lot of areas of improvement."Is Google still aone-trick pony? "When I used that I did it in a very specific way: most companies are, and certainly most technology companies. They start in an area, get really good at it and fill out around that core. The unique thing about Microsoft is that we've got two of these; desktop and enterprise. We're trying to be a three and four trick pony. If you take a look at almost any other technology company, it doesn't mean they're aren't successful and they haven't got massive growth, but there's one basic technology approach and one basic business model.""You've got to do the old things better and better and do new things."You love developers. What do you make 100,000 people developing for Facebook? "I don't look at it and see it as a threat. They've done a really nice job on the developer platform. Basically any really exciting application will have a developer story, and yet it doesn't really replace the operating system." And so what about Silverlight?"At the end of the day you have to say, what's going to happen in the future of web? The truth is that applications will get richer and richer. Windows and Mac apps don't go away, but web apps want to be more programmable. So we brought out Expression and a runtime called Silverlight which is cross-browser, cross-OS."We get a demo of Silverlight andPopfly, which is now in open beta. Seems like a waste of time if you ask me: we've got Ballmer on stage, for gawd's sake! (Microsoft are sponsoring much of this conference)Office Live is still confusing; so what do you make of everyone else looking at the market of Microsoft Offce and trying to compete with it by doing it online. Are you concerned about it? "I think the way I would receommend everyone think about it is that our job is to deliver productivity. Just take Outlook. What is it? Can you define it by its technology model? It's a rich client app, it's accessible over the phone, there's a mobile client, it runs in a browser. It is whatever suits the user in a given moment. We'll use whatever's available to us, these things will all play into it."Do you think Google Docs and Spreadsheets is a good product? "If you want to do what most of our users want to do with Office, then you'd have to say no. However if you want collaborate on a simple thing, there are some benefits. Some of the things you do in Word and Excel today"Is one of those kids you'd hit on the back of the head and tell to do better. "Absolutely not!" As his face turns increasingly red, and Ballmer gets excited - his trademark - he launches into a number. "Absolutely not - I would say 'hey, you're just three years old and we've got you in there playing basketball with the 12-year-olds. You're growing up quick, you're getting better day. You might not be able to dunk now, but when you're six, seven eight, You're going to dunk, and you're going to dunk on the other guy SO BIG!!! That's what I'd say."But how did Google? You have to do three or four things really well. You have to do search well - because it's the most valuable commodity, since around 20% of searches have some sort of commercial aspect. You have to do community and communications well. You've got to have a very strong advertising platform that delivers all payloads on all media with all business models: deliver to TVs, PCs, phones, all sorts of screen. You want to be able to sell demographics, behaviour. And you've got to have a lot of ads you sell on behalf of other people... the syndication business, which I think will get redefined over the next five years. It's a fairly narrow business at the moment, and I think it's going to change."Facebook is one of those syndication deals. How is the Facebook deal going? Are you making money? "Rumours have it that we're not, but the most important thing for us is that every day we're smarter and we're learning more. Right now we're taking the head of the curve advertisers, but we want to take our own inventory and our syndicated partners inventory out to the end of the curve."What are you interested in that Microsoft currently isn't doing? "We'll probably buy 20 companies a year for the next five years. Most of them will be footnotes - we're talking about acquisitions of $50m, $100m, $200m. Those are good acquisitions and are important to us, and it's of strategic value. There aren't many things in the $6bn to $15bn price range, you're talking about a handful of things. In the meantime we'll probably buy a lot of companies from $50m to $1bn, so we'll continue to buy a lot of stuff. Email steveb@microsoft.com if you something to sell!""Everybody can have their opinion. Yahoo's a great company, we've got good relationships with them, we compete with them obviously. It's a thing people do when somebody is a lot bigger, but it may not make sense to us."Questions from the floor. Does it become necessity to compete with Google that something has to take place, like, say, a spinout of MSN and a merger? "If we didn't believe we could do well, we shouldn't be doing what we're doing. We're driving in an independent direction that we've got a lot of enthusiasm."Could you elaborate on your thoughts on the ad syndication business? "Most of what goes on today in syndication is done in simple text advertising that's sold by auction with no guarantee of delivery. If in the future it's sold in video and pictures as well as text, it's got to evolve to do and not just on an auction-based approach. A lot of technology that goes around that will evolve. The only thing anyone really sells is context - I can put you someplace - but advertisers want to buy behaviour - I want to be in front of someone who does a particular thing."I do think there will be, essentially, evolution. You have to think about platforms for PCs, phones, servers, TV, the cloud. What sort of affinity will people want to be between? Many people think it's going to all get done in the cloud and then put onto people's screens. I happen to think that computation will carry on happening in many places. The water's warm and we've got entries and we're glad to have good competitors pushing technology innovation."
Popflyis an online system for creating mash-ups, widgets and live Web pages without writing code -- you just link little boxes together. It created a bit of a stir back in May, when Ibloggedabout the invitation-only alpha verson. Now it's in public beta you can use it by entering the Windows Live ID (or MSN or Hotmail or Passport ID) that you already have.One of the new features is Facebook integration: you can publish Popfly applications directly to Facebook.Microsoft is announcing this at the O'Reilly Web 2.0 Summit (see Bobbie's report, above) so presumably there will be a press release online soonish. O'Reilly has a Popfly page athttp://www.popfly.ms/users/Team/web2summit.contentand yes, it's all based on Silverlight.Note the cute use of theMontserratcountry domain.Update: I've now found thepress release: Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer to Address Web 2.0 and the Future of the Internet
Easy answer: it's my home page. However, asCompetehas just noted, people often search for part or even the whole URL of the site they want. Jeremy Crane says:It's actually astonishing how often people search for the complete web address and click on the corresponding search result to get to the site they are trying to navigate to. It makes me laugh every time I see my parents do this, but even more amazing is when the "web savvy" amongst us does this.As a "web savvy" person, I do it often, and Jeremy should know why. First, if I type into the search box instead of the address bar, it doesn't matter if I make a typing mistake. Second, I might be guessing or have half-remembered the URL I want: it may look stange if I get it right, but often I don't. Third, there are plenty of Web sites that are not very responsive, or include a lot of junk code. Rather than going to the site, I might actually want to look at it in Google's cache first.However, as for why "Google has significantly fewer navigational searches (percentagewise) than the other two top engines," I don't have a clue. I'd have guessed it would have more. Anybody got a better idea?The best suggestion so far is from Bob Warfield, commenting on the Compete blog: "I'd have to speculate there are more browsers defaulting to Yahoo and LiveSearch instead of Google when a link is mistyped."
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
They have variously been called pointless, a waste of time and a passing fad. But social networking websites could be with us for a long time, according to the man behind Facebook.Mark Zuckerberg, the popular website's 23-year-old founder, suggested yesterday that the true advantages of using social sites might take decades to become fully apparent."We're talking about the set of connections that everyone has in real life," he said, speaking at a conference in California."All we're trying to do is take those connections and map it out. Once we have an accurate model, we can help people to share their information more effectively. But it's going to take 30 years &ndash; or at least tens of years &ndash; before this becomes a really mature platform."The website has become one of the darlings of the latest internet boom, growing rapidly and attracting more than 34 million users worldwide since it launched in 2004 from a dorm room at Harvard University.He told an audience at the Web 2.0 Summit in San Francisco that a stock market flotation was "years off", but refused to be drawn on whether he was preparing to take substantial investment from the likes of Microsoft or Google.Last year Mr Zuckerberg reportedly rejected a bid from Yahoo! for around $1bn, but a series of reports in recent weeks have suggested that a number of investors are in negotations to buy a stake in Facebook that would value the company in excess of $10bn.He suggested that the company was preparing to launch its own advertising platform within the next three months, throwing into doubt its relationship with Microsoft &ndash; which has an exclusive deal to provide advertising on the social network.Asked whether he was happy with the deal, which lasts until 2009, Mr Zuckerberg said that Facebook and Microsoft were "both pretty pleased" with the current situation, but refused to comment on other potential investments.
Casual gaming firmPopCaphas released some more data from its massive, in fact seemingly never-ending, survey of casual gamers. I've had a look at the company's findings before, notably the discoveries that casual gamingcan help families to bond, and also that they cande-stress mums. Now the purveyor of simple gaming treats like Chuzzle and Bejeweled, would like us to know that 72% of parents/grandparents don't allow their kids/grandkids to play hardcore video games. I'm not sure what the definition of 'hardcore' is here - maybe it's anything more taxing than the games on Cbeebies. Or, of course, Popcap.Anyway, the more interesting bit concerns teenage gamers:While nearly half of parents/grandparents (48%) to children aged 14+ say they do not allow their child/grandchild play hardcore games, 60% forbid girls from playing hardcore games - compared to just 37% forbidding boys.Dr. Carl Arinoldo, a New York-based psychologist of 25 years, expert on parent-child relationships and author of Essentials of Smart Parenting says: "Parents tend to be somewhat more protective of their daughters in what they do than they are of their sons, allowing for a bit more independence and leeway for the boys. Despite this being somewhat outdated thinking, it is a perspective still shared by many parents.I can understand parents being more worried about their daughters going out at night, but playing videogames? What on earth are they afraid of? And surely they should be more worried about their sons - whenever a violent crime is spuriously linked with gaming, it'll be a boy that's involved.Imagine you're the parent of a teenage daughter - which games would you be most afraid of her playing?
In January 2004 when Steve Jobs unveiled a new program called GarageBand, the newest member of Apple's iLife family of consumer-level media programs, he called it "a major new pro music tool ... for everyone" - a loop-based recording suite that "turns your Mac into a pro-quality musical instrument and complete recording studio".The technical press preferred to call the event a "snoozeathon"; one commentator dubbed the program "Garagebland", and even Mac sites called GarageBand's 25-minute introduction "the longest demo on Earth". But for musicians it was big news. Engineered with the same technology as Logic Pro - the high-end recording suite Apple inherited after its purchase of German company Emagic in 2002 - and preinstalled on to every new Mac, the software enabled users to mix 64 tracks, record live performances, use 1,000 prerecorded loops and export the fruits of their labours directly into iTunes. Jobs was adamant that this was no niche market proposition. In fact, according to Apple, GarageBand encapsulates the company's long-term goals: to democratise the use of technology and to take creative tasks that were difficult or expensive and make them accessible and easy to use for everyone.And with 5.6m Macs shipped last year alone, this "free" program has made a significant impression on the music world. In the 1990s, Apple machines gained huge traction among musicians for their support of MIDI, used to control synthesisers - and that explains too why professional musicians were among the first to adopt the iPod. But Windows-based machines caught up, and by the time Jobs introduced GarageBand, were snapping at Apple's heels. So Apple needed a strategy to get people to buy its machines. And if that meant a cut-down version of its pro software - why not?It certainly seems to have worked. "When I started out in the early 80s you had to become a runner in a studio and then work up from there," says Dave 'Deptford' Pine, head of Point Blank music college, whose CV includes work with The Smiths, Massive Attack and Leftfield. "That was your only chance. Now, if you buy a Mac, then out of the box you've got the opportunity to have a taste of music production or video editing."Explosion of softwareUsing the program is simple enough: having chosen from hundreds of "loops" (perhaps a 4/4 or 3/4 or 5/4 sample of a drum kit), you drop it on a track and then drag it along that track to make it play as long as you like. More instruments (guitars, orchestral, percussive) can be chosen, effects (flange, phase, distortion and more) added, volumes and stereo positions tweaked, and your own input - instrument or voice - added. Et voila."I think GarageBand is absolutely fantastic," adds Mike Hillier, a writer at Music Tech magazine and engineer at London's Metropolis Studios. "I speak to people who are doing really low-budget recordings all the time. You go out and see any band now and they've got a demo CD, or a CD they made for a couple of quid, and it's because of the explosion of software like GarageBand."Genres such as techno or grime owe their very existence to specific pieces of technology - whether the Roland TR-808 drum machine, Fruity Loops (now FL Studio) or even MTV's Music Generator game for the PlayStation. However, combine the availability of entry-level recording apps with the ability to share and distribute music - whether instantaneously posting to a MySpace page, or selling it via a digital retailer - and things get really interesting. This double whammy, claims Christian Ward of LastFM, is the basis for some seismic changes."People looking for the next revolution in music are actually looking in the wrong place," says Ward, who recently launched the Now Form A Band campaign, encouraging budding creators to tap into punk's DIY spirit and use free or open source software such as Luna Free, Ardour or Kristal Audio Engine. "The revolution is the internet. It doesn't matter if the music itself is not groundbreaking - the next revolution is how it's actually recorded and distributed."A host of established artists - such as Courtney Love, Limp Bizkit, Panic! At The Disco and Scout Niblett - have used GarageBand to just plug in and sing straight into a Mac's inbuilt microphone to record instant demos. Meanwhile, Nine Inch Nails and Erasure have both issued singles as GarageBand files, letting fans remix and mash up original master tracks. This summer, Rihanna's chart-topping Umbrella used one of its drum loops (specifically, Vintage Funk Kit 03) to great effect. But is a wave of GarageBand-enabled artists following suit and storming the Top 40?Well, no, not really. Kate Nash did use it to record her debut single - although not, according to producer Paul Epworth, her debut album - before signing a major label contract, but examples of others are few and far between.Flexible friendOne artist championing the benefits of GarageBand is George Pringle. Already building a significant online buzz, Pringle's forthcoming single, Carte Postale, was recorded solely on her Mac. Taking her love affair to more excessive levels, she has also taken to scrawling "GarageBand Until I Die" on her body."I think you can parallel it a bit to the time before punk, when there was loads of proggy shit," she says. "Then you got a whole bunch of people who shouldn't be musicians, but who were coming out with really great ideas. If people keep using home software like they are, it could become much more vocal and interesting and diverse."For free software, she says, GarageBand is also surprisingly flexible. "You can put it through an amp emulator, you can change the preset sounds, you turn your voice into an instrument, you can plug old beatboxes into it, you can make your own loops. GarageBand is like an instrument itself - if you know how to use it and play it right, you can make virtually any kind of sound."However, there is no lack of rivals. In March, Steinberg announced the launch of Sequel - a &pound;60 package for PC and Mac offering 5,000 loops and 600 instruments, all compatible with Cubase. Sony is offering an American Idol version of its ACID software, as well as the &pound;50 ACID Music Studio and ACID Xpress - a free, stripped-down version of ACID. The website ACIDplanet allows users to upload their music and even download free eight-packs of loops. Similarly, Ableton, Cakewalk (Sonar) and FL Studios all offer sub-&pound;100 entry-level recording packages.This is pretty elementary marketing: entice mainstream consumers with a easy-to-use version, sell them peripheral add-ons (such as extra beats or loops) and then hope that the appetites of the most proficient users are whetted enough to upgrade to the full professional suites. For all the above, these retail for up to &pound;500.Leaky strategyApple has pursued a similar strategy - offering Jam Packs of extra loops for &pound;69.99, and hoping a similar proportion of users will progress to the full-priced experience of Logic Pro 8 (recently slashed in price to &pound;319), or its cut-down incarnation Logic Express (&pound;129).Intriguingly, this latest version of Logic has also been issued without the copy protection of a physical dongle, leading some to speculate that Apple is in effect allowing its software to leak on to file-sharing systems, safe in the knowledge that downloaders will need a Mac to use it. "The dongle will actually become the Apple Mac," says musician and Logic user Mark De Clive Lowe. "It's a marketing ploy, just like iTunes is a way to sell iPods instead of music. Make the software free, but if you want to use it, then buy a Mac."In this wider context, and despite the idealism of putting the tools of production in the hands of the masses, it is perhaps little wonder that such high-end packages still dominate the recording market. "GarageBand to me is more like a game," says Rinse FM station boss Geeneus, who uses Logic Pro for his dubstep/grime productions. "It's like a demo where someone can have a go at making music, mess around and make a song in their spare time. There's not much you can do with it, but Apple uses it to lead you into Logic and Soundtrack and all these other programmes. That's the trick with this stuff. Everything's there to entice you in."
We'll be on the moon soonThis really is rocket science: the Cassini-Huygens probe's descent to Saturn's moon Titan. The graphics and ambient "music" come from the onboard tracking instruments; Eno must be envious. (I think I may have to make the soundtrack into a ringtone..) What, one wonders, would theBeagle 2instruments have sounded like? Death metal?If you blend it, they will comeApple's iPhone against a blender. Is it a contest? No contest? Are the bits of metal that fly off from the iPhone, or the gleaming, hungry blender? Come on, you have to love it.Who are these 'IBM' people?Ian McNaught-Davis with 1985's news about new Sinclair "superchips" invented by Ivor Catt. We kid you not. You can see the videohere(embedding was disabled).So come on, what are your favourite technology videos? Tell us in the comments. And add the link.
