In-car navigation system have suddenly hit commodity levels, with several devices now available for less than &pound;100. The AA is looking for a slice of the action and it hopes that its brand will be enough to help sell this model, a rebadge of the Evesham Nav-Cam 7700. As basic satellite navigation systems go, it is pretty much what you'd expect. The hardware is reasonable rather than exciting, with the device boasting a quality 3.5in screen and OK-sounding speakers.It also has a few extras such as MP3 player and photo viewer - you load media via an SD card slot. The device has a finger-sensitive touchscreen system that is fast and responsive and means you don't have to fuss over buttons or a stylus. What is annoying is the absence of any control buttons at all - so, for example, there's no quick way of returning to the main menu. As for the maps, the device uses Navteq's mapping data which aren't the most sophisticated on sale, but are simple enough to follow. Unlike other cheap systems, you can input a seven-digit postcode - bizarrely, some models only allow five digits, after which you have to find the road.The cherries on the cake are that it has lots of AA-recommended places of interest stored and a speed camera warning system. On the downside it is a little sluggish both in finding the GPS satellites and mapping routes.This certainly isn't the last word in budget sat-nav systems, but it has just enough going for it warrant that &pound;150 price tag.
Finding a reliable ISPCould you advise if it is possible for a home user to buy a reliable broadband connection? I use the internet as a key part of my work from home and I'm anxious about the increasingly poor quality of my broadband from Tiscali. User feedback atbroadbandchoices.co.uksuggests that none of the main ADSL providers seems capable of supplying the advertised download speeds or the backup necessary to fix things when they go wrong.Dr William DonaldsonJack Schofield replies:It's possible, but you can increase your chances of success by researching the market and by being willing to pay the price. It's not easy because of the enormous mess created by this year's influx of "free" services, by LLU (Local Loop Unbundling), and by the consolidation of suppliers through takeovers. The few companies that have managed to retain much of a reputation have tended to be the smaller and more specialised ones such as Zen Internet, Merula and Wizards, rather than your main ADSL providers. However, BT Business Broadband is worth considering if you work from home. The price of a decent service will probably be &#163;20 to &#163;30 a month, though you can get a slightly cheaper service from Zen, if it is limited to one PC and heavily capped. But be careful to compare like with like. Wizards, for example, is expensive at &#163;35 a month for a 2Mb ADSL service, but that includes domain hosting, web space, POP3 email, no usage limits and knowledgeable support staff. In theory, a large number of ISPs should all off er the same levels of reliability and performance, since they all get their ADSL services from BT Wholesale. Clearly they don't, so you will need to guess which ones actually provide a decent service by browsing the forums at ISP Review (ispreview.co.uk) and Broadband Reports (dslreports.com/forum/ukbb).Managing stuffI've been looking for software I can use as a to-do list and simple project management tracker. I've looked at many freeware, shareware and open source ones, but they are too elaborate or too simple. I know there are web-based services that could help me, but I would prefer to keep all the data on my laptop.Ian NurserJS:I'd suggest you try a free Australian program, Thinking Rock (thinkingrock.com.au). This is written in Java and available for Windows, Linux and Mac OS X. Like many organiser programs, it is based on the ideas in David Allen's book, Getting Things Done. If this one doesn't suit you, the GTD arena has lots of options, and there's a list at Listible (listible.com/list/gtd-software).Office dilemmaI have a trial version of Office 2007 and do not like it! I'm used to 2003. Should I stick with that?Geraldine MasonJS:Office 2007 makes it easier to find and use more of the functionality in the Office suite, learn new things and produce better results. However, if you just want to do the things you already know how to do, it is easier to stick with Office 2003. Either way, it's important to have at least Office 2000, XP or 2003, since these will have compatibility packs to handle the new Office 2007 XML file formats. Earlier versions are now obsolete.Sound qualityWhere do you find your evidence for listeners caring for sound quality (The future of UK radio is now in your hands, November 23)? Choosing to rip CDs to a computer or iPod is about convenience, not quality.Gavin BaileyJS:True. But in my experience, people almost always rip their music CDs at a much higher level of quality than DAB, which is roughly equivalent to an 80kbps MP3 file (seedigitalradiotech.co.uk/bitrate_vs_quality.htm). Even podcasts are commonly better than that (ie 64kbps or 96kbps mono MP3). There's also a significant interest in lossless compression systems such as FLAC (Free Lossless Audio Codec), and both Apple and Microsoft offer lossless encoding systems. There is plenty of evidence that most people do care.Memory upgradesHow easy, or how difficult, is it to add additional memory to my home PC, and can I find any help on the internet?Duncan Allison-NormanJS:The Crucial web site has a superb Memory Advisor that will scan your PC and give you upgrade options and, of course, sell you the extra chips you need (crucial.com/uk). Fitting the chips is easy - especially the second time you do it. A web search should find some helpful pages such as Gamespot UK'sHow to Upgrade Your RAM.You're being trackedEvery time I run CCleaner, one of the cookies is from Burstnet.com. Why are they cookie-ing me?Tom DraneJS:It's probably a third-party tracking cookie, and these are widely used by companies that serve up adverts to a number of websites. The cookie's presence is logged on the server when you request a page. Using its server logs, the third party can then work out which of its sites you visited, which pages you viewed and in which order. This sort of information can track which adverts you've seen, and perhaps influence which ones you will see later. Since this is done without your knowledge or consent, tracking cookies can be considered spyware. You could try to block the site by adding a line to your computer's hosts file that reads: 127.0.0.1 www.burstnet.comBackchat&#183;Roger Kidley wanted something that would enable Internet Explorer 7 to do the same job as IE6's "offline viewing" feature. Ian Grant, Hasan Vazir and Neil Harris all suggested a Firefox extension called Scrapbook (addons.mozilla.org/firefox/427/), which is great, but it doesn't actually work with IE7!
I've spotted a bit of chatter on the interweb talking about Google buying a 5% stake in AOL. Strange thing is that the deal was actuallya year ago today. Methinks a bizarre misinformation meme has reared its head.
In 2004, the internet was a different place: there was, for example, no YouTube, and most Britons online didn't have broadband. That's changed dramatically: now, more than 75% of users have broadband, and the arrival of Web 2.0 has brought sites where the interaction is as fast as if it were on your machine. So we've revisited the "cream of the crop" that we brought you two years ago.Some of the crop is brand new; some has stood the test of time. As before, we have 100 sites in 20 categories. That of course means that your favourite might not be here (even if you suggested it on our blog). Email us with your suggestions for the ones we should have included.Many of the categories here are new sincethe last crop. Many of the sites from that time still exist, of course - and are still hugely useful.One category that's missing is mobiles, where data speeds haven't kept up with broadband. Maybe in 2007?Contributors:Charles Arthur, Kate Bulkley, Michael Cross, Bobbie Johnson, Vic Keegan, Jack Schofield, Keith StuartApplicationsWhy have an application to run in your browser? Because for tasks shared between people at different locations, it makes sense to access password-protected sets of work. 37signals offers Backpack (note the domain is backpackit) for simple tasks and the bigger Basecamp for grown-up projects. Tadalist is simpler, being just to-dos (but isn't that what it's about?), while Google's Documents &amp; Spreadsheets requires a Google account (they're free) and doesn't try to compete with Microsoft Office. Wikicalc is a free online spreadsheet, and developing smartly.backpackit.combasecamphq.comtadalist.comdocs.google.comsoftwaregarden.com/wkcalphaBlogs: readingThere are millions of blogs out there; you need to pick the best. Step forward RSS (aka web feeds) and blog search engines to simplify things. Technorati is occasionally flaky, but generally a reliable indicator of what's being blogged about. Icerocket runs it close. And you'll need an online aggregator to keep abreast of the feeds you're most interested in: Newsgator and Google Reader are good choices. Bloglines is an excellent alternative feed reader.technorati.comicerocket.comnewsgator.comgoogle.com/readerbloglines.comBlogs: writingTo do it rather than read it, you need a good set of tools. The open-source and free software project Wordpress has risen to prominence, elbowing aside many rivals with its blog creation, management and (importantly) spam-beating tools. Wordpress.org is the free software; wordpress.com offers paid-for, managed versions of the free package. Blogger is the best of the rest; Vox is neat, easy and free, and plugs into lots of social applications. Statcounter counts, well, statistics for your site; the free Google Analytics (if you can get an account) is good too.wordpress.orgblogger.comvox.comstatcounter.comgoogle.com/analyticsEmailGoogle's Gmail has become the web-based email system of choice for those who can get access. Its main drawback is that it's still an invitation-only system in the UK. However, Yahoo's free email service is a decent competitor, and Microsoft has Live Mail. Unlike Microsoft's old Hotmail service, none will delete all your old emails if you fail to log on every 30 days. Among the dozens of free alternatives, Bluebottle is a decent option for its focus on spam filtering. The free version offers 250MB of storage and supports the POP3 and SMTP standards, so you can use a proper email program as well as web access. There's also TempInbox, which provides free, temporary, throwaway email accounts with no registration.mail.google.commail.yahoo.commail.live.combluebottle.comtempinbox.com/englishGamingThere are far too many videogame news sites on the internet today; you need an aggregator like Gametab to filter through to the best. Pocketgamer specialises in handheld games, while Gamasutra is absolutely unmissable. Gamesfaqs has FAQs and walkthroughs (plus cheats, reviews and previews) for loads of games. And the ESRB lets you search by age rating.gametab.compocketgamer.co.ukgamasutra.comgamefaqs.comesrb.org/ratings/index.jspMapsMaps matter, but once you're past Google's maps and satellite detail, everyone's thrown back on the Ordnance Survey's data, which means there's little to choose between them. Ordnance Survey has improved its site, and can at least now tell you which map to buy for an area; its placename search is nifty. Meanwhile, the New Popular Edition site shows how the country looked in the 1940s. Delightful.maps.google.co.ukstreetmap.co.ukmultimap.comordnancesurvey.co.uknpemap.org.ukNews: mainstreamThe BBC marches on, adding more media forms while also letting users add their comments. The New York Times site is vast (though it has shut off some of its content behind a "paywall"). Both sites' (short) RSS feeds can be read on a mobile at bbcriver.com and nytimesriver.com. Google News extends its reach, though the top headline is still whichever site last updated rather than the one which is most accurate. Nowpublic is a US rival to OhMyNews and claims 52,000 (and counting) "mojos" - amateur journalists with mobile phones whose location can be figured out from GPS or phone triangulation.news.bbc.co.uknytimes.comnews.google.co.ukenglish.ohmynews.comnowpublic.comNews: recommendationOne thing that Web 2.0 is really good at is letting lots of people vote on things. It can be (and is) abused, but generally the system works. That's seen the rise of sites which let people vote stories up, or which news stories (and how) bloggers are talking about (at memoerandum).The biggest is Digg, which overtook Slashdot earlier this year. Reddit was recently bought by Wired magazine. Findory is slightly different, learning what you like the more you use it.digg.comreddit.commemeorandum.commegite.comfindory.comOffbeatSnopes checks out unbelievable tales, scams and urban legends and debunks (or confirms) them. Slightly less useful is the 100-strong webring of Unusual Museums of the Internet. These include the Virtual Toilet Paper Museum, the Old Calculators Web Museum and Signalfan's museum of traffic control signals. You can find links to lots of other offbeat sites via the Weird Site's Other Weird Links page. The Onion is the web's leading satire magazine, though with an American bias. Otherwise, for five minutes of fun, try browsing B3ta. This UK site sends out a weekly newsletter of cool links and runs a message board where people post amusingly manipulated pictures. But be warned: it's often offensive - that's part of the point - and most definitely rated NSFW (Not Safe For Work).snopes.comringsurf.comtheweirdsite.comtheonion.comb3ta.comPoliticsThe MySociety team remains unbeatable for turning Hansard inside out with Theyworkforyou and Publicwhip, but bloggers have begun to expose the unwritten workings of politicians to greater public scrutiny too. Guido Fawkes' blog has the inside gossip from Westminster, while NO2ID agitates on arguably the most important political and technological issue around, while NHS 23 is a wiki outlining the problems with the political, technological and medical drama of the NHS computer- isation programme.theyworkforyou.compublicwhip.org.uk5thnovember.blogspot.comno2id.neteditthis.info/nhs_it_infoPublic actionNow, it's time to bug someone in power. The idea that the web can make a difference is growing; politicians are on the web and there's an online petition site at No.10. Pledgebank and HearfromyourMP are both part of the excellent MySociety (mysociety.org) family of sites enabling citizens to connect to decision-makers - and, one would hope, vice versa. Netaction includes The Virtual Activist, a manual for anyone looking to build and promote a cause online. Those interested in helping out in their area might try Timebank, which finds organisations to which to donate spare time.pledgebank.competitions.pm.gov.ukhearfromyourmp.comnetaction.orgtimebank.org.ukRadioRadio now travels over wires, at least to our homes. The BBC dominates here, but there are thousands of stations to choose from. AOL's Shoutcast is interesting: find whatever's on right now (you can tune in via iTunes or any internet radio-enabled player.) Radio-locator and Live-radio list broadcasters worldwide, so you can find something new to listen to. Reciva does the same, but if you buy its internet radio you can add your own favourites online and they show on the gadget; or just listen online.bbc.co.uk/radioshoutcast.comradio-locator.comlive-radio.netreciva.comRecommendation: musicAnother new category: being able to find stuff that's similar to music you like is increasingly important, both to listeners and to record companies trying to profit from niches. Last.fm requires an application that runs on your machine, and shows what other people with the same music like. Pandora says you need a US postcode; so give it one, then enjoy its expert-chosen stations. Liveplasma can search relationships in films as well as music. Tuneglue is a relatively new venture between last.fm and EMI, using data from Amazon and last.fm. Goombah requires a small download and only works on music in an iTunes library, but has been at it for some time.last.fmpandora.comliveplasma.comaudiomap.tuneglue.netgoombah.comReferenceWikipedia now dominates the reference side of the web, partly because its pages are ranked so highly in Google. User-written, it's not always reliable, but is usually a good place to start. It competes with the Encyclopedia Britannica, which isn't free. However, another traditional alternative is the HighBeam Encyclopedia, which searches more than 57,000 articles from the Columbia Encyclopedia. Otherwise Jim Martindale's Reference Desk, started in 1994, provides an astonishing collection of links to reference sources. For words, try Onelook, which indexes more than 7.5m words in 931 dictionaries. It also has a reverse lookup to find words from their meanings. Finally, Teldir (on the infobel site) has links to the world's online phone books.en.wikipedia.orgencyclopedia.commartindalecenter.comonelook.cominfobel.com/teldirScienceAlphagalileo gives a view of public-facing science in Europe and is a counterpart to eurekalert, the American Association for the Advancement of Science's press announcements forum. Space.com remains fascinating for all things spacey. Nasa contains a wealth of information. The growing importance of climate change makes the RealClimate blog written by climate change scientists important.alphagalileo.orgeurekalert.orgspace.comnasa.gov/homerealclimate.orgSearchGoogle continues to tighten its grip on our hunt for information (it now gets half of all searches) but that doesn't necessarily mean it's the best. Search can now encompass your hard drive, blogs (a separate category - see above), images, peer-to-peer and even what used to be out there. Blinkx remains unique with its focus on video, while Ask (now without Jeeves) has made great strides recently, though it only gets a tiny portion of searches.google.co.uksearch.yahoo.comsearch.msn.co.ukblinkx.comask.comSocial softwareThe browser has grown up: now it's the path to meeting people of similar interests and creating your own personal space online in a shared area. Social networks have become a cliche, but that hasn't stopped MySpace becoming the biggest site online. Bebo is popular, Habbo is more tuned to the kids, while Friendster and LinkedIn will appeal to the older user.myspace.combebo.comhabbo.comfriendster.comlinkedin.comVideoThe crowds are all over at YouTube, the poster child of online video (a category too niche to merit mention two years ago; YouTube was founded in February 2005). But it's not the only place to find video. Revver offers a revenue-sharing system (people pay to watch your video, you get some cash). You can also start your own TV station at brightcove and currenttv. And Videojug has demonstrations of how to do lots of possibly useful tasks.youtube.comrevver.combrightcove.comcurrenttv.comvideojug.comVirtual worldsThe key distinction from social sites like MySpace is that virtual worlds give you an avatar - your representation of yourself in the online world. The advent of broadband allied to faster machines has made them usable. When the BBC held a concert in Second Life, it seemed like an anomaly; then IBM's chief executive got an avatar, and suddenly everyone's there. Habbo Hotel is booming with teens. World of Warcraft has millions of users; Everquest, its own culture. Or you can play the Sims online. Whether an influx of new users will make these worlds more antisocial remains open.secondlife.comhabbohotel.co.ukworldofwarcraft.comthesimsonline.comeqplayers.station.sony.com/index.vmZeitgeistIt's what everyone's talking about. Some of these sites appear above because they're the places to go to find out whatthe webworld is thinking. Watch them whizz by, but don't forget to breathe. YouTube is the moving picture of the web; Flickr the static one. Google Trends shows what the world's looking for; Digg, what it's found. And Technorati shows what it's writing about. youtube.com flickr.com google.com/trends digg.com technorati.comReaders' suggestionsVideoJug (videojug.com). Videos on how to do everyday stuff such as tying a tie etc. (HiddenAway)Slideshare (slideshare.net). For sharing presentations;Best Tech Videos (bestechvideos.com). Very techie tutorial videos;TechXtra (techxtra.ac.uk). Has a long enough 'tail' to answer real queries. (RoddyM)Online apps and desktops:Zoho (zoho.com);Cosmopod (cosmopod.com);eyeOS (eyeos.org). Online video editing:jumpcut.com. (hakluytbean)Reevoo (reevoo.com)is a very handy site for people looking for honest feedback on products, as it only publishes reviews known to come from customers. (TechMonkey)&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Bill Gates, Microsoft's chief software architect and co-founder, will leave the company after 30 years in 2008 to concentrate on giving away his billions. Ray Ozzie will take the software reins.Windows Vista, after five years inside Microsoft, will leave the Redmond HQ for the public domain in 2007, to rake in billions for the company.ThoughBlu-rayandHD-DVDhave grabbed headlines in their battle to succeed DVD, nobody yet knows which one to buy.Including aBlu-ray drivein every Sony PlayStation 3 will lose the company about $100 per machine, at least initially.Manufacturing delays to the Blu-ray drive delayed the PS3'sEuropean debut, which should now be in the spring.First Dell, then Apple, then IBM, Toshiba, Panasonic, Fujitsu and Lenovo recalledSony-made laptop batteries. In all, 9.6m were recalled, costing Sony $429m (&pound;219m).Sony recallednoneof its laptop batteries.Nintendo makes aprofit on every Wiiit sells, heading for 4m as you read this.Applechanged all its machines over to Intel chips , with only minor hassles (such as hackers running Windows on the machines, and trying to run OS X on Dell systems).Applereleased a program that let peoplerun Windowson its machines.Everyone has 15 seconds of fameon YouTube. From the angry Hong Kong "bus uncle" to Geriatric1927, anyone can be a star. Even fakes are welcome - askLonelygirl15, aka New Zealand actress Jessica Rose.Startups can be pretty lucrative.Delicious sold to Yahoo, andYouTube, after just 18 months of existence, to Google for $1.65bn - theoretically, earning $20m a week.Google is trying to dotoo manythings, says chief executive Eric Schmidt. First for the chop wasGoogle Answers. Why? Google wouldn't say.WikipediaMisn't as bad as its critics say. In a much-disputed study last December, the science journal Nature rated its accuracy as comparable withEncyclopedia Britannica. Britannica rebutted this at length in March.Wikipedia is getting more bureaucratic. A growing number of articles are"locked" against changes, and more require that you create a login before editing them.Getting an article - such as abiography of yourself- removed from Wikipedia is very difficult. The more you complain, the more worthy you must be of inclusion.Some domain names are still valuable.sex.comsold for $12million last January; last week vodka.com changed hands for a reported $3m.Some domain names are pretty much worthless. To add to thetumbleweedof .info, .museum and .aero, Icann created new .eu and .mobi domains.Spam has reached unprecedented levels, after a promising dip at the start of the year, due to"image spam"which defeats most filters.Spamcan be beaten, or at least managed, if ISPs adopt "authenticated SMTP" and demand that others do too.MTV thinks anything you upload onto their sites istheirs in perpetuity, regardless of what you might decide to do with that (your) content.BitTorrent's new mantra is that it is protecting content in the p2p space - an idea that was heretofore an oxymoron. But the movie studios seem to believe it.Rob Glaser, the chief executive of Real Networks, thinks that iPod owners steal music: "About half the music on iPods is music obtained illegitimately either from an illegal peer-to-peer networks or from ripping friends' CDs, which is illegal."Universal Music's chief executiveDoug Morristhinks iPod owners steal music. "These [digital music] devices are just repositories for stolen music, and they [makers] all know it," he told Billboard. "So it's time to get paid for it."All iPods come with a sticker saying"Don't steal music". Steve Jobs told Apple's designers to include it.Originally, any iPod could have transferred music toany computer; Steve Jobs vetoed this, making it "pair" only with one.Government ise-enabled. On average, 97% of your council's services are available electronically. Don't know how they managed it with meals on wheels.Electronic conveyancingwill be a reality for home buyers in 2009. Possibly more a reality than home buying, if you live in London.A quarter of all taxpayersfiled their returnselectronically and the system didn't crash.If you wanteddirectionsfrom London to the Ardneil Hotel, Troon, one way to find them was by asking the government's Transport Direct website the way to the Channel tunnel.Government bodies can pass yourpersonal informationaround so long as it is in the public interest to do so.Despite a pounds 5 million advertising campaign,five timesas many people find government websites through Google than through the the official web portal direct.gov.uk.Government IT projectssucceed- but mostly when they're small and un-government-like, says the National Audit Office ."Free" broadbandisn't: you'll end up paying with your time or patience, or higher phone bills.More than75% of Britonsnow access the net from home by broadband.
You'd think so. With glowing press coverage, virtual world Second Life would appear to be going from strength to strength: last week it broke through the 2m sign-ups barrier.But not everybody is convinced by such milestones. Clay Shirky, the respected internet analyst and thinker, questioned how many of those 2m ever return after signing up.The virtual world's homepage shows exactly how many users are "there" at any one time. On Tuesday evening, there were 13,000 users online from a potential base of 2,079,863 users, if we're being precise. Shirky's rough calculations led him to wonder whether the overall figures weren't hugely inflating the apparent popularity of the site."At a guess, Second Life churn measured in the ordinary way is in excess of 85%, with a surge of new users being driven in by the amount of press the service is getting," Shirky wrote, concluding: "I suspect Second Life is largely a 'Try Me' virus, where reports of a strange and wonderful new thing draw the masses to log in and try it, but whose ability to retain anything but a fraction of those users is limited."More detailed statistics exploring theeconomics of Second Lifeindicate that there are somewhere in the region of 100,000 regular users. The difficulty of using the system - which even insiders admit is baffling - and the lack of a "game" puts many users off before they even start.And it may be worse even than Shirky's bleak estimates. Philip Rosedale, the founder of SL maker Linden Lab, last month said that churn was probably around 90% - meaning just one in 10 people who sign up use it in any meaningful way.For comparison, the online fantasy game World of Warcraft had 5m subscribers - all paying a monthly fee - this time last year. Though Second Life certainly has its adherents: IBM stages business meetings, the BBC hosts gigs, and news agency Reuters even runs a virtual bureau 'there'.But Shirky's question kicked off a wider debate about how you measure the popularity of something intangible. After all, what do you do if the Next Big Thing just isn't that big after all?&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The BBC needs to be cut down to size because it uses the certainty of its licence fee to undermine entrepreneurial initiatives in the private sector. That is the accusation used by many of its rivals as they try to prevent the BBC from getting an above-inflation rise in its current licence application, a decision on which is imminent. The reality is rather different, as two recent examples illustrate. Back in May the BBC - Radio 1, actually - was prescient in launching a pop concert in the now-fashionable Second Life virtual world that attracted 6,000 people. The spin-off from the event is credited with tripling the number of SL participants and helping to change it from a geek's secret paradise into a mainstream phenomenon. Justin Bovington, chief executive of Rivers Run Red, the enterprising Soho company that employs 22 people to build projects in SL, reckons that only the BBC could have done that because private sector companies wouldn't have taken the risk.In the current issue of the Economist there is an article pointing out that if you want to know about mobile phones you should look at Japan. If you want to know about broadband then South Korea is the place to be. But if you want to glimpse the future of advertising then you must visit the UK, where the online advertising market is "exploding". Internet advertising accounts for 14% of UK corporate advertising compared with 5% worldwide. And why? One of the main reasons, apart from a sharp rise in broadband connectivity, is that our major television service, the BBC, does not accept advertising, which has to find other outlets, such as the internet.For years internet companies have complained about unfair competition from the BBC, when it was often just an excuse for their own inability to exploit the dual-mode model that has worked so well in the past. Under this the BBC was publicly funded but could not take advertisements, while everyone else could. Would the complainers be happier if the BBC's funding were removed but it was instead allowed to carry adverts? Meanwhile, regional ITV companies persuaded government to allow them to merge into bigger units in order to become a world force, but have failed pathetically so far.The main UK global media brand online is the BBC (with the Guardian running second). If the UK wants to breed companies that can rival YouTube or the new wave of online media such as NowPublic.com (which utilises 52,000 story-hungry cameraphone-equipped citizen journalists) then the most obvious organisation in terms of resources and a culture of innovation is the BBC. Why can't the politicians throw themselves behind one of the few global stars we have instead of finding reasons to cut it back?The BBC remains a paradox. If it did not exist and there was a proposal to start a public sector rival to broadcasting companies, there is no way this government would have allowed it. And even if it did, Rupert Murdoch need only to have inhaled breath before it would have been dropped. Yet the BBC is still there and, with all its faults, is a major force whose "brand" of independence has been strengthened globally by the government's inept revenge on it because of its coverage of the Iraq war.No one knows what will happen when the digital revolution is turning whole industries upside down. The latest instalment is this week's news that the founders of Skype, the free internet telephone calls company, plans to launch a global near high-definition broadband television service.At a time when a small cup of coffee at Starbucks costs &pound;1.90, the BBC's licence fee of &pound;131.50 a year for colour (36p a day) or only &pound;44 for black and white (12p a day) is amazing value for money. If the government, through the licence fee review, underfunds the BBC during this critical period, then it will truly deserve the contempt of history.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
It's coming to that time of year when we all start casting our minds back over the previous 12 months - take today'sYou Must Remember 2006piece, for example.But what about the world of pictures? My favourite wasthis photo of the international space station and space shuttle Atlantis passing in front of the sun- just stunning in its scope, scale - and timing.What were your favourite pictures of 2006? Show us - whether they are your own, a friend's, or by a pro - by leaving URLs in the comments below so everyone can go to see them.Also:I wanted to alert readers to aFlickr groupforGuardian readersthat I created last week. We've run Flickr groups before (theBlairWatchProject, for example) but I thought this one would be an opportunity to open up one without an agenda. Join if you're a reader of the Guardian on or offline, and ping interesting photos into the pool whenever you fancy. We'd be happy to have you.
'Tis the season to be jolly, and New Scientist has had a go withJust can't get e-nough, an article about bad new techno-habits....
For the past year, Microsoft has been talking up its plans to compete with Google by investing heavily in a super new search engine, but the reality is proving different. According tothe latest Nielsen//NetRatings numbersfor the US, Google now handles 49.5% of searches (up 31%) ahead of Yahoo's 24.3% (up 27%). However, MSN/Windows Live Search now has only 8.2%, and its share has fallen by 12%, year on year.In April, Microsoft hiredSteven Berkowitz, the chief executive of what was then Ask Jeeves, to sort out Live Search. He transformed Ask, but unless he does something pretty quickly, he could see his old company overtake his new one....Note: As Microsoft'sDare Obasanjo has pointed out before: "Steve Berkowitz owns the sales, marketing and business aspects of Windows Live but not the products themselves. Steven Sinofsky and his subordinates, specifically Chris Jones and Christopher Payne, are responsible for Windows Live." Sinofsky used to run Microsoft Office.
Could you advise if it is possible for a home user to buy a reliable broadband connection? I use the internet as a key part of my work from home and I'm anxious about the increasingly poor quality of my broadband from Tiscali. User feedback atbroadbandchoices.co.uksuggests that none of the main ADSL providers seems capable of supplying the advertised download speeds or the backup necessary to fix things when they go wrong. Dr William DonaldsonIt's possible, but you can increase your chances of success by researching the market and by being willing to pay the price. It's not easy because of the enormous mess created by this year's influx of "free" services, by LLU (Local Loop Unbundling), and by the consolidation of suppliers through takeovers. The few companies that have managed to retain much of a reputation have tended to be the smaller and more specialised ones such as Zen Internet, Merula and Wizards, rather than your main ADSL providers. However, BT Business Broadband is worth considering if you work from home.The price of a decent service will probably be £20 to £30 a month, though you can get a slightly cheaper service from Zen, if it is limited to one PC and heavily capped. But be careful to compare like with like. Wizards, for example, is expensive at £35 a month for a 2Mb ADSL service, but that includes domain hosting, web space, POP3 email, no usage limits and knowledgeable support staff. It all depends what you need.In theory, a large number of ISPs should all offer the same levels of reliability and performance, since they all get their ADSL services from BT Wholesale. Clearly they don't, so you will need to guess which ones actually provide a decent service by browsing the forums atISP ReviewandBroadband Reports.
Every time I run CCleaner, one of the cookies is from Burstnet.com. Why are they cookie-ing me? Tom DraneIt's probably a third-party tracking cookie, and these are widely used by companies that serve up adverts to a number of websites. The cookie's presence is logged on the server when you request a page. Using its server logs, the third party can then work out which of its sites you visited, which pages you viewed and in which order. This sort of information can track which adverts you've seen, and perhaps influence which ones you will see later. Since this is done without your knowledge or consent, tracking cookies can be considered spyware. You could try to block the site by adding a line to your computer's hosts file that reads: 127.0.0.1 www.burstnet.com
Record companies have been complaining for years about AllOfMP3.com, a music download site based in Russia -- and AllOfMP3.com has counterclaimed that its service is legal under Russian law. Now the labels have launched a law suit in New York, according toan AP report.The lawsuit was filed in federal court in New York against Moscow-based Mediaservices, which owns AllofMP3 and another music site, allTunes.com.A slate of major record labels, including Arista Records LLC, Warner Bros. Records Inc., Capitol Records Inc. and UMG Recordings Inc., are behind the lawsuit.As the story points out, the British Phonographic Industry has already launched a suit in the UK.
I've been looking for software I can use as a to-do list and simple project management tracker. I've looked at many freeware, shareware and open source ones, but they are too elaborate or too simple. I know there are web-based services that could help me, but I would prefer to keep all the data on my laptop. Ian NurserI suggest you try a free Australian program, Thinking Rock (http://www.thinkingrock.com.au/). This is written in Java and available for Windows, Linux and Mac OS X. Like many organiser programs nowadays, it is based on the ideas in David Allen's book, Getting Things Done. If this one doesn't suit you, the GTD arena has lots of options, and there's a list at Listible (http://www.listible.com/list/gtd-software).GTD programs are generally simpler and easier to use than project management programs but, as usual, you don't get anything out unless you put a lot in.
I have a trial version of Office 2007 and do not like it! I'm used to 2003. Should I stick with that? Geraldine MasonOffice 2007 makes it easier to find and use more of the functionality in the Office suite, learn new things and produce better results. However, if you just want to do the things you already know how to do, it is easier to stick with Office 2003. Either way, it's important to have at least Office 2000, XP or 2003, since these will have compatibility packs to handle the new Office 2007 XML file formats. Earlier versions are now obsolete.
Where do you find your evidence for listeners caring for sound quality (The future of UK radio is now in your hands, Technology, November 23)? Choosing to rip CDs to a computer or iPod is about convenience not quality. Gavin BaileyTrue. But in my experience, people almost always rip their music CDs at a much higher level of quality than DAB, which is roughly equivalent to an 80kbps MP3 file (seehttp://www.digitalradiotech.co.uk/bitrate_vs_quality.htm). Even podcasts are commonly better than that (ie 64kbps or 96kbps mono MP3).There's also a significant interest in lossless compression systems such as FLAC (Free Lossless Audio Codec), and both Apple and Microsoft offer lossless encoding systems.As I said, perhaps not everyone cares as much as I do, but there is plenty of evidence that most people do care. Even if they didn't, I don't think the BBC's attitude to "broadcast quality" should be "the worst we can possibly get away with".
How easy, or how difficult, is it to add additional memory to my home PC, and can I find any help on the internet? Duncan Allison-NormanTheCrucial web sitehas a superb Memory Advisor that will scan your PC and give you upgrade options and, of course, sell you the extra chips you need. Fitting the chips is easy -- especially the second time you do it! (The first time can be a bit scary.) A web search should find some helpful pages such as Gamespot UK'sHow to Upgrade Your RAM.
Forbes.com's special games edition has a great analysis of popular social networking sites as games, and how new players in this sphere are explicitly adapting their services to emphasise goal-driven activities. They're doing this by combining the getting-to-know-you raisone d'etre of sites like MySpace with the mechanics of games. In other words, they're giving prizes to people who have the most friends. Rewards can vary from cash (up to $1,000 for achieving a "Level 10" popularity on Xuqa.com) to talent contracts (also on Xuqa), and other prizes (on the Yahoo!-owed Bix).For anyone who suffered through the interminable popularity contests of their schooldays, this may not be a welcome advance, but for game developers keen to tap into the female market, investing in social networking "games" could be the key to interactive success.The most interesting aspect of this article isn't this inevitable commoditisation of online community it's how social network site founders view what they're doing:"Any site with a digital incentive system--like currency, avatars and control over the environment--is a game," says [Xuqa founder] Moiz.In short, most could call themselves game designers. They're just developing a different type of game than you'd see on an Xbox.There is awell-documentedgender difference between who plays with traditional computer games and who plays in social networking sites. If computer games companies are interested in getting cash out of the female pocketbook, perhaps they should start investing in these social successes rather than pink consoles.
It's the last print edition of Technology for the year, and it's extra big (18% more pages than usual..). Give the changes in everyone's web use we've looked at the new 100 most useful sites - from activism and applications to video and zeitgeist. Plus much more...The new 100 most useful sitesTwo years ago most Britons didn't have broadband and Web 2.0 was barely a twinkle in a developer's eye. Things have changed - as our cream of the crop for 2006 shows.How the low-tech Wii won this year's console warKeith Stuart: As one of the most fascinating years in videogame history draws to a close, there is one story that stands out: the return of Nintendo.Are there really two million people using Second Life?You'd think so. With glowing press coverage, virtual world Second Life would appear to be going from strength to strength: last week it broke through the 2m sign-ups barrier.Why is it so much easier to use computers in films?Because if the computers in films were like the ones in real life, people would be endlessly turning them off and on again and standing around staring at the ceiling while they waited for a progress bar to inch across the screen.Motorola RIZR Z3A couple of months ago I took a look at Motorola's latest skinny clamshell phone, the KRZR. And I wasn't impressed. It seems that the company is still struggling to find a successor to the hugely popular RAZR. The RIZR, a sliding phone, is a step in the right direction.IPdrum IP Voice linkA few weeks ago the 3 network unveiled a mobile phone that enables users to make Skype VoIP calls for free. It could be a while until other networks follow 3's lead, which is why there is an opportunity for devices like the IPdrum IP Voicelink.AA Navigator ViveIn-car navigation system have suddenly hit commodity levels, with several devices now available for less than £100. The AA is looking for a slice of the action and it hopes that its brand will be enough to help sell this model, a rebadge of the Evesham Nav-Cam 7700.Cherish the BBC, the best innovator of allVictor Keegan: The BBC needs to be cut down to size because it uses the certainty of its licence fee to undermine entrepreneurial initiatives in the private sector. That is the accusation used by many of its rivals as they try to prevent the BBC from getting an above-inflation rise in its current licence application, a decision on which is imminent.TechnobileMichael Cross: Email signatures are the mark of a tosser. So how do I stop my BlackBerry telling my friends that I am one?Batteries, Wii, spam: you must remember 2006Fires and delays held up Sony, rivals dissed the iPod, sex.com was sold for $1m and everyone got their 15 minutes on YouTube.When good ideas for government sites go badMichael Cross: In the close competition for the most pathetic government website, we have a new contender. The deputy prime minister, John Prescott, told Parliament last week that his new departmental site "has recorded 2,771 separate visits and 6,836 page views since it went online in late August".Renewable energy runs into turbulence on the home frontBig wind farms are doing well - but poor turbine design means it's not yet feasible for the home user.Commercial case for free data rises overseasStudies of other countries show that funding models for government data subtly affect their usefulness.Are we being ripped off over software?With sterling at nearly $2, the price difference between here and the US looks starker than ever.US internet giants fail to break into the lucrative Chinese marketThe lack of Chinese success for companies like Yahoo!, eBay and Amazon is down to 'lazy corporate culture'.Ask JackSend your questions and comments toJack.Schofield@guardian.co.uk. Published letters will be edited for brevity, but include full details with your query.Visit ourAsk Jack weblogfor daily updates.Letters and blogsSend your letters, comments, questions and rants totech@guardian.co.uk, including (please)your name and post town.NewsbytesOptical joystick phone | Digg redug | Radio consultation | More portable viewers | Sky no limit | Games creator | Vista readiness | ThinkFree or buy
Here'sthe ELSPA full-price games top ten for Christmas. Just in case you can't follow the link, the top five is as follows:1. FIFA 2007zzzzzzzzzz 2. Carbon 3. WWE Something About Smacking 4. PES 5. Call of Really Loud BattlesHurrah for the imaginative game-buying public!
There's a rumour over on theNintendo.com forums, that information from the Wii weather channel affects in-game conditions in certain titles. For example, if users load up Madden while it's snowing outside - hey presto, it'll be snowing in the game (as long as they've registered their location correctly, I presume). This, of course, has been seen in flight sims for several years as well as a few mobile games, but might be a first on console. Or did Shenmue do it? I can't remember.Nintendo fans are currently fantasising over which games this would work well with - Animal Crossing being the obvious recipient.
Advertising games - or 'advergames' as they're also awkwardly known - are something we're going to see a lot more of in the future. The high-profile Burger King titles on Xbox Live are just the tip of a growing iceberg (agrowingiceberg - how incredibly un-21st century...). I enjoy checking out serious game sites like Watercooler Games to see what's going on in this strange little ghetto, and was not disappointed by theirlatest post- it turns out, toothbrush manufacturer Reach has commissioned a sort of dental hygiene RPG entitledMr Reach in the Mouth of Mysteryto teach Canadians about brushing their teeth. As the site explains:"The production value is very high, but the game is completely absurdcdist. For example, you have to use Reach products to solve (embarrassingly simple) puzzles - clean totem teeth to reveal secrets, use floss to pull levers."I'm pretty sure that advergames are going to become more subtle than this, and eventually we'll find ourselves playing downloadable titles - on PC, mobile or games console - only to find out halfway through that we're actually being sold something. We've already seen how companies are using blogs to secretly stimulate word-of-mouth buzz (I was going to link to Sony's www.alliwantforchristmasisapsp.com, but the site appears to be down...) - downloadable adverts disguised as games is the next step.
I didn't go to the recent Le Web conference, and confess I didn't pay much attention to Graham Holliday's remark on Comment Is Free,Live from Le Web, that "The most interesting session of the morning thus far has been from Hans Rosling, professor of international health at the Korlinska Instituet in Stockholm and co-founder of GapMinder."However, I've just watched an earlier Rosling talk onTED, and it's fascinating. Off topic? Maybe. It's about things like world population and income, life expectation and family size, and how things have changed over the past 40 years or so, but at the very end it does have something about the Internet and something important to us in particular, free data.I also notice that the Hello World 89 blog postedThe Man of Le Web 3 :: Hans Rosling NOT on bloggingwith links to the same talk on YouTube. In this case, the talk is in three parts. Whichever option you choose, I'm sure you won't regret watching it.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
"CondeNet, the digital division of Conde Nast, to give feedback on its plan to launchflip.com, a new Web site for teenage girls," reportsThe Wall Street Journal.Flip.com will offer girls a forum to create "flip books": multimedia scrapbooks of photographs, home-made music videos and other postings. CondeNet hopes to tap into the same creative flair that girls show when they decorate their school lockers or textbooks. The site is Conde Nast's answer to News Corp.'s MySpace, which -- along with similiar sites such as Facebook -- is drawing millions of young users and has made it difficult for magazine publishers to keep teenagers' attention. Flip is scheduled to debut in February, but 200,000 girls will be invited to a test launch today.
Rich Skrenta, co-founder and CEO of Topix.net, is fed up with hearing low numbers for Google's market share when he reckonsthe real number is around 70%.Let's start by agreeing that Rich is measuring something different: search referrals, rather than searches. However, referrals is actually a more important number, in reflecting successful searches rather than failed ones. (Who cares how many searches people run if they don't click on any of the results?)Anyway, Rich writes:I picked a basket of medium-to-large websites and looked at the inbound search traffic percentages using Hitwise. I included Topix in this mix, both because it's a representative content site, and also because I could double-check the Hitwise numbers against our own server logs and 3rd party measurements from Google Analytics.The results give Google a market share of 70.6%, followed by Yahoo (18.7%), Microsoft (8.9%) and Ask (1.7%). The numbers may not be exactly right, but who doesn't think they are in the right ball-park?Rich adds:My favorite example (not included in the above stats): According to Hitwise, Yahoo blogger Jeremy Zawodny gets 92% of his inbound search traffic from Google, and only 2.7% from Yahoo. :-)
The BBC has hooked up with peer-to-peer video siteZudeoto provide torrents of some of its most popular shows. According to the story on theBBC's own siteThe move follows a deal between the commercial arm of the organisation, BBC Worldwide, and technology firm Azureus.The agreement means that users of Azureus' Zudeo software in the US can download titles such as Little Britain.Brilliant, you might think. But look a bit closer and things don't look quite so good to me. All the programming is going to be paid-for (although no pricing strategy has been agreed) and wrapped in DRM. Yeuch. But I suppose this is BBC Worldwide, the international - and commercial - arm of the corporation.My question is "what about us in the UK?". As far as I can ascertain, none of this applies to UK consumers. We're still waiting the long-trailed interactive media player - which will let home viewers download and watch BBC programming over the net. Years after work first started, it's still not out for general consumption. Instead we have to watch as the Beeb makes deals with outside interests while we twiddle our thumbs waiting for the Real Deal.Isn't it madness when British viewers are the last to be able to get hold of BBC content?
Well, here they are - the games we most enjoyed playing this year. This is by absolutely no means an objective run-down. These are the games that caughtourimagination, or made us stay up too late on school nights. We know there are glaring ommissions, that was always going to happen.Also, we're doing a list each, because none of us really play the same sorts of games. That will become clear. Anyway, have a look and let us know what you think.We're also hoping to collate all your suggestions from the last 'games of the year' post into one definitive reader's list.GregLegend of Zelda: Twilight Princess (Nintendo, Wii/Gamecube)Any fears over brevity or controls were banished by this epic adventure that made up in ingenuity, pace and sense of place what it lacked in originality. Tricky puzzles, slightly nonsencial plot, loads to do and see - Twilight Princess was an interactive fairytale and a reminder how much fun this gaming thing can be.Oblivion: Elder Scrolls (Take 2, Xbox 360)Despite a few flaws - monsters increasing in strength as your character does - Oblivion was as ambitious a videogame as you'll see. The go anywhere, do anything - as long it involved swords, spells and collecting the odd flower - world was spectacular and there was even a plot of sorts. It may have lacked the eerie setting of predecessor Morrowind but Oblivion was a masterpiece whose landscape simply demanded exploration.Brain Training (Nintendo, DS)2006 was the year of the handheld, and the Nintendo DS in particular. Animal Crossing, Super Mario, Nintendogs - the DS had a corking year. Brain Training was the pick though, if only because it redefined what a videogame actually could be. From a mum picking it up to do a quick Sudoku puzzle to a teenager charting their mental progress each day, Brain Training was the ultimate guilty pleasure game.Shadow of the Colossus (Sony, PS2)Not as groundbreakingly beautiful as its spiritual predecessor Ico, Colossus nevertheless packed a memorable punch. The stars were the titular Colossi - sadly you had to defeat rather than admire them - but the washed out landscape was just as inspiring.Psychonauts (Majesco Europe, PS2/Xbox)An intelligent and surreally enjoyable platform romp that was criminally ignored on release. Now available to play on the 360, Psychonauts was simultaneously retro - tricky platform jumping - and forward looking with much of its appeal based on the narrative and characterisation.Stinker of the yearGears of War (Microsoft, Xbox 360)Not the worst game of the year by any means - Superman Returns probably takes that accolade - but as the game supposed to herald phase two of the next generation Gears fell way short. Comic book plot, musclebound heroes, shooting alien stuff - yes this was the same old teen schtick that some of us had hoped gaming had grown out of. Sure, Gears was good to look at and fun enough to play in short doses, but considering what it was hyped up to be Gears of War offered little more than bluster and cliché. Roll on Alan Wake.AleksDr. Kawashima's Brain Training: How old is your brain?What a game. Cleverly positioned across the mainstream market, didn't require too much of my time and responsible for some of the most consistent sessions I've had this side of Zelda: Majora's Mask. A perfect balance of skill-based puzzling and positive feedback. And ego stroking; my youngest age was 22.Loco RocoQuite possibly the only thing I use my PSP for except to surf the web on the go. Ridiculous fun. A joy to behold and so easy to play. Quite possibly one of the least-serious games I played this year, with the exception of...We (heart) KatamariIt's not a surprise that the only UK-release of this very silly title has my heart all rolled up in its big sticky ball. While it's not as consistently good as the original, I give it props, along with other silly games like Wario Ware, Bishi Bashi and Chu Chu Rocket for bringing the unadulterated fun back to a period of over-serious gaming.Samorost 2I can't welcome the return of this visually stunning independent web-game enough. It shrieks classic Eastern European animation (one of my favourite styles), and presents hyper-simplistic (yet conceptually clever) puzzles. It's worth spending a whole lot of time with this one.The Lost ExperienceAlthough Mind Candy's Perplex City was a successful Alternate Reality Game which reached out to an international audience, ABC's Lost Experience brought real-world community-based gaming to the masses. By using its enormous media-wrangled capital to infiltrate mainstream press, the gaming phenomenon captured attentions in a way that has never experienced in the US, mirrored in the UK only by the 1970s phenomenon Masquerade, which offered dreams of riches within its carefully constructed pages. For goodness sake, there were ads in People magazine! A truly excellent bit of interactive branding.Stinker of the yearKill Dat NiggaThe hyper-violent video game created for Spike Lee's 2006 flick Inside Man and shown on silicone for a split second (in the hands of an under-age kid) was, yes, based upon the idea of (and the controversy in the US surrounding) Grand Theft Auto. This and other film treatment of games in 2006 (think Stay Alive) offers a clear window into how people who don't play games view the entertainment genre. If things are ever going to change, these beacons of regard are to be taken very seriously indeed.KeithDead Rising (Capcom, Xbox 360)The controls are over complex and things get repetitive after a while, but I haven't laughed this much while playing a game for several years. The presentation is beautiful, filled with clever nods to classic zombie movies (beyond the obvious mall setting). And going at huge gangs of the undead armed only with a shop window dummy (or even better, a lawnmower) is a riot.Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter (Ubisoft, multi-platform)A cerebral and slow-paced shooter, which often suddenly exploded into moments of frenetic action - the glory of the game lies in this brittle, brilliant pacing. The multiplayer stuff was great, too, especially playing against Gamesblog readers. Doesn't have the sheer brain-numbing immersion of Call of Duty, but utterly engrossingbecauseof its more staid, considered approach.Defcon (Introversion, PC)A wonderfully designed, chillingly cold-blooded nuclear war simulator. The stark, stylised visuals seem to guess at our nightmares about the unreality of modern computerised combat. In the end, it's terrifying because its true.New Super Mario Brothers (Nintendo, DS)It was a toss up between this, Sonic and Phoenix Wright on the DS. Mario is what it always has been, a glowingly attractive, approachable 2D platformer that looks simple, but unravels a huge, multi-textured world at the feet of any dedicated gamer. Maybe a little easier than the 8 and 16bit iterations, but that's fine by me.Guitar Hero (Activision, PS2)Guitar Hero is certainly not the first game to use a musical instrument controller - it's not even the first to use a guitar controller, but it is a game that truly understands both the idiocy of miming to axe solos and the pleasure that it provides. Even more than SingStar, it is a social tool, a means of bringing people together, united in unselfconscious abandon. No Christmas will be truly complete without it.Stinker of the yearThe whole mobile games industryOh, there were afew decenttitles - Gameloft came up trumps as always with its Tom Clancy tie-ins, while Stranded was a fun little rip-off of Lost and Tower Bloxx managed to find new things to do with the block-sorting puzzler. But it was a year that, for the most part, lacked imagination; a year of dull, lifeless movie and console conversions; a year of desperately, pointlessly trying to get 3D visuals to work. In 2007, everyone in the industry is going to be thinking about social networking and TV - games may get lost in the stampede. On current form, few will mourn. Andthat'ssad.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
"Works from Shakespeare, Chaucer, Wordsworth and D H Lawrence challenge readers because of their unusual words, tricky sentence structure and the repetition of phrases," reports theDaily Telegraph.English professors at Liverpool University who teamed up with neuroscientists armed with brain-imaging equipment found that this challenge causes the brain to light up with electrical activity. Professor Philip Davis, who led the study at the university's department of English, said: "The brain appears to become baffled by something unexpected in the text that jolts it into a higher level of thinking.The researchers "were also able to identify that the Shakespeare sparked activity across a far wider area of the brain than 'plain' text, with the greatest concentration in a key area associated with language in the temporal lobe known as the Sylvian Fissure."
One of my predictions of next year is that an independent game will achieve the limelight it deserves. There's no reason superstars of the indie world shouldn't achieve mainstream success, except, well, the stranglehold mainstream publishers have on the market and the lack of distribution channels beyond the PC.When the Xbox 360 was released at the end of 2005, Microsoft intimated that they would open up the console to homebrew games. That moment has arrived. With caveats, of course.Jane at GameGirlAdvance tipped me off to the announcement last week, pointing us to theGamasutrareport, which highlights the restrictions hopeful developers will experience when bringing their opuses to the home console. From GGA:Today Microsoft launched XNA Game Studio Express and XNA Creator's Club, one an application for game-making that runs on Windows XP, and the other a service that costs $99 a year and provides members with "access to thousands of game assets from Microsoft and key supporters such as Turbo Squid Inc., as well as 'white papers, specialized starter kits, samples and technical product support to help turn [your game] into a reality'"AsManifesto Games'Greg Costikyanargues in the comments, however:Bah.Aspiring game developers can create games to which they retain all rights and may freely distribute however they desire, commercially or for free, if they develop them for open platforms like PC, Mac, or Linux. Or they can develop games under these stringent limitations for Xbox.How is this an advance?While I appreciate Costikyan's sentiment, I'd argue that it's a profound step for a proprietary home console to (at least in name) allow homebrewed games. Correct me if I'm wrong, but I think Joe and Jane Bloggs thinks the products in the category "comupter games" belong to dedicated machines which live underneath the television. By this, of course, I mean those things created by Sony, Nintendo or Microsoft. So by allowing content that doesn't require the laborious (and expensive) process of studio-based, commissioned development means that the mainstream may have new options.If MySpace can be credited with the creation of the Arctic Monkeys phenomenon (whether it's a correct assertion or not), wouldn't it be neat if one of the major consoles could be the platform which produces a new computer game development star?
2K Games has released a new trailer of its promising FPS,Bioshock, and I've put it on the Gamesblog YouTube page! It was created for theSpike TV videogame awardsand features a few new snippets of in-game action.I won't embed the video here as it's quite large, soplease follow this linkdirectly to YouTube.
In its special report on computer games,Forbes.comhas a great overview on the manifold reasons why computer gamers cheat. Author and academicMia Consalvotakes the reader through four of the primary motives which her extensive research has highlighted: "they're stuck, they want to play God, they are bored with the game or they want to be a jerk."Ultimately, Consalvo argues that cheating - from looking up the next moves on an FAQ to buying levels in an online game from eBay to streaming data about an opponent's poker hand - isn't necessarily bad.As counter-intuitive as it may seem, cheating can sometimes be good for you. It can keep you active and involved in a game, reward game play and allow expert players to teach others. It can indicate to developers when games are too hard or flawed, and it can even help a community form.The whole thing can be foundhere. More extensive coverage will be forthcoming in her bookCheating: Gaining Advantage in Videogames.
European gamers who signed up with Sony to receive PS3 news were sent an email on Friday morning informing them that they can now set-up their own Online IDs - these are the names PS3 owners use when chatting and playing on the PlayStation Network. It may seem a strange tactic - to make an Online ID available three months before the console launches - but European gamers have complained that, by Spring, all the decent tags will be taken by PS3 owners in other territories. This should allow us Brits to get in there and secure desirable handles that don't require reams of numbers after them.The mail may also dispel some nagging doubts about the launch date - it begins with the unmistakable message, "In March 2007 PlayStation3 hits the streets in Europe". That'sMarch, not September as some wags have been suggesting... You can access the application pages viathis poston the semi-offical blog, ThreeSpeech.ThreeSpeech has alsoposted an interesting selection of PS3 facts and rumoursbased on conversations with Sony personnel at a publicity event in London, organised for the blogging community. Among the titbits: an assurance that PS3 will arrive inearlyMarch (i.e. wihin the first two weeks) and that the 60GB versionmaybe cheaper than the previously suggested GBP425 price point. Finally, March should see the debut of the new HD EyeToy and Sing Store, a downloadable karaoke music service for SingStar users.
The Christian Science Monitorhas a report about some ongoing reserach by Rosalind Picard's Affective Computing Group at MIT:"Mind Reader" uses input from a video camera to perform real-time analysis of facial expressions. Using color-coded graphics, it reports whether you seem "interested" or "agreeing" or if you're "confused" about what you've just heard. (You canread moreabout Picard and postdoc researcher Rana el Kaliouby's project in detail on MIT's website).The system was developed to help people with autism read emotions, as they have difficulty decoding when others are bored, angry, or flirting. Their lack of responsiveness makes them seem insensitive to others. Ms. Picard's team uses cameras worn around the neck or on baseball caps to record faces, which the software can then decode.The second page of the story looks at other systems.....
"A couple of days ago, Brain Lam of Gizmodo played a cruel joke on the world, promising details of an iPhone1, which he hinted would be launched on Monday, December 18th," reportsOm Malik.It is an iPhone, but fromCisco-owned Linksys. Malik adds:The iPhone branding could pose some serious challenges for Apple, if and when it introduces its own phone. Cisco/Linksys are risking the ire of King Steve by brilliantly usurping the iPhone branding, and turning the rumored-hype to their advantage.
Among the letters we received this week about the magnetic fridge was one from Stephen Lawrence of the Cambridge Green Party. It contains an interesting idea which we thought we'd float here to see whether it sounds workable:I'm wondering whether a high-efficiency tumble drier can be made using a vacuum pump. Pump the air out of the clothes container and the dampness in the clothes vaporizes and the water is itself pumped out. Just need to make sure the clothes will be OK under v. low pressure - and that the energy required is less than straight heating. Seems plausible.(The reason why the dampness would vapourise is that water has a lower boiling point at low pressure. We'll link to somesteam tables... which shows that at 15C, an average room temperature, you'd need to get down to about 1/100th of atmospheric pressure to get that to be the boiling point.)Our first thoughts: you'd need to build much sturdier tumble driers, since normal ones would crumple if you applied a vacuum in the centre. (But steel is quite cheap.) Also, do any clothes trap air naturally? Those might rip, or at least be affected (think of a Gore-tex jacket with a velcro-fastened pocket: is the water going to be forced out of the pores as it evaporates? Is that bad?).Anyone tried this, perhaps, as one of those mechanical engineering student pranks?
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Edge magazine has announced the winners of its 2006 awards. Predictably, Nintendo has fared rather well although the choice of Best Publisher might prompt the odd raised eyebrow.Here's the complete list, due to be published in the Awards issue on December 21:Best Game - Final Fantasy XII Best Innovation - Nintendo Wii Best Visual Design - Okami Best Audio Design - Dragon Quest: The Journey Of The Cursed Kin Best Developer - Nintendo Best Publisher - Take Two Best Online Experience - Test Drive Unlimited Best Hardware - Nintendo DSWith Take Two, I presume they've included the RockStar label with its PSP GTA titles as well as Table Tennis and Canis Canem Edit. Ubisoft must have run them pretty close...
I've been spending a lot of time showing off the Wii to friends and family -Wii Sports bowling has become the favourite - and their positive reaction appears to fully vindicate Nintendo's aim to appeal to everyone. All well, and good, but perhaps more of a surprise to me has been the response when I've hooked up another new bit of kit, the HD-DVD drive for the 360. Love at first sight is perhaps the best way to describe it. Not for the clunky hardware obviously - the HD-DVD drive, which requires yet another plug socket behind your TV, is hefty and obtrusive - but for the excellent picture.I'd always thought HD-DVD and Blu Ray would be a harder sell with none of the obvious benefits that DVD originally had over VHS, but the high def formats are both mightily impressive to look at. I've seen both HD-DVD and Blu-Ray on the PS3 and it was hard to see any difference - though Blu Ray's greater storage capacity may help it in the longer term.The HD-DVD drive is surprisingly quiet too, with the 360 running at dashboard volume levels rather than the normal game/dvd roar . Obviously the inbuilt drive of the PS3 is a neater option but if you can put up with more cables and boxes the 360s HD-DVD drive gives a great picture for a good price.
Admit it. You booted up, logged on and entered the name "Steve Irwin" into the Google search box. If you didn't, plenty of others did, according to a survey by the internet group, which found that the life and bizarre death of the Australian crocodile hunter was among the most popular search items in the UK this year.Surpassed only by video searches and queries about the World Cup, Irwin, who was killed by a stingray barb to the heart, features in the list of the UK's top 10 fastest-growing queries, and also in a separate list as the most searched-for celebrity. Other areas of interest were television programmes Lost and Big Brother, the Transport for London website, and a perennial favourite: tomorrow's weather forecast.One of the biggest and most detailed surveys of its kind from Google - published today - gives a snapshot of "stories of 2006", showing the subjects and personalities that have proved the most popular search items during the year.The 2006 End of Year UK Zeitgeist reveals that the celebrity wedding that most gripped us was the Scientology ceremony of Katie Holmes and Tom Cruise, followed closely by Cruise's former wife Nicole Kidman's marriage to country crooner Keith Urban. In third place were Ashley Cole's nuptials to Girls Aloud's Cheryl Tweedie.In the divorce realm, Britney Spears and Paul McCartney rank the highest, followed by Reece Witherspoon and Ryan Phillipe. Enimen makes it into both the marriage and divorce category.Google has aggregated all the year's queries, examining the billions of searches from the last 12 months to give a glimpse of what makes the UK tick.
Time magazine has createdthe world's best ever linkbait articlewith its latest Man of the Year, or, to be politically correct,Person of the Year: it's you.In a heroic piece of puffery, Time stoically ignores the reality (and misunderstands Tim Berners-Lee) to give us the award because of what we did:We made Facebook profiles and Second Life avatars and reviewed books at Amazon and recorded podcasts. We blogged about our candidates losing and wrote songs about getting dumped. We camcordered bombing runs and built open-source software.Except we didn't. of course. As Yahoo'sBradley Horowitz has pointed out, the web actually has about one creator for every 10 people who participate and for every 100 who merely consume, based on Yahoo Groups. Based on YouTube, it might well be 0.01 to 1.00 to 100.Well, to be fair, Time doesn't entirely ignore the reality. There's a rider towards the end:Sure, it's a mistake to romanticize all this any more than is strictly necessary. Web 2.0 harnesses the stupidity of crowds as well as its wisdom. Some of the comments on YouTube make you weep for the future of humanity just for the spelling alone, never mind the obscenity and the naked hatred.On the other hand, it's not easy to think of someone who actually deserved the title, apart from Sacha Baron Cohen:Gawker tried, and Time isopen to suggestions). They've already given the accolade to the great George W Bushtwiceso it was probably down to a face-off between Google's Eric Schmidt and Paris Hilton.
Google is on the move. The internet giant has held talks with Orange, the mobile phone operator, about a multi-billion-dollar partnership to create a 'Google phone' which makes it easy to search the web wherever you are.The collaboration between two of the most powerful brands in technology is seen as a potential catalyst for making internet use of mobile phones as natural as on desktop computers and laptops.Executives from Orange flew to Silicon Valley in California for a meeting at Google's headquarters, or 'Googleplex', to hold preliminary discussions about a joint deal. The companies believe that they have an affinity as brands that are perceived as both 'positive' and 'innovative'.Their plans centre on a branded Google phone, which would probably also carry Orange's logo. The device would not be revolutionary: manufactured by HTC, a Taiwanese firm specialising in smart phones and Personal Data Assistants (PDAs), it might have a screen similar to a video iPod. But it would have built-in Google software which would dramatically improve on the slow and cumbersome experience of surfing the web from a mobile handset.A source close to the talks told The Observer: 'Google are software experts and are doing some amazing work compressing data so that the mobile user gets a much better experience. They don't know so much about mobiles, but they are eager to learn from Orange's years of experience.'Among the potential benefits are location-based searches: aware of your handset's geographical position, Google could offer a tailored list of local cinemas, restaurants and other amenities, and maps and images from Google Earth. It is believed that the Google phone would not go on sale before 2008.Google value the expertise of Orange, which is owned by France Telecom, Europe's second-largest telecoms group. A joint deal could be highly lucrative. Google recently became Silicon Valley's most valuable business at &pound;81bn, although it still has a long way to go to eclipse the Seattle-based Microsoft. France Telecom has had a rockier spell, but this year announced sales of &pound;33bn.Tony Cooper, a telecoms consultant at Deloitte, said: 'There are numerous situations in which people say "I wish I had Google in my hand", and I can imagine the younger generation of users would think that a Google phone is a cool idea. It could bring in location-based searches like "Find a Thai restaurant in my area".'He added: 'It has a potential to be a success, and to offer commercial success for both companies, particularly if Orange can link it to its broadband offering. If I was Orange, I'd want to get a share of the ad click-through revenues; if I was Google, I'd want a share of the airtime revenue. The potential stumbling block is if it's clunky and hard to use.'Google already offers its search engine and other services on mobile phones. It has a partnership with Vodafone and last month announced a broadband agreement with the operator 3. It is working to make youTube, the video-sharing site it bought recently for &pound;870m, easily accessible on handsets. But it is eager to expand in what experts see as a huge potential market, possibly the key to the future of the internet.Manufacturers such as Nokia and Motorola are working to make the mobile internet commonplace. Earlier this year Anssi Vanjoki, executive vice-president of Nokia, said at a product show in New York: 'In the mid-Nineties I said that if you don't have a mobile phone you will be making a declaration that you wanted to be outside organised society. People said I was crazy, but now everybody has a mobile phone. Today I'm saying that in 10 years' time the same will be true if you don't have the full internet in your pocket.A spokesman for Google said: 'We don't comment on market speculation and rumour, but we are focused on mobile and there's nothing new in our commitment to that space.' Orange declined to comment.
Traditionally, people kept diaries of their innermost thoughts, safe in the knowledge that no one would ever publish them. Nowadays, millions of people publish their innermost thoughts as internet blogs, safe in the knowledge that no one will ever read them.Blogging has the same effect on your innermost thoughts as inviting a TV crew into your home. Bloggers think what they want to communicate rather than communicating what they think. Ninety per cent of the people who read your blog live within six miles of your computer. The other 10% read it on your computer. It's never a good idea to blog about your workplace. When you complain about your boss doing nothing at work, you'll soon find the one thing he makes sure he does is read your blog.Blogs are how teenagers hang around on street corners without leaving their bedroom. It's an ideal place to say everything your parents don't want to hear. "I don't know what to write about today," is not a good way of starting a blog. You'll notice that none of the great works of literature start with that line.Bloggers' law is that the more time you spend blogging, the less you'll have to write about. Posting bad things on your blog is like dumping rubbish in space. Eventually it will fall to earth and could hurt someone, very possibly you.Have a name for your blog. If anonymity is important for you, avoid Ian Smith's Blog. Go for something weary and cynical because this is the default mode for bloggers. Sunny Thoughts For Today will get you precisely no readers because people with sunny thoughts are generally outside playing, not online suppurating.There's nothing more surprising and enjoyable than getting a comment on your blog. This shows someone is reading what you're writing. They may hate it, but people took time to appreciate Chekhov.Never meet someone you contacted through a blog. Your disappointment in them will be as nothing compared with their disappointment in you. It's then a rush to see who can blog their disappointment first.&#183;Office Politics: How Work Really Works, by Guy Browning, is published by Ebury Press at &pound;9.99
To read all the past week's posts on one page, clickhereSimplicity is highly overratedChristmas madness: the Geek TreeSergeant Pepper, the first alternate reality gameLe Web: time to say non?Revisiting the best of the web: what are your favourites?Copycatism -- and a cutting response from MattiTunes sales 'collapsing', maybeWired's Cult of Mac man praises Zune shock horrorHaving fun with what Google can't doPerpetual motion: fact or fiction?Le Web conference, and Le BacklashSecond Life -- two million today or what?Forrester corrects iTunes story, upbraids pressLe Web meltdown hits Techcrunch UKJeff Raikes interview -- the whole thingGowers: IP a 'priesthood' and 'lobbyist's playground'AMD's roadmap includes new category of chips
Pixel Chixfrom &#163;19.99A virtual girl with a voice like Olive Oyl with an endless appetite for talking and eating pizza.Cubeworldfrom &#163;17.95Four cubes that bring together stick people who climb into each other's cubes .20Qfrom &#163;8.49Electronic variation on the animal, vegetable, mineral game that guesses what you're thinking of in less than 20 attemptsLeapster Multimedia Learning Systemfrom &#163;48.99Play Scooby-Doo games and learn to read on this console for kids who are too young for shoot-'em-upsi-fishfrom &#163;39.99Set this colourful fish next to music and it will swish to the beat, make bubble noises and ripple with colourRobo-bugsfrom &#163;14.99Tiny robots that can be controlled with any TV remote and used to wake up (or just annoy) family membersTwisterz James Bond Launcherfrom &#163;14.99Stick special Corgi cars in a twisting machine that spits them out. The George Lazenby of boys' toys.
Nintendo yesterday offered to replace millions of wrist straps for its Wii video game controllers, after dozens of gamers complained of injuries caused by the gadgets.Players around the world have been left battered and bruised after losing their grip on the controllers for the new console.The &pound;179 Wii has proved incredibly successful thanks to its hi-tech controller, which replaces a traditional joystick with a motion-sensitive remote control.Players are able to join in games simply by imitating the action of a tennis racket, sword or golf club. But many owners have lost control of the gizmos - leading to reports of bruised heads, black eyes and broken television sets.As a result, Nintendo has offered to take back any of the 3.2m wrist straps in circulation, replacing them with more durable equivalents.The company denied that the offer amounted to a recall, saying players were merely failing to follow on-screen guidance to securely strap the device on to their wrists. But the internet has been flooded with reports of "wiinjuries".The Wii has proved to be one of the biggest console launches in history, selling more than 300,000 units across Europe last weekend alone.Parents desperate to get hold of one for Christmas have been turning toeBay.co.uk, but are being advised to keep trying normal channels. "There's more stock coming in all the time," said Nintendo.
MondayVirtual violence, real punishmentNew Sony viral marketing ploy angers consumersTuesdayIndie games festival awards announcedWii games hit chartDevelopers sign up with glowy TVWednesdayShop for gamesTeenagers are mute. games to blamePenny-pinchers told, "go retro!"ThursdayReviews and Second LifeWhy interacting with a game is betterActess reveals Assassin's secretsBlue Dragon beats ZeldaFridayXbox goes psychoNintendo replaces wrist strapsSega announces Aliens
Keen to make the most of its newly signed licensing deal, Sega has announced two prrojects based around the hit Alien movies. Two days ago, the company revealed that Neverwinter Nights 2 codeshop,Obsidianwould be working on an Alien RPG. The press release gloats, that the project will be bringing, "the Alien franchise to role-playing gamers for the first time."WRONG!They are clearly forgetting the tense and incredibly difficult RPG-likeconversion of Alien, released by Argus Press on the C64 and Spectrum in 1984 and developed by Argonaut.Er... anyway, Sega has announced a new project today...Gearboxwill be developing an FPS based on the movie series. Having previously worked on spin-offs and add-ons in the Brothers in Arms, Halo and Half Life franchises, it's a sensible choice.As you can probably tell, details are more sparse than LV-426. The press releases filled with the usual self-congratulations and promises of incredible next-gen experiences.How about some unlikely Sega/Alien crossover games for the 360 and PS3 download services? Sonic vs Aliens? Super Monkey Aliens? Samba De Alien?The official website ishere.
