Amazon is expected to launch a new version of its 7in Kindle Fire tablet on Thursday 6 September, after chief executive Jeff Bezos claimed that the product was "sold out" - though the latter claim has beenchallengedby Jon Erlichman of Bloomberg TV.Analysts estimate that from figures announced by Bezos, in all between 5m and 6m Kindle Fires – which are fully functional tablet computers, unlike the black-and-white Kindle e-reader – have been shippedsoldin the US since its launch.The online retailer will hold a media event in Santa Monica, California, where a new version of the tablet is anticipated. Bezos claims the Kindle Fire has taken 22% of the US tablet market since its launch in October 2011. A European launch is also on the cards, after Amazon unveiled a version of its Amazon Market for Kindle Fire apps on Thursday.The US price for the first Kindle Fire was $199, but there is no indication of UK or European prices. The next version is expected to bring a higher-quality screen than the first. Amazon is believed to be losing money on each tablet sold, but recoups it in profits on content people buy from its music, video and web stores, which are tightly woven into the core software.Nokia: "I wouldn't be surprised"Although the Kindle Fire is based on Google's Android software, it does not connect to Google's app market or services. Instead, it is understood that it will introduce mapping services built by struggling phone-maker Nokia, whose NavTeq subsidiary already provides mapping data for Microsoft's Bing search engine.The tie-up will be a fresh blow to Google, whose maps and video services will cease to be the default once Apple's next iPhone launches, expected to be on 12 September.Nokia declined to comment on whether its maps would be used on the Kindle Fire, but one company official said it would "not be a surprise" as several car manufacturers have teamed up with the Finnish company on location services in recent months.The contract with Amazon is a coup for Nokia, but a loss for Google in the tablet space. Apple's iPad dominates in tablets, and the Kindle Fire is reckoned to have been in second place in the US. However, map use is far greater in smartphones than in tablets.Bezossaid in a statementthat the Kindle Fire had been the "No1 best-selling product across the millions of items available on Amazon" since its launch four months ago. He also claimed that "in just nine months, Kindle Fire has captured 22% of tablet sales in the US".But his claim that the tablet was sold out was challenged by Bloomberg TV, which said it had called a sample of retailers around San Francisco and found 56% with a Kindle Fire on the shelves.Figures laid outThough neither Amazon nor Bezos has ever given sales figures for any version of the Kindle, the numbers he provided for the proportion of tablet sales has given analysts sufficient space to estimate sales, based on figures that appeared in the Apple-Samsung case in California.There, both Apple and Samsung provided figures for their US sales of phones and tablets by quarter since mid-2012.Horace Dediu, founder of the Asymco consultancy,reckonsthat over the nine months the rest of the US tablet market totalled 22.7m units – and that Bezos' number suggests an initial production run of 5m, which is now exhausted.But he said that it was "not an auspicious start" because the limited production run, of which an estimated 2m were sold in the first three months, suggests "it was not planning it as a maximisation of reach into the market. What they did was order a batch production and then wait for it to be sold through."Benedict Evans, of Enders Analysis,suggeststhat the number could be higher, at 6m to 6.5m units, but adds "only Amazon really knows – and probably only a few dozen people even inside Amazon."Bloomberg's Erlichman reported that more than half of stores he had called said they had Kindle Fires on their shelves to sell.
Do you know why America fared so badly at Pearl Harbor, leading to the deaths of thousands of men that would draw them into the killing fields of the second world war? It's not because they were under-prepared (although they were) – it was due to the fact that they placed the entirety of their airborne defence in the hands of a single inexperienced pilot who crashed explosively into nearby buildings at every opportunity.Damage Inc is a second world war flight sim, giving the player control of Bobby – a pilot defending the Pacific against Japanese forces. Despite his propensity for crashing into the ground whenever he tries to shoot at anything below his level and his inability to take off without wobbling the plane around like a trolley with a broken wheel, Bobby is frequently entrusted with defending important military installations against the wrath of Japan because Bobby can slow down time.Pushing the right shoulder button (or one of the switches on the joystick in an arm-crossing uncomfortable position) makes time slow to a crawl, the camera zoom in, and everything including your target uncomfortably blurry. There's no limit on how much this can be used, so dogfights are often nothing more than a race to the enemy planes before hitting the magical slow-motion button and calmly blowing them away.This game makes Ben Affleck look like a good actorBobby's quest for revenge and glory following the death of his brother Jimmy thanks to a Japanese attack gets fairly ridiculous quick off the bat – within an hour of the game starting, he manages to outperform the unfortunately-namedRichard Ira "Dick" Bong, the United States' highest-scoring flying ace, with his 41st kill in the air. Despite Damage Inc's promises of realism, this game is closer to the film version of Pearl Harbor than it is to the event itself.It's worse-acted than the film, even, having the appearance of being made on a shoestring in an attempt to flog joysticks – the game comes boxed with a giant, reassuringly chunky joystick specifically designed for your console – as no one sounds like they've read their lines more than once. Bobby reads his words like he's a robot discovering language for the first time. It's both over-written and under-written at the same time which almost counts an achievement.At one point, a dramatic cutscene triggered just after my plane crashed and played all the way through without any voice acting or my plane anywhere to be seen, before the game told me I had failed the mission. When I restarted the cutscene played again, but this time it consisted of 45 seconds of footage of water glitching into the skybox with the voices of Bobby and his control tower droning on about loss and virtue before I was congratulated with mission success.The missions themselves get repetitive quickly and often fail to excite, which is a fair assessment of the majority of military life but not much fun to endure as a paying customer.The game starts off ugly and resolutely stays there. The planes, which given more budget could have been properly fetishised into gleaming, decal-strewn machines of death instead look thin and unreal. The buildings on the ground, which you're encouraged to buzz past as part of your very first mission, look grubby and low-resolution.The explosions are quite nice, although nowhere near the oil-leaking twisted steel pornography of Konami's Ace Combat (released last year, presumably with a lot more money behind it and a casual disregard for historical accuracy).All told, the production values of the game are so low as to date it almost 10 years, feeling like a game you might have played on a friend's computer or downloaded off a demo disc from the front of a PC mag.What's joyful and sticky?That joystick, while it's a pleasure to hold and wiggle around while you make machinegun noises and wait for the game to load, is inexact and didn't appear to even work properly. More than once it failed to navigate the menus or trigger features on the plane when appropriate buttons were pushed.Joysticks might be authentic, but experimenting with a standard joypad provided much easier control with all the relevant buttons in reach of fingers and much more precise control over the plane's movements with the thumbsticks. There's a reason we hold pencils at the pointy end, rather than grasping the bit with the rubber on it and jabbing it at the paper.That said, the big throttle control on the back of the joystick is dead fun to use and far superior to fiddling with the right thumbstick.Promises, promisesThe name Damage Inc promises more than the game can offer – that, coupled with the boxart, promises rag-tag groups of survivors, daring missions, and those really cool plane decals which feature either sharks or flames or busty pin-up ladies. Conversely, the joystick bundled in the squadron leader's edition and the assurances of realism promise a serious sim for serious people.But it's neither. It's on consoles, which is the wrong place for it; it's available on the PC too, but there are far better and more suitable titles for your money to be found already on release on every platform.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Samsung has been showing off its new television sets at theIFA 2012consumer electronics event in Berlin – and it seems super high-specs aren't enough to sell modern flatscreen HD displays anymore. You need games as well. Specifically one game in particular: Angry Birds.While showing off its new 75-inch LED ES9000 Smart TV, complete with internet access and specialist app store, the company revealed a new version of Angry Birds, which can be played with the television's gesture control technology. Rather like the Xbox Kinect technology, Samsung's catchily titled 'Smart TV with Gesture Control' range all have a built-in camera that lets you control your television by wafting your arms around. For Angry Birds, you'll be able to catapult your furious avian missiles by... doing some sort of catapult gesture.It's interesting in the HD era, where pretty much every LCD set features variations on the same display technology, and most punters can't tell the difference anymore, manufacturers are having to become a bit more imaginative about how they differentiate their products. Turning televisions into gaming and web access devices seems to be the way ahead. Samsung's app store already boasts over 2000 applications.It's certainly not alone. The latest TVs from LG also havetheir own app store. Meanwhile, tech firm Ubitus, has been showing its GPU-accelerated cloud gaming solution,GameCloud, to television manufacturers at IFA – this will allow the next generation of TVs to stream hi-end console-type games – without the need for any sort of specialist gaming box. Interesting times.
Alternative keyboard apps like SwiftKey and Swype have been popular on Android, where they're able to replace the default touchscreen keyboard across the OS. Less so on iOS, where they can't do that.That hasn't stoppedSyntelliaand itsFleksy app. Launched in July 2012, it's a minimalist keyboard – just letters, no symbols – which uses swipe gestures for spaces and punctuation. It's for two distinct groups of users: blind and visually impaired people, and sighted users.I had thought Fleksy started off targeting the former group, then crossed over to the latter. In fact, that's not true, as co-founder Ioannis Verdelis explains."We didn't actually start off looking at accessibility, we started off looking at typing on a smartphone, and whether there was a better way to solve that problem," says Verdelis."At a later point, when the prototypes were delivering that, we decided to go after the visually impaired market, where the technology might have the most impact."The other co-founder of Syntellia, Kostas Eleftheriou, had previously developed a keyboard app called BlindType, which was acquired by Google.Eleftheriou compares the new app to wheelchair ramps in the real world: "Wheelchair users use them first, but then other people realise it's easier to walk up the ramp too."He adds that Fleksy's blend of letter-buttons and punctuation gestures aims to strike a balance between traditional keyboard layouts and modern touchscreen devices.When Fleksy launched, it cost £10.49 – expensive by mainstream app standards, although less so in the world of accessibility software. In August, the company shifted strategy, making the app free in its basic version.A £2.99 in-app purchase now upgrades the app to the full version, which adds an interface to Apple's native Mail and Messages apps, as well as Twitter. Eleftheriou says this is aimed more at visually impaired users.Why iOS first, when the market for keyboard replacement apps is mainly on Android? That's one reason: less competition. However, Eleftheriou says there were other reasons too."Visually impaired people currently use iPhones much more than Android," he says. "iPhone was accessible much earlier than Android, and we think catering for that market will get us nine times more users, making up for the restrictions we have in not being able to replace the preloaded keyboard."That's not to say Android isn't on Syntellia's agenda. In fact, the company is working on plans to preload its app on Android devices through partnerships with manufacturers – something SwiftKey isalso trying to do.Syntellia is also keen for other app developers to use its software development kit (SDK) to embed its keyboard in their own apps, particularly text-heavy apps like email, Twitter and messaging apps, as well as web browsers.One challenge for Fleksy is what balance to strike between features for sighted and visually impaired users in future updates, even if a large number of features will benefit both groups."We've had some very interesting feedback from blind people, many of whom are against the idea of applications made specifically for their needs," says Eleftheriou."They basically say 'look guys, you want to push this to the sighted market, and by doing so, that makes it more accessible and more affordable for the blind'."For now, Fleksy isn't divulging any download or conversion figures for the app, but the company is raising funding to help it scale up to build new features and provide more language-localisation.
As our TVs have got bigger and flatter, the one thing that's suffered has been the sound.The picture quality just keeps getting better and better, as the resolution keeps getting higher. But the thinner the screen, the poorer the speakers.Which is why the rise of the flat-screen TV has seen a boom in the sale of home theatre speaker packages.But the Bose VideoWave Entertainment System neatly manages to fit everything into the one box – a great-looking 1080p LCD flatscreen HDTV with a 5.1 surround-sound speaker system built in.OK, to be totally fair, it's not exactly a "flat" screen. While it's certainly not the size of an old CRT TV set (remember them?), it's nowhere near the slimline proportions of today's ultra-thin models that make Kate Moss look like John Goodman.The set's depth runs at a not-too-hefty 5.5in (14cm) for the 55in model and 5.9in (15.2cm) for the 46in model. The 55in screen weighs in at 60kg, with the 46in a touch lighter at 48.1kg.The screen resolution is 1920 x 1080p, with a 16:9 aspect ratio and a refresh rate of 100Hz. The TV does come with a stand, but despite the weight, and depth, it can be wall mounted.As modern TVs go, it's not going to win any design awards – the rather plain-looking black set would look quite out of place in an Apple Store. But it's when it's switched on that the Bose screen shines. The picture quality is superb, and the matte screen is reasonably non-reflective, which gives a great viewing experience.But with Bose, it's all about the sound, and the VideoWave's major selling point is the built-in speakers. There are seven all up – six high-performance woofers and a proprietary acoustic waveguide. The sound is amazing, exactly what you'd expect to get from a decent component home theatre  system.The sound is crisp and clear, with plenty of rumbling base when needed – and you do get the true 5.1 surround sound experience. So the beauty of this setup is that you can get a true home theatre setup without the need for multiple speakers and wires running all over your living room.The VideoWave screen is simply a slave – with all those speakers inside, there is no room for a tuner, or anything else. The cabinet has just two connectors – one for the power supply, and one for the control console that runs the system.Surprisingly, the console doesn't have a TV tuner in it either, which means that you need to plug a separate digital set-top box into it.The console measures 15.5in x 9.5in x3.1in and controls all the separate components, from the digital box through to DVD and Blu-ray players as well as games consoles and even your computer.The control deck lets you hook up quite a bit of kit to it. The rear panel has three HDMI inputs, two high-definition component A/V inputs and one USB input. The front panel     has one HDMI input, one analogue A/V input, one USB input for photo viewing only and a 1 headphone jack.All this is controlled by a single, stripped back remote. It has just six main buttons on it – on/off,  source selector, volume control, channel change, mute and last channel.What it does have in the middle is a click pad, much like those on the early iPods. As you use it, all the functions appear in a frame around the edge of the screen, meaning that you never need to look away from the TV to change channel, or source, or fast forward through a movie.The remotes for all your other devices sync to it, making it simple to control everything with just the one device. But this is where I encountered a few problems.For a start, my Blu-ray player is a PlayStation 3, which uses a Bluetooth remote – and hence it won't sync to the infrared Bose controller. I also have a rather obscure brand set-top box, which did sync to the remote, but not completely – some of the functions were missing.I also found the touchpad a little over-sensitive, which made it hard to precisely choose a function. All of which means that  I tended to use my separate remotes for TV viewing and watching movies on DVD or Blu-ray.Still, it's a minor annoyance for such an impressive home entertainment setup. The VideoWave even comes with an iPod/iPhone dock to listen to your music when there's nothing to watch on TV.The big sticking point will probably be the price – it's not the cheapest telly on the market.The VideoWave system with a 46in screen is £3,800. The new VideoWave II system is £4,700 for the 46in model and £5,500 for the 55in model.When you consider that a standard 46in flatscreen TV will set you back about £600, then yes, it's a lot of money to pay. But if you're looking to buy a brand new HDTV along with a home theatre setup, then the Bose VideoWave is certainly worth a test drive.Pros:Exceptional sound quality and picture; home-cinema quality without all those annoying wires.Cons:The price; glitchy remote; the lack of a TV tuner.Bose.co.uk
This is the latest version of our now-weekly Android apps roundup, spotlighting the best new apps from the last seven days. It doesn't include games – they geta separate roundup. Meanwhile, the weekly iOS apps roundupcan be found here.Here's this week's Android selection:Amazon AppstoreAmazon's Android app store, er, app has been out for some time in the US. Now it'savailable in the UK and other European countriestoo, via a download link on the Amazon website. The app enables you to browse apps, get recommendations and download them to the device, while also offering Amazon's daily free app deal.SkyDriveMicrosoft's SkyDrive cloud service has made its way onto Android. The app helps people access the files they've stored in their SkyDrive locker – including opening them in other apps – upload photos and videos from their smartphones, and send links to those files to others.C4 ParalympicsAs on iOS, Channel 4's official Paralympic Games app offers live text commentary, video highlights, schedules, results and news on smartphones, with added livestreaming video forthe tablet version.Hooha for App.netUS entrepreneur Dalton Caldwell sailed past his $500k crowdfunding goal to build a "real-time social feed" as a more-open alternative to Twitter, and the service is already up and running in alpha. Now a developer has made its first mobile app for Android. Hooha is equally "raw alpha" in its nature, helping users view their streams, mentions and global posts, while composing and replying.MagistoVideo-editing app Magisto has been a hit on iOS, and now it's available for Android too. The twist is that the actual video-editing process is automated: users upload footage from their phones and choose soundtracks, before Magisto's software handles the splicing part. Facebook, Twitter and YouTube sharing are all included.CNN / Time Convention FloorpassThis roundup is a little late for the Republican convention, but CNN and Time's joint app was available beforehand – and is still good for the Democrats' event. The app offers news and analysis from CNN and Time's political journalists, while tying in Twitter, Foursquare and CNN's own iReport citizen journalism service.Nothing Ever Happens at the South PoleOceanhouse Media has released dozens of apps based on different Dr. Seuss books. This uses a different source: an unpublished 1960s book by Berenstain Bears authors Stan and Jan Berenstain about the South Pole. Aimed at children, it follows the journey of a penguin looking for icy excitement.IntroIntro is a social location app designed for business rather than personal use, helping people meet potential work contacts when in the same area. It also sims to match freelancers to projects that suit their skills, cutting out the recruitment agency middlemen.Stereomood provides mood-based music playlistsStereomoodStereomood made our iOS roundup this week thanks to its iPhone version being upgraded to iPad. The same thing has happened on Android, with the app now native for tablets. It's all about mood-music: providing more than 100 playlists for moods and activities including calm, working, cooking, chill and optimistic.LooxcieLiveThis livestreaming app just graduated from beta on the Google Play store. It's for broadcasting live video from an Android device over 3G, 4G or Wi-Fi, while inviting friends to watch and text-chat. It works on an individual device, but can also be paired with one of Looxcie's standalone video cameras.Washington Post Social ReaderUS newspaper the Washington Post has launched its Social Reader app for Android, as part of the wider trend for newspapers (yes, this one included) to build Facebook into their digital offerings. In this case, the app pulls in news from the Post's own site as well as Slate, the Daily Beast, Mashable and others, while sharing details of articles read on the social network.Shape Be Your Best YouUS magazine Shape wants to help Android users "look and feel amazing on the beach this summer". Yes, it's a bit late. This is a digital edition of the magazine offering workout plans, cardio routines and case studies.ChairPaging Clint Eastwood... Chair is a prototype app, interesting as much for the way it shows some of augmented reality technology's potential as for its one use: visualising what a room would look like with a chair in it. Its developer is using Qualcomm's Vuforia AR platform, which is picking up a head of steam in 2012.AudioPlayceGet beyond the mobile 2.0-speak ("the social marketplace for geolocalized audioguides") and AudioPlayce is interesting: an app for recording your own audio-guides to cities around the world, and for accessing those recorded by other users. Badges and social features are included.Dan DeaconAlso included in this week's iOS roundup, musician Dan Deacon's official app is designed to be used mainly during his live gigs. It "synchronizes all the phones in the room, turning you and the rest of the audience into the light show and sound system for the concert". Elsewhere, it provides a virtual synthesizer instrument, and news about Deacon's activities.PlayTo: Samsung TV transmits media to connected TVsPlayTo: Samsung TVLooking to wirelessly pipe photos, videos and music from an Android device to a TV? There are numerous ways, depending on device and TV manufacturer. Dayglows' new app focuses on Samsung TVs, and is able to play from websites including YouTube and Vevo, as well as tying into a number of on-demand TV services.InstaTalksPhoto-sharing app Instagram is, obviously, about pictures rather than words. InstaTalks wants to provide a layer of words – messages – on top of all those filtered snaps though. Claiming to be "the easiest and fastest way to chat with all your Instagram friends", it's a private messaging system for Instagram, with added location features to connect with nearby strangers.FlimbyPlenty of apps have tried to be, in Flimby's words, an "all-in-one social toolbox". The idea: a way to post to Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, Flickr and Yammer from within one app. It also offers a "Live Blast" feature that promises shared web browsing with other people – something that may well prove to be Flimby's trump card as it evolves, rather than the personal side of things.TeatimeAnother app to make both our iOS and Android roundups this week, the UK Tea Council's new app aims to solve office tea-making disputes. It creates "tea groups", stores everyone's cuppa preferences, and then at pre-determined intervals picks a colleague at random to make the next round.Holo Music PlayerOne of the interesting things about the Google Play store is the ability to dig deep and find some new and interesting betas. Holo Music Player is one of those: a Holo-themed music-player app with a heavy emphasis on swipe gestures to navigate around your music collection.That's our selection, now tell us yours. What Android apps have impressed you this week, and what do you think of those above? Post a comment and make your thoughts known.
Speculation is mounting that Apple will announce a new version of its iPhone on 12 September and an "iPad mini" – a smaller version of its bestselling tablet – in October.Dozens of leaked photos and samples from Apple's supply chain point to a longer, thinner phone with a larger screen and longer battery life – and a new nine-pin connector on its base, to the dismay of hundreds of companies that make accessories for the 30-pin connector on existing iPhones, iPads and iPods.It also appears a virtual certainty that Apple will introduce a smaller tablet to build on the success its 10in iPad, which dominates the sector. "I was sceptical about it, but there are so many rumours from different sources – companies in China, colleagues in China – that it seems it's a reality," said Francisco Jeronimo, smartphones and tablets analyst for the research company IDC.He said Apple had to compete with Amazon's 7in Kindle Fire, which launched in the US last October and is expected to get a revision and European release next week, and Google's Nexus 7, released in July.Two years ago Steve Jobs, then Apple chief executive,dismissedthe idea of a 7in tablet "unless your tablet also includes sandpaper, so that the user can sand down their fingers to around one-quarter of the present size"  to use the smaller touchscreen.For accessory companies, leaked pictures of components showing a nine-pin connector will mean hurried retooling in the hours after the products' launch. Some have booked factories in China to churn out redesigns in order to catch the Christmas market, though other sources say there will be plentiful adaptors to bridge between the new and the old connections, which Apple introduced in 2003.Apple sold 17m tablets worldwide in the second quarter of this year, a 68% share of the market, according to IDC. It remains to be seen how much the "iPad mini" will cost and whether some models might have 3G capability. The October launch date has been chosen, pundits suggest, to let interest in the launch of the next iPhone die down.Rhoda Alexander, an analyst at IHS iSuppli,told CNetthat Apple could "crush the opposition" by pricing an entry-level model with Wi-Fi and 8GB of storage – the same as Nexus 7 and Kindle Fire – at $249 (£157) in the US, compared with $200 for its rivals. A top-end device could sell in the US for $349 with 3G capability, she said.Jeronimo said it would need to be priced close to its rivals, but the Apple brand would draw customers who either could not afford the larger iPad or considered it too unwieldy. "It makes sense to open the market to the biggest percentage of users, those who don't have or can't afford the bigger iPad," he told the Guardian.Jeremy Davies, chief executive of Context, a retail analysis company, said: "Going for a different [iPad] form factor would break the mould as it would, in a sense, dilute the iPad lineup. Having said that, commercially it probably makes sense. If we look at the tablet market today and what competitors are bringing out, form factor and price point are probably the two areas Apple is most vulnerable in. An 'iPad Mini' launch would help prevent some of Apple's sales being cannibalised by competitors such as Samsung."The "iPad mini" would be the first truly new product Apple has announced since Jobs's death in October last year. Jobs often used to dismiss the idea of products or features just weeks before introducing them: in September 2005 he told journalists in France that Apple couldn't see the use of video on an iPod; four weeks later Jobs unveiled an iPod that played video.Apple has a history of cementing its position at the top end of the market and then grabbing the lower end. With the iPod, it established a strong position with its top-end version in 2002 and 2003, and then released the iPod mini in January 2004, which saw sales explode. It then used growing volumes to push down prices and shut out rivals.Rumours and expectations"iPhone 5"is expected to: arrive in September; have a longer, thinner screen; offer 4G connectivity (probably only for the US); have better battery life; be the first phone to use a nano Sim, smaller than those in existing smartphones; use a new nine-pin connector; and have a two-tone matte metal backing, replacing the iPhone 4's ceramic. It is not include Near Field Communications (NFC) technology for payments."iPad mini"is expected to: arrive in October; have a 7.85in screen (measured diagonally), half the area of the 10in iPad; start with a Wi-Fi-enabled 8GB model; and be priced to compete keenly with rival $200 7in tablets from Amazon and Google.
It's time for the latest in our now-weekly roundups of the best new apps for iPhone and iPad, which will vary between 10 and 20 depending on the quality and quantity available. This week is a busy week.As ever, games aren't included – there's aseparate post for them. Android will be getting its own roundup later in the day, and Windows Phone and BlackBerry are set for their first monthly roundups in early September.Here's this week's iOS selection:C4 ParalympicsAs the Paralympic Games continue in London, Channel 4's official app is an impressive way to follow the action. It includes live text commentary, videos of highlights from each day, and news, schedules and results. TheiPad versionadds in livestreaming video.iPhone / iPadiTunes Festival London 2012Apple is about to kick off its own London event: the annual iTunes Festival in Camden, with 30 gigs planned. As usual, Apple will be livestreaming each gig to its official app, which will also stream videos after the performances, and help fans apply for tickets beforehand.iPhone / iPadLadybird: I'm Ready for PhonicsPenguin Books' latest app is aimed at five and six year-olds learning phonics. Designed with the help of literacy experts and tested in schools, it offers 12 levels of tests for phonemes, graphemes and tricky words, as well as a guide to the phonics system for parents.iPhone / iPadLiftSpawned from the incubator launched by Twitter co-founders Evan Williams and Biz Stone, Lift wants to help people "overcome complacency by enabling you to declare your habit goals and see when you're actually making progress on them". From eating healthily and exercising through to reading more books, it's a check-in based app with social features to get encouragement from other people with the same goals.iPhoneKodiak PHPSomething for programmers here: Kodiak PHP runs any PHP code on the iPad itself, providing a way for coders to "write and edit PHP with beautiful syntax highlighting and an enhanced on-screen keyboard". A file manager provides the necessary exporting functions.iPadPinnacle StudioApple's iMovie has proved popular with iOS amateur filmmakers, but now it has competition from Pinnacle's new iPad app, promising "big-screen moviemaking" technology. It uses familiar storyboard and timeline-based editing tools, with export to YouTube and Facebook, or to the Pinnacle Studio PC software.iPadShuffler.fm's music discovery app is now on iPhoneShuffler.fmMusic discovery app Shuffler.fm has been around for a while on iPad, but it has just been updated to include an iPhone version too. It's very slick, helping you "channel surf through the music web" – translation: browse the music being recommended by music blogs in various genres, and play them as a streaming radio station.iPhoneFreshBooks Cloud AccountingAimed at small businesses and freelancers, this aims to help them create invoices, store expenses details and track time spent on projects, with all the data stored on the FreshBooks server for access on multiple devices. The app ties in with the existing web service.iPhoneNFL Game RewindRights reasons mean this iPad is US-only, at least for now. It's an official release from the NFL, streaming full replays of American football matches from its 2012 season, as well as providing "Telestrator" coaches film, replays of key moments, and other scores and stats. A subscription to the web version of the service is required.iPadNet-A-PorterFashion site Net-A-Porter's iPhone app has been upgraded to a universal version, meaning it's now on iPad as a native app too. It focuses on shopping, with products from 350 designers to browse, and integration with the Net-A-Porter wish list feature to store details of the ones you're keen on.iPadLearnistLearnist is the work of Grockit, and wants to make "sharing what you know and learning from others fast and easy". How? By gathering resources on specific topics – e-books, videos, blog posts, podcasts etc – and making them available as "Learnboards" to the community. The app ties into the existing Learnist web service.iPhone / iPadMetroLyricsMetroLyrics is one of the biggest web lyric databases in the world, but now it has launched a new iPhone app to provide mobile access. Users can search for specific songs or identify what's playing in the real world, while also pulling in videos, scrobbling to Last.fm – a fellow CBS subsidiary – and browsing charts of popular tracks.iPhoneTomo ABC Town offers a new spin on letter-learning for iPadTomo ABC TownDeveloper That's Junior has come up with an intriguing interactive toy for children based around words and letters. They drag blocks of letters into place to unlock each word, corresponding to an object in a virtual house, garage or playground.iPhone / iPadDandelionThis children's book-app started life as a project on crowdfunding site Kickstarter, successfully raising $36k. Now it's available on the App Store as a lovely-looking "interactive, magical story" around a theme of bullying. Unlike the real world (sadly), here the bullies can be fended off by blowing virtual dandelions at them.iPhone / iPadRichard and Judy Book ClubThis is the work of retailer WH Smith, working with augmented reality firm Aurasma. Tying in with the latest edition of its book club campaign, the app has to be pointed at the cover of any of the featured books – at which point a virtual Richard and Judy pop up to deliver their review.iPhone / iPadWellThe latest buzzy one-word-name listmaking app (see also: Clear) claims to be "beautiful, social, and fun". It's a way to create lists on the iPhone, while also getting friends to contribute their own suggestions. The app also enables users to browse the most popular lists from others and "relist" the most interesting items.iPhoneDan DeaconMusician Dan Deacon has a new album out, and an official app to go with it. This is more about creativity than promotion, though. At gigs, the app "synchronizes all the phones in the room, turning you and the rest of the audience into the light show and sound system for the concert". Elsewhere, it offers a Deacon-themed synthesizer and other information on his doings.iPhoneStereomoodMusic app Stereomood has travelled in the opposite direction to Shuffler.fm, moving from iPhone to iPad. The app aims to supply music based on moods: sleepy, chill, sunday morning, jazzy, romantic and so on. More than 100 playlists are provided, with links to buy individual songs from iTunes.iPadTeatimeIf tensions are running high in your office over who hasn't made a cup of tea for months, Teatime may be the answer. Published by the UK's Tea Council, it's a way to create "tea groups", store details of how everyone likes their cuppa, and then automatically decide each time who should make the round.iPhone / iPadMental ElfDespite the punning title and elf character (more like a gnome, in all honesty), this is a serious app for mental health professionals. It aims to provide daily articles on the latest research, policy and guidance in the area, with the option to add notes and share articles with colleagues.iPhoneThat's our selection, now tell us what apps you've been using and enjoying, or provide your feedback on the apps above, by posting in the comments section.
Friday! Let's talk about what games the weekend will bring us.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe myth of pinch-to-zoom: how a confused media gave Apple something it doesn't own &gt;&gt; The VergeNilay Patel - a former patent attorney - on one of the many misconceptions around That Trial. His opinions on the patent, and how easy (or hard) it is to work around, is worth noting.What Killed the Linux Desktop &gt;&gt; Miguel de IcazaThe inventor of Mono, the Linux version of Windows C#, writes:True story.The hard disk that hosted my /home directory on my Linux machine failed so I had to replace it with a new one. Since this machine lives under my desk, I had to unplug all the cables, get it out, swap the hard drives and plug everything back again.Pretty standard stuff. Plug AC, plug keyboard, plug mouse but when I got to the speakers cable, I just skipped it.Why bother setting up the audio?Congress debates changing auto patents. Good news or bad? &gt;&gt; CSMonitor.comOn Twitter, someone was asking "what would your car look like if car manufacturers protected their design like Apple does?" Turns out they are:When we think of patents, we often think of things like drugs and cell phones -- things perfected in high tech labs over many, many years.But patents and patent law affect nearly every part of our daily lives, from the design of our alarm clocks to the shape of our toothbrushes to the designer DNA found in some of our favorite foods.And, of course, our car parts.Now, some of our elected officials in Washington, D.C. are looking to change patent regulations on those car parts, which could have drastic consequences for automakers, repair shops, and the general public...Currently, patents for auto design and collision-repair parts last for 14 years -- about the same as in the medical field. Under [Republican House member Darrell Issa's] proposal, however, those patents would be valid for just 30 months.Issa claims that such changes to the patent law would protect car owners by allowing other companies to produce cheaper repair parts sooner. According to Issa, such parts are between 25% and 50% more expensive when they come from an automaker.Stop worrying about the Romney campaign's erasing whole lines from Obama's "You Didn't Build That" riff. They simply disappeared &gt;&gt; The New RepublicAlex MacGillis:this brazen editing of Obama's riff seemed very much in keeping with the Romney campaign's equally brazen declaration that the Obama administration is doing away with the welfare work requirement.Filter bubbles in politics are arguably far more dangerous than those in technology.Ultrabooks still racking up infra sales &gt;&gt; AllThingsDAccording to new research from Barclays, Ultrabooks accounted for only about 5% of all laptops sold in the second quarter. That's not even half of what the PC manufacturers who make them had been expecting. Clearly, Intel's Ultrabook concept - which was supposed to prop up the PC market and win over consumers to whom Apple's MacBook Air and iPad appeal -- isn't gaining quite the sort of traction the chip giant had hoped for.And that traction isn't likely show up until PC manufacturers are able to lower their prices. According to Sterne Agee analyst Vijay Rakesh, 75% of the Ultrabooks currently available at Best Buy cost more than $950. Of those, several command prices of more than $1,300.Archos's GamePad: a 7-inch Android 4.0 tablet with gaming controls for less than a Nexus 7 &gt;&gt; The VergeThe GamePad will be powered by a 1.5GHz dual-core processor and quad-core Mali 400 MP GPU. The product's real focus is the gaming controls, though, and on that front the GamePad seems to have everything covered: dual analog sticks and, from the look of it, left and right shoulder buttons will be part of the package, in addition to the requisite D-Pad and four face buttons. While we haven't seen it for ourselves, the 7-inch form factor of Archos's tablet also seems like a much more manageable size for a handheld gaming device than the 10.1-inch Wikipad, although the controls on the GamePad look like they're fixed, unlike those on the Wikipad, which are part of a removable gaming grip.Very hard to see how this can make any money if it's cheaper than the Nexus 7, unless it's got basically zero storage.Twitter Advertising: Interest targeting: Broaden your reach, reach the right audience &gt;&gt; TwitterTwitter turns its attention to making money. Again. "Today we're taking an important next step by allowing you to target your Promoted Tweets and Promoted Accounts campaigns to a set of interests that you explicitly choose. By targeting people's topical interests, you will be able to connect with a greater number of users and deliver tailored messages to people who are more likely to engage with your Tweets. When people discover offers and messages about the things they care about on Twitter, it's good for both marketers and users."Why Java would still stink even if it wasn't security swiss cheese &gt;&gt; The RegisterIt is possible to code Java applications that areexcellent. The ubiquity of the language as a primary educational tool has unfortunately made these the exception rather than the rule. So I hate Java; not because there's anything inherently wrong with the language, but because of a decade's worth of people who still haven't figured out how to use it as designed.Google loses leverage as Motorola Mobility confirms German patent license to Apple &gt;&gt; FOSS PatentsIn a filing made late on Monday (August 27, 2012) with the United States District Court for the Southern District of California, the Google subsidiary has now confirmed the recent conclusion of a standard-essential patent license agreement with Apple. Under the agreement, Apple is now licensed to use some if not all of Motorola's standard-essential patents in Germany, though the parties have not yet agreed on a FRAND royalty rate, which will ultimately have to be set by German courts unless they agree on a rate prior to its judicial determination.This is a very significant development because it means that Motorola Mobility will have to rely on non-standard-essential patents in its efforts to gain leverage over Apple. It is enforcing one such patent (one that covers push email notifications). With standard-essential patents, it appears that the only thing Google (Motorola) can do now against Apple in Germany is to push for as high a royalty rate as possible, but even in a hypothetical worst-case scenario to Apple, the limit will be the 2.25% rate that Motorola has been demanding for a long time.Spotting that MMI has licensed the standards-essential patents requires a very careful reading of two different filings. Definitely correct, though. It would be useful to know how many of MMI's patents are FRAND, and how many non-FRAND.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Software giant Apple has blocked an app that would notify subscribers every time a US drone carried out a deadly mission on the grounds that it is "objectionable and crude", according to the program's designer.Josh Begley, a graduate student at New York University, developed Drones+ to provide up-to-date information on strikes, using reports collated by the London-based Bureau of Investigative Journalism – an organisation that tracks the use of unmanned CIA aircrafts.But repeated attempts to get Apple to offer the software at its app store have been fruitless. At first, Begley was informed that the program – which he hoped would raise awareness of the growing death toll from drone strikes – was "not useful" enough and did not appeal to a "broad enough audience".The company position has since shifted, but only in the reasoning behind its refusal to stock Drones+.In the latest rejection email, Apple reportedly informed him: "We found that your app contains content that many audiences would find objectionable, which is not in compliance with the app store review guidelines."Avideo demonstration of Drones+shows that the app is designed to flash up an alert when a new strike is reported, with details of how many people were killed. An interactive map shows subscribers where the air assault took place and how many others had taken place near it.Begley, 27, told the Guardian that he didn't expect the app to be wildly popular, but hoped it would raise awareness. He added: "I built it because it is something I would like to use myself".There has been a marked increase in the use of drones by the US in recent months in Pakistan and Yemen as part of a stated strategic move towards a slimmed down military that relies more on technology.Earlier this year, defence secretary Leon Panetta unveiled proposals to increase America's fleet of unmanned armed aircraft by nearly a third.The attacks have led to increased tensions between Washington and Islamabad. Pakistan has long criticised the use of drones and the high rate of civilian casualties that can result from their use.Figures from the Bureau of Investigative Journalism show that drones struck Pakistan 75 times in 2011, causing up to 655 fatalities.The majority of those killed were alleged militants, but as many as 126 civilians may have also lost their lives in last year's attacks, the bureau's figures reveal.Begley's app does not link to any graphic images of drone attacks, but reveals information about their existence.Even so, Apple looks unlikely to sanction the app, having come down against it on three separate occasions.It has left the software developer looking elsewhere as he plans to take the software forward."The plan now is to try and develop it for Android," he said.Apple did not return the Guardian's request for comment.
When we talk about technology, we tend to think of computers, smartphones or operating systems. Is Android better than Apple? Does Nokia make better phones than HTC? The prosaic stuff – fridges, washing machines and cookers – get overlooked, possibly because we don't upgrade them as often as our smartphones, tablets and cameras.Yet we use those pieces of kit as regularly and arguably as intimately as we do our phones. You might not be able to put a picture of your dog or your baby on your fridge as wallpaper, but you probably go to it as many times a day as, say, you snap a picture on your smartphone.So if you haven't been in the market for a new dishwasher recently, you might have missed out on just how much that prosaic but vital home appliance technology has moved on.Now there are fridges that can tell you what's in them as you're on your way home and suggest what you might make for supper, and dishwashers that use a mineral byproduct of mining to dry your plates in order to save energy.Siemens showed off its incoming connected-home technology at IFA in Berlin on Thursday, and the future for your appliances is really rather fun.Take that fridge. What's in yours? Mine probably contains some butter, a handful of eggs, some tomatoes and a hunk of cheese, along with a bottle of Diet Coke and some raspberries I bought at the weekend and which are on the cusp of going off. That's from memory, but in a couple of years' time, your fridge will have two cameras in it and recognition software.In a couple of years' time – probably around 2014, according to Siemens – your fridge will be able to send that information to an app on your smartphone, and from that list of ingredients, offer you a choice of recipes for what you might fancy for supper. If you haven't got everything the recipe needs, it will also generate a shopping list so that you can stop off at the supermarket on the way home and pick up the remaining ingredients.Once you're home, complete with your shopping, you can pull up that recipe on your tablet. Siemens demonstrated the app on an iPad but says support for Android is coming. But as you chop up the tomatoes for the quiche the app suggested you make, your fingers are going to be sticky and you don't want them on your pristine tablet's screen.No problem: send it to the motion-sensitive projector installed next to the cooker and have it projected down on to your work surface. That projection is touch-sensitive, so you can scroll through the pages on the wipe-clean worktop.Ready to put the oven on? The app will send the temperature and timer information to the cooker. All you have to do is assemble the ingredients and put them in the oven.Once you're done with your meal, load the dirty dishes into the dishwasher, which, when you bought it, had to be told how hard the water is where you live. The connected dishwasher will be able to do that for you too: the tablet app uses the device's location settings to check online what the water hardness is in your area and then beams that information to the dishwasher to set it automatically.A Siemens dishwasher app checking water hardness.When the dishwasher has finished with your plates, rather than using more energy to blast hot air at them to dry them, Siemens' appliances instead usezeolites, which heat up when they come into contact with water: the heat they use dries the plates and cutlery inside the dishwasher, reducing electricity.What about a cup of coffee? Your coffeemaker will be able to tell you, again via the app, if it's got enough beans in it or if you need to add some more. But what if it goes wrong? Via the tablet app, you will be able to connect by video to customer support, where the person on the other end of the camera will be able to access your device remotely to tell you what the problem is.All of this sounds futuristic, but in fact it builds on existing technology that we already have in place in our homes. Siemens says its connected-home appliances will work with your Wi-Fi network, and won't require vast dollops of bandwidth to use the internet-based functions, such as connecting to customer service: even a ropey 2Mbps connection will cope with the remote customer service function.All of this is part of "the internet of things": right now you might have half a dozen things that connect to the web. In the not too distant future, more and more hitherto "dumb" physical objects – such as fridges and dishwashers – will be equipped with devices that allow them to communicate with the web, become part of the internet – and crucially, interact with us.Your car will be able to download content from the web to keep the kids entertained on a long journey, and also book itself in for a service; your printer won't need you to respond to warnings about low ink but will simply go online and order it in the background. The connected home is just part of it.
"Internet freedom is something I know you all care passionately about; I do too," wrote President Obama on Wednesday night during animpromptu question and answer sessionon popular link-sharing websiteReddit. "We will fight hard to make sure that the internet remains the open forum for everybody.""Sure thing," noted a user. "Do you like cats?"In a moment, Reddit had explained itself to the millions of bemused web wonderers who surged to the site, many of whom had little idea of what Reddit is, and why the president of the United States had chosen to drop by.Obama's visit is the high watermark of Reddit's steady – but recently dramatic – rise to become the "front page of the internet", where a voracious community of users submit links across a multitude of categories (subreddits) to be upvoted and downvoted. In December 2011, it served more than 2bn page views. The process is the web's simplest incarnation of the wisdom of crowds – the interesting stuff rises to the top, the rest sinks without trace.But Reddit's "wisdom" is an intriguing one. A glance across the site at any time will find a wide-ranging buffet. As I write, in one corner, hundreds of Redditors are discussing a revolutionary mathematical model that MIT metallurgists areapplying to metal alloys, while the World News subreddit is gripped by a debate over the implications of rises in theChinese minimum wage. Elsewhere, a stunning image ofsome penguinscongregating on an iceberg is narrowly outstripping a picture of a "sexy vampire" on the Reddit home page, where the most popular links from across the site jostle. The site's appearance requires patience – pages are chaotic and cramped, bursting with as many links as they can hold. Many fans (including myself) wail for a facelift, but the founders are wary of rocking the boat – aredesign of its once-biggest rival, Digg, was one of the main factors in its sudden fall from favour among the link-sharing masses.Reddit's rapid oscillation from the cerebral to the inane is what makes the site so compelling. If you want to take the internet's temperature, a quick scroll down the Reddit homepage is usually a fair indication. The site was founded in 2005 by two 22-year-old University of Virginia graduates, Alexis Ohanian and Steve Huffman, and was acquired by Condé Nast a year later. The relationship between the publishing giants and the often puerile web community is a curious one – a recentleaked memocarried guidance from the upper realms of Condé Nast reminding Reddit employees that their genitals needed to be covered at all times within the office. Various parties scrambled to denounce it as a fake, but the scenario was entirely believable.Among its most popular boards, theIAmAsection (format: I am A politician/fireman/film star ... Ask Me Anything) is increasingly attracting big names eager to impress – or indulge – the Reddit crowd. Obama follows in the footsteps of Ron Paul, Larry King, Paul Krugman and, um, Molly Ringwald in entering the Reddit lion's den. Redditors don't always play nicely –Woody Harrelson was monsteredfor overflogging his latest film during his session, and the chat quickly descended into a barrage of questions over an alleged one-night stand he'd had with a student 10 years previously.Somewhat predictably, Obama had done his homework, finishing his chat by referencing acomic memespawned by a picture of him pulling a funny face in 2011. "By the way, if you want to know what I think about this whole reddit experience - NOT BAD!"Reddit was never going to be a tricky wicket for the president. The site's users are overwhelmingly liberal, having famously catalysed campaigns tocombat the Sopa(Stop Online Privacy Act), and mobilised thousands of people to attend an ironic "Restoring Truthiness" rally in Washington hosted by liberal TV hosts Stephen Colbert and Jon Stewart. Obama's campaign team would have been pleased to note thethread trending immediately belowthe president's on Wednesday night, pointing out that Mitt Romney's five biggest contributors were Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan, Morgan Stanley, Bank of America and Credit Suisse, while Obama's were the University of California, Microsoft, Google, DLA Piper and Harvard University.By Thursday morning, Reddit had moved on, and the president's web chat was relegated to fifth place on its homepage, behind a picture of a manattempting to kill a mothby hoisting his cat to the ceiling, and a news story about a woman who went missing in Iceland before beingdiscovered in her own search party. In a world of web curiosities, Obama is but one.Benji Lanyado is the founder ofRedditEdit.com, a new aggregator fuelled by Reddit.
Are there any particular laptops that I could recommend to my students? (If anyone wants to apply, I'm teaching anMA in international journalismat the University of Bedfordshire, starting in October.) They're not rich so I can't recommend anything too expensive.I read your recent article on £350 laptops. I'm not a Dell partisan, but I'd like to know your view about the Dell offering in this price range. The Inspiron 15 is available for £349 with an Intel Core i3-2350M processor, 3GB RAM, 320GB HD, and Office Starter. Too little RAM?David BrakeI recommended three £350 laptops in an article in the Guardian's Money section on Saturday (The best value laptops for less than £350), and I think this is a good target price for a low-end machine.Most of these "value laptops" have much the same specification nowadays. You get a 15.6in, 1366 x 768-pixel widescreen, 4GB of memory, 320GB or 500GB hard drive, DVD, and 64-bit Microsoft Windows 7 Home Premium. What makes the most difference to the price is the choice of processor. This can take the same laptop from less than £300 with an AMD C-50 to more than £500 with the latest Ivy Bridge version of Intel's Core i5.The processor makes a huge difference to the performance. As I said: "In the £300–£350 range the best you generally get is a Core i3-2330M or 2350M, where the bigger number signifies a faster chip. (The M stands for mobile. Laptop processors use less power and run slower than desktop versions, to reduce heat and give better battery life.) In my view you should not settle for anything less than a Pentium B940, B950 or preferably a B960 processor. I think laptops with Celeron chips are too slow. Cheap AMD chips, such as the C-50, E-240 Fusion and E2-1800 Brazos are even slower than Celerons."Bargain prices often indicate low-end or old processors.Most buyers can make their own judgments on things like screen and keyboard quality, the sturdiness of construction, bulk and weight by looking at popular laptops in high-street shops and computer superstores. When it comes to the speed of the processor, Notebook Check's table,Comparison of Mobile Processors, provides a good guide.The models I think are most worth a look in this category are the Samsung RV520, Lenovo G570 and G580, and the Asus X54C. Check the original article for details and links.TheDell Inspiron 15fits into this category, and prices start at £299 with a Celeron processor. On Dell's website, a version with aCore i3-2370Mcost £399, which took it out of my price range. I didn't see the one you mention, but some Dell machines are sold through retail channels, and bargains can be found.One thing that is attractive is Dell's three-year next-day on-site service. Some years ago, my son took an Inspiron (then more than £1,000) to university, and he used the on-site service both at home and on campus. It was brilliant, though I'd rather he hadn't needed it.Mainstream laptops are great if you use them at home. Ideally, put them on a riser to lift the screen to eye level and plug in a good quality USB or wireless ergonomic keyboard. Unfortunately, they also tend to be big and heavy, and they don't have very good battery life. The Inspiron 15 (N00N5503), for example, weighs 2.37kg. It's no fun lugging one of those around.As a journalist who carries a laptop everywhere, I would go for something with a 13.3in or smaller screen and a weight of 1.5kg or, preferably, less. For some years, my favourite was anIBM ThinkPad 240Xwith 192MB of memory and a 6GB hard drive (no CD or DVD) running Windows 2000. It weighed 1.3kg, which is MacBook Air territory.Computers have changed in the past dozen years, and so has journalism. Today's multimedia journalists need more powerful laptops that can handle simple photo, audio and video editing tasks, and I note that your course also includes desktop publishing. Programs such as Microsoft Office, Adobe's Creative Suite (including Photoshop) and Lightroom are standard tools of the trade, and most are available at big discounts in student versions.The system of choice for a mobile journalist would therefore be one of the traditional ultraportable ranges (ThinkPad X, Toshiba Portégé), an ultrabook such as the Asus UX32 Zenbook or, of course, an Apple MacBook Air. These machines are easy to carry around, have great battery life, and can handle multimedia with comparative ease. They're ideal for students who can afford to spend around £1,000-£1,200.It is possible to find cheaper ultrabooks. One that Itried and likedwas the Lenovo U300s, which Amazon.co.uk is currently selling for£599.99, reduced from £899.99. The spec includes an Intel Core i5-2467M processor and a 128GB solid state drive (SSD). There will be more bargains as this year's Ivy Bridge Core iX chips replace Sandy Bridge versions such as the i5-2467M.The Toshiba Portégé Z830-10N (search for PT224E-00H00LEN) is another Core i3 Ultrabook that generally goes for around £600, and consumer-oriented Satellite versions of the 830 can be found for less.A good all-round compromise would be something like the newVostro Notebook 3360, which Dell describes as an ultraportable. The Vostro 3360 is thin (19mm), relatively light (1.67kg), and offers good battery life (almost 7 hours on PC Pro's light-use test). The base system with a Core i3-2367M processor, 4GB of memory, 320GB (7200RPM) hard drive and 64-bit Windows 7 Professional costs £478.81 including delivery, which is roughly half the price of an ultrabook. Three years' on-site service costs £75. The next model up supports 3G for about £50 more.If it looks familiar, the Vostro 3360 is heir to last year's V131 and earlier models, though the battery is no longer removable.As a high-volume laptop supplier, Dell offers a number of different ranges, with Inspiron being the value range for consumers, XPS the luxury range, and Alienware the high-end range for gamers. Vostro is the value range for business buyers, with Latitude as the mainstream range and Precision models for high-end mobile workstations. The Vostro 3360 looks more durable than the Inspiron 15 laptops I've seen, and (except for Trend Micro Titanium anti-virus software) Dell's business machines don't come with any of the crapware you often find on consumer PCs.One catch is that Dell UK doesn't offer Vostro laptops via its student discount website atdell-sci.co.uk. However, the discounts are not huge (2%, 5% or 8%), so this doesn't matter much. You may be able to get more off by searching for discount vouchers. You may also find that your university has a discount deal with a preferred supplier, but don't expect miracles. The margins on mainstream Windows laptops are perilously thin.
Games that emerge from development hell are rarely dull. You get the true monstrosities – Duke Nukem Forever, Daikatana, Too Human – but you also get those flawed gems such as Spore, S.T.A.L.K.E.R. and Gran Turismo 5, games that speak of greatness while still baring the scars of mid-cycle calamities and vast engine rebuilds.Then there the unqualified success stories, titles such as Half Life 2 and Resident Evil 4, that manage to overcome nightmarishly protracted and complex back stories to achieve greatness.Somewhere toward that end of the spectrum is Sleeping Dogs, the unexpected summer hit that's keeping Darksiders 2 from the top of the charts. This engaging thriller started out two years ago as Black Lotus, a mature open-world adventure set in Hong Kong and heavily influenced by the city's action movie directors: Ringo Lam, Johnnie To, John Woo.It was an ambitious project for United Front Games, a Vancouver studio that had been formed only a couple of months before by ex-staff from nearby publishers such as EA and Rockstar. But it was a dark, brutal and interesting concept. It had promise.And then came Activision, a tarnished license and, eventually, the threat of cancellation.So how did UFG create such a solid and entertaining gangland romp, despite the chaotic development process? We spoke to the game's senior producer, Jeff O'Connell to find out.So, how did Black Lotus become True Crime: Hong Kong? What happened?The first meetings around this game were in the fall of 2007. It was a very small crew at that point; there were about 10 of us in a tiny little office. We met with Activision and back then, they knew they wanted to get back into the urban open-world genre; they had a prototype on the go, but they asked us to come up with a concept – which we did. And amazingly, that concept was very similar to the game we ended up releasing.But what happened was, they liked the idea, but at the time they wanted to push it more toward the flavour of True Crime – and obviously they attached the brand to it. We wanted the tone to be more like an HBO cop show.But, I suppose Activision had enjoyed some success with True Crime, which was much more of a Hollywood-style treatment of the genre.Obviously, while those games were enjoyed by a lot of people, we felt our concept was different. Of course, they were both about cops, but we thought that times had changed and that people wanted something else; it felt like the opportunity was there to make a more mature title.Certainly TV was going in that direction at the time.Absolutely. Look at the cop shows that have been successful – The Wire, The Shield – every character is ambiguous. Look at the latest James Bond movies, and the way Daniel Craig plays the character – is he really a good guy? He's sort of a mercenary. That to us was really interesting. And we were fortunate enough in having an actor like Will Yun Lee who could pull off that sort of performance.But you made changes to the feel of the game to fit with True Crime – and then in February 2011, the game was effectively canned. How did that go down internally? Did you think it was all over?It was a terrible time really. Activision were very respectful in how they went about informing us of the decision; they let go hundreds of their employees that same day, they cancelled Guitar Hero – you could tell that it wasn't an easy decision to make. But it was rough times for us, we had to downsize our team within a couple of weeks, and you begin to question a lot of things – we'd been working on the game for three and a half years at that point and you pour your heart and soul into it.But within a couple of weeks we heard that Square had played the game and were interested in it and they wanted to speak to us – it was a ray of hope. We talked to them on the phone, they came to Vancouver and met with us. Right away it felt like a very different relationship to the one we had with Activision. Their producers really were old-skool gamers; they'd been working in games since the eighties, as had many staff in our studio. So right away there was a personal connection and they got what we wanted to do with the game. And throughout the development we benefitted form their experience working on titles like Just Cause 2. We just clicked.So they really understood the dynamics of open-world game design?Yes. They didn't feel there was any need to make everything obvious right away; an open-world game is one that unfolds over 30 hours – you don't have to set it all up in the first sixty minutes, you don't have to have a singular motivation – the characters can develop.I think the biggest change was in the overall tone of the story, the presentation of the game flow, how the game ramps up. We start with action, certainly, but we hold your hand a little to get you into the mechanics – there are a lot of mechanics! Previously, we were pushed to go for high octane action upfront which we think hurts the game, because it's annoying when that's taken away from you.And it seems like you were able to make changes to the design right through until the end?Yeah, open-world development is challenging and there were things even late in development, with a few weeks to go, that we looked at and said, "We need to up that system!" Things come together very late – it's like a giant jigsaw puzzle and you kind of only see it in its entirety with a few weeks to go.So what were some of the key gameplay changes you made to the game, after its reformation as Sleeping Dogs?Well, very late, we looked at the UI of the upgrade system: how it was laid out, how you were made aware of upgrades, how you used the upgrades menu, how you discovered what you did and didn't have, encouraging you to spend points and accompanying that process with appropriate UI and audio moments.That sort of stuff was really overhauled late in production, not because were unhappy with it, but because it was a big part of the game and we felt it was under-realised. The other thing was the lock boxes hidden around the world. Originally, most had cash in them, not weapons or clothes, so there was less surprise and satisfaction – it was a minor change but it altered the way people played the game.Developing a good upgrade UI and a decent loot system are RPG elements – it's interesting those should have been altered after the creator of Final Fantasy became your publisher!(Laughs) Yes, that's true! I think that's the great thing about working with Square. Producer Chris Dillon and Alastair Cornish, the design lead – they really focused on the little things, the game systems – they were constantly playing and given us feedback. Alastair spent a lot of time talking to our design director, Mike Skupa, who's ex-Rockstar and lead designer on Bully.It's interesting as an aside – everyone says the combat system is like Batman, but if you think back to Bully that was the genesis of this kind of open-world combat. That's really where the impetus came from. But the loot system was Mike and Alistair talking and finding ways to make the feedback loop more obvious and compelling to the player, more enticing, more fun. And if we were to do a sequel, which we'd like to do, we'll push that RPG aspect of the game even further.It's definitely the strength of the game systems, the mechanics of the game, that people are responding too, isn't it?Open-world games have a lot of stuff in them – in Sleeping Dogs, between the main missions and all the collectibles and everything else, there are around 300 things to do; there are hours of cut-scenes and it's a big game world. We've got all these mechanics that we spent time on. As a developer, you can get lost in all that stuff and just put it out there.But working with Square and having the extra time allowed us to look at the feedback loops and say, there's an opportunity that's under realised here – we have the basics, but it's not as good as it could be. I think the reason the systems are there in the first place is that Mike, our design director, spent a lot of time looking at social and mobile gaming and saw that the feedback loop is really what makes those games entertaining and playable – it's even the same with titles like Starcraft and Diablo. And looking to the future, with the new consoles coming, developers really need to be thinking about the feedback loop – especially for open-world games. That's where the addiction element comes in – it's not just about twitch anymore, it seems.So is there a secret to building compelling feedback loops within action adventure game designs?The big picture is, if you break down the core mechanics - fighting, shooting, driving – we brought in expert designers and gameplay engineers who had worked on those areas. We had Mike from Bully – and a lot of the other engineers also worked on that game. Our driving designer was from Need For Speed; that's where the pick-up-and-play driving and the car tuning came from. And for shooting we have guys from Max Payne, Scarface… we really tried to assemble a team that could deliver best-in-class mechanics. We were fortunate that the personalities clicked - if that hadn't happened we would have been in trouble!I'd love to say there's a secret recipe, but these guys just worked their butts off. I think they did that because, when the game was cancelled, they took it personally – we'd never had a project axed before. We knew the game was good – these guys felt they had to prove themselves to their peers in the industry, to their families... and they went the extra mile.The game is very big on environmental combat moves – being able to smash opponents into walls and other scenic objects. That could have been a gimmick, but here it really seems to ground you and connect you with the surroundings.That was something we knew would be critical for us. We had a movie clip that provided the goal of our fighting mechanic – it was from a Tony Jaa movie called the Protector. The lead character is fighting his way up a circular staircase around the parameter of a large room, and it's all done in one shot so it feels like an action game.But the point is, in this sequence, he uses everything – railings, vases, sinks, televisions – any stuff in the environment. And when we started to go deeper and really look at Hong Kong cinema, Jet Li does the same thing, so does Jackie Chan – look at Police Story, that fight in the mall, he's using clothing rails, he's using escalators. It's just such a signature of Hong Kong action cinema, we felt we  had to do it. And again if a sequel happens, I'd love to push that ever further.Ultimately, what has Sleeping Dogs taught you about game development?We all learned that the industry has changed. When we started, a couple of months into UFG's operation, the iPhone came out, and later the iPad, and Facebook had risen in prominence. How gamers entertain themselves – that whole model has changed. It forces publishers to be more careful with how they develop games and spend their money. Developers of triple A titles have to be on their A game all the time – every single member of the team needs to realise what's at stake. There are no free launches any more – if there ever were.Do you think, as we enter the next console generation that it's going to become almost impossible for publishers to bet on original IPs from small studios? The development costs are going to rise enormously.There aren't as many opportunities. And for studios who do get the opportunity, there's more pressure than there ever has been. The end of original IP would be incredibly depressing, but look at Watch Dogs, that's an exciting new property – it has captured the imagination of gamers. Every time there's a new generation of consoles the processing power opens up new opportunities for gameplay. I think we'll see new franchises spawn, some designer somewhere will be inspired in a new way.And will we see a Sleeping Dogs 2 on the next-gen hardware?There has been such a great response to the game. We feel like there are more stories to tell and we think from a mechanics point of view the next generation consoles present possibilities that will work really well for us. We're optimistic, that's for certain.
An Asian hacker group dubbed "Nitro", because its previous targets include chemicals manufacturing companies, was behind the first attacks to exploit a flaw in Oracle's Java software, says the security company Symantec.Although little is known about the group, it is thought that they did not discover the flaw themselves but may have bought it from a commercial group that specialises in selling details about "zero-day" flaws in software that can be used to penetrate commercial or government systems, even when they have the most up-to-date cybersecurity in place."We can confirm that some of the attackers behind this latest round of attacks are actually the Nitro gang," Symantec says.Orla Cox, senior manager for security response, told the Guardian that the gang had first been spotted online in October 2011, using a command server located in Singapore that was used to control the siphoning of information from 29 US, UK and Bangladesh-based chemical manufacturing companies, many listed on the stock market. She declined to name them, citing customer confidentiality.The latest attacks,which have led to widespread advice that users should disable Java on their browsers, were spotted last week.But Cox said that new evidence collected by Symantec indicated that the Nitro group was sending out targeted emails, again to chemicals companies, since 22 August – before the vulnerability was spotted by security researchers.The emails contained a link which, if clicked, would take unsuspecting users to websites. Those then exploited the flaw in Java to load malware on their machine and leave it open to being surreptitiously controlled, so that information on it or its network could be siphoned to the gang."They haven't used a zero-day attack before, which indicates that they don't as a group have that expertise," Cox said.She said that suggests that they acquired it commercially rather than discovering it themselves.Zero-day flaws are a burgeoning commercial field in the underground hacker economy where some gangs work to order for commercial or government clients which want to break into systems.Discovering them can take a long time and special expertise; deploying them tends to require much less skill.Symantec said it could not identify the Nitro gang's location, as the Singaporean command computer could be controlled from anywhere in the world.But it seemed likely, said Cox, that the gang is based somewhere in the region.
At least four government-sponsored programmes to deploy cyber-espionage software like the Flame, Duqu and Stuxnet software – the latter used against computers in Iran – are in progress around the world, according to sources in the intelligence and computer communities.Computer security experts say privately that the number of projects deployed is actually much higher, and that the systems have been under development since at least 1996, when the internet had barely begun its transition from a US government and academic network to an international and public one."There are a lot of countries that now have these systems. Every Middle Eastern country and all the states now known as the 'Stans' [Pakistan and the former satellite states of the Soviet Union] have them", said another expert with close links to the UK intelligence agencies and who is actively engaged in combating the software.A former military officer based in London, he declined to be named on security grounds. "Every nation now has an armoury; whether well-stocked or not depends on their resources," he said. "They have a suite of weapons and another for intelligence gathering. Most of them are big players and their suites of tools all have different functions. Some are crude and blunt, some are very stealthy. Some have the ability to attack and they are built for that purpose," the expert said.In the past year the discovery of the Stuxnet virus – and subsequently of the Flame, Duqu and most recently Gauss malware – has brought the issue of state-sponsored cyberwarfare into sharp focus. Stuxnet was written jointly by the US and Israel and tested in Israel, according to authoritative reports, and performed the equivalent of a precision cyber attack to disrupt Iran's uranium refining systems – an attack which would have been impossible by conventional means.Suspicions that intelligence agencies have been developing such a capability for a long time were confirmed by a computer expert who has worked with a western intelligence agency."Work was done in 1996 on pixel call-back software," he said. "It was used to infect websites and then track where people were coming from and then infect their machines and pass information back about them." The software worked by including a single pixel which linked to a web address controlled by the agency in an otherwise innocuous web page. If access by a target computer was detected, the agency could send malware to infect the machine."It was the basis of the work that we are seeing now," said the expert, adding that the mechanisms developed then found their way into the advertising industry — where "web bugs" became infamous as means of tracking users."They were a sort of cookie before people had even thought of them," said the man, who worked to develop the bugging programs to combat online criminals and potential terrorists. He says many of the programs now used by the advertising industry can be reverse-engineered to serve a similar function.The discovery of the Flame virus caused a furore among the technology community when it was found that the 20-megabyte program – unusually large for a virus – had been specifically designed as a highly targeted industrial espionage tool.Flame, which was first found by Kaspersky Labs, was specifically targeted at the Middle East and had been deliberately built to work for a limited amount of time in a specific geographical area. The virus works by turning over control of a computer to the system controlling it, and become both a remote listening device and information forwarding mechanism.The Kaspersky researchers say that the Flame virus shared similar components and telltale programming to the Stuxnet virus, which the Iranian government has blamed for the damage caused to its nuclear enrichment facility at Nantanz. That caused the facility's centrifuges to behave erratically and effectively sabotaged the Iranian nuclear programme, according to some experts, for between five and 10 years.Computer security companies working on both viruses have suggested that Flame was possibly an earlier system designed to collect data for the Stuxnet attack.Using parts of the same software for both made sense as Flame would have already penetrated part of the target to obtain the information needed, and so the payload could be guaranteed a way through.In the beginning of July, Indian officials announced that the headquarters of the Indian naval command had been penetrated by Chinese hackers who had used infected USB keys to smuggle an espionage virus onto its computers. This had occured at the same time as the Indian Navy's first nuclear submarine, INS Arihant, was undergoing trials at the facility.The Stuxnet virus also deployed infected USB keys as part of the method used to penetrate the Nantanz facility, and many similarities have been drawn between the attack on the Indian naval headquarters and Stuxnet."I am not surprised that we are seeing this," says Professor Andrew Blyth, head of the University of Glamorgan's Information Security Research Group, one of the GCHQ accredited centres of excellence."It takes around £1m to develop a good piece of malware like this. We don't talk about that because it's so highly classified. I am surprised why, post-Stuxnet, people seem to be so shocked. We are in an information age and that has disrupted our world. There's an irony to that it's taken 60 years for Iran to try to develop a [nuclear] bomb, and two years for so many people to develop a cyber weapon."One reason, according to a former police officer now working in the computer forensics industry, is because the new espionage tools are being developed relatively easily out of innocent components. Like the anonymous expert, he says internet advertising components have provided convenient covers for espionage tools."We have seen three programs that are like the Transformers film franchise. They look to all intents and purposes like a genuine computer program but will develop other functions the moment that they get to where they are meant to be."We have also seen another program which is a TCP/IP worm that breaks into a number of different pieces like the melting alloy robot in Terminator. It attaches itself to TCP/IP packets so that it can get through the security systems and then reassembles itself on the other side."But according to Commodore Patrick Tyrrell, who wrote the first paper warning the UK Government of the threat of an information war in 1996, the rapid development of cyber weaponry was an inevitability."There is now the ability for a lot of countries to do this. Once the genie was out of the bottle with Stuxnet then it was always going to be a case of we must have our own variant or we will get left behind."I think what people are missing is military theory. Sun Tzu, the ancient Chinese military general, said that 'to subdue the enemy without fighting is the essence of skill', and [Carl von] Clausewitz said 'war is the continuation of policy by other means', and cyberspace is perfect for those ideas. It allows you to do something better with another tool," said Tyrrell, adding that the new developments meant that these weapons offer the opportunity for a different conflict over information assets.That point is underlined by Graham Wright, a former RAF Jaguar pilot, who until recently worked as the deputy head of cyber at the Cabinet Office. "I think that people are badly obscuring this debate by using the word 'war'," he comments. "There is a difference between warfare and war and I think people need to subject this to the test of does it look and feel like war? The only time you are at war is when you can see the intent of the individual."I think that we may be getting closer to the boundaries and the development of capability is something that we need to counter, but talking of war is exaggerated."It's a distinction many agree with, pointing to the Cabinet Office-sponsored report into intellectual property theft which claimed the UK is losing £27bn a year to foreign powers – a figure some observers say errs on the low side."A new industry has been generated in information theft that was not there a year ago. These are not tanks they are scouting systems and they are collecting information," said Mark Raeburn, CEO of Context, a company specialising in protecting against cyber espionage. It all depends on what use you put that information to."• Pete Warren is chairman and founder of theCyber Research Security Institute
This is the fourth in our new series covering the best new smartphone and tablet games each week. This week's selection spans iOS, Android and Windows Phone:BastionBastion started life as a critically-acclaimed action-RPG for Xbox Live Arcade, before jumping to PC and Mac. Now it's available on the iPad, as you explore a lush hand-painted world battling monsters, upgrading weapons and marvelling at the landscape.iPadThe World Ends With You Solo RemixAnother hotly-tipped roleplaying game making its way onto iOS this week is Square Enix's The World Ends With You Solo Remix. Set in Tokyo's Shibuya district, it blends battles, puzzles and exploration, as well as an online multiplayer mini-game called Tin Pan Slammer and other connected features. At£12.99 for iPhoneand£13.99 for iPad– sorry, no universal version – it's pretty expensive by iOS standards.iPhone / iPadHeroes CallAnother action-RPG, but this time for Android. Heroes Call actually came out earlier in the summer, but only worked for Android devices with Tegra processors. Now it's available for all, with 30 dungeons to fight through, impressive 3D graphics and – in the absence of Game Center / iCloud on Android – canny use of Facebook to synchronise your game across multiple devices.AndroidActivision AnthologyActivision recently rebooted its classic game Pitfall as a Temple Run-esque game on iOS. Now you can play the original, as part of a 45-game retro compilation based on the versions for the Atari 2600 console. River Raid, Stampede, Enduro are also included. The basic app is free with one included game – Kaboom! – with the entire collection costing £4.99 via in-app purchase.iPhone / iPadSplice: Tree of LifeDeveloper Cipher Prime Studios has made a series of inventive music games for iOS. Splice is its latest game, and sees you rearranging cells into specific structures, figuring out how they will react to one another while mutating your way to the solutions.iPadArcane EmpiresKabam is making a name for itself with hardcore social games. Its Kingdoms of Camelot game has been a mobile hit, and now it's been followed up with Arcane Empires. It's an empire-building strategy game played online against other people, offering a blend of battles, colonisation and diplomacy. It's a freemium game, with virtual gold sold in bundles for between £2.99 and £69.99. The link above is for iOS, buthere's the Android version.Android / iPhone / iPadSplit DecisionMobile gaming is a broad church in 2012. Split Decision comes from an unusual source: magazine firm Dennis Publishing, of The Week, Viz and MacUser fame. This isn't about magazines though: it's a "nonsense vs knowledge" trivia game, asking you to assign things to their correct category – for example, is Breathe On Me a Sylvia Plath poem or a Britney Spears song? It's based on an existing board game, with new question packs sold in-app. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhoneRoll In The HoleThis week's Xbox Live-enabled game for Windows Phones – Microsoft tends to launch one a week – is EA's Roll In The Hole. It's a 72-level puzzle game starring a "chubby panda who just can't get enough ice cream", rolling through the game collecting his melty cones. Colourful casual fun.Windows PhoneOh! Edo TownsIf you've played one game by Japanese publisher Kairosoft, you'll feel at home with them all: the company's grippingly-addictive simulation mechanics have been rolled out across a range of subjects. Oh! Edo Towns is a port from iPhone to Android, and sees you building a town in Edo-period Japan. Combos, levelling up and cute pixel-art graphics all feature.AndroidBlast-A-WayDeveloper Illusion Labs has plenty of fans from previous games like Touchgrind, Sway and Labyrinth. Its latest focuses on three robots' quest to save a bunch of hapless 'Boxies' characters from a series of 3D puzzle-levels, using bombs, teleporters and other items. 80 levels makes this a polished brain-twisting take on the adventure-puzzle genre.iPhone / iPadThat's our selection – against stiff competition this week, with games like Fantasica, Granny Smith, McPixel and Eufloria just missing out, although they're all worth checking out.What have you been playing on your smartphone or tablet? Leave your recommendations by posting a comment.
The Guardian will be the first ever official media partner for the London Games Festival, it has been announced. We'll be running our own events as part of the annual celebration of games culture, which this year takes place between 27 September and 28 October.On 13 October, the Guardian will present How to Code the Raspberry Pi, a programming workshop utilising the incredible Rapsberry Pi PC. Taking place at Google's London HQ, the event will seek to teach parents and children how to use the low-cost computer, which has been designed to get school pupils in to coding.As part of our involvement, I will host an evening event at the Guardian offices in Kings Place. Titled So You Want To Be a Games Journalist?, the event will allow prospective games writers to meet the newspaper's games team and get some useful tips on covering the ever-changing video game industry. More details on that will follow.The London Games Festival features a range of events taking place throughout the city. The Eurogamer Expo (27-30 September) is set to be a highlight again this year, with the likes of Dishonored, Halo 4 and Assassin's Creed III all playable on the show floor, as well as a range of developer talks and discussions.The London Comicon (26-28 October) closes things out with a whole bunch of amazing games, comics and movie guests.In between, there will be various discussion events, art installations and themed video game nights.The presenters of the ever-wonderfulOne Life Leftradio show, will be holding two events – a video game karaoke night at Walkabout Temple on 4 October and a Gamer Disco at the Book Club on 10 October.Gaming news site IGN is hosting a pub quiz at Walkabout Temple on 11 October.Elsewhere, there's an intriguing event on 5 October at the offices of games industry trade body UKIE.The Developer/Journalist Game Hack, will challenge a selection of games writers to create their own games with the help of small programming teams – the results will then be reviewed and scored by a selection of developers. That could get nasty.More information can be found at theLondon Games Festival website, and you can follow the festival Twitter feedhere.
Amazon has launched its Appstore for Android apps in five European countries, which will fuel speculation that the company's Kindle Fire tablet is poised to cross the Atlantic too.The Appstore is live in theUK,Germany,France,ItalyandSpain, offering free and paid Android apps for smartphones and tablets, just as it has done in the US since its launch there in March 2011.Marketing promotions including Free App of the Day are also making the jump, with Rovio's premium (i.e. ad-free) version of Angry Birds the first app to get the treatment, followed by PopCap's Plants Vs. Zombies. Amazon is making the Appstore's own Android app available in these countries, so people can browse and download on their devices.Amazon is also promising a focus on locally-relevant apps, with UK startup Zolmo's Jamie Oliver's 20 Minute Meals app getting a promotional push on the store, as well as Skyscanner, Who Wants to be a Millionaire and Cut the Rope."Customers in the US have purchased millions of apps, games, in-app items and subscriptions since the store launched last year, and we've received great feedback about discovery features like Free App of the Day," says Amazon's vice president of Amazon Appstore Jim Adkins, in a statement."Amazon has spent years developing innovative features that help customers find and discover the products that are right for them and have applied that know-how to the Amazon Appstore. We're delighted to extend that experience to our European customers."The store's launch paves the way for the European debut of the Android-based Kindle Fire tablet, which has been only available in the US since its launch in November 2011.Amazon is holding a press conference on 6 September in Los Angeles, where it is expected to unveil a second-generation version of the tablet. That may now also herald an announcement of plans for European distribution for the new device.That said, apps are only part of the story. Amazon has made tight integration of its music, movies and e-books services key selling points for the Kindle Fire in the US. While its Kindle store is well established in Europe, the company has work to do in rolling out music and movies in the region.Amazon's press release for the Appstore's European launch quotes a number of approving developers: Zolmo, Rovio, Glu Mobile, TinyCo and Skyscanner. However, the store has not been without controversy among the app development community.In April 2011, games industry body the IGDAsent an "important advisory" to its memberswarning them about some of Amazon's submission policies for its store, criticising the way it reserved the right to vary the price of apps or even drop them to free at any time, paying developers either 70% of the purchase price or 20% of the original list price."While many other retailers, both physical and digital, also exert control over the price of products in their markets, we are not aware of any other retailer having a formal policy of paying a supplier just 20% of the supplier's minimum list price without the supplier's permission," noted the IGDA's letter, at the time.While many developers have happily signed up to the store with eyes open wide to the policy, some genres – premium book-apps, for example, which should be a good fit for the Kindle Fire – have seen more reluctance from publishers."f we were to sign the contract with them that they wanted us to, although we get to set the price of our titles, they can lower that down to nothing if they want to," Touch Press chief executive Max Whitbytold The Guardianin December 2011."They'll pay us a bit – 70% of 20% of the price that we set – so we'd get $1.40 for The Elements. We're not prepared to take that risk: it's destroying value. What's been very good about the iTunes Store and Apple is that it has encouraged a culture of quality. People go there to find what's good. Amazon is the Ryanair of digital publishing!"Clearly, plenty of developers are happy to swallow these terms, in the hope that the growing scale of the Amazon Appstore – which the European launches will help – and the company's famed recommendation engine will open up a new and lucrative distribution channel for their Android apps.
After years of rumours and aborted projects, a Metal Gear Solid movie has been officially announced. Columbia Pictures has taken on the hit video game series, with Avi Arad set to produce.The Metal Gear games have long been acclaimed for their cinematic qualities, and series creator Hideo Kojima is a self-confessed movie geek. However, attempts to bring the futuristic stealth adventure to the big screen have so far failed.Boogie Nights and Moneyball producer Mike De Luca was working on an adaptationback in 2008, but that fell through two years later.The latest attempt was announced at a celebration of the series' 25th anniversary in Tokyo on Wednesday. According to US game site, Kotaku, Arad, who founded Marvel Studios and produced the hugely successful Iron Man and Amazing Spider-Man movies, took to the stage during the event to announce the project.He told audiences that he saw video games as the comics of today, and that Columbia would take its time to ensure its movie captured the nuances of the Metal Gear universe.Game adaptations do not have an illustrious history – to put it politely. From the risible Super Mario Bros and Street Fighter tie-ins of the early nineties to the excruciating straight-to-DVD  travesties of German director/producer Uwe Boll, video game licenses have often been seen as a quick and easy way to make cash.However, Hollywood has made many many millions over the past five years by taking comic books seriously – and now that it is running out of major superhero characters to bring to screen, it may well turn its gaze to video game brands.Arad already has two other big game adaptations on his books: the action adventure Uncharted and the sci-fi shooter inFamous.The Metal Gear series, which started out on the cult MSX computer in 1987, but became world famous when it hit PlayStation in 1998, would seem to be highly suitable for movie adaptation.The games are known for their long cinematic story sequences and film references. Plus, the convoluted plot, which involves espionage agent Solid Snake battling terrorist groups and rogue government agencies, is ripe for a long-running movie franchise.Currently, the Metal  project has no director and no actors attached, although Kojima expressed his admiration for Christopher Nolan. That may well be wishful thinking.
And here we go into Thursday; what will this day bring? Well so far,Mass Effect is in development for wii U.Oh and there's going to bea Metal Gear Solid movie. Will you be able to access flashback scenes by pressing X?
What a nifty idea: a camera with full mobile connectivity which runs a mobile OS. Or is it?Samsung unveiled its Galaxy Camera at a photogenic event ahead of IFA in Berlin on Wednesday. But is it a smallish tablet with a reasonable camera attached, a chunky mobile with a reasonable camera attached, or a reasonable camera with added mobile connectivity?It's two of those three things. And on paper, it is a really good idea – a logical evolution of the cameraphone that we've come to know and love.On paper, the specs are pretty good: 16.3 megapixels, a 21x optical zoom, a beautifully sharp, rich and clear screen (308ppi, 4.77in), all the flavours of connectivity you can imagine (3G and Wi-Fi or 4G and Wi-Fi), a 1.4GHz quad-core processor, 8GB of storage plus a slot for micro SD cards, Android Jelly Bean – and, of course, the ability to record video to your heart's content.On top of that, Samsung has added all kinds of software smarts to make taking, editing and sharing photographs as easy as possible: you can tag and organise them into folders on the fly (no need to wait until you're at a computer); you can upload your images or movies to Samsung's cloud service and you can share them directly with other Samsung devices, including the Galaxy S3 and the new Samsung Note II.The camera (or is it a phone?) doesn't stint on the help with actually taking pictures, either. If you know what you're doing, you can have complete control over the shutter speed, ISO and so on. If you're more of a set-the-mode-and-shoot snapper, there are plenty of modes to choose from.From the front, it certainly looks like a camera: a long lens whirrs out and there's a chunky handgrip.Rear view of the Samsung Galaxy CameraTurn it over, though, and it looks (and feels) like a fat tablet: those who like button and dials on their camera will be disappointed, as all the controls are menu-driven.On the limited evidence of a quick play with it surrounded by hordes of people, it's not the camera for me. I found the menus confusing – I couldn't work out how to invoke the various modes, never mind save or share a photo.And it's bigger and heavier than I was expecting, tipping the scales at 305g and measuring 128.7mm x 70.8mm x 19.1mm: big in my smallish hands.Having said that, I'm not a regular Android user: someone who uses the OS on their tablet or mobile will doubtless find their way around the menus and modes without too much difficulty.It's certainly an innovative device, one that sets a benchmark for other manufacturers to reach.It also makes a lot of sense: after all, we've been snapping pictures on our phones and quickly sharing them for a while now, and Android certainly has the flexibility and power to bring a great deal of creativity and tweakability to that process.But might it just be a bit too damn clever? Or a bit too much of a hybrid? Do you actually need all the Android functionality on a camera?The answer might well be yes. You may love it. Doubtless the mobile network providers will adore it, as it gives them a whole new way to extract money from you – even though you can't actually make a standard mobile call on it.
A quick burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamUpdate: Now Microsoft says Windows 8 upgrade is £25 &gt;&gt; PC ProUpdate at 4:15pm: Microsoft has told PC Pro that the Windows 8 upgrade will now cost only £24.99 in the UK, correcting an earlier statement that the price would be £39.99.Where the Samsung/Apple/nickels story came from &gt;&gt; El Deforma.comThe origin of the "Samsung paid its $1bn fine in nickels" hoax. (As it would require 20bn nickels, more than are in circulation in the US, you have to question peoples' ability to count, too.) Picked up by Yahoo Finance, among others."If you plagiarize news, do not use a fake news site as a source," El Deforma said later in the day, after suggesting it would sue Yahoo for ripping off its story.Exclusive: Samsung Galaxy Camera Specs, Details, Photos &gt;&gt; PocketnowThe Galaxy Camera will feature a 21x zoom lens and a 16-megapixel BSI CMOS sensor for some image quality that should put your phone to shame.Interactions with Android will take place through the Cameras's 4.8-inch HD SLCD display, a pleasantly large size for a device like this.There will be both 3G + WiFi and 4G + WiFi options for connectivity, and for automatic uploads to the cloud.Intriguing. Is the target market professional photographers? Or the sort of person who takes an SLR on holiday?Navigating the new multi-screen world: Insights show how consumers use different devices together &gt;&gt; Google Mobile Ads BlogIn "The New Multi-screen World: Understanding Cross-Platform Consumer Behavior," we discovered that 90% of people move between devices to accomplish a goal, whether that's on smartphones, PCs, tablets or TV. We set out to learn not just how much of our media consumption happens on screens, but also how we use these multiple devices together, and what that means for the way that businesses connect with consumers. Below are highlights from our research:There's a longer report for download linked in that post.History of the MP3 by Jonathan Sterne, reviewed &gt;&gt; Slate MagazineAnd there is the famous story of Suzanne Vega's "Tom's Diner," the song used by audio engineer Karlheinz Brandenburg to fine-tune the MP3 encoder. Brandenburg was putting the finishing touches on his compression algorithm when he heard Vega's hit playing down the hallway. "I was electrified," he later explained. "I knew it would be nearly impossible to compress this warm a capella voice."He listened to the song thousands of times, eventually figuring out a way to convert it into an MP3 while preserving the warmth of her performance. As reporter Hilmar Schmundt remarks, in an article noted by Sterne: "When an MP3 player compresses music by anyone from Courtney Love to Kenny G, it is replicating the way that Brandenburg heard Suzanne Vega."Why Google's homepage antics are more serious than they appear &gt;&gt; GigaOmIn the US, Google showed a large advert for the Nexus 7 tablet below the search box on the Google home page - one of the busiest pages in the US. Mathew Ingram:Is Google putting its thumb on the scales?That's the underlying principle at stake, not whether or not the homepage has pop-up ads or birthday reminders on it -- and it is the part of all this that could lead to even more problems for Google when it comes to the ongoing investigation by the Federal Trade Commission into what it alleges is anti-competitive behavior. A key aspect of that case is whether Google favors its own products, and whether doing so is unfair to smaller competitors because of the company's monopoly position in search and search-related advertising.Google Said to Tap Barclays to Sell Motorola's Home Business - BloombergGoogle wants to sell the unit within Motorola Mobility that sells set-top boxes and other equipment to cable television providers and has hired Barclays Plc to seek buyers, according to two people familiar with the situation.Motorola Mobility's Home Business unit might fetch about $2bn and the sale is in the very early stages, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified because the information isn't public.Selling the profitable bit. Does this have implications for Google TV? (Thanks @modelportfolio2003 for the link.)Suspected multi-million dollar Bitcoin pyramid scheme shuts down, investors revolt &gt;&gt; The VergeRemember pirateat40, the e-currency banker we speculated could be theBernie Madoff of Bitcoin? Well, it looks like he owes a lot of people money. On August 17, pirateat40 announced the closure ofBitcoin Savings &amp; Trust, a virtual hedge fund that promised to pay high rewards to investors who parked their Bitcoins there. Ten days later, investors are still waiting to get paid and pirateat40 is on the defensive. "When I know, you will," says his away message in the fund's official chat room, an effort to quiet the loudening chorus of, "WHERE ARE MY BITCOINS?"The "hedge fund" was promising returns of 6.75% perweekmonth; all you had to do was hand over your untraceable digital money. What could possibly go wrong? Pretty much puts the lie to the idea that Bitcoin users consist only of the brainy elite, anyway. Meanwhile: "loudening"?What it's like for a deaf person to hear music for the first time &gt;&gt; The AtlanticSolved by hearing aids:Following that experience, Chapman did what any smart Internet-connected 23-year-old with a question for a crowd would do: He turned to Reddit, asking, "I can hear music for the first time ever, what should I listen to?"The response was tremendous, running more than 14,000 comments and garnering the attention of Spotify, which gave him six months of free membersion and a 13-hour playlist that covers a huge range of music. In the Reddit conversation, bands like The Beatles and Led Zeppelin figure in prominently, as do classical composers such as Beethoven (side note: can you imagine listening to this for the first time?). Overall, Chapman said to me over email that Beethoven's Ninth was the top most recommended piece.Technology plus humans = result.Pinch-to-zoom and rounded rectangles: what the jury didn't say &gt;&gt; TechPinionsSteven Wildstrom:I'm not sure where the idea that pinch and stretch was at stake originated. It seems to have crept  into the trial coverage at some point and become part of the folklore of the case. And when the jury announced that it had found infringement by Samsung on all three utility patents, a large number of writers seemingly assumed that one of those covered the gesture. In the case of rounded rectangles, Samsung's obfuscation certainly contributed. So did a general hostility toward the entire patent system in the tech community, including tech writers, which created a readiness to believe in the most absurd interpretation of the outcome.Arcade Games: How do the Claw crane 'arcade game' machines work? &gt;&gt; QuoraBasically, most crane games are designed so the claw is randomly (and only once in many games) strong enough to let players win. Some even weaken in strength after a short time so players get close to victory only to see it slip from their grasp!Damn.How Google has avoided Apple's patents, trade dress, &amp; other claims &gt;&gt; The Verge ForumsPoints out the nonuniform corners, nonuniform bezels, and curved back of the Nexus phones' designs, and in the software too. Samsung lost on a number of these, but not on any of the Google-designed phones.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
First out of the OEM starting gate with Windows 8 tablets is Samsung, which showed off its new toys ahead of IFA in Berlin on Wednesday .Windows 8 has been out in the wild – though not officially released until October – for a while now, so for those who have had the beta on their hardware, the RTM (Release To Manufacture) version doesn't hold any surprises.But what is new for pretty much everyone is the touchscreen devices: the tablets and the hybrids.The range (which includes a Windows 8 phone) bears the rather odd name of Ativ. Samsung explains that this is Vita – the Latin for life – spelt backwards. (Which could be unfortunate: what's the opposite of life?) Never mind – what matters is the kit.All eyes were on the Ativ tablet, a lightweight (570g) machine with a 10.1in screen.It runs Windows RT, meaning it's based on the ARM processor rather than the Intel x86 architecture. That should mean good life from the 8,200maH battery, though the functionality isn't lightweight.The tablet comes with Office Home and Student 2013 (so Word, Excel, OneNote and Powerpoint) as well as mail, calendar and contacts apps.On top of that, Samsung bundles what used to be known as "OEM crap" – bundled software it includes either to push its own services or defray the cost of manufacture – though from a brief hands-on, it looks as though you might actually use some of the bundled applications, notably the photo-editing app.If you've used Windows 8 on the desktop, you'll easily find your way around the touch interface: it works. It feels intuitive, and it's a very smooth experience.In short, the Ativ looks like a grown-up machine, one that is the right size to do some work and a fair amount of play on.Specifications-wise, it's respectable: a 1.5Ghz dual-core processor powering an HD LCD 1366 x 768 screen that looked plenty bright and colourful enough – though Apple purists will note that it doesn't come close to the iPad's Retina display. But then, it's not an iPad.The next rung up the Samsung ladder are the Smart PCs, which pretty much take the Asus Transformer's nifty idea of adding a proper removable keyboard to a tablet touchscreen, giving you the choice of using it as a tablet (with x86 Windows 8) or a laptop.That's a nice idea, and the specs are certainly respectable. There are two flavours: the Smart PC and the Smart PC Pro. The former has the same screen resolution as the Ativ tablet and weighs 750g without the keyboard, and 1.48kg with the keyboard, which looks a lot like a Mac keyboard.Powered by an Atom processor and sporting 2GB of RAM, it might be the kind of thing a student would be very happy with.The Smart PC Pro is more of a road warrior's machine (yes, they actually said "road warrior" in presenting it). That packs a Core i5 processor, 4GB of Ram and an up-to-256GB SSD, as well as a 1920x1080 11.6in screen.It's also heavier than the Atom version at 884g without the keyboard, and 1.6kg with.It's also quite chunky: with the keyboard it measures 304mm x 189mm x 21.9mm (11.89mm without). Its little brother is slimmer, measuring 304mm x 189.4mm x 9.9mm (without the keyboard) and 304.0 x 189.4 x 19.9mm with it.Picked up, it felt a heftier machine than, say, the Asus UX21E I'm writing this piece on now (299mm x 196mm x 17mm, weight 1.14kg).There's no pricing or shipping information available yet, though it's a fair guess that these will be hitting the shops in time for Christmas.Do you need one of these new breed of PCs? I can see a role for both the tablet and the hybrids in my life, but not everyone wants as many PCs as I seem to require.Do you want one? When you see them in the flesh, you just might.
While a tropical storm batters the Gulf coast and Republicans make their case for reclaiming the White House, Barack Obama diverted attention from both by typing three simple words on Wednesday afternoon: "ask me anything."When a politician needs to relate better to an unsure public, secret weapons include wives, friends, pets and – if you're Bill Clinton – brass musical instruments. For Obama, his talent has long been his ability to communicate in digital. And so he appeared out of nowhere on the Reddit message board – asPresidentObama– fielding questions from people who want to know about everything from Gitmo to the White House beer recipe ("It will be out soon! I can tell from first hand experience, it is tasty," hewrote.)For the uninitiated, Reddit is a labyrinthine message board that hosts countless topic boards (subreddits) policed by interested parties (redditors). Users can cast a vote to send story links and comments up or down. The best content, in theory, rises to the top of each subreddit.Though Wednesday was certainly a moment in the sun, Reddit has managed to stay largely out of the mainstream. For first-time visitors, the shorthand takes awhile to understand. "AMA" for instance, stands for Ask Me Anything, one of the more mainstream features on the site, where anyone can put themselves forward to be questioned about their area of interest of expertise.Celebrities and politicians alike have attempted to let the asking public pelt them with questions – with varying degrees of success, as some of the more overly self-promoting users have found out the hard way. (No word yet if Obama's "Don't forget to vote in November!" went over well with the community.)And today, Obama's "AMA" soared to the top of Reddit itself.Here is a selection of his answers from the chat, exactly as they appeared on Reddit:On troop surge in Afghanistan:The decision to surge our forces in afghanistan. Any time you send our brave men and women into battle, you know that not everyone will come home safely, and that necessarily weighs heavily on you. The decision did help us blunt the taliban's momentum, and is allowing us to transition to afghan lead - so we will have recovered that surge at the end of this month, and will end the war at the end of 2014. But knowing of the heroes that have fallen is something you never forget.On internet legislation:Internet freedom is something I know you all care passionately about; I do too. We will fight hard to make sure that the internet remains the open forum for everybody - from those who are expressing an idea to those to want to start a business. And although their will be occasional disagreements on the details of various legislative proposals, I won't stray from that principle - and it will be reflected in the platform.On money in politics:Money has always been a factor in politics, but we are seeing something new in the no-holds barred flow of seven and eight figure checks, most undisclosed, into super-PACs; they fundamentally threaten to overwhelm the political process over the long run and drown out the voices of ordinary citizens. We need to start with passing the Disclose Act that is already written and been sponsored in Congress - to at least force disclosure of who is giving to who. We should also pass legislation prohibiting the bundling of campaign contributions from lobbyists. Over the longer term, I think we need to seriously consider mobilizing a constitutional amendment process to overturn Citizens United (assuming the Supreme Court doesn't revisit it). Even if the amendment process falls short, it can shine a spotlight of the super-PAC phenomenon and help apply pressure for change.On sports teams:I'm a [Chicago] Bulls guy.Questions we wish he answered:• President Obama, why didn't you close Guantanamo Bay as you promised you would?• The ice in the arctic is the lowest ever recorded, and there are two more weeks of melting left in the summer. Will climate change get the attention it so desperately needs in your second term?• Mr. President, given the last four years (and especially the last two), what gives you confidence that Congress will be willing to work with you in a second term?And one we're glad he didn't:• Toilet paper - facing out, or facing in?
Jonathan Myerson (Licence to bully, 28 August) is absolutely right: online anonymity is debasing true debate.Currently arguments about internet governance swing from one extreme –John Kampfner's demandlast week for no restrictions at all – to another –Theresa May's desire to track all email traffic. We need a more balanced approach, matching rights to responsibilities. Tackling anonymity is key.When I call for better child protection on the net the industry responds by saying it's like traffic – parents must teach their children safety. But to go on the road you need a driving licence, and it's an offence not to give your true name and address. The internet needs to grow up – it cannot remain like the forest in the 13th century at the time of Robin Hood, totally outside the law. Myerson's argument is timely and helpful.Helen Goodman MPShadow minister for media• Jonathan Myerson has a point about online anonymity facilitating abusive comments. I always use my own name when tweeting or posting online. Either you can defend what you have to say or you should keep quiet. But there are exceptions. First, for a range of reasons – employers being one – not everyone does feel as free as they might wish to say what they want. This goes beyond whistleblowing to the expression of political views. As important is the role of the pseudonym or pen name. Here the writer's name can be discovered, but not easily, and the cloak of relative anonymity allows them to say publicly what they might otherwise not. The Secret Footballer comes to mind.Keith FlettLondon• Jonathan Myerson doesn't mention the unhelpful and potentially pernicious exercise in collecting and displaying customers' anonymous comments on services such as restaurants.Looking recently at just such a case I found an instance with three almost slanderous comments interspersed with several glowing testimonies, one of which said "it was so good we went again the next night". It is difficult, if not impossible, to glean anything from such diametrically opposite views, and the aggregate score added little light. More importantly, the owner of the restaurant has little or no opportunity to rebut potentially damaging comments, and may even wonder whether his competitors are posting false messages of dissatisfaction.Alan GilchristBrighton• It is all very well for Jonathan Myerson to decry online anonymity in the Guardian – he will not suffer the consequences of his writing the article. There are many parts of the world (including the US) where being a member of the LGBT community can result in persecution or death. There are parts of the world where being an atheist can have fatal consequences; in the US atheists can lose their jobs.Is Myerson saying these people should keep quiet, or perhaps he does not think the consequences of speaking out matter? Pseudonymity (not anonymity) on the internet has given many oppressed people the ability to speak out without fear of reprisal – should this be abandoned to assuage Myerson's tender feelings?Andrew DeaconLeicester
Plans to launch 4G superfast mobile internet in the UK before Christmas have been thrown into turmoil by a threat of legal action from the O2 network.The Guardian understands that Spanish company Telefónica, which owns O2, has written to telecoms regulator Ofcom threatening to challenge its decision to allow rival brands Orange and T-Mobile to launch 4G services this autumn.Last week, Ofcom gave Everything Everywhere (EE), the company that owns Orange and T-Mobile in the UK, the nod to use some of its existing spectrum to launch 4G from 11 September – a head start of up to a year on its rivals.Fourth generation – or 4G – services allow data to be downloaded at ten times the speed of today's 3G networks. The new capacity is urgently needed by mobile operators in order to keep up with the demands on their networks from smartphones.The move upset O2 and Vodafone, which said they would not have enough bandwidth to launch competing services until the forthcoming 4G spectrum auction. Because the airwaves being auctioned are currently used for digital television, it is unlikely they would be cleared for mobile use in every part of the UK until the autumn of 2013, according to Ofcom.In a letter believed to have been copied to culture secretary Jeremy Hunt, whose department oversees telecoms, O2 gave notice that it intended to appeal against Ofcom's ruling at the Competition Appeals Tribunal (CAT).As part of the appeal, O2 could seek an interim relief, effectively blocking Everything Everywhere from launching its 4G service until a decision is reached. Separately, the Guardian understands that O2 issued EE with anultimatum that gave the company until Tuesday evening this week to undertake not to go ahead with its 4G launch.Both parties declined to comment, although a source at O2 said that legal action "remained an option". The company is thought to have been unhappy with Ofcom's decision making process. The regulator took ten months but held only one round of consultation before deciding to approve EE's application.A spokesman for Ofcom declined to comment on any challenge from O2, but said: "The consultation responses raised a number of detailed issues that we considered very carefully before reaching our final decision."O2's moves could spark a retaliation from EE and delay the spectrum auction itself. Last week EE chief executive Olaf Swantee indicated he could litigate against the auction rules, which his company is unhappy with, if others sought to block it from launching 4G this year. He said: "I will commit here and now to support the auction process, even though there are aspects of the auction rules that we don't like. However, and I am hoping it doesn't come to this, if there is litigation against Ofcom's ruling, we will have no choice but to review our position".O2's threat comes after a long string of attempts to challenge the 4G auction through litigation. Auction delays could compromise Britain's position as one of the most vibrant and advanced markets for smartphone technology.An appeal would be a headache for Ofcom, which recently saw years of work to curb BSkyB's market power in sports and movies broadcasting unpicked by the Competition Appeals Tribunal in rulings that were deeply critical of the regulator's decision making in the television market.EE has invested heavily since January to install 4G radios on its mobile phone masts and is thought to have a number of major population centres already covered. Advertising agency Saatchi and Saatchi has been lined up to create an advertising campaign around the launch of a third brand which EE would use to promote its superfast internet service. Space for television, newspaper and online advertising is understood to have been booked for early October, shortly after the release of Apple's iPhone 5.• This article was amended on 30 August 2012
An investigation has been launched after a group that supports the WikiLeaks founderJulian Assangeclaimed to have hacked Cambridge University computer systems.The group namedNullCrew, linked to the computer hacking network Anonymous, said it had targeted several university departments and broken into databases.The group published details of what appear to be usernames and passwords online and in a statement to the Guardian passed through their Twitter account said: "We'd like to say that we aren't finished with the operation, and we aren't the only Hacktivist group to be fighting."Julian Assange has been fought against for speaking his voice. NullCrew along with all of Anonymous are fighting this, and will not stop."If truly, the proper thing doesn't happen with Assange, the United Kingdom will forever be a target to Anonymous and NullCrew, and all the other groups associated with Anonymous."The information published by the hackers appears to include 17 login details of academics in the centre for research in the arts, social sciences and humanities.Others believed to be targeted were the sector of biological and soft systems, the department of chemical engineering and biotechnology and the centre for applied research in educational technologies.A spokesman for the university said: "A group calling itself NullCrew claims to have obtained login details for some web-based resources hosted on university systems."As a preventative measure these have been taken offline while IT staff investigate the claims."The hacking group itself has not claimed to have compromised the email login details of members of the university, and there is no evidence to substantiate such a suggestion."
As proof that some people will believe absolutelyanything, the latest story doing the rounds is that followingApple's win in the mutual patent infringement case against Samsung, in which the jury assessed a $1bn fine, "Samsung paid Apple its $1bn fine by sending more than 30 trucks to Apple's headquarters loaded with nickels [5-cent pieces]". And that when Apple security was just about to freak out, Apple chief executive Tim Cook was called by Samsung who told him this was how they were paying the billion-dollar fine.Hahahaha.Jeez.Well, at least one fact is right: Tim Cook is chief executive of Apple.On to the debunking.1) Samsung's fine ($1.049bn) isn't yet payable; the judge hasn't ruled. All we have is the jury's verdict. The judge's decision, which could include a tripling of the fine, is due on 20 September (or possibly 6 December now; it's unclear). Until then, Samsung only has to pay its lawyers. That should be less than $1bn.2) If Samsung tried to pay the fine in five-cent coins, Apple could legitimately tell the trucks to turn around and head back to Samsung (if the trucks weren't imaginary in the first place). Here's the relevant phrase from theUS Treasury web page:Q: I thought that United States currency was legal tender for all debts. Some businesses or governmental agencies say that they will only accept checks, money orders or credit cards as payment, and others will only accept currency notes in denominations of $20 or smaller. Isn't this illegal?A:The pertinent portion of law that applies to your question is the Coinage Act of 1965, specifically Section 31 U.S.C. 5103, entitled "Legal tender," which states: "United States coins and currency (including Federal reserve notes and circulating notes of Federal reserve banks and national banks) are legal tender for all debts, public charges, taxes, and dues."This statute means that all United States money as identified above are a valid and legal offer of payment for debts when tendered to a creditor. There is, however, no Federal statute mandating that a private business, a person or an organization must accept currency or coins as for payment for goods and/or services. Private businesses are free to develop their own policies on whether or not to accept cash unless there is a State law which says otherwise. For example, a bus line may prohibit payment of fares in pennies or dollar bills. In addition, movie theaters, convenience stores and gas stations may refuse to accept large denomination currency (usually notes above $20) as a matter of policy.So basically it would be Apple's choice whether it accepted the payment. (In the UK, the rules are stricter: "legal tender" - meaning payment for a court-ordered debt - mean,says the Royal Mint, that 5ps are only legal tender for amounts up to £5, for example. It's only when you get to £1 that you can pay debts up to "any amount".)3) Some more fact-checkiing fromKen Tindell via Twitter: "A nickel weighs 5g. It would take 2,755 18-wheeler trucks (max legal tare 80,000 lbs) to carry the money."4) Consider how much a billion dollars in nickels would weigh: you need 20bn of them, and at 5g each that's 0.005 kg x 20,000,000,000 = 100,000,000 kg = 100,000 tonnes.5) There probably aren't that many nickels in circulation anyway. The New York Timesnoted in 2006that there were about 20bn nickels in circulation at the time; rising metal prices were encouraging people to melt them for the copper and zinc. Another dose of reason.6) The amount of copper involved (95% of each nickel) is truly humungous because a billion is averybig number. 100,000 tonnes of copper (let's assume that's what it is for now) would, at adensityof 8,940 kg/cubic metre (that's 8.94 tonnes/cubic metre), occupy just over 11,185 cubic metres. As anOlympic swimming pool has a capacity of 2,500 cubic metres(aka "one olymp"), that would be the same asfour and a half Olympic swimming pools filled entirely with copper. Imagine that if you can.One other point: it isn't actually a "fine", because it isn't imposed by or payable to the government (it's decided by the jury, payable to Apple). Strictly speaking, these aredamages.The story appears to have originated on "humour" site 9gag, which Mobile Entertainmentdescribes succinctlyas "a place normally reserved for z-list memes and screenshots of Facebook statuses." Yup, this one fits that.The story actually originated on El Deforma, described (by many) as "an Onion-like Mexican website" - that is, specialising in fake news.Here's the original; I'm grateful toMaria Figueroa, who first pointed this out to me.She also pointed out that the site has a "tip of the day",which on Wednesday had the advice: "Si vas a plagiar noticias, no uses un sitio de noticias falsas como fuente." Or In English: "If you're going to steal news, make sure not to use a fake news site as a source."Advice thatYahoo News could have taken. Oops.• Read:Eric Schmidt, kittens and the inventive step: the smartphone patent wars explained.20 November:Samsung ordered to pay Apple $290m for US patent infringements.
US police have arrested Raynaldo Rivera, 20, an alleged member of the hacking group LulzSec, on charges that he took part in an extensive breach of the computer systems belonging to Sony Pictures Europe.Rivera, of Tempe, Arizona – who allegedly used the online nicknames of "neuron", "royal" and "wildciv" – surrendered to police in Phoenix six days after a federal grand jury in Los Angeles produced an indictment charging him with conspiracy and unauthorised impairment of a protected computer. If convicted, he could face 15 years in prison.The indictment, which was unsealed on Tuesday, accuses Rivera and co-conspirators of stealing information from Sony Pictures Europe's computer systems in May and June 2011 using an SQL injection attack – which exploits flaws in the handing of data input for databases to take control of a system – against the studio's website.SQL injection, or SQLi, is an increasingly common technique used by hackers to break into systems.The indictment says Rivera then helped to post the confidential information onto LulzSec's website and announced the intrusion via the hacking group's Twitter account.While Rivera was the only person named in the indictment, the FBI said his co-conspirators included Cody Kretsinger, 24, a confessed LulzSec member who pleaded guilty in April to charges stemming from his role in the Sony attack.Yet the indictment and the arrest still leaves open one of the most puzzling questions left by the hacking spree seen in the first half of 2011, when the hacking collective Anonymous – and LulzSec, which grew out of it, were coming to public attention.That is the question of whohacked into Sony's PlayStation Network (PSN) system in April.The attack, which may have leaked credit card details for millions of users, has never been traced to any group – although Sony suggested not long afterwards that Anonymous might have been involved.Since then it has given no further details about who it suspects of carrying out the attack, and no data from the attack has ever been posted publicly.By contrast the Sony Pictures Europe hack of which Rivera is accused saw the data leaked on 2 June, and LulzSec's activities are generally reckoned to have begun on 30 May with the posting of afake story about Tupac Shakurto the PBS website.Following the Sony Pictures Europe breach, LulzSec published the names, birth dates, addresses, emails, phone numbers and passwords of thousands of people who had entered contests promoted by Sony, and publicly boasted of its exploits."From a single injection we accessed EVERYTHING," the hackers said in a statement at the time. "Why do you put such faith in a company that allows itself to become open to these simple attacks?"Authorities have said the Sony breach ultimately cost the company more than $600,000 (£378,000).LulzSec, an underground group also known as Lulz Security, is an offshoot of the international hacking collective Anonymous and took credit for attacks on a number of government and private sector websites, including the UK's Serious Organised Crime Agency, the US Congressional website, and the Sun and News International sites.The latest indictment says Rivera is suspected of using a proxy server in a bid to conceal his IP address to avoid detection.Court documents revealed in March that a former Anonymous member known as Sabu, whose real name is Hector Xavier Monsegur, had pleaded guilty to hacking-related charges andhad been providing information on his cohorts to the FBIsince June 2011, after he was identified as he logged into a public bulletin board from his home address.That same month, five other suspected leaders of Anonymous, all them alleged to be LulzSec members as well, were charged by US authorities with computer hacking and other offences.A number of arrests followed in the UK, where six people have been charged with various offences linked to LulzSec's activities.An accused British hacker, Ryan Cleary, 20, was indicted by a US grand jury in June on charges related to LulzSec attacks on several media companies, including Sony Pictures.Kretsinger, who pleaded guilty to the same two charges now facing Rivera, is due to be sentenced on 25 October. A prosecutor said he was likely to receive substantially less than the 15-year maximum prison term carried by those offenses.Monsegur, 28, a Puerto Rican living in New York, has pleaded guilty to 12 charges, including three of conspiracy to hack into computers, five of hacking, one of hacking for fraudulent purposes, one of conspiracy to commit bank fraud, and one of aggravated identity theft.Those charges would attract a total of 124 years' jail, but it is thought he has arranged a plea bargain with the US government. Monsegur received a six-month reprieve from sentencing earlier in August in light of his cooperation with the government.Anonymous and its offshoots focused initially on fighting attempts at internet regulation and the blocking of free illegal downloads but have since taken aim at the Church of Scientology, global banking and other targets.Anonymous, and LulzSec in particular, became notorious in late 2010 when they launched what they called the first cyberwar in retaliation for attempts to shut down WikiLeaks.The rise of LulzSec saw a burst of similar "crews" aiming to hack sites, but since then Anonymous has focussed on providing an outlet for documents released by WikiLeaks.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 25 August 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Sleeping Dogs(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (39)22 (–)Darksiders II(16+)Xbox 360 (60)PS3 (34)PC (3)13 (2)New Super Mario Bros 2(3+)3DS (100)24 (3)London 2012: The Official Video Game(3+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (41)PC (0)95 (–)Transformers: Fall Of Cybertron(12+)Xbox 360 (67)PS3 (32)PC (1)16 (4)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (38)PS3 (22)Wii (14)DS (4)107 (8)Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Future Soldier(15+)Xbox 360 (61)PS3 (37)PC (2)148 (5)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (67)3DS (33)399 (6)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (44)PC (3)3210 (10)Lego Harry Potter: Years 5-7(7+)Xbox 360 (38)PS3 (26)Wii (17)DS (16)1111 (7)The Amazing Spider-Man(16+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (40)DS (2)3DS (1)912 (12)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (43)PS3 (31)PSP (9)Wii (8)4813 (13)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (36)PC (9)4314 (9)Dead Island GOTY Edition (18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (39)PC (2)815 (11)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (33)PC (16)3916 (15)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (33)5917 (–)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)PS3 (53)Xbox 360 (39)PC (4)Wii (2)3818 (–)Saints Row: The Third(18+)Xbox 360 (63)PS3 (36)PC (1)3019 (14)Mario Kart 7(3+)3DS (100)1620 (16)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure (7+)Wii (46)Xbox 360 (31)PS3 (16)3DS (7)32UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Iranian gamers have been shut out of the hugely popular online role-playing game World of Warcraft. Publisher Activision Blizzard has said that it is complying with US trade sanctions on the country.Last week, Blizzard's online message boards began to receive messages from disgruntled players in Iran, complaining that they could no longer access the game's servers.Eventually, the company posteda statementexplaining the situation."What we can tell you is that United States trade restrictions and economic sanction laws prohibit Blizzard from doing business with residents of certain nations, including Iran," it said."This week, Blizzard tightened up its procedures to ensure compliance with these laws, and players connecting from the affected nations are restricted from access to Blizzard games and services."The statement explained that because of the terms of the US trade sanction, it would be unable to offer any refunds, credits, transfers, or other service options to accounts in Iran or other countries where similar sanctions were in place.The US is stepping up economic pressure on Iran as it seeks more information on the country's nuclear programme.The move has prompted a mixed reaction from Iranian gamers, who are still able to access the game's message boards. While some have expressed disappointment, others have posted angry criticisms of Blizzards actions.One comment on the notice board reads: "Blizzard had full knowledge that this was going to happen. But what did they do? They continued to accept subscriptions and MoP pre orders."Before Blizzard's statement, there were theories that the Iranian government itself was blocking access to popular online games. Last year, the country's FARS news agency reported that the first-person shooter Battlefield 3had been banned.More recently, Iranian gamers contacted US game sitesclaimingthat the country's Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance was cracking down on all titles 'promoting' superstition or mythology.Difficulties in accessing other fantasy adventure games such as the popular Guild Wars titles have also been discussed on gaming message boards.World of Warcraft is the world's largest subscription-based online multiplayer game, with around 10 million users. Participants pay a monthly fee to explore its vast landscapes, engaging in quests and upgrading their in-game characters.A new update, Mists of Pandaria is due out later this year – it's doubtful whether the game's Iranian fans will get to see it.
The US looms large in much of the media coverage of Android and iOS. Google and Apple are both headquartered in Silicon Valley, as are plenty of well-funded startups and globally-recognised technology blogs.With 165m active iOS and Android devices in the US alone, it's also the world's biggest market for smartphone apps on these platforms. Yet the research that 165m figure is drawn from – astudy by mobile analytics firm Flurry– also makes it clear that there are opportunities well beyond the US for Android and iOS developers.Published earlier this week, the research is based on analytics data from 200k applications using Flurry's tools. The headline claim is that there were more than 640m Android and iOS devices in use during July 2012.The "in use" part is important, for Apple and Google's own figures tend to focus on sales (or activations, in Google's case) over the lifetime of their platforms. Applesaid in July 2012that it had sold 410m iOS devices since the first iPhone's launch in 2007, while Googlerevealed in June 2012that it had activated 400m Android devices.Flurry claims that its 165m active iOS and Android devices in July made the US the largest market in the world in terms of combined usage of the platforms – it doesn't split them out – ahead of China's 128m, the UK's 31m, South Korea's 28m and Japan's 22m.What's more interesting than the pure figures, though, is the wider trend. "Year-over-year, Flurry calculates that net active devices in the U.S. grew by approximately 30 million, while China saw more than 100 million new active devices enter the market," explains Flurry's Peter Farago in the company's blog post."At this rate, China's active installed base could overtake the United States as early as the 2012 Holiday season."In fact, Flurry's separate chart of the fastest growing iOS and Android markets by active devices – the one at the top of this article – expands on this. China, Chile, Brazil, Argentina, Iran, Vietnam, Mexico, Russia, Turkey and India make up the top 10 – all with more than half a million active devices in July 2011."Notably, all four BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia, India and China) are represented in the top 10-ten growth countries for smart devices, reinforcing their new stage of advanced economic development," wrote Farago.Or to put it another way: 165m active Android and iOS devices in the US is impressive, but add the BRIC countries together – China (128m), Brazil (13m), India (11m) and Russia (9m) – and you get 161m active devices just on these two platforms.Now think about potential growth. Another Flurry chart maps its active-user estimates against the adult populations of each country to gauge how near to saturation they are. It suggests that the US has 78% penetration of active iOS and Android devices, while the UK has 74%.Are countries like the US and UK nearing saturation point? Source: FlurryThis raises a red flag for me: three quarters of the UK population weren't using an Android or iOS device in July 2012. comScore statspublished in Maysuggest that overall smartphone penetration was 55% in March 2012, and that's a figure that includes BlackBerry, Windows Phone and Symbian.Meanwhile, Google'sOur Mobile Planet researchsuggests that 51% of the UK population currently owns a smartphone, with iOS and Android taking a 59% combined share of that 51%, rather than the population as a whole. Flurry's figures must include people with multiple devices – an iPhone and an iPad, for example.Update:I asked Flurry's Farago about this, and he points out that Flurry's penetration stats cover 15-64 year-old adults, rather than the entire population. "For the UK, Flurry's penetration estimate against the total population, from infants to the truly venerable, comes in at 49%," he says, adding that the company sees "not that large" an overlap for multiple device ownership.Even so, its stats still hint at growth to come in those BRIC markets: 10% of the Chinese adult population are using an Android or iOS device according to Flurry – presumably with the same multiple-device caveats – while the penetration stands at 6% in Brazil and Russia, and 1% in India.A bonanza in store for app developers? Perhaps. But that bonanza may well come from startups and developers based in those countries who understand the markets and the business models required for success.Which is a long-winded way of saying the most interesting apps companies in the next five years are more likely to come from Brazil, Russia, India and China as Silicon Valley.Updated on 29 August 2012 with Flurry's response to the question of IOS and Android penetration among the general population.
Security experts are warning people to disable Oracle's Java software in web browsers, following the discovery of a zero-day flaw that has already been used to break into computer systems and spread malware.Web security company FireEyeannounced on 26 Augustthat it had spotted the new attack in the wild – that is, being used against systems by hackers, rather than passed around for discussion – and that until Oracle provided an update for Java: "Most of the Java users [online] are at the mercy of this exploit."Oracle claims that Java is installed on more than 3bn devices, but security company Rapid7 says that only about 35% of users get updates for the software when patches to close security holes are issued.Its data suggests that even among those who do update, nearly half take more than 60 days to do so.The flaw affects versions of Java version 7 (identified as 1.7, for updates 0 to 6) though not version 6 and below.On Monday,Atif Mushtaq of FireEye said he had started getting the first indication of a large-scale attack, in which a number of hacked websites were using the exploit to install malware on Windows users' machines – although Apple Mac machines could also be targeted.However, Java 7 is not installed by default on Macs, which presently have version 6, which is unaffected.Java software is widely used, and provides extra functionality in web browsers by providing cross-platform code that in theory obviates the need to write specific code for Windows or Apple's Mac OSX.But it has also proven to be an attack point for hackers who can use flaws to bypass browser and machine security settings. Many mobile handsets use Java to run games, and it is also used on BlackBerry smartphones.Security writer Brian Krebssaid that code to exploit the flaw was being included in more widely-used attack tools, but that Oracle had moved to quarterly fixes for Java – and the next update was not due until October.Mushtaq said that it was very disappointing that Oracle had not come forward and announced a date for an emergency update patch.Oracle's Java bloghad not been updated since 23 August at the time of publication.User checksUsers can check whether their browser(s) are vulnerable atisjavaexploitable.com.Brian Krebs providesadvice on how to disable Java.
It's Wednesday, middle of the week already! How's your's going down?
A quick burst of 11 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple v. Samsung: the longer view &gt;&gt; Considering AppleOne misconception I keep seeing is that Apple is a patent bully or that Apple is somehow an anomaly in the smartphone business because they sued Samsung. Well, as a point of fact, the first modern smartphone suit was Nokia suing Apple over the iPhone. I guess it's easy to forget that - it's not like the number one smartphone manufacturer suing the disruptive upstart is newsworthy or anything (but it's extremely newsworthy now that the number three manufacturer is suing the number one manufacturer). Also, it's easy to forget how Motorola sued Apple first (and how Motorola threatened to sue other Android OEMs shortly before being acquired by Google), or how HTC subsidiary S3 Graphics sued Apple first. I guess ignorance of this history is convenient when trying to sell the Apple-as-the-aggressor narrative.Let's go back even further in history.How Samsung Is making Windows 8 less scary &gt;&gt; MashableWindows 8 changes a lot of things about how the operating system works, but one of the features Windows traditionalists will find jarring is the lack of a Start button. Although the button's functions are still present in various places, users may miss its easy click-and-start-typing familiarity. Well, Samsung's bringing it back.Two things: (1) is that like bringing sexy back? (2) will non-Windows users find something familiar about the centred icon bar at the bottom of the screen used to launch programs?Avoiding Deus ex Machina &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu:We are led to believe that the law is decisive, the ultimate adjudicator. The reason it isn't is that the system was established in a different era. A time when technological change was slow, or non-existent. As a result the institutions of law move so slowly that they are nearly futile in administering justice or righting wrongs....It's a lottery at best, a time and money sink at worst. Considering the analogy to litigation as drama, I would re-phrase this caution as a warning not to treat litigation as Deus ex Machina. It's not something that will get your business out of a jam or reward you for a violation, perceived or real.An excellent counterpoint to all the other readings of That Trial.Apple jury foreman: here's how we reached a verdict &gt;&gt; Bloomberg TVVelvin Hogan (yup) doesn't own any Apple products ("I'm a PC man"); none of the jury had an iPhone.Appcelerator/IDC Q2 2012 Mobile Developer Report (PDF) &gt;&gt; AppceleratorNote: PDF. From July: shows iPhone still dominant, iPad next, Android, Android tablets, and some distance below, Windows 8 tablets, Windows Phone, and (having fallen below it) BlackBerry. iOS is seen as the most likely to succeed in the enterprise marketplace, having increased its lead there over Android since Q3 2011 - from level-pegging at 44% each to 53%/37%. The rest belongs to Windows, BlackBerry OS and - er - webOS, still hanging on to 1% backing. (Thanks @Avro for original link.)Major fibre cable break causes broadband routing woes for UK ISPs &gt;&gt; ISPreview UKA major fibre optic cable breakdown triggered serious routing problems for a multitude of different UK internet providers (e.g. Sky Broadband, O2, BT etc.) over the bank holiday weekend, which prevented broadband customers from reliably connecting to certain websites and other online services / servers.Cable break in Channel; Continent cut off.Why the Apple-Samsung verdict is GOOD for YOU, your KIDS and TECH &gt;&gt; The RegisterNobody put a metaphorical gun to Samsung's head and required the South Korean giant to look to Apple's user interface as a template - as the jury found - for designing its own...Where does this leave the "patent system is broken" crowd? They don't have an economic case to advance - for the current system, even with all of its flaws, makes us richer. Intellectual property is about all the West has left on which to base its future prosperity - I suppose we could buy and sell each other's houses to each other, or create other asset bubbles, but these go pop. So intellectual property activists are left puffing and panting at the margins, and managing, quite successfully, to make themselves look incredibly silly.Andrew Orlowski, of course.Lexmark to exit inkjet printer market &gt;&gt; PC ProLexmark will stop making inkjet printers and cut 1,700 jobs as part of a cost-cutting restructuring move.The US company has struggled to compete in an inkjet market dominated by Canon and HP. Earlier this year, it began to shift its focus away from consumer inkjets by quietly withdrawing from high street stores such as PC World.We're all going to miss its installation and configuration software, aren't we?Is Java Exploitable? &gt;&gt; Rapid7First you go here...How to unplug Java from the browser &gt;&gt; Krebs on Security..and then you go here.Michael Ashenden, EPO blood tester, interviewed &gt;&gt; NY VelocityIf you want to understand why Lance Armstrong was stripped of his titles by the US Anti-Doping Agency, here is the full background: a link to a study claiming his muscle efficiency improved by 5% (disputed), and to the subsequent tests for EPO on blood samples from 1999. Biotechnology, and science.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Over the last few years, at the kinds of conferences where the world's technological elite gathers to mainline caffeine and determine the course of history, Google has entertained the crowds with a contraption it callsLiquid Galaxy. It consists of eight large LCD screens, turned on their ends and arranged in a circle, with a joystick at the centre. The screens display vivid satellite imagery from Google Earth, and the joystick permits three-dimensional "flight", so that stepping inside Liquid Galaxy feels like boarding your own personal UFO, in which you can zoom from the darkness of space down to the ocean's surface, cruising low over deserts, or inspecting the tops of skyscrapers. (The illusion of real movement is powerful; your legs may tremble.) You can swoop down to street-level in Cape Town, spot ships in the Mekong river, or lose yourself in the whiteness of Antarctica.But you don't, of course. What you do – or what I did, anyway, but watch anyone usingGoogle Earthfor the first time, and you'll see they do the equivalent – is to hurtle across continents to the semi-detached house on the outskirts of York where you grew up, to peer down at a street you know well. In an era of previously unimagined opportunities for exploring the far-off and strange, we want mainly to stare at ourselves.It is a testament to the rate of change in the world of mapping, though, that Liquid Galaxy is now essentially old hat. Google has much, much bigger plans. In June it revealed that it had already started using planes – "military-grade spy planes", the New York senator Charles Schumer claimed – to provide more detailed 3D imagery of the world's big cities. It also unveiled theStreet View Trekker, a bulky backpack with several 15-megapixel cameras protruding on a stalk, so that operatives can capture "offroad" imagery from hiking trails, narrow alleyways or the forest floor. Almost every month, new kinds of data are incorporated into Google Maps: in June, it was 2,000 miles of British canal towpaths, complete with bridges and locks;  it wasbike lanes. And for the first time, Google's dominance of digital mapping faces a credible threat: Apple has announced that it will no longer include Google Maps on iPhones or iPads, replacing it with an alternative that, an Apple source told the tech blog All Things D, "will blow your head off"."I honestly think we're seeing a more profound change, for mapmaking, than the switch from manuscript to print in the Renaissance," says the University of London cartographic historian Jerry Brotton. "That was huge. But this is bigger." The transition to print gave far more people access to maps. The transition to ubiquitous digital mapping accelerates and extends that development – but it is also transforming the roles that maps play in our lives.The idea of a one-to-one scale map of the world, portraying everything in it, is a venerable device in literature, surfacing most famously in the work of Lewis Carroll and Jorge Luis Borges; in Harry Potter, there's a map that shows whateveryone in Hogwarts is doing at every moment. But in the era of Street View Trekker and Liquid Galaxy, these fictional maps seem somewhat less absurd – and the level of detail is only one way in which maps are changing. Increasingly, the boundary between consulting a map and interacting with the world outside it is blurring: when Google glasses, currently in prototype, can project directions, or reviews of the restaurant you're looking at, directly into your visual field, what does the word "map" mean anymore? While researching his forthcoming book,A History of the World in Twelve Maps, Brotton sometimes brought up the "one-to-one map" idea, from Borges and Carroll, with people at Google, but they didn't find it particularly witty or intriguing."Oh, yeah," they would reply, matter-of-factly. "We can make that map."For many of us, pulling out a smartphone to find the quickest route to a meeting, or to the pub, is so ubiquitous a daily habit that it's hard to remember how absurdly recently it became possible. Google Maps was launched in 2005 – "and that was the watershed," says David Heyman, a founder of the cartography company Axis Maps. "Before that, we were on that old Mapquest thing – that was just an interface for loading a static map, really. But then Google Maps comes along, and suddenly you feel like you're in this seamless interactive environment." It became possible for users to create "mashups", building sites in which Google's basic maps were overlaid with other data: information about flats for rent, or the course of international warfare throughout history, or the best Indian restaurants in Glasgow.A couple of years beforehand, Google co-founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin had been fascinated by the zooming satellite imagery used by US news networks to report on bombing raids in Iraq. Those terrain graphics were provided by Keyhole, Inc, a software company that the CIA had helped to fund. Unlike the rest of us, Page and Brin had the wherewithal to act upon their fascination: they bought Keyhole, repackaging and releasing the firm's software as Google Earth in 2005. "They say they bought it because it looked cool," says Brotton. "But my view is that they absolutely knew what they were buying. They marketed it in this touchy-feely way, as an environmental thing, and they called it 'Earth' – 'Google World' would have sounded imperialist. But they knew that what they were getting with Keyhole would be integral to the search business."There is a sense, in fact, in which mapping is the essence of what Google does. The company likes to talk about services such as Maps and Earth as if they were providing them for fun – a neat, free extra as a reward for using their primary offering, the search box. But a search engine, in some sense, is an attempt to map the world of information – and when you can combine that conceptual world with the geographical one, the commercial opportunities suddenly explode. Search results for restaurants or doctors or taxi firms mean far more, and present far juicier opportunities for advertisers, when they are geographically relevant. And then there's the most important point – the really exciting or troubling one, depending on your perspective. In a world of GPS-enabled smartphones, you're not just consulting Google or Apple data stores when you consult a map: you're adding to them.Exactly what information the companies collect, and what they do with it, remains much debated. But it's easy to grasp the basic commercial calculation. The more exactly your phone knows where you are, the more accurately you can be served with advertisements based on the places you'll be passing. (Ads on Google are already geo-targeted.) There's no technical reason why, perhaps in return for a cheaper phone bill, you mightn't consent to be shown not the quickest route between two points, but the quickest route that passes at least one Starbucks. If you're looking at the world through Google glasses, who determines which aspects of "augmented reality" data you see – and did they pay for the privilege? Combining GPS with the new Indoor Positioning System, which uses cellular and other phone data to track phones much more precisely, shops could easily track customers' movements among the aisles, adjusting displays on a&nbsp;day-by-day basis for maximum revenue."The map is mapping us," says Martin Dodge, a senior lecturer in human geography at Manchester University. "I'm not paranoid, but I&nbsp;am quite suspicious and cynical about products that appear to be innocent and neutral, but that are actually vacuuming up all kinds of behavioural and attitudinal data."This is why, to techno-zealots and sceptics alike, the media panic over maps and privacy seems rather misplaced. "Barbecuing or sunbathing in your backyard shouldn't be a public event," New York's senator Chuck Schumer said in a statement. "People should be free of the worry of some hi-tech peeping tom technology violating one's privacy when in your own home." German law allows individuals to request the blurring of their homes on Street View. ("You have digitally desecrated your cities,"the new-media commentator Jeff Jarvis responded in fury.) Certainly, this debate matters. But it's hard to interpret the occasional aerial snapshot of your garden as a big issue when the phone in your pocket is assembling a real-time picture of your movements, preferences and behaviour.Google and Apple insist, plausibly enough, that they're not interested in anyone's individual data: the commercial value lies in the patterns they can detect in the aggregate. But you'd be forgiven for not being entirely reassured. In any case, the concern that someone else might discover certain things about you isn't necessarily the most disorienting implication of the new generation of maps. More dizzying is the thought that – as maps based on mined data come to shape our sense of space, to navigate our journeys, and to narrow our online searches – Google's and Apple's maps might not just observe our lives, but in some sense come to play a role in&nbsp;directing their course."There's kind of a fine line that you run," said Ed Parsons, Google's chief geospatial technologist, in a session at the Aspen Ideas Festival in Colorado, "between this being really useful, and it being creepy."For some, the ubiquity of maps – the way they are seeping into every corner of our "real", concrete world – triggers more nebulous, philosophical worries. With maps always in our pockets, or literally in front of our eyes, might we lose the ability to wander, and to get lost? If we're constantly glancing at our phones, or being bombarded by extra layers of data about where we're going, won't we become disconnected from the world around us? Is there something beneficial in having to stop to ask directions – an experience that will probably all but vanish, for most of us, in the next few years?Cartographers don't seem to see things this way. "I actually think it's easier to get lost these days," says Heyman. "Now, when I get to a new city, I can walk off wherever I like, without caring, because I know I'll be able to get back, consequence-free." And the idea that we're losing touch with reality doesn't hold water, argues Brotton. "It's actually much more interesting than that." The really important question is: who controls the specific filters on which we're increasingly coming to rely? "Google and Apple are saying that they want control over people's real and imagined space."Which brings us to the core of the matter. It can be easy to assume that maps are objective: that the world is out there, and that a good map is one that represents it accurately. But that's not true. Any square mile of the planet can be described in an infinite number of ways: in terms of its natural features, its weather, its socio-economic profile, or what you can buy in the shops there. Traditionally, the interests reflected in maps have been those of states and their armies, because they were the ones who did the mapmaking, and the primary use of many such maps was military. (If you had the better maps, you stood a good chance of winning the battle.The Ordnance Survey's logostill includes a visual reference to the 18th-century War Department.) Now, the power is shifting. "Every map," the cartography curator Lucy Fellowes once said, "is someone's way of getting you to look at the world his or her way." What happens when we come to see the world, to a significant extent, through the eyes of a handful of big companies based in California? You don't have to be a conspiracy theorist, or an anti-corporate crusader, to wonder about the subtle ways in which their values and interests might come to shape our lives.The question cartographers are always being asked at cocktail parties, says Heyman, is whether there's really any mapmaking still left to do: we've mapped the whole planet already, haven't we? The question could hardly be more misconceived. We are just beginning to grasp what it means to live in a world in which maps are everywhere – and in which, by using maps, we are mapped ourselves.
The foreman of the jury that awarded Apple $1bn (£600m) in damages against Samsung – the most ever in a patent infringement suit – has defended the nine-strong group after they reached their decision in just two and a half days.Velvin Hogan, 67, who has 35 years' experience in the computer hard drive business, said the jury had focused only on the evidence and had not ignored the 109 pages of instructions from the judge.As he explained the decision in a video interview on Bloomberg TV, Apple filed a legal demand to ban the sale in the US of eight Samsung smartphones named in the case, including the Galaxy S2 – and may be able to extend it to the flagship Galaxy S3, Samsung's highest-priced phone.The demand will be heard on 20 September by Judge Lucy Koh, who will have to decide whether Apple has suffered "irreparable injury" from their sale, that monetary damages are inadequate compensation, and that a ban on sale is not against the public interest. Koh has previously ruled in Apple's favour toban sales of Samsung's Galaxy Nexussmartphone, though that was stayed on appeal.Hogan, meanwhile, said that when the jury began their deliberations "I thought it was ultimately going to lean the other way [to Samsung]. It was at a stalemate – some jurors weren't sure of the patent prosecution process".The trial saw three weeks of evidence, two and a half days of summation and two and a half days of deliberation before the dramatic verdict at the end of Friday.Hogan, who holds a patent himself, said that once he had been elected, the jury quickly settled down to a process where they worked through the 33 questions posed by the judge: if they couldn't answer a question unanimously, they simply moved on to the next.A 15-minute interview in which heexplains the deliberations to Bloomberg TVwill surely be closely examined by Samsung's lawyers, who intend to appeal against the decision.Hogan insisted that there had been no "home court" advantage for Apple, despite the case being heard just 10 miles from its headquarters in Cupertino. "I use no Apple equipment – I'm a PC person," Hogan said. "My wife has a Samsung phone, but it's not a smartphone." None of the jurors owned an iPhone, he said.Another juror, Manuel Ilagan,told Cnetthat the jury had been particularly swayed by internal documents yielded by Samsung, which showed executives had identified iPhone features to incorporate into Samsung's phones. The South Korean's executives, he said, had been "dodging the questions" when they presented video evidence: "they didn't answer one of them. They didn't help their cause."Hogan and Ilagan have intensified the focus on the case, which is the second high-profile legal case this year to involve smartphones and patents in the US. In April, Oracle sued Google for $2.6bn, claiming that the Android mobile operating system infringed a number of its copyrights and patents – but was rebuffed when the jury ruled that Google had not infringed Oracle's patents. Oracle won nothing. None of that jury commented on their decision after the trial.By contrast, the Apple-Samsung case, also involving Android, is a dramatic win for Apple and has led some commentators to speculate that other handset makers could fight shy of using Google's software for phones in the US. Apple had sought $2.5bn in damages; the jury more than halved it. Hogan said they had estimated the damages based on "reasonable royalties" from figures provided by the companies.The jury, with experience in engineering, legal and financial work and including former staff from Intel and AT&amp;T, had some heated arguments, said Hogan and Ilagan. "There was a 20-year-old who provided most of the debate," Hogan said. "He thought very logically. He was never willing to take anybody's viewpoint until he had thought it through."But the crucial evidence, they said, comprised minutes of a meeting in Korean between Google and Samsung, at which Samsung executives were warned by the search giant to "back off" their designs from mimicking Apple's, and a 263-page internal Samsung evaluation, which compared Samsung's S-1 smartphone directly against the iPhone for functionality – with recommendations on how to make the S-1 more like Apple's.Hogan said that the jury did not calculate its record-breaking damages in order to "punish" Samsung, as he was quoted saying in an earlier report with the Reuters news agency – an action that could invalidate the damages, which are not meant to be punitive – but to remove any illicit gains made by Samsung."I realise how it sounds, but it wasn't 'punish'. In this country, intellectual property deserves to be protected," Hogan said. "My real point was that if any company decides to ignore the stipulations and rules and gets so close that they cross the line and infringes and does so wilfuily, they need to understand if they take the risk and get caught, they should have to pay for it."He insisted that other smartphone manufacturers had shown that it was not necessary to ape the iPhone: "there's other ways they could accomplish that – as RIM, Nokia, Motorola do. Just because they have the [An]Droid OS doesn't mean they have to be 100% the same [as the iPhone]."Asked whether it was appropriate for a lay jury to hear a complex case on patents, Hogan responded: "Yes, I do."  He added: "Because the reality of it was that while it was complicated, I believe that any jury of our peers could have reached this decision – maybe asking more questions of the judge; it would have taken longer – but at no time were we so confused that we felt we were heading in the wrong direction."Samsung's lawyers will disagree, and have signalled that they will take the case as far as the Supreme Court if needed to overturn the decision of Hogan and the others. But for now, Hogan's words have become law in the mobile marketplace.• This article was amended on 29 August 2012. The original said Velvin Hogan's video interview was on Bloomberg News. This has been corrected to say Bloomberg TV.
You have to feel for High Moon Studios. Two years ago the developer banged out Transformers: War For Cybertron, arguably the best video game to ever make use of Hasbro's transforming robot toys. It garnered some respectable reviews and did the business in sales, but most important of all, it rehabilitated the Transformers brand among gamers. Before War For Cybertron, Transformers was a byword for tripe in gaming. Then High Moon had to make a movie tie-in game for a rubbish Michael Bay film and the Transformers' gaming reputation was back at ground zero.I'm only bringing all of this up because when I mention to gamers and fellow critics that I'm excited about the arrival of the sequel to the War For Cybertron, I'm usually met with raised eyebrows. "High Moon," they say. "Didn't they make that awful Transformers game last year?" Well, yes they did, but it's likely that the development cycle was miniscule and they were using their talents to portray the work of Michael Bay (shudder), rather than present their vision of the Transformers universe they so clearly love.I say "love" as this emotion is evident in every aspect of Transformers: Fall Of Cybertron. High Moon are not just a group of talented developers – as is evidenced in the game's mechanics, presentation and plot; they're genuine keepers of the Transformers faith. They know the history and the lore concerning the war between the heroic Autobots and the malevolent Decipticons.Their game mines the Transformers universe for all the potential it has while treating it will reverent respect. When you find yourself being able to reference in-game dialogue from Transformers: The Movie, you know you're playing a game constructed by thundering Transformers nerds – just like you!In terms of its plot, Fall of Cybertron picks up a couple of years after War For Cybertron. The Transformers' home world is practically a burnt-out husk and Energon – the fuel that powers both the planet and its inhabitants – is in very short supply. Both the Autobots and the Decepticons are making plans to leave; the Autobots are trying to secure enough Energon to power their Ark spaceship, while the Decepticons are researching a possible escape destination.Right off the bat, the world contained in Fall of Cybertron is far more impressive visually than that of its predecessor. In War For Cybertron, players often felt like they were travelling down the same metallic tunnel over and over again. The environments of Cybertron in High Moon's new game are far more varied and imaginative; players will find themselves battling on floating platforms in the clouds, ancient ruins shrouded in rust storms and sharp-edged tunnels filled with glowing Insecticon cocoons.Players will find a lot of the gameplay mechanics familiar. Like High Moon's first Transformers game, Fall Of Cybertron is an over-the-shoulder, third-person-shooter, which makes the occasional nod towards cover-based shooting, but never fully commits to it. Aiming and firing are mapped to the left and right triggers respectively, LB is a dodge move, Y switches weapons, X reloads, B switches the player's gun hand, A causes the robot to jump and players transform between robot and vehicle forms by clicking in the left thumbstick.The story mode is more character-driven this time round. Unlike the first game, in which players could pick from a couple of different Transformers, War For Cybertron assigns the player a specific Decepticon or Autobot to control. Each robot has a special ability that's mapped to the control pad's right shoulder button. Optimus Prime, for example, has the ability to call down a rocket strike from Metroplex. Megatron can hover in the air briefly and then slam his fist into the ground to send opponents flying. Jazz has a laser grappling hook, while Cliffjumper has the ability to turn invisible for short periods, enabling him to stealthily kill opponents from behind.The game's level design, in turn, compliments each Transformer's ability; the level involving Jazz, for example, has lots of platforms for players to rappel up to, while Cliffjumper's level has tons of air vents to trundle through and loads of enemies with stealth-busting vision to outfox. A couple of the levels feel a little undercooked – Soundwave, for example, doesn't really have much to do apart from eject Rumble and Lazerbeak – and the levels involving Bruticus and Grimlock are little more than fan-service power trips. Overall, though, the campaign is solid and an entertaining way to spend the roughly nine or so hours it takes to complete it.There are couple of niggles in the gameplay; too often, players will fire their weapons into cover when it looks like they have a clear shot on opponents and every Transformer – including hulks like Bruticus and Grimlock – dies just a little too easily. The rather fun campaign co-op mode from the first game has also been completely excised here, which may reduce the story mode's replayability. Apart from weapon upgrades and audio log collectibles, there's not really much reason to play through the plot a second time (apart from, obviously, spending more time with robotic heroes from your childhood).It's possible that the developers are hoping that the game's multiplayer and Escalation modes will keep players glued to it beyond the next few months, but whether this will prove to be the case is hard to call at this stage. Escalation is simply a riff on Gears of War's Horde mode and the competitive online mode doesn't exactly break new ground with its map designs or match-types. It's also worth pointing out that War For Cybertron's online lobbies are pretty much deserted at the time of this writing.That having been said, if you didn't play the last game's online mode and you're a fan of online shooters, Fall of Cybertron is certainly worth a look. The game's transforming mechanic puts a rather unique spin on your average online fragfest; not only does it look brilliant, it can provide players with a quick dodge and a speedy getaway when the tide turns against them.High Moon has also implemented a heap of customisation options for players who want to give their Autobot or Decepticon a personal touch. As players earn XP for blasting their mates online, they'll open up a whole new array of colour schemes and body parts for their bots, and the weapons they unlock become more diverse and satisfyingly brutal.Transformers: Fall Of Cybertron may be a bit of a hard-sell to players who aren't fans of the original cartoons, because it is, first and foremost, a game for Transformers fans made by Transformers fans. If I lost you earlier in the review when I mentioned Bruticus and Grimlock, then High Moon's game will appear to you as a solid, if hardly revolutionary TPS with an interesting shapeshifting mechanic thrown in for good measure. If, however, you know which one of the aforementioned Transformers turns into a fire-breathing Tyrannosaurus Rex, you'll be right at home here.• Game reviewed on Xbox 360
Velvin Hogan, the foreman in the Apple-Samsung patent trial, has told Bloomberg that "at no point" was the jury confused about the task they had to carry out, and suggestions that the nine-strong group hurried to a verdict – reached after just two and a half days deliberating – are completely wrong.He said two pieces of evidence were crucial in persuading the jury that Samsung had intentionally copied elements of Apple's iPhone functionality: minutes of a meeting in South Korea with Google, which had warned senior Samsung executives to "pull back" from their tablet designs because they were too close to Apple's; and internal emails from Samsung executives which said that the difference between the iPhone and Samsung's smartphones was "heaven and earth", and that the two needed to be moved closer.Samsung executives had thus encouraged willful copying: "In doing that, they crossed the line," Hogan told Bloomberg News.He also denied there had been any "home court" advantage for Apple, despite the case being heard just 10 miles from its Cupertino headquarters. "I use no Apple equipment – I'm a PC person," Hogan said. "My wife has a Samsung phone, but it's not a smartphone." None of the jurors owned an iPhone, he said.Hogan also said that in awarding the $1bn damages to Apple, they had used jurors' expertise in finance to calculate the loss caused by Samsung's infringement – which they estimated at 14% of the gross margin, far from the 35% demanded by Apple and only just above the 12% claimed by Samsung.He said the jury initially had been leaning towards Samsung's arguments as they began their stint in the jury room. The jury ranged widely in age – from Hogan, who is over 50, down to a 20-year-old who "provided most of the debate", Hogan said. "He thought very logically. He was never willing to take anybody's viewpoint until he had thought it through."The jury included people who had worked at Intel and AT&amp;T, and had engineering, legal and financial experience.In working through the questions before them, the jury quickly fixed to a process where "we convinced everybody, or we moved on."A key breakthrough came after the first day, he said, when at home he began pondering the role of "prior art" – pre-existing examples of ideas – in invalidating patents. Hogan,himself a patent holder, began considering Samsung's claimed '460 patent, covering the use of email in a camera phone, which it was asserting against Apple.He realised, he says, that Apple and Samsung's implementations were not interchangeable, meaning Apple had not infringed (The jury eventually determined that Apple had not infringed any of the five patents asserted by Samsung in the trial). When he explained that to the jury at the start of the second day, it led to a breakthrough in their understanding, Hogan said.Asked whether the jury had skimped on reading the judge's 109 pages of instructions in order to reach their verdict so quickly, Hogan replied: "Before the closing arguments [by Apple and Samsung] the judge read to us the final instructions, instance by instance. We had those instructions, we had them open, and we went through patent by patent."Whenever the jury couldn't agree, Hogan would move on to the next question at issue in the case. The question relating to the '460 patent is the 25th of 33 in the judgement, indicating how quickly the jury moved through the list.He said it was easy to do so, though, because "the judge broke it down by patent and for every accused device. She had broken it into groups. So we had to take the accused devices for each one, and compare them to the declaration of the patent, limitation by limitation."In an earlier interview with Reuters, Hogan had appeared to suggest that the damages awarded were intended to "punish" Samsung – which the judge had expressly said was not the purpose of the damages, and should instead be restitution for Apple's losses.However, Hogan said that was a misinterpretation of his description: "I realise how it sounds, but it wasn't 'punish'. In this country, intellectual property deserves to be protected. My real point was that if any company decides to ignore the stipulations and rules and gets too close that they cross the line and infringes and does so willfully – they need to understand if they take the risk and get caught, they should have to pay for it."A key piece of evidence that persuaded jurors that Samsung had copied Apple designs and function was the minutes of a meeting between Google and Samsung in Korea."Google demanded that they were too close to Apple, and needed to pull back, because they [Google] were worried about their tablet and their operating system, and that they should make their tablet less like Apple's. They [Samsung] chose not to pass that information down to the engineers about that product, so they [the engineers] went on not knowing."The other thing was internal memos in the evidence where they were comparing the cellphones of Apple and Samsung, and an individual in Samsung said the difference is 'heaven and earth' and they need to move closer. They did move closer, but in moving closer they crossed the line. You can move closer without crossing the line."Asked about Samsung's reaction to the verdict, in which it said it was "unfortunate that patent law allows the patenting of rectangles with rounded corners", Hogan responded that "we didn't look at any singular aspect" of the devices when considering Apple's "trade dress" complaints of physical similarity between the iPhone and iPad and various Samsung devices. "All of the claims and all of the limitations were taken in their entirety."He said he had previously thought that "trade dress" should not be patentable – but that my "opinion toggled" [in favour] as he considered the evidence. "Putting the [Samsung] products side by side with the equivalent Apple products, it was clear to me and the other jurors that they were too close."The jury ruled that 12 of 13 phones, including the Galaxy S2, were too like Apple's iPhone 3G design, although they rejected similar claims about the Galaxy Tab tablet and iPad.Hogan insisted that other smartphone manufacturers had shown it was not necessary to ape the iPhone: "There's other ways they could accomplish that - as RIM, Nokia, Motorola do. Just because they have the [An]Droid OS, doesn't mean they have to be 100% the same [as the iPhone]."The jury, having agreed their decision, calculated the damages item by item based on a 14% margin."Three of us had been through the process in our careers of dealing with financial documents. I understood the profit and loss statements as well as the other two. We looked against the matrix of information [provided by Samsung about sales of phones and revenues]. We decided the [gross margin of profitability] percentage wasn't 12% [as Samsung had claimed] or 35% [as Apple had claimed], but should be between 13% and 15% – so 14% became the magic number. We then did our own calculations for each of the [infringing devices], along with reasonable royalties for each of the numbers."Asked if such a complex case was really best heard by a jury, Hogan was certain. "Yes," he said. "While it was complicated, but any jury of our peers could have reached this decision. If we had been asking questions of the judge it would have taken longer, but at all times we were confident that we were moving in the right direction."
Apple is seeking speedy bans on the sale of eight Samsung smartphones in the US, as it seeks to turn its$1bn court victory last Fridayinto a tangible business benefit over a key rival.It faces a four-part test to persuade Judge Lucy Koh to implement the bans in September, against some of Samsung's Galaxy S phones – but might subsequently be able to snare this year's flagship Galaxy S3 model in a ban too without a full trial.To achieve a ban, Apple's case before the judge must pass a four-part test: it must show "irreparable injury" from the devices' previous sale; that monetary damages are inadequate as compensation; that another remedy is warranted; and that a ban on sale is not against the public interest. Previously Apple has managed to persuade Koh to implement bans on Samsung's Galaxy Nexus phone and its Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet.The phones at issue are the Galaxy S 4G, Droid Charge, Galaxy Prevail, and five versions of the Galaxy S2 – Samsung's flagship phone of 2011.Though the jury found that 28 different Samsung devices had wilfully copied elements of the iPhone's functional patents, and that some also resembled it closely enough to confuse consumers, Apple is seeking bans on a far smaller list, because many of those named in the trial are no longer widely available in the US.But if it succeeds in getting a ban on the eight named phones, it could add the Galaxy S3 to the list through a more rapid "contempt proceeding" before the judge, according to legal experts.Many on Wall Street believe Apple now has momentum behind it in the wake of its near-complete triumph over the South Korean company on Friday."The evidence and weight of the case are heavily in Apple's favor," said Jefferies &amp; Co analyst Peter Misek. "We expect there's a two-thirds chance of an injunction against Samsung products."An injunction hearing has been set for 20 September. If Koh grants sales bans, Samsung will likely seek to put them on hold pending the outcome of its appeal.Samsung said it will take all necessary measures to ensure the availability of its products in the US market. A source familiar with the situation said Samsung has already started working with US carriers about modifying infringing features to keep products on the market should injunctions be granted.Apple's win on Friday strengthens its position ahead of the expected launch on 12 September of the next iPhone, dubbed the "iPhone 5" by observers, and could cement its market dominance in the US as companies using Google Android operating system – which powers two-thirds of the smartphones shipped globally, though less in the US – may be forced to consider software changes, analysts say.Apple was awarded $1.05bn in damages after a US jury found Samsung had copied critical features of the iPhone and iPad. The verdict could lead to an outright ban on sales of key Samsung products.Apple's stock scored another record high on Monday rising 1.9% to add $12bn in value – while Samsung's fell by about 7.5% on the South Korean market on Monday, knocking the same amount off its total value. However Samsung's stock recovered 1.8% on Tuesday.While the victory does not cover new Samsung products including the Galaxy S3, Apple will push its case on these products in the near-term, Evercore Partners analyst Mark McKechnie said."While a ban would likely increase Apple's leading smartphone share in the US market, we believe this verdict could lead to Samsung also delaying near-term product launches as it attempts to design around Apple's patents," Canaccord Genuity analysts said in a note."The ruling marks an important victory for Apple against Android. Competitors may now think twice about how they compete in smart mobility devices with the industry's clear innovator," Barclays analyst Ben Reitzes wrote on Monday. "If Apple forces competitors to innovate more, it could take longer for competitive products to come to market, and make it more expensive to develop them."The victory for Apple – which upended the smartphone industry in 2007 with the iPhone – is a big blow to Google, whose Android software powers the Samsung products found to have infringed on patents. Google and its hardware partners, including the company's own Motorola unit, could now face legal hurdles in their effort to compete with the Apple juggernaut.Google shares closed 1.4% lower at $669.22. Microsoft, a potential beneficiary if smartphone makers begin to seek out Android alternatives, ended up 0.4%. Nokia, which has staked its future on Windows phones, gained 7.7%.Even BlackBerry maker Research in Motion – which has haemorrhaged market share to Apple and Google – climbed more than 5%, before ending 2% higher."The mobile industry is moving fast and all players, including newcomers, are building upon ideas that have been around for decades," Google responded in a Sunday statement. "We work with our partners to give consumers innovative and affordable products, and we don't want anything to limit that."The verdict came as competition in the device industry is intensifying, with Google jumping into hardware for the first time with the Nexus 7 and Microsoft's touchscreen-friendly Windows 8 coming in October, led by its "Surface" tablet.Samsung, which sold an estimated 50m phones between April and June – almost twice the number of iPhones – will have to pay damages equivalent to just 1.5% of the annual revenue from its telecoms business."The verdict does not come as a surprise," wrote William Blair &amp; Co analysts. "From Apple's perspective, Samsung's market position and its leadership in the handset world was something the company could no longer overlook, and viewing this as another 'imitation is a form of flattery' was not possible.""Companies such as Samsung, who we categorize as fast followers, have been viewed by the industry for their ability to quickly adopt the latest handset trends ... rather than their ability to introduce fundamental innovation."
Okay, so, assuming you DID have the day off yesterday - welcome to the working week! Just four days!
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAccount security &gt;&gt; DropboxIf you look down at the bottom, it now includes two-factor authentication. Do use it.A device with a touchscreen and few buttons was obviousAs a geek, I do not want history to be revised to make it seem as if mobile computing started with the iPhone and Android - I want credit to go where it's due: Palm. The Zoomer was the first fully touch-screen operated graphical PDA, in 1992 (before the Newton, even), and PalmOS is the common ancestor to all that came after it: PocketPC, iOS, Android, Windows Phone, and everything else.Persuasive, except that the Zoomer came out in 1993 and work started on the Newton in 1987 - with Apple already filingNewton-related patents in October 1992.[Report] Developer Economics 2012 - The new app economy &gt;&gt; VisionMobileWindows Phone is the new cool. While Windows Phone sales continue to disappoint, a year on, with 2.6m devices sold in Q1 2012, interest among developers continues to build up. Our survey of 1,500 developers indicated that, irrespective of which platform they currently use most, the majority of developers (57%) plan to adopt Windows Phone.They're meanwhile abandoning BlackBerryOS and Bada, according to the survey.Windows 8 productivity: Who moved my cheese? Oh, there it is. &gt;&gt; Scott HanselmanI upgraded from Windows 7 Ultimate to Windows 8 Pro. There's fewer SKUs in Windows 8 now, basically just Windows 8, Windows 8 Pro (for super users) and Windows RT (for Tablets).However, once it's installed, it's initially confusing but I have been using it every day all day since it was released and have got myself productive again. Here's what I ran into and how I realized that there's less reason to freak out than I originally thought.Detailed and helpful.Of Apple, Samsung, and obviousness &gt;&gt; TechPinionsVeteran tech reporter Steve Wildstrom, some morning coffee, and a paraphrase from The Social Network.Samsung unveils Galaxy Player 5.8, pockets everywhere brace for impact &gt;&gt; EngadgetWe hope you wear baggy pants, because you're going to want big pockets to carry Samsung's giant new jukebox. The Galaxy Player 5.8 is dominated by its namesake 5.8in, 960 x 540 LCD - a screen that makes the 4.8in AMOLED on the closely related Galaxy S III look downright modest by comparison. Android 4.0 and the latest generation of TouchWiz make their first appearances in a Samsung media player here, with the spin naturally on books and movies instead of the tasks you'd associate with a smartphone.Samsung scrambles to recover after uppercut &gt;&gt; Korea TimesSamsung executives were still reeling in shock Sunday, but provided no clear hint on the company's next move in the showdown with its industry archrival. It's widely expected that Samsung will appeal, but the outlook for success in the appeal now looks rather murky."It's absolutely the worst scenario for us," a senior Samsung executive said as he rushed into the company's compound in southern Seoul.Inside the building, Choi Gee-sung, former Samsung Electronics CEO and now the head of Samsung Group's corporate strategy division, was holding an emergency meeting attended by Shin Jong-kyun, the company's mobile devices chief, and Lee Don-joo, lead marketing official.Regarding the Jury Verdict in California &gt;&gt; SAMSUNG TOMORROW GlobalSamsung management memo to staff, also made available to the press:The NDCA [Northern District of California] verdict starkly contrasts decisions made by courts in a number of other countries, such as the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Germany, and Korea, which have previously ruled that we did not copy Apple's designs. These courts also recognized our arguments concerning our standards patents.History has shown there has yet to be a company that has won the hearts and minds of consumers and achieved continuous growth, when its primary means to competition has been the outright abuse of patent law, not the pursuit of innovation.We trust that the consumers and the market will side with those who prioritize innovation over litigation, and we will prove this beyond doubt.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Disputes over web domain ownership are expected to hit a record this year as the growing importance of online shopping triggers a wave of legal challenges from owners of famous brands.In one current case, Gucci is insisting that it, rather than an anonymous e-commerce company, should have control of the guccishoponline.org domain name.A key driver of the disputes is the rise of "cybersquatters" in China, who register the names of web domains linked to famous brands so they can either sell counterfeit goods or demand money from the brand owner before they relinquish ownership.Famous brands that have taken up cases in the past 12 months include Swarovski, Armani, Burberry, Cartier and Dior. The World Intellectual Property Organisation (Wipo), which acts as the final adjudicator in arguments over who should be given control of a web domain, decided on nearly 3,000 cases in the 12 months to July 2012, the highest figure since 2007, according to the legal information provider Sweet &amp; Maxwell.Wipo's own figures suggest it is on course to give a record number of judgments for the whole of 2012. In 2011 it adjudicated on 2,764 cases, but by this August it had already decided on 1,931 cases, with one of the busiest periods of the year still ahead.Sweet &amp; Maxwell says that this year Gucci has brought six cases before Wipo to win control of more than 100 domains, such as cheapguccionsale.com and guccishoponline.org. The Austrian luxury brand Swarovski has brought, and won, 32 cases since 2010.Apple, too, has been active,filing and winning a case in Mayfor control of the iphone5.com domain name, even though it has no product with that name.John Olsen, partner at the law firm Edwards Wildman, said: "As online retail becomes more profitable, household name brands are taking the defence of their domain names much more seriously. They are doing all that they can to protect their revenue streams. Domain names are the key to the door of online retail."The number of disputes could rise even further with the introduction next year of a completely new set of domains. Google has already applied for more than a hundred domain extensions, including ".youtube".
Samsung has hit back at arch-rival Apple as investors wiped $12bn (£7.6bn) off the South Korean smartphone manufacturer's market value after its loss of a high-profile US court battle over patents.Samsung stock fell 7.5% in the South Korean capital Seoul on Monday as shareholders reacted tothe $1bn fine imposed on Fridayfor copying key elements of the Apple iPhone's behaviour and appearance.In anangry internal memoSamsung management said Apple had rebuffed attempts to settle out of court. Urging consumers to shun Apple products, they said: "History has shown there has yet to be a company that has won the hearts and minds of consumers and achieved continuous growth when its primary means to competition has been the outright abuse of patent law, not the pursuit of innovation. We trust that the consumers and the market will side with those who prioritise innovation over litigation, and we will prove this beyond doubt."Analysts said the verdict could result in Apple broadening its attack on other handset makers that use Google's Android operating system, potentially hobbling them in the US, the richest segment of the $219bn (£138.6bn) global smartphone business.Those fears hit shares in Google, which fell 1.4% on Monday in New York. It might also open a door for Nokia, the lossmaking Finnish mobile phone maker, which would be able to offer products without fear of lawsuits. US-listed shares in Nokia gained 9% to in early trading.Although Samsung said it would appeal against the verdict, Judge Lucy Koh could triple the fine because the jury of nine in San Jose, California, determined that the infringement of Apple's patents and designs was "willful". Apple will also be able to apply for an injunction against the 24 smartphones and tablets named in the suit at a 20 September hearing.Apple's shares gained almost 2% during the first day of trading in New York after the victory, which chief executive Tim Cook told staff on Friday had been "about something much more important than patents or money. It's about values … we [make products] to delight our customers, not for competitors to flagrantly copy".Apple filed the suit against Samsung in April 2011 and has dozens more pending in other countries against various Android handset makers, accusing them of infringing patents on function so that they behave like the iPhone or iPad.The lawsuits were initiated by the late Steve Jobs, Apple's co-founder, who said he would "go thermonuclear" against Android, which he considered a copy of the iPhone's software. Versions of Android shown before the iPhone's release in 2006 looked more like RIM's BlackBerry; those released after 2010 functioned much more like the iPhone.According to analysts, the verdict – and Apple's expected request for injunctions against Samsung's infringing phones – will not hurt the two companies' enormously valuable supplier relationship.Samsung's lawyer told the trial that the company provided about a quarter of the parts in every iPhone, measured by value. Apple is Samsung Electronics' biggest customer, with Samsung providing screens and memory chips for the iPhone and iPad.Since the verdict, there has been an increasing focus on the jury, which shocked observers by reaching a decision in two and a half days, after four weeks of complicated arguments over "utility patents" and "trade dress".Its foreman, Velvin Hogan, is himself a patent owner and the seven men and two women had legal and engineering experience from companies including Intel and AT&amp;T. Those who have spoken to the press say they worked diligently through the 23 questions on the verdict form, some about alleged infringement by up to 24 devices from three different Samsung subsidiaries.The decision could embolden Apple to broaden its attack on Android. "We think that the real winner here will be Microsoft and the Windows Phone ecosystem," Nomura analysts CW Chung and Manabu Akizuki said in a note. "As Android and Apple tear each other apart, Microsoft has been waiting in the wings and is in a very good position to move in and entice users to switch from Android to Microsoft, as we have already seen that user loyalty is low."Microsoft's Windows Phone software only has about 5% of the global market, but Nokia has now staked its future in smartphones on it and is expected to unveil new devices next month. "In addition to Apple, we name Microsoft and Nokia as the main beneficiaries from this outcome," said Nordea analyst Sami Sarkamies.
Twitter has lodged an appeal against a New York judge's decision that it must hand over detailed information related to an Occupy Wall Street protester charged with disorderly conduct.In July, Twitter wasordered to hand over almost three months' worthof messages and other details related to the account of activist Malcolm Harris. Harris was among the hundreds of protesters accused of disorderly conduct during a protest on Brooklyn bridge last October.Prosecutors have argued that Harris's tweets show he knew he should not have been on the bridge. He hasfiled his own appeal, arguing that the judge's ruling would hand over details of where he was and who he spoke to, as well as his tweets, and falls "so far outside the realm of a legitimate ruling that we are entitled to a pre-trial appeal".Twitter has argued that the posts belonged to Harris and, as such, it would be violating his fourth amendment right against unreasonable searches if it were to disclose the communications without first receiving a search warrant.The case has evolved into a closely watched legal scrap over the extent of the US authorities' right to access information from social networks. Twitter has previously resisted attempts by the US authorities to access the account of Icelandic MP and former WikiLeaks associateBirgitta Jónsdóttir.The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) has filed a motion with the court in support of Twitter. ACLU attorney Aden Fine said: "Under the first and fourth amendments, we have the right to speak freely on the internet, safe in the knowledge that the government can't get information about our speech without a warrant and without satisfying first amendment scrutiny."We're hopeful that Twitter's appeal will overturn the criminal court's dangerous decision, and reaffirm that we retain our constitutional rights to speech and privacy online, as well as offline."The New York district attorney's office issued a subpoena to Twitter in January calling on the firm to hand over "any and all user information, including email address, as well as any and all tweets" for the period in question.Last month Manhattan criminal court judge Matthew Sciarrino rejected most of Twitter arguments that the authorities were infringing Harris's constitutional rights, and said that Twitter owned his messages.Sciarrino said he would review all the material that he ordered turned over and would pass on "relevant portions" to prosecutors.
