Here'san interview with Masaya Matsuura, the designer and musician behind Pa Rappa and Vib Ribbon. His latest 'game', Musika, launched for Video iPods yesterday. Available via the iTunes Store, this is a music visualiser with a sort of word game element. As Matsuura explains:"At first glance the gameplay for Musika is quite simple. Simply put, push the button if a character appears on screen that you think is also in the title of the song you are listening to. However, as the shapes on screen gradually morph from abstract shapes into recognizable characters; at what point within this process can humans guess assuredly? If you think about this, you can envisage some of the mysterious and fun aspects of musika that will grab your attention. musika also has quiz elements, puzzle elements, as well as a hint of action. musika adds an extra dimension to your music and puts it in your hand - this is a sense of the unique tonality of musika."The developer later suggests there's a possibility the title could make it to other more traditional videogame platforms in the future.
So as you probably spotted yesterday, Microsoft has announced a price cut for Xbox 360 in the US - the Premium machine is down to USD350, the Elite to USD450 and the Core to USD280.Is this a response to another recent console re-pricing?Wired thinks not:"This might look like a reaction to the recent PS3 "price cut", but since Sony is really only running a fire sale until the 60GB models have gone, I'd say this is more relevant to the Wii, which is unlikely to see any kind of discount until Nintendo can actually meet the demand."Today, UK news sites have beenquick to confirmthat - surprise, surprise - no equivalent price drop is planned on this side of the Atlantic. "This announcement was specifically around pricing in the US. We have not announced any pricing changes in Europe," goes the official comment. Well, it's fair enough - there's sure to be a rational explanation for why we're now paying over one hundred pounds more for the premium package than our American cousins.Meanwhile, 'leading industry analyst' Michael Pachtertold investorsnot to expect any more PS3 price cuts this year either: "We do expect Sony to be in a position to cut the price of the PS3 in early 2008, when blockbuster games Grand Theft Auto IV and PS3 exclusive Metal Gear Solid 4 will launch," he predicted.Look on the bright side - Pachter forsees a possible PS2 price cut before Christmas.
So that was it - and no huge surprises. The new iMac with its aluminium and black styling looks very, very sleek (I especially like the new wireless keyboard) but it wasn't really any different from what most pundits were expecting.Jobs was inninja modefor at the company's meeting hall at Infinite Loop, and the great and the good of gadget journalism were all out in force (Robert Scoble too).Details on the specs arehere, but the bottom line is that there is no longer a 17" model, as it's been replaced with a lower-end 20" screen. So you basically get more screen for your money. And some good news for us Brits being a little hard done by on price; the cheapest model will remain £799 but the 24" iMac has dropped in price from £1,349 to £1,149.A few highlights from the press conference:Jobs had a bit of a petting session with Web 2.0 at one point, and when describing the new .Mac web galleries he even uttered an astonished "Oh my god!". Not quite the same as proclaiming ZOMG, but not far off.The new iMovie looks very sleek and great for quick home video editing, but I'm not entirely convinced it will make life easier for the semi-pros who haven't yet switched to Final Cut.When asked why Apple doesn't badge the iMac with an Intel Inside sticker: "We like our own stickers better".When an audience member asked about the lack of progress on the Mac Mini, chief operating officer Tim Cook (who, like co-conspirator Phil Schiller was dressed in Apple uniform: polo shirt, blue jeans and trainers) pointed out that the Mini was actually getting refreshed today too. They just hadn't bothered to announce it.Why isn't there a touch-screen iMac? "I would clarify that as a research project," said Jobs. QUICK! Apple are researching touch-screen iMacs, exclusive!I only got to throw one question into the mix - asking Jobs exactly what the rights issues were with the ability to publish videos straight to YouTube (after all, I could put up every song in my iTunes library on YouTube at the push of a button). His answer didn't really throw much light on the affair: "Probably more than anyone we encourage people not to steal music," he said. That's it? "That's it".It'll be interesting to take a look through the data that gets pushed to YouTube in these cases - remember those shopper details included on DRM-free tracks?He wrapped up with a near-tirade on other PC vendors, suggesting that they made some "lousy" low-end products. "There's some stuff in the industry that we wouldn't be proud to ship or show to our friends and family. We can't ship junk," he said. "We don't offer stripped down, lousy products."Final notes:They are definitely slimmer and the glossy screens look very nice. The keyboards look a bit strange, but are very easy to use (especially if you've used one of the newer Mac laptops). The white plastic MacBooks look very strange in comparison, however.Finally, the new iMac slogan: "You can't be too thin or too powerful". Well, that's California for you.
Somehow, forthcoming documentary, The King of Kong, due to hit US cinemas on August 17 has remained off my radar untilthisthorough CNET preview. The movie traces the rivalry between 1982 Donkey Kong champion Billy Mitchell and new challenger Steve Wiebe, tracking the duo through a series of face-offs based around the classic Nintendo coin-op.It looks like a rather tragic tale of obsession, of lives wonkily revolving around a small plumber and a barrel-rolling ape. Although the tale takes us right up to the modern day, it's roots are - and could only be - in the early eighties, when high scores were central to the gaming experience; when the repetitive action encouraged a single-minded, obsessive approach to play.Anyway, it looks interesting, but with a very limited release in the US, a UK run is unlikely. I'll check with the distributor tomorrow. In the meantime, check out theofficial site, complete with authentic retro videogame sounds!
Now that the excitement over reality TV is dying down, a new budget-saving television revolution is upon us: internet video reruns. Later this year, many stations across America will be launching shows featuring some of the most popular web videos you've already seen. They'll also be screwing the producers of those videos – people like me - out of royalties, recognition and more.Over the past few years we've seen a decrease in the number of scripted shows on television. Instead, broadcasters have turned to running reality shows that proved less expensive and more profitable. Now, noticing the increasing popularity of YouTube and video podcasts where people showcase their talent for free, broadcasters are turning their gaze to independent web video producers like us to find even cheaper content.These days, we at Galacticast get at least three contracts in our inbox every week from some big media producer wanting to license our content. This is not a new thing: the Canadian technology channel G4 Tech TV started showcasing videoblogs over a year ago with their show Torrent, featuring some of the first big web video successes such as Galacticast, Ask a Ninja and Rocketboom. The difference now is that everyone seems to be jumping on the bandwagon, just as everyone did with reality TV after Survivor and Big Brother became popular.Unfortunately, the majority of web video producers are working for the love of it. They don't have the business or legal know-how to fully understand what the contracts that are sent to them mean. Often, the idea that their work might be featured on their favourite TV station is so exciting that they don't bother to read the small print.While many people making web video don't expect to get paid for having their content broadcast on TV, they do expect recognition. Unfortunately, in contracts I've seen recently from major American broadcasters, these new programmes aren't even willing to credit the producers by name or by web address.What's more, these contracts often contain exclusivity rights – so not only do they expect you to sign over your content royalty-free, but for a long period of time. And, thanks to the quiet insertion of a waiver of moral rights, the creators don't have any control over spin-offs based on their work.When we reply to these broadcasters explaining why we can't adhere to their demands, they often write back to baby us as if we can't possibly understand.What we web video producers need to do is to ground ourselves as small businesses and micro production companies. Like any company, we need a lawyer to look over our contracts to make sure that we retain our rights. Or we could have a lawyer help us to write our own contract to send to the broadcasters as a way of outlining what's acceptable.One major difference between web video makers and traditional TV and film producers is unions. Though the proud lack of gatekeepers is part of the web's appeal, it also means we've had to find other ways to defend ourselves. Where traditional producers have unions, we have message boards and internet groups to voice our concerns. In the future, we might need better ways to share experiences and warn against the various sharks trying to screw us over.One thing is for sure: providing that I continue to watch TV, I will certainly be wondering which naïve producer signed away their soul for the unfunded video that will play on my screen. On second thoughts, perhaps it is a good thing they'll go uncredited.&#183;Casey McKinnon is co-producer of the video podcastsGalacticastandA Comicbook Orange.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Dell is about to unveil two consumer PCs in Europe - the Inspiron 6400n (£329 including VAT and delivery) and the Inspiron 530n (££399 ditto) - with the Ubuntu 7.04 Linux operating system factory installed.These prices don't include any software support, but you can sign up with Canonical for $250 or (for 24x7 support) $900 a year.Dell says to seehttp://www.dell.co.uk/ubuntubut it doesn't work at the moment. You could tryhere
Speaking ofuser-generated games, MIT Technology Review hasa brief articleon two new game development projects aimed at the casual, participatory development market. From the site:Sites such as MyGame and Scratch, for example, provide simple personalizing or programming tools so that people with little or no programming experience can create their own kind of fun. Players can personalize games on MyGame in a matter of minutes using a basic home computer, and they can spend anywhere from hours to weeks designing a game, depending on its complexity. ... "One main goal of the casual game developers is to tell the nontypical potential computer players ... that gaming is also something for them," says [Ulrich Tausend, a graduate student in the sociology department at the University of Munich and the founder of the game companyNeodelight]. The challenge to providing user-generated content, Tausend says, is that companies have to provide tools that are easy to use yet powerful enough to let people express themselves.Surely this is a winning formula. PlayStation3's Little Big Planet, which uses the same concepts for a Sony-friendly audience, recently walked away with the Best Original Game award at the industry's Electronic Entertainment Expo.Yet the reaction from some of the games community to this news has been surprising.Forum membersonseveral sitesappear aghast that a "a phyics [sic] simulator/level editor" would take such a prize.If other media plough the depths of the masses for diamonds in the rough, shouldn't games?
I've just arrived in Cupertino ahead of the forthcoming announcement by Apple, which is - as usual - driving wild speculation across the internets.I'll be at the press conference and will report the developments from up close, but there are a few things to get straight first. To start with, this isn't one of those big fancy pants product launches with seventeen beambacks and 5,000 hairy geeks chanting in unison. No, this is one of the small "intimate" ones held at what Macolytes know as the town hall.Plus so far all we really know is that it's definitely a Mac product, not an iPod or iPhone announcement. That fits with the usual announcement cycle that Apple runs to, which means we'll probably expect some kind of new iPod to hit the shelves in mid September and the iPhone to reach Europe a month or two after that.Right: it's a Mac. Laptop or desktop? Silvery, superthin iMac? Maybe an extremely small MacBook? Perhaps a replacement for the unloved Mac Mini?My real question, however, is what Steve Jobs will make of theoutingthis week ofFake Steve. Will it get a mention?Anyway... time to go grab some sleep: leave your wild speculation in the comments.
The glamour and clamour of the QuakeCon show floorJust to re-cap on the weekend'sQuakeConaction, Id has announced a new 'IP', Rage. It's a radical change of direction for the Texan studio, and by radical I mean moderate. According to several of the many reports from the event, the FPS will be lighter in tone than previous titles with some humour creeping into the mix.There will be lots more outdoor areas, with vehicles appearing for the first time and more of an adventure feel. And of course, the game will employ the new Id Tech 5 engine, which seeks to alter our perception of the term 'detailed textures'. We're also promised 20 hours of single-player gaming delivered on two discs on Xbox 360, PC and Mac, but just one on PS3."The game takes place in the future, after civilization is recovering from a comet strike on Earth," lead designer Tim Willitstold USA Today. "The lines between right and wrong are very blurred. You are a guy trying to survive and fight the injustices of the evil regime." Mad Max was mentioned as an influence. Ah, sothat'swhy it looks like MotorStorm with guns.Here'ssome HD video footage of the game from the QuakeCon presentation.Excited? I'm not alone in thinking that Id has quite a bit to prove with this release. The company has lost ground to rivals, failing to embrace the modding community as successfully as Valve or to deal with Epic's gatecrashing of its technology licensing concept. Also, the likes of Bungie (Halo) and DICE (Battlefield) havearguablydeveloped their FPS franchises with more imagination and verve than the Quake or Doom series'.Id's dilemma is how much to modernise its approach to the FPS genre - by adopting popular ideas, such as large, open free-roamable environments, is the company moving forward or simply diluting its signature strengths: i.e. it's dark, claustrophobic level design and intense, hair-trigger action?You may also haveseenthat a selection of Id's titles are now available via Valve'sSteamdistribution system. 24 games from Commander Keen to Quake 3 Arena can be downloaded for a variety of operating systems - great for new PC owners who want access to the classics without having to dust down their old copies of Doom which will only confuse and disorientate Vista anyway.However, there may be a spanner in the steam works here. According to The Inquirer among others, " Id is using DOSBox, an open source DOS emulator, to make its early games run through Windows. The problem - there is no GPL license for DOSBox included in the Steam downloaded package, making its use illegal."Finally, Id also announced Quake Arena Arcade, a version of Quake 3 Arena for Xbox Live Arcade and Quake Zero, a version of Quake 3 Arena that runs in a browser. The game will be free to play, supported by ads. "It may work, it may not," admitted a sheepish John Carmack. Oh and Orcs and Elves II will be out on mobile this summer!
The Apache Web server software has been a poster boy for open source, and used to dominate the market. But it has been losing ground over the past two years, and its share of active sites has now fallen to around 48%, onNetcraftfigures. At the same time, the share of Microsoft's IIS has grown to 36%.Netcraft says:In November 2005, Apache was found on 71% of web sites, putting it more than 50 percentage points ahead of Microsoft IIS (20.2%). Apache's market share advantage seemed insurmountable. But less than two years later, Microsoft has narrowed that 50% gap to 16.7%. The margin is even tighter in active sites, where Apache leads Microsoft by just 12.2%.Netcraft points out that Apache is losing market share "to another open source server, lighttpd (1.2% of all sites), and Google (4.4%) as well as Windows".But as far as I can see, a chunk of the change is just down to the way Netcraft counts things. Google uses its own integrated Web server software including GWS (Google Web Server), which is thought to be based on Apache. If Netcraft assigns 4.4% market share to Google instead of Apache, it looks as though one is falling rapidly while the other is growing rapidly, but the real world may not have changed much, if at all.So the real question is: how fast is Google going to grow as a Web host? It's already the obvious place to stick Web pages, if you're a Gmail user. And if Gmail comes to dominate the email world, then Google should also be able to dominate casual web serving. That's going to make a big impact on Apache's numbers, without Microsoft making any advance at all. .
The speed of progress in the gamesblog'sWikiGamecamp may have slowed down as the sunshine has tempted us out of our darkened offices and into the real world, but the milestones continue to be significant. Above and beyond coping with the odd spam-attack, the coders are busy learning their chosen language, Inform 6, and the storytellers have settled on a backstory. A frenzied coin toss was the decider, and Edible Vision'sContaminationplot took the gong:Skip forward 10 years and the world has changed. Due to Global Warming, Depleted Fossil Fuels and increased natural disasters, the economic climate has shifted. The major powers, like USA, Russia and China, reliant on fossil fuels and prone to extremes of weather, have crashed economically. Civil wars breakout which lead to international wars. Immigration becomes frenzied, with large landmasses impossible to border control. The world is in ruin.The UK however stands tall. As a self contained Isle, they have ceased all immigration. The weather is more extreme than 10 years ago, but 10 years ago it was moderate and never extreme, so life could continue. The reason UK survived is because they were prepared. The government was secretly run by 12 of the best individuals of various fields necessary for economic survival. You, our character for this story was one of them. You were the youngest.Cunning Stunt has called for the storytellers and designers to work towards a Chapter One by the end of the week. Hidden Away has set an Inform 6 deadline by 18 August. Deadlines, it seems, have a real way of rallying the troops.There have been some extraordinarily creative approaches to developing this project, and everyone's hard work will undoubtedly pay off. The key at the moment is to ensure that this is an iterative process; everyone wants something playable, so even if the game doesn't come together, we have an interactive plaything. It's easy to get stalled on the details, but, as Bambino Toastare says, this experiment is as much about the process as it is about the final product.People,we have go.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
Thinkfree Office is an online version of Microsoft Office that lets you create and share documents, spreadsheets and presentations, in exchange for having a column of Google text advertisements down the side of your browser. And it works very well, as long as you don't ask it to do too much.It's limited to personal, non-commercial use, but it wouldn't be sensible to use the free version for most business purposes. An online suite is noticeably slower than running a real copy of Microsoft Office. For any sort of regular user, the cost of the wasted time would far outweigh the savings.Also, it's not worth using it to view documents, spreadsheets and presentations. Microsoft offers free viewers for the purpose: these are faster, more convenient, and generally work better.But if you need to edit Office files only occasionally, want to edit files from cybercafes or other places, or to share documents online, Thinkfree Office (TFO) is brilliant.Once you have created or uploaded a file, TFO has three main options: view, Quick Edit and Power Edit. Quick Edit uses Ajax code (asynchronous Javascript) which runs inside the web browser. It's fairly quick to load, but not very powerful. Power Edit uses code written in Sun's Java, which takes several minutes to download to your hard drive. After that it runs locally, like any other program.Ajaxing is trendy thanks to the success of Google's Gmail. But for PC users, downloading the Java code is a better option.The word processor has a good range of typefaces, the main drawback being that documents look awful on screen - at least, they do on my Windows XP system. Otherwise it's much like using a slightly cut-down version of Microsoft Word. You get the wavy underlines and so on. Common keyboard commands work fine, including the journalist's three essentials: Ctrl-S (Save), Ctrl-Z (Undo) and Alt-T W (for word count).You can save documents as text, RTF, doc, PDF, XML and now docx, the new Microsoft Office Open XML format from Office 2007. Sadly, my real copy of Office 2007 was unable to load TFO's docx files, saying they were corrupt. Still, the save as PDF function worked well.I was more impressed with TFO's Excel clone. Quick Edit failed to cope with one of my tracking spreadsheets, where the cells that contain a zero have a yellow background, but the Java version had no problems.I also had no problems editing my simple PowerPoint files but, again, slides didn't look quite as good as they do in Microsoft Office.Happily, you can use the file open box to load files from your local hard drive and then save them online, or open files from TFO's webtop and save them to your hard drive. So when really annoying people send you files that you can't read, you can run them through Thinkfree Office and save them in a format that you can handle.That capability makes Thinkfree worth having, and the price is right.www.thinkfree.com
When Franklin Computer released their Apple-compatible Ace 100 in 1982, things looked very familiar. Apple executives noticed a number of similarities between the read-only code on their chips and Franklin's – including, bizarrely, the name of one of Apple's lead programmers. It quickly became clear that the young company had ripped off their core code.Apple went to court, but until then copyright had only been tested on physical products. Franklin argued that the digital-only nature of computer code meant it was impossible to claim copyright: the judges eventually disagreed, and upheld one of the pioneering decisions that fuelled the software boom.
Ever since the dawn of technology, new ideas have spawned legal squabbles. The history of such battles is as long as the history of the law itself; no doubt there were arguments over who invented the wheel.Back then such disputes were probably solved with fists, but things became more civilised a long time ago. Even Johannes Gutenberg, inventor of movable type, faced the wrath of the courts after being accused by his partner, Johann Fust, of embezzling funds. The case, heard in 1455, left Gutenberg massively in debt - but it didn't stop his ideas changing the world.Since then, we have become used to a constant roundabout of hi-tech legal wrangling. Barely a month goes by without the threat of legal action against one tech giant or another. The gigantic – and often monopolistic - nature of the telecommunications, computing and internet industries has meant that there is always somebody ready to take a shot in the courts (and that there is often plenty of money to pay for an army of lawyers).Of course, it's always easy to get sidetracked by the legal battle that's big news right now, despite the fact that few people will remember it in a year's time. The current case between the Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg and the people behind the ConnectU website is one example: it's being hyped up because of a strange combination of the buzz around the social networking site and the appearance of the vaguely unsettling twin litigants Cameron and Tyler Winkelvoss (a pair of chisel-jawed American brat packers and budding Olympic rowers).There are plenty more cases that didn't make our list. Apple's recent attempts to unmask bloggers' sources; the imprisonment of any number of political dissidents for views expressed on the internet; the ongoing saga of the alleged Pentagon hacker Gary McKinnon, who is fighting extradition to the US. All of these are important in their own way.But although viewing the legal process through a long lens is difficult, it is hard to deny that the arrival of the PC and the internet has thrown up a series of new challenges to technology, software and media companies – and to society in general.The net features heavily in our list of the most important cases in tech history, as it has brought a slew of system-changing decisions to the forefront and is likely to continue in such a vein. So our list is unashamedly weighted towards recent years, and as such is far from comprehensive – but it's a start.Greatest legal battles in technologyThe Statute of AnneBell v Western UnionMarconi and the invention of radioApple v FranklinThe Betamax caseThe Godfrey libelThe US v MicrosoftDmitry SkylarovMGM v GroksterApple v Apple
When Alexander Graham Bell first invented the telephone, he and his cohorts offered to sell the patents to Western Union – then the world's most important communications company, thanks to its domination of the telegraph – for $100,000.Within a couple of years Western Union boss William Orton had realized his mistake, but by that time Bell had already cottoned on to the fact that he might be on to a good thing: Bell Telephone was raking in the cash. The only answer for Western Union was to try and come up with something better.They employed Thomas Edison (memorably described as an inventor who "had a vacuum where his conscience ought to be" by author David Bodanis) who specialised in incremental improvements to existing patented systems. Bell didn't like the results, and the two became locked in a court battle.The patent dispute was finally settled in 1879 with Western Union agreeing to pull out of the telephone market: Bell went on to own the telephone system in the US, and – through its broken up "Baby Bells" such as AT&amp;T, Qwest, Verizon and Alcatel-Lucent – is still running the American telecoms industry to this day.
Russian computer scientist Dmitry Sklyarov got a shock when he tried to return home after visiting the famous DefCON hacking conference in Las Vegas in 2001. His crime had been to give a talk about a piece of software he'd concocted that could remove digital restrictions from e-books.On the back of a complaint from Adobe claiming that he had broken the Digital Millenium Copyright Act, he was arrested by the FBI. Sklyrov and supporters protested that he was being held without proper charge: they said he had not actually demonstrated his system in America, merely talked about it, and under Russian jurisdiction (where the program resided) he had not broken the law.After two months in prison and four months on bail, Sklyarov was finally allowed to return to Moscow after a judge determined that he had not broken any laws. The internet may have been stretching legal definitions, but countries remained sovereign.
The brave new world of the internet had been a free-for-all until a British academic called Laurence Godfrey took umbrage at a Usenet posting he saw.The rude message purported to be from him but it was a fake – and so Dr Godfrey asked the host, Demon, to remove it. Demon refused, and he sued them for libel.A pre-trial motion indicated that ISPs would be held responsible for libelous statements if they did not act to remove them as soon as being made aware of their existence. The case ended in an out-of-court settlement, but the pattern for internet publishers was set.
Lawsuits against filesharing services had already led to the closure of pioneering service Napster in 2001, with the music industry riled by the ability of these networks.Grokster, a similar service, had already fought two initial cases before America's Supreme Court took another look at the arguments.Grokster had argued that it was not in control of the way users chose to operate, and that filesharing programs had legitimate uses. They had fought well, using the Betamax case as a precedent to keep the record companies at bay. However, the court came up with a new decision when considering whether Grokster executives had deliberately encouraged users to break the law.In their eventual ruling, the court said that "one who distributes a device with the object of promoting its use to infringe copyright… is liable for the resulting acts of infringement".The result: Grokster paid up $50m to the recording industry, closed down its sharing service - and a new precedent was set.
Controversy still reigns over the question of who invented the radio, but there is little doubt that Guglielmo Marconi made the most of his ability to turn it into a commercial product.Just when other inventors were developing and filing patents on radio, so did Marconi: and in the late 19th century a group of technologists on both sides of the Atlantic raced against each other to develop and own the concept.Marconi, an Italian, emerged victorious after filing his crucial patents in 1904 – some years after his Serbian rival Nikola Tesla. The two went to court in 1915, but Tesla emerged empty-handed.Marconi, bolstered by his win, went on to lock horns with the American government who, in 1935, essentially stripped Marconi of the rights. But by the time the Supreme Court completely removed ownership of the patents in 1943, Guglielmo was already dead and his company had domination of the wireless industry.
The 20th century had seen a number of trust-busting legal fights to try and break up monopolies - but one of the most important came as the American government took on Microsoft.The Internet Explorer antitrust case, led by prosecutor Joel Klein, was the culmination of years of aggravation between Microsoft and its rivals. The Seattle-based company was accused of monopolistic behaviour by including the Internet Explorer web browser with every copy of Windows: it had made an agreement in 1994 to stop making new products integral to sales of the operating system.The company stood accused of breaking those arrangements and threatening the competition with its chokehold on the market. The courts looked again at the situation, while Bill Gates and friends argued that Internet Explorer was just a feature of Windows, not a separate program.By the time a decision was made in the case, Microsoft had already been the subject of investigation for the best part of a decade – and with the power the company now wielded over the corporate world, it was always going to attract attention.An initial ruling in 1999 suggested that the company should be split in two, but the Bush administration stepped back from the brink: a decision to restrict Microsoft's practices was eventually ratified by the appeals court in 2004. The deal saw Microsoft remain intact, though its reputation was severely tarnished: but for many people it is most memorable for the legendary video of Gates at his deposition hearing: the richest man in the world was seen twitching and rocking back and forth.
The arrival of video recorders in many households in the early 1980s had the media industry agog – owners of VCRs could record TV programming and watch it at their convenience, rather than being forced to go and buy from a shop.The Britis music industry had already been running a "home taping is killing music" campaign in the 80s by the time the movie industry went head to head with Sony, makers of the Betamax recorder.After years of court dueling, America's Supreme Court came up with a landmark decision stating that timeshifting for private use was fair and legal. Despite the pioneering nature of the case, the law only stood untouched for 15 years - when the arrival of online filesharing brought about a series of new challenges.
Widely regarded to be one of the first full copyright laws, the Statute was brought in to try and give more rights to authors. Although it was an act of parliament and not based on case law, it laid the foundation for centuries of copyright law (often in a modified form) across the UK and US.Until the Statute reached the books, it was printers that owned the copyright over a book, not the author. With a monopoly already in place (authors were prevented from joining the Stationers' Company) self-publishing was effectively illegal – but the new statute gave writers a short term of ownership over their own works.
It's August - and therefore silly season for the British press who, in the desperate desire to drum up an interesting story, are looking around for something that sounds vaguely plausible and fun.Hence the arrival of a new "trend" for "smexting": an increased number of text messages being sent because smokers (now forced to hang outside since the adoption of a smoking ban in England on July 1) are spending their time tapping away on their mobile phones.Well, that's according to Orange at least:In the two weeks following the smoking ban, texting across Orange's network of 17 million mobile phone users shot up by 7.5million texts, leading Orange to dub the trend 'smexting'.The sharp increase has been attributed to smokers keeping themselves occupied as they're forced outdoors and away from their mates. Many are also turning to their phones as a distraction and a way to avoid temptation.Nick Bonney, Director of Market Insight, commented; "We see smexting as a halfway house for ostracised smokers - they can enjoy a cigarette and stay in touch with their mates at the same time. Many people are also texting friends for support as they try to give up."Sounds good, doesn't it. Well the figures behind the so-called phenomenon don't really stack up at all: Orange says that texts sent in the first fortnight of July had risen by a massive 7.5 million compared to the last two weeks of June. In reality, that's just 1.5% increase - and only across Orange's network.(Compare with the figures given by a site likeText.itcomparing month on month figures from April to May... a near 5% increase across the entire industry).Oh, it's not their fault - just a silly season attempt at getting a headline. In the same way I've noticed the arrival of "smirting" (the art of people using the smoking ban as a chance to flirt with each other) in a few mainstream publications.It all sounds like complete smollocks to me, but what do I know?
I'm off on a holiday later today but as the only the only World of Warcraft addict on gamesblog - although I know Aleks has dabbled - I wanted to mention the expansion details which have emerged over the weekend. TitledWrath of the Lich Kingthe expansion pack - due "when it's ready" - will, amongst other things, raise the level cap from 70-80 and introduce a Death Knight Hero class. If this makes any sense to you then you are probably as excited/nervous as I am. Excited because it means hours more exploration and entertainment. Nervous because of the sheer amount of playtime needed - how long will it take to get from say level 76-77? The grind - where players have to slaughter more and more enemies to gain the experience points essential to progress - was a problem in the later levels of Burning Cusade, the first expansion. More variety in the quests would also go down well, as would the realisation that not everyone has 10-hour gaming windows available. But what am I saying? I know I'll be there, hacking/casting away with the 9-odd million others when the pack launches. Or maybe, just maybe, I'll have shaken the bug by then. Any other refusniks likely to be tempted/tempted back by the new expansion?
Amazon is testing FPS, a flexible payments system, that will provide competition for eBay's PayPal and Google's Checkout. It's not really a new payment system like, say, eBay, but allows peoploe to accumulate micropayments and then collect them via an existing payment mechanism. Amazon'sWerner Vogelssays:Amazon FPS changes the way developers can charge their customers. Using a capability called "Payment Instructions" developers can easily create the charging model that works best for them. For example, they can charge customers in small increments until their accumulated balance reaches a limit, pay a percentage of a digital transaction as a royalty, earn a commission on a marketplace transaction, or allow one customer to pay for another customer and limit their usage to a specific amount. Payment Instructions give developers the flexibility to build multiple charging models that exactly meet their needs.It would be useful if someone compared the main systems, butAmazon vs. Paypal vs. Google Checkoutdoesn't really do that.Werner Vogels appeared in the Guardian a couple of years ago in my column about the epidemic approach to e-commerce,Organised gossip.
For the past week's posts on a single page, clickhereHighlights include:The Guardian and other UK news sites and their American readersTest driving the iPlayerWelcome to our new-look siteHow big is Apple's tax on iPhone users?.
Transformers: The GamePS2, PS3, Xbox 360, Wii, PSP, DS, PCBased on the summer blockbuster of the same name, Transformers is a work of considerable and wide ranging ineptitude. The game: convert into a car, drive towards a dot on the map ploughing through irrelevant cardboard traffic, convert into a robot and beat up a few other robots, convert back into a car, drift wildly to the next inexcusably dull destination, continue until you're a second too late, then repeat the whole sorry episode. In car shape, the Autobots handle abominably, wallowing around like hovercraft and joining the lock-on, aiming and flight controls in what feels like a relentless war of attrition waged against the paying customer. It's another slip for developer Travellers' Tales, whose list of crimes includes the recent Narnia titles.&#183;Activision, &pound;45Pokémon Diamond/PearlNintendo DSThe world's second biggest-selling franchise of all time is back for yet more monster capturing and cataloguing action. If you've never played a Pokemon game (where have you been?), this outing doesn't mess with the staggeringly successful formula, which involves exploring the game's sizable countryside in search of Pok&eacute;mon to add to your collection. Battles retain the classic scissors-paper-stone dynamic (albeit with some 17 contrasting classes and a range of hybrid animals) and encourage tactical use of your team of miniature monsters. With the largest variety of beasts to date, and the ability to import them from past episodes, this is also slightly prettier than its immediate forebears, if not exactly a reinvention. Regardless, Pok&eacute;mon Diamond and Pearl will sell as fast as Nintendo can make the cartridges. Which is pretty fair, considering how addictive the games consistently are.&#183;Nintendo, &pound;30The DarknessPS3, Xbox 360Mafia hitman Jackie Estacado's 21st birthday celebrations are cut short when morally bankrupt crime boss Paulie has him whacked. Unlike most whackees, Jackie returns from the dead, powered by The Darkness, an ancient evil that, as well as helping prevent death, also supplies a variety of interesting ways to dispatch enemies, from impaling them on a huge black tentacle to slithering unseen through ventilation ducts and devouring their hearts. A highly atmospheric and well-acted first person shooter, The Darkness is much more inventive than most peers, delivering an intense story-driven tour of the afterlife and a very small slice of a peculiarly de-populated New York City. Loading screens are replaced by dark soliloquies from Jackie, plus you can watch entire movies on TVs in the game, and phones are fully functional, giving access to extra content. A superb and highly engaging shoot-and-spook-'em-up.&#183;Take 2 Interactive, &pound;40
MondayDying to playLife with RockstarTeam Guardian's Relay for Life success!PS3 exclusives and censorshipTuesdayGamesblog Wikigame update: Week 4Raw ambition in the next-gen eraWednesdayGames as art debate turns into a brawlNew Gran Turismo 5 screensPogi interviewRockstar appeals against Manhunt 2 banThursdayDisney consumes Penguin'Tis the season for games eventsFridayFuturethink: what will the games of tomorrow look like?
We know that Google, the web's dominant advertising agency, is planning to extend its reach into the mobile phone industry -- there have beenplenty of storiesabout that, but little detail. Now the Wall Street Journal has provided some.The story says:Google has invested hundreds of millions of dollars in the cellphone project, say people who have been briefed on it. It has developed prototype handsets, made overtures to operators such as T-Mobile USA and Verizon Wireless, and talked over technical specifications with phone manufacturers. It hopes multiple manufacturers will make devices based on its specs and multiple carriers will offer them.However, there's no rush. It seems "The long-rumored Google phones are still in the planning stages, and wouldn't be available to consumers until next year at the earliest, say people familiar with the idea.'The WSJ makes the key point in a quote from Google CEO Eric Schmidt: "What's interesting about the ads in the mobile phone is that they are twice as profitable or more than the nonmobile phone ads because they're more personal," he said.And it will be interesting to see how Google's gPhones compete with Apple's iPhone. As the story points out:Four of Apple's eight directors also serve as directors or advisers to Google. Mr. Schmidt, the Google CEO, is on Apple's board. Those with ties to both companies might find it difficult to avoid conflicts of interest.Google is working with lots of carriers to put Google software on phones, but it has not confirmed the handset story.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
What's your favourite piece of technology?My Ricoh GR1v compact film camera.How has it improved your life?I don't have to carry a big SLR camera around on tour with me and its lens is amazing.Is it good for your art?I love taking pictures - I guess everyone is an amateur photographer - and touring with Ladytron takes me to a lot of interesting places. We have used photos we have taken before in album artwork and it's useful to document our trips.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I took a photo of some hungry cats hanging around a fish market on a Greek island last week.What additional features would you add if you could?I would make it waterproof and less noisy when the film winds on.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years time?Ricoh already discontinued it a few years ago. Now they have a digital version of that camera. I guess working off film is becoming rarer and harder, and I find a lot of films are also discontinued and there is a lot less choice. Film photography will always be there, however, even though it won't be widely used - there are a lot of textures and effects you can't replicate digitally. It will just become even more of a niche thing than it already is and the price will probably rise too.What one tip would you give to people who don't use it?It's great waiting to get your film developed and then seeing your pictures printed out rather than seeing them instantaneously and forgetting them in a month's time somewhere on a hard drive. Besides, you can't replicate cross-processing with Photoshop. The Ricoh GR1 has one of the best lenses around too.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I love technology that simplifies my life rather than complicating it. I do love new gadgets but I waited a long time before getting a mobile phone - that was to do with social implications rather than a dislike for technology. I was trained as a geneticist as well, so I guess that pushes me over the nerd line anyhow ...What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?Personally, just a laptop, but while I worked as a geneticist my lab obtained some pretty high-end fluorescent microscopes.Mac or PC?Mac.What song is at the top of your iPod's Top 25 Most Played?Is This What You Wanted by Leonard Cohen.What piece of technology would you most like to own?I'm torn between a SkyScout handheld instant star and constellation identifier, which identifies more than 6,000 celestial objects at the touch of a button, and a marshmallow shooter - a clever pump-action device that shoots sweet, edible, miniature marshmallows over 30' and has LED sight that projects a safe beam of red light to help locate a target for pinpoint accuracy.Ladytron play London ULU on August 31. Their album, Witching Hour - Special Edition, is released on September 3.
An article in theNYTcaught my eye this week, startled as it was that kids don't perceive technology as something external from their lives. "Talking to them about the role of technology in their lifestyle would be like talking to kids in the 1980s about the role the park swing or the telephone played in their social lives -- it's invisible," explains Andrew Davidson, vice president of MTV's VBS International Insight unit.The article maintains that kids' integrated use of mobile phones, PDAs and social networking sites makes them (shudder - I hate this expression) digital natives and therefore they interact with technology in a very different way than (for example) I do because I remember the first time I used an IBM PC.None of this is new. Internet researchers have been discussing this phenomenon for years. But it's just occurred to me that no one that I'm aware of is thinking about this in terms of how this may affect the future design of games. Sure, the generational thing crops up when people talk about the cultural perceptions of games over time, but I've never heard anyone talk about what it means for the content. So here are a few preposterous predictions:The rise of ARGsAs these technophiles get older and the technology itself becomes more discrete, there will be an expansion of the concept of play to encompass daily activities beyond the home console or PC. Gameplay mechanics will seep into the real world, and not just on one-off occasions, like the Hide &amp; Seek events, but as an expected part of life, on many different input devices, at any time of the day or night.More diverse play stylesAs a generation in tune with the various input devices grows up, the opportunities for game content will expand exponentially. Interstitial and dedicated gaming styles will have to be catered for within the same game product, creating challenges for designers of the future.Gaming will become more socialKids use technology to keep in touch with their mates. Games are now almost universally connected products, yet their formal gaming experiences are primarily restricted to the foursuper-genres, first person shooters, racing, sports simulations and crime-based action. Social gaming is already on the rise, but some games companies will use that to their advantages and formalise the informal games kids (and some grownups) already play on social networking sites.Wider variety of contentThe days when games were limited to the super-genres, will seem archaic, as emphasis on new and inclusive game genres will rise. After all, not everyone likes to shoot, race or play sports. But everyone can play games.Anyone else?
While it has not had much impact on wider society, the sheer length of the fight between the Beatles' Apple Corps and Apple Computer makes it a legal battle of note.The two companies first came to blows in the late 1970s, when the Beatles took the young Californian computer company to court claiming it had infringed trademarks. An agreement was eventually reached where Apple Corps would hold the rights to use the Apple name in the music industry, while Apple Computer would be allowed to exist in hi-tech circles.After crossing swords several times in the 80s and 90s as Apple Computer expanded, the final stage of the war between the two emerged with the launch of the iTunes Music Store in 2003. Apple Corps complained vociferously that it breached the contract, but a British high court judge eventually decided that music retailing did not infringe the original agreement.Apple Corps said the decision was the "wrong conclusion", but the decision stood. Apple dropped the "Computer" part of its name soon after.
Of all the ills that beset the world, amidst plague, famine, war and pestilence, it is clear in many geek circles who the fifth horserider of apocalypse should be: top-posting. That is, replying to email by just putting your response on top of the previous stuff.Wars have started over less. Among those who hate top-posting is John Gruber, commentator on Apple and other web issues, who observed the day after he got his iPhone was that it was "95% amazing, 5% maddening". What irritated him? Among other things, was the Mail program."I hope you like top-posting, and quoting the entire message you're replying to. Me, I despise that style of email, but iPhone Mail doesn't really work well any other way. One problem is that the iPhone doesn't support the concept of selected text. That means you can't just select a specific portion to quote of the message you're replying to; nor can you select a chunk of the quoted message and delete it while editing".That's the thing about top-posting. There's no interleaving, no quoting - just your thoughts banged on top of all the other ones below it. This maddens "interleavers", who find the lack of attention paid to their work maddening - didn't youseethe clever point I made 300 lines down? And what's worse, top-posting has become the default, as both Microsoft (with Outlook) and Apple (with Mail) put the cursor at the top of every reply.(TheWikipedia article on top-postingmanages, just, not to grind its teeth about the fact, but in thediscussion pageyou can see that it clearly bugs the hell out of contributors.)When you think about it though, Microsoft - which got there first by writing Outlook Express, a mail client that got universally used across the wider web (and, let us mention, dropped the ball in a big way by not includingS-MIME, which could have made email private and arguably limited spam spoofing, and including automatic execution of scripts, which gave ushumungous virus outbreakssuch as Melissa and Love Bug - didn't have much choice. Where exactly should you put the cursor when you reply to a message? The top? The end? Randomly in the middle?Eudora, one of the most venerable - and now in effect dead - email clients, dodged the whole issue byselectingall of the text in the reply. This meant (or means, if you're still using it as I am) that you could zap the entire content of the previous email at a keystroke, intentional or not. Both top-posting and interleaving would require a careful touch. But at least it made you decide.I used to detest top-posting. Hated it. Couldn't bear it. Snarled under my breath at people who did it. The odd thing is that I find it entirely tolerable now - why, I even do quite a lot of it myself. And if you write in to excoriate me, likely I'll do it to you, and even add a smiley.The reason? Even while spam is burgeoning and other modes of online communication - IM, Twitter, Facebook messaging - are sprouting, email remains key to the way we have to manage things. We deal with more and more corporations and organisations via email.We have to get more done through this medium which was never quite intended for this use - but like so much technology we've bent it to our needs, rather than its designs.Top-posting is the natural reaction to multifarious ways of information coming to us, and having less time to deal with all of it. We don't have time anymore to interleave, unless it's a point that needs point-by-point rebuttal… and if you're doing that then hell, you might as well blog it.In the end, what we need are weapons for dealing more quickly with email. Top-posting is one - and so is the rather intriguingfive sentences approach, dreamed up byMike Davidson. This says that you must answer any and all emails in five sentences. True, for some that might demand sentences ofBernard Levin-esqueproportions (he once wrote a 1,500 word piece with only one full stop). But in general it would make email a lot shorter if we did. And we probably wouldn't mind top-posting, because five sentences above or below, well, that's easy to read.We'd then find something else to hate. Such as people who use rich text in email to make it colourful. Now, have I mentioned how much I really hatethat?
Forget the FPS stereotype of space marines or Nazis and think underwater city and faded '40s glamour - yesBioshockis nearly with us. Luckily the game appears to match the innovative setting. I've played the initial sections of the game and was hugely impressed, while the buzz from journalists lucky enough to have finished code suggests Bioshock is a bit of a good 'un. I recently sat down with associate producer Joe McDonagh and talked setting, shooters and morality.Bioshock has a hugely distinctive look and setting. How important is this to the game?It's very important. This is a failed utopia and what we wanted to do was contrast the beauty of what this place could have been with the devastation of what it is. In order to make it a powerful experience you have to show the potential of what it could have been. This is what it makes it poignant. We wanted to create this beautiful world with terrible things happening in it.What is the balance between shooting and adventuring?This gets to the heart of what this game is. I don't want to misrepresent what Bioshock is but early on in development we realised that if it looks like a shooter so it needs to play like one. So we spent a lot of time making it as a good shooter as we could. But there is a lot more to it and the adventure elements are still there too. If you like to explore or get involved with the hacking and crafting then you can do that. If you want to run and gun you can do that as well. This game is all about choice and we didn't want to be too prescriptive about it. We've tried to shy away from scripted moments that mean players have to follow what the game designer has decided is the right way.Audio can often be an overlooked part of a game, how important is the sound in Bioshock?Unbelievably important. In terms of graphical realism we are what 60-70% towards reality? With sound we have 100% fidelity. It's completely real. We have four people on our sound team and treat it very seriously. Sound is particularly important in the horror genre. Suggestion and what you can hear is an integral part of the feeling. Sound is the most powerful way of conveying this tension.Bioshock offers some interesting moral choices when playing. Is morality the next big thing in gaming?We are not being didactic. We don't have a particular point to bring across but we do want to engage the player on an emotional and moral level and make them question their judgement. The issue you are referring to is where you have to decide whether to kill the "little girls" or leave them. We initially had them as insects and nobody gave a shit. We then changed them to little girls and suddenly you care. It's all about increasing engagement. This is a mature game and we want to deal with mature themes. I watch Taxi Driver and I'm in the mind of a psychopath. It's disturbing and engaging so why can't we have that in games too?Is there any multiplayer in Bioshock? How important is multiplayer to FPS games?There is no multiplayer in Bioshock. We feel that the FPS genre has split into single and multiplayer games. A new Half Life for example is a single player game or you get a Quake or Unreal which is a multiplayer game. We felt we needed to concentrate our efforts on a single player game rather than simply tacking on a multiplayer element. We spent 30 or 40% of our effort developing multiplayer elements for some of our other games and nobody played them. So we wanted to focus on a single player experience.Any differences between the 360 and PC versions?We've treated the games separately and really focus on the strengths of each platform. There have been too many times in the past where this hasn't happened. The interface is very different on the PC and we've completely really re-balanced it. This is vital as on the 360 there is soft lock and auto aim. The PC version is also being developed by an entirely separate team.Where do you see the future of FPS games?We really hope people will look at what we have done and see that the FPS genre does need a new injection of ideas. I think there has been a democratisation of entertainment generally and if you look at games it is reflected in things like the modding community. We're trying to express that in the game by saying to the player, 'you tell us how you want to play the game'. We are providing the tools for the player. Hopefully things will move away from the incredibly linear structure we have at the moment to something that is more open-ended. That's what we have tried to do with Bioshock.Bioshock is released on Aug 24th for Xbox 360 on PC.
Google is set to keep a closer eye on what you do online with a new service that tracks of every web page you visit.Web History, which is already available for American users, is being released to users worldwide in 26 languages today. The service allows surfers to keep tabs of the sites they have visited, and allows Google to provide more targeted results based on the sites users have looked in the past.The system requires a piece of software to be installed which monitors your surfing habits and feeds the data back to Google. The system will then learn that a football fan who regularly searches for "Chelsea" is more likely to want match results than property listings in south west London."What it boils down to is how big and broad the web is getting," said Sep Kamvar of Google's personalisation team. "You're getting millions of results from each query... we use Web History to do things to increase the relevancy of the search results."Users can also look through their web history to find sites they have visited in the past. The information is retained until users choose delete it, but Peter Fleischer, Google's privacy counsel, said that the system incorporates numerous privacy controls.Web History is one of an increasing number of tools aiming to constructively use  personal information, from Yahoo!'s My Web service to British music recommendation site Last.fm.But Google's increasing power and control of information about people could raise privacy concerns, particularly in some parts of the world. Web History is available in languages such as Arabic and Mandarin, which could see surfers in politically repressive countries such as China and Syria to use the system - and may encourage governments to try and get hold of that information.Google said it was not beyond the realm of possibility that a repressive government, but that it would only comply with completely legal requests."There's always a possibility that a government will want to get hold of such information," said Mr Fleischer.In 2006 Google successfully rebuffed an attempt by the White House to gain access to personal search information about American users, but the company has come under fire from human rights groups for capitulating to the Chinese authorities by censoring search results on its google.cn site.
Mario Party is one of those Nintendo franchises, like Super Smash Bros, that has habitually been received in the US and Japan with rapture, and in Europe with indifference. But would its first marriage to the Wii's unique abilities result in something with a new level of appeal? Sadly not. Mario Party 8 has two distinct elements: a voluminous collection of mini-games and a digital board game, in which players progress around various courses full of cute touches borrowed from famous Nintendo games in search of coins and stars. The boardgame side is pretty absorbing and fun, if a touch pedestrian and random, and offers a particularly good means of keeping four youngsters (or two youngsters and two adults) quiet for reasonable periods, which could come in handy in the school holidays. But the mini-games major on quantity rather than quality and lack the cheekiness and irreverence of those in WarioWare, for example. And bad structuring in the Minigames Tent (the game's main screen is a multi-tent carnival) often forces you to spend a lot of time playing games you aren't enjoying. Disappointing unless you need an automatic means of keeping the kids entertained.
Two whole years since the last full Civ game, level packs like this keep the franchise alive. Beyond the Sword adds new nations, leaders, traits and abilities to what was already a complex game, plus 12 new scenarios - some of which (like Afterworld) go way beyond the normal historical themes. And yes, there is an element of navel-gazing in any new Civ release as it drifts ever closer to Second Life in terms of repetition and slowness. But in an otherwise forgettable summer, losing a few weeks in deep strategy isn't such a bad idea.
Game over - or notAnother aspect of "dying": in Guitar Hero, you die on stage and they just chuck you off (Why do we have to die in games, July 26). It's probably very true to life - minus the savage beatings a real band would no doubt mete out to a real lead guitarist as awful at hard mode as I currently am.Paul Derham,Belfast&middot;Enjoyed your article, especially the paragraph about not being teleported out to Starbucks' safety. Hilarious!Augustine Reilly,Kew&middot;It strikes me that death in games is the equivalent of a toddler's interpretation of what death is all about. Here today, gone tomorrow. Death is just a word to a little one, and fairly meaningless at that.kindalearning.blogspot.com&middot;I wish someone would do that in a film adaptation of a computer game. There've been enough of them, but so far, not one has featured a character dying and starting the level again.itpro.co.uk/blogsRoot cause for iPhoneYour article (Newly asked questions, July 26) echoes the line that the iPhone has been shown to have a security hole because of its popularity. A better explanation is that it has a poor security architecture: all applications run as root (system administrator).Philip Machanick, University of Queensland, AustraliaBirth of the spreadsheetThe attribution of the invention of the modern spreadsheet to Bob Perez and Pete Polash about 15 years ago is wrong (Read Me First, July 26). I was using a spreadsheet program in the 1970s on an IBM/360. The chap who wrote the original program was an IBM systems engineer. He said that spreadsheets were in common use in the insurance industry, and all he had to do was to transfer the process from large sheets of paper to inside the computer.Neville Holmes, University of Tasmania, AustraliaPaper trails can save livesTrusts have every incentive to implement identity safeguards (New tagging system, July 26). Patients on their way to theatre have serial checks, from the ward where the surgeon marks the operation site to the theatre where a member of the scrub team checks we have the correct patient and the correct site. Paper systems like this, documented and trailed, must be in place else trusts will have difficulty in getting the insurance they must have. And then a practical point - patients for surgery need an anaesthetic and that means a drip, usually in the hand or wrist area. Paper procedures provide for the immediate use of a fresh bracelet, with the patient's details checked again. Unless an RFID system can provide new tags in theatre, immediately, then they will be less safe than good old biro.John Davies, consultant anaesthetist, LancasterClosed booksBlind people are just not able to obtain books in an accessible format for many years after publication, if ever (Downloads cast a spell, July 26). Publishers will not make their books available for blind people at the time of publication despite the fact that they have computer files of the books already. Do they think blind people are capable of operating pirate book printing groups who will flood the market with dodgy copies?!Gordon(full name and address withheld by request)Post hasteSo Michael Cross (High street e-government shops, July 26) wants "a network of high street e-government shops, staffed by sympathetic and knowledgeable people"? They already exist: they're called public libraries.Edith Speller,Crayford
Government efforts to protect the environment are being hampered by the difficulty in obtaining data from the government's own mapping agency, Whitehall departments have told Parliament.Submissions to the Communities and Local Government select committee, published atpublications.parliament.ukjust before the summer recess, add to a mounting pile of absurdities that ensue when one government body has to negotiate commercial contracts to use Crown Copyright information generated by another. The body in question is Ordnance Survey (OS), the largest trader in public-sector information. In a remarkably forthright memorandum to the committee, the Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) said that OS's licensing terms restrict its ability to distribute data to other European governments and to partner organisations.Victims include a map of land cover of Britain, where the need to pay royalties "undermines Defra's business case for continued investment", and a scheme to publicise boundaries of open country and common land. Here, the cost of licensing data from OS's MasterMap makes it "prohibitively expensive" for Defra to share its boundary data with non-government organisations it wishes to work with.In its submission to the committee, the Ministry of Defence paints a picture of a 200-year-old relationship turning sour because OS has to operate as a business. While the agency is a world-class organisation providing an excellent service, "in recent times the boundaries applied to the use of OS's data for public service and national interest work have become increasingly blurred. MoD has experienced more stringency and complexity being applied to the release of data by OS, which has resulted in uncertainty and lack of flexibility in the use of that data by the MoD." Licensing charges set by OS are "particularly high". As a result "some government users are being denied access".One solution, the MoD suggests, may be to split OS into two organisations - a "government funded national geographic database capability" and a separate commercial arm. This proposal will be fiercely resisted by OS, which sees its commercial operation as the best guarantee of funding for its geographic work. In its submission to the committee, the agency dismisses the charges of restrictive behaviour.In the coming months, OS's licensing regime is likely to come under scrutiny from several directions. In its submission to the committee, the Office of Fair Trading repeats concerns raised in a strongly criticalmarket studypublished last December. An ongoing dialogue "has not resulted in any changes being agreed by OS but we hope that progress will be made", it adds.The select committee is investigating the extent to which the government has acted on a 2002 report calling for a clearer definition between OS's public task and its commercial activities.The Free Our Data campaign believes the distinction to be vital as it paves the way for "public task" information to be made freely available. That would not only benefit the knowledge economy, but remove at a stroke an obstacle to effective action against environmental disasters.&middot;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Television on mobile phones might not be dead in the UK, but after BT's decision last week to close its Movio service for Virgin Mobile, it is certainly in intensive care - and operators have shovelled a lot of money that they won't recoup into it.Yet it might be rescued by the European Commission, which is preparing to mandate a European standard for mobile TV - just as it did for mobile phones by enforcing the use of the GSM standard.Certainly the latest monthly statistics on mobile phone TV viewing in the UK, compiled by M:Metrics, are bleak reading for operators who have invested millions in it. The UK has about 45 million users of mobile phones. Of those, 3.9% - about 1.7 million - have watched user-generated video on their mobile, sent by family or friends at least once a month.On its own, that's not a bad number: you can build a big business on 4% of a population. But the numbers plummet on mobile TV: just 321,000, or 0.7%, watched broadcast TV on a mobile at least once a month; and 386,000, or 0.9%, watched any commercial programmed TV or video on a mobile at least once a month.The overlap between the latter two groups is substantial, with half the total (of 551,000) belonging to both groups. By contrast, less than one-fifth of those who watch user-generated video also watch any broadcast or on-demand TV on mobiles. Simply put, TV on mobiles is a niche so slim that Victoria Beckham must cast envious glances at it.Poor uptakeYet analyst Screen Digest insists that mobile TV is making headway. "Unicast mobile TV [ie, distributed through 3G networks] has been relatively successful in the UK with three major operators launching services with more than 25 TV channels on average," it noted this week, adding that there were almost 450,000 mobile TV subscribers at the end of last year.This agrees broadly with M:Metric's latest figure, of 551,000 total users of broadcast and on-demand services. But, in a glimpse of what looks like the obvious, it adds: "In order to support mass market adoption, mobile broadcast TV networks must be deployed."BT Movio's service for Virgin Mobile, launched last September achieved fewer than 10,000 subscribers, despite being launched with a &pound;2.5m advertising blitz. More importantly, Movio is not compatible with the DVB-H (Digital Video Broadcast for Handhelds) standard that the European Commission aims to make mandatory - perhaps as soon as next year - for all 27 member nations."BT Movio was stuck with a platform which cannot draw enough attention from mobile operators, handset manufacturers and inevitably mobile subscribers," Screen Digest notes.Viviane Reding, the European Commission's telecoms commissioner, says: "We can either take the lead globally - as we did for mobile telephony based on the GSM standard developed by the European industry - or allow other regions to take the lion's share of the promised mobile TV market. Wait-and-see is not an option. The time has come for Europe's industry and governments to switch on to mobile TV."The EU calculates that TV on mobiles could be worth &euro;20bn (&pound;13.5bn) by 2011. Reding reckons next year will be key, with the Beijing Olympics and European football championships offering the chance for mobile operators to catch fans. But might there be a cultural gap? In South Korea, the world's most advanced market for mobile TV, 10% of the population uses TV-enabled handsets. By contrast in Italy, the EU's most advanced market, less than 1% have them.The shift to DVB-H could also be a problem for the UK, where the UHF band it requires might not be freed until the digital switchover for terrestrial TV is complete around 2012. Alone in Europe, the UK has not allocated or identified the radio spectrum that would be allocated to DVB-H - which means that it would have to go through the lengthy process of identifying, checking, clearing and auctioning it to operators.Price still an issueAnd even that does not get around the main problem: nobody has yet identified a persuasive reason why people should pay for mobile TV. "Why pay a subscription fee to receive the same TV content on your mobile that you already get at home? Particularly when people don't watch TV on mobiles for more than a few minutes at a time," Bruce Renny, the marketing director at the mobile TV group ROK Entertainment Group, said of Virgin's decision.Meanwhile, the rival 3 network said that its customers are, at least to some extent, using its TV service; while it would not say what proportion of its 3.9 million subscribers use the service, it claims that they "downloaded more than a million reality TV clips in the last year".Issues still remain, though. A survey of 22,000 Europeans last November for Tellabs, the Nasdaq-listed designer and supplier of equipment for telecoms service providers, found that more than half of those who had tried TV on a mobile had decided not to use it again. Price was the main issue, with 45% thinking it too expensive; but 24% abandoned it because of "quality and reliability issues".The most worrying aspect for phone companies? Only 6% who hadn't used the services said they didn't because of quality and reliability. But once they had, 26% said that those same issues were why they weren't continuing. In other words, the experience disappointed them. It may be that DVB-H can't come soon enough to save the operators' dreams.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
John Riccitiello, chief executive of Electronic Arts, has proclaimed sequels"boring". The irony of his statement, as head of the company responsible for the annual update treadmill, cannot be overestimated. Unfortunately, I don't think he was being ironic.Perhaps he imagined that his punchy statement would inspire designers to create new and revolutionary titles. He suggested a few beacons that have caught his eye past the stacks of Fifa 2001/2/3/4/5/6/7: last year's multi-award winning Guitar Hero, a rhythm action title based around a Fender guitar peripheral, and the forthcoming Rock Band, a rhythm action title based around, er, a Fender peripheral.Not only are they hewn from the same joystick, but I've played these games before. Konami's Guitar Freaks came out in 1998. There was one in London's Trocadero arcade. I've even played these two games simultaneously with a couple of friends. And anyone who's been to my house for Eurovision Song contest will have been forced to have a go at one of Sony's nine SingStar karaoke simulations released since 2004. Guitar Heroes and Rock Band aren't exactly sequels, but they're not original either.Riccitiello also cited the profoundly successful World of Warcraft, hoping his words might spur budding designers to create new games based in fantasy lands of orcs and swords. Perhaps the possibility of 9m subscribing account holders has blurred his field of vision so much that he doesn't realise that WoW is, in fact, an updated version of the 1978 networked fantasy MUD, and almost every game of the genre since then.Am I being a curmudgeonly old games journalist, forgetting the heady days when old software felt new because I was discovering it for the first time? No, I'm just disappointed because EA has the facilities, the manpower and the financial prowess to inspire completely new genres, but Riccitiello defeats his own argument by looking at remakes for inspiration.Yet a company like EA could add a new category to Gamasutra's four super-genres, alongside first-person shooters, crime-based actions, sports titles and racing. Games' big brother, Hollywood, has made room for alternatives by allowing for arthouse, European and American indie. There are few games that have been released defined by their artistic integrity. EA could be the publisher to fill that hole.The big publishers should feel stable enough to experiment. Now is the time, as Riccitiello says, to stick it to the sequels. Let's hope he takes his own advice and starts the revolution from within.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Dell won't say, but if it's anything like the US, it's 1% - or less. The "Plant A Tree For Me" scheme, launched in the US in January, was brought to Europe at the start of June (Salving your green conscience via Dell will cost you an extra &pound;3, June 7). Through it, customers can opt to pay &pound;1 per notebook or &pound;3 per desktop, so that a tree (more precisely, one tree per three opt-in customers) can be planted to offset the computer's estimated carbon emissions over three years.So, how many people, or how many orders have taken it up in the UK and/or Europe? Alternatively, how many thirds of trees - or even whole ones - has Dell planted through this scheme's introduction here, we asked. Dell replied smartly: "Unfortunately, we are not able to give any figures at this time. As the Plant a Tree for Me programme launched in June, Dell is still evaluating the programme, take-up and interest."How about the US? "In April 2007, several months after the launch of the US programme, Dell announced that it had enabled the planting of about 20,000 trees."Is that a lot? Last year, Dell sold 39m computers, with just over half its revenue coming from the US. In the four months to April, you'd expect it would have sold about 6m computers in the US. Planting 20,000 trees means 60,000 computers were offset - 1% of orders.Even if Dell does achieve its aim - stated by its founder in June - of becoming "the greenest technology company on Earth", one has to wonder about its customers: 99% of them don't seem to have the same aims. Still, customers' stinginess has saved Michael Dell money. He pledged in June to match buyers' tree-planting spending with his own money for its first three months in Europe. As Europe generates about a quarter of Dell's revenue, about 1.6m computers have been sold here in those two months. At 1% of sales, averaging &pound;2 each, that's 16,250 donations, or &pound;32,500. As Michael Dell is worth north of $10bn, one can assume he won't lose sleep.Possibly this is a classic example where compulsion is more effective than choice: surveys repeatedly show that people prefer legislation to make tough choices about issues like climate change for them, to avoid "free riders" (who aren't self-sacrificing).Perhaps Dell's next move should be to add the charge for the offsetting to its prices. Then the figures for the number of customers getting trees planted would be a lot simpler to calculate: it would be all of them.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Big screens from mobilesMotorola has signed a deal with Microvision to build a version of its laser-based PicoP projector into mobile phones. So instead of watching a 5cm video, you could project it on to a wall.phx.corporate-ir.netUmbrella forecastingMIT spin-off Ambient Devices has developed an "intelligent umbrella" that forecasts whether or not it is going to rain.ambientdevices.comViva Pi&ntilde;ata DSRare, the Microsoft-owned UK-based games studio, says it plans to release a version of Viva Pi&ntilde;ata for the Nintendo DS handheld console.rareware.comSilverlight dawnsMicrosoft is now offering an almost- final version of Silverlight.microsoft.comWalkman USB music playerSony is taking pre-orders for the Walkman NWD-B100, a thumb-drive style 1GB or 2GB MP3/WMA music player and voice recorder. Prices start at &pound;34.99.sonystyle-europe.comShoZu shares itShoZu's free mobile phone application lets users watch ZuCasts and send things to sites such as Facebook, Flickr, YouTube and blogger.shozu.comRootkit detectorMcAfee is offering Windows users Rootkit Detective, a free tool to help remove hidden malware.vil.nai.comSony Cell suedParallel Processing Corporation has filed a patent infringement suit against Sony over the Cell chip used in the PS3.arstechnica.com
Pok&eacute;mon may not hold the vice-like grip on the nation's pre-teens that it once did, but the franchise remains both hugely popular and wholly incomprehensible to anyone outside the target audience. The latest two games mark the series' debut on the Nintendo DS. And while the graphics and sound have been spruced up, the main benefit is online play, complete with trading and combat. The basic gameplay - capture Pok&eacute;mon while exploring a 2D world - is as compulsive as ever. The combat is deceptively simple - essentially paper, scissors, stone - but strategy does play a part. Despite the cartoons, cuddly toys and Pikachu pencil cases, the heart of Pok&eacute;mon is found in the games. The formula remains invigorating and fans will have no complaints. The inclusion of online makes Diamond and Pearl more interesting to older players and helps make them the best Pok&eacute;mon releases to date.
Nobody knows. It has managed to come up with a couple of good ones down the years - "Windows" ain't bad, nor "Xbox" and you could even tip your hat a little towards "Zune", though that started out as "Argo", which at least has the benefit of being at the start of the alphabet. But we know that the product it likes to call "Silverlight" (its Flash killer) is really known inside the company as "Windows Presentation Foundation/Everywhere" - make sure you include that slash, now - and last week it affirmed its clunkiness by announcing that its bittorrent-alike sort-of peer-to-peer service, known as "Avalanche" while being developed in Cambridge, would be released as "Microsoft Secure Content Distribution".Yet it has a manager whose task for the past two years, and those forthcoming, is to make its product names snappier: David Webster, the "general manager of brand strategy".Perhaps someone in his team created the "Microsoft packages the iPod" parody onYouTube, in which the gizmo becomes the "iPod Pro 2005 XP Human Ear Professional Edition with Subscription".As Webster toldC|Net: "There are a lot of marketers at the company ... they are at various levels of sophistication when it comes to how they think about naming."Anyone who has wrestled with the alphabet soup generated by the company will agree. What's to choose between the Microsoft Business Network, Microsoft Business Framework and Microsoft Business Portal - all offered by the Microsoft Business Systems Division?One tactic Webster used was to put up pictures of plasters with the caption "You wouldn't call it Wound Healer 2.0". Hang on, though - doesn't he know anything about venture capital?&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
New media brings new media manipulation and new media exploitation. This truism should be front and centre whenever politics, media and technology intersect. The CNN-YouTube debate, which should have been called America's Best Home Political Videos, was a noteworthy turning point in the way journalists and candidates will interact. But not for the reason many pundits have put forth.Much has been written gushing over the fact that questions for the candidates were selected from video submissions made by ordinary people. But there is nothing new about contests where the winner gets a cameo appearance on a TV show.As is typical of user-generated content, despite all the hype about empowering citizens, the individual was utterly powerless, except to try to please and serve the interests of the gatekeeper and thereby obtain some attention (but not remuneration).In fact, the very start of the programme essentially acknowledged that the submissions were mere props in a standard political event, by opening with a hip, ironic, media-aware question: "I'm wondering if since this is such a 'revolutionary' debate, that if you as politicians can do something 'revolutionary', and that is to actually answer the questions that are posed to you tonight ..." Thetranscriptdoesn't do justice to the cynical tone and "air quotes" gestures of the original.Later, onequestionincluded: "I know you all are going to run around this question, dipping and dodging, so let's see how far you all can get." Whether any of the candidates would be pressed on their answer depended entirely on the debate's moderator.But what was truly new, or at least very notable, was how cloaking the debate questions in an aura of relaying citizen "publishing" could be used to present far more controversial content, material which would not otherwise be permissible under American journalistic rules.That is, a moderator might be able to ask about gun control. But it would be a breach of decorum for a journalist to intone that some gun owners would say: "To all the candidates, tell me your position on gun control, as myself and other Americans really want to know if our babies are safe. This is my baby, purchased under the 1994 gun ban. Please tell me your views."Yet the selection of a video of a gun owner asking that question was different. Under the unwritten rules of American journalism, it apparently counted as merely running the content of a third party (or at least, that would be CNN's moral defence). And as is common with data-mining, it's the central authority that ends up empowered.In a way, it's a very advanced version of the technique where if a journalist wants to put something in an article, he or she contacts a source who's certain to make that particular point. Or nowadays goes through blogs and forums in search of a post which could be quoted for the viewpoint.But extending the idea to video presentations advances it to another level. Powerful visual images can be embedded in what are nominally questions.In post-debate reaction, the Republicans seemed to have perceived this aspect down to the deepest lizard-brain core of their political body. It could be a campaign-killing moment to justify continuing the Iraq war against a video backdrop of wounded anti-war soldiers, or to defend theocratic opposition to stem-cell research next to a display of someone suffering from an illness which might be cured. The pictures matter. Their obvious counter-move is to restrict such video-based debates only to favourable venues. Thus shifts in power will be met by incorporating such changes into the machinery of partisan propaganda.There's nothing intrinsically wrong with bringing different media sensibilities to political events. The talking head format is not sacred. But no matter how heavily marketers try to sell us on the idea of entertainment stardom (even 15 seconds of clip fame) as civic merit, we should never mistake a change in media style for any advance of citizens' power in politics.&middot;sethf.com/infothought/blog&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
