It may seem odd to start a piece for a ranting slot by saying how much I love something, but I love photography and I particularly love the way social networking means I can share my photographs and the way I can keep up with friends through their shared images.But I deeply dislike Instagram, which is the sharing app that millions of people seem to prefer. Indeed, Facebook loves Instagram so much that it is bidding $1bn (£637m) to buy it (assuming the UK's Office of Fair Trading doesn't block it, of course).Every day my Twitter stream and my Facebook newsfeed are full of Instagram images, all sporting the cutesy faux-Polaroid filters and ragged white borders added by the iPhone or Android app.Or more recently, the disconcerting fauxtilt-shift filterthat makes everything in the shot look like a toytown miniature.It's not just Instagram – other software produces the same effects: Hipstamatic, Snapseed and of course the big boys: Gimp, Photoshop and Lightroom.For me, these filters spoil pictures: they get in the way of the image and they distort the story the picture is telling. It jars to see a picture taken a few seconds ago, in the summer of 2012, that looks likea picture from my childhood(I'm a 60s baby).And they're a retrograde step. Digital photography technology is amazing: you can take surprisingly good photographs with your phone these days. The lenses are not bad; the sensors are OK too, and yet we seem to want to return our images to the days when either we were shooting on early 2megapixel cameras or we were scanning in old family photographs.Photography is a creative medium. I recently spent a fascinating morning ata discussion hosted by Adobeasking if digital is all tech and no talent. It's not, of course: there's a tremendous amount of creativity unleashed by software.These days it's not just about the technical skills of exposure and the artistic skill of composition; nor is it about the hours spent in the darkroom producing prints. You can create extraordinary images using software, and I adore the possibilities that software brings to images.I'm a knowledgeable amateur who is old enough to have learned the craft of photography on an ancientPentax KX camera(which I've still got). I spent hours in the darkroom as a student learning to process black and white film and create black and white prints.I made the leap to digital early, buying my first digital camera in 1999, and I haven't looked back. These days I use aNikon D80with a12-24mm lensand I process my images inLightroom, often playing extensively with colours, contrast, exposure, saturation and other parameters to get the effect I'm after.But for me, the Instagram/Hipstamatic/Snapseed etc filters are the antithesis of creativity. They make all pictures look the same. They require no thought or creative input: one click and you're done.There's an interesting discussion that suggests the aim is to make our photographs stand out among the zillion or so that get posted every day: are we striving for an authenticity in an age when thesheer quantity of images by definition devalues our pictures?My family has a series of albums of pictures of our ancestors, all captioned and dated, reaching back to the 19th century. The striking thing about early photographs is their rarity: we have one picture ofmy great-great-grandmother&lt;/a&gt;, who was born in 1840, and we treasure it as it's irreplaceable.However, photographs of my nieces, her great-great-great granddaughters, are too numerous to count. When you're faced with the volume of images, it's tempting to want to make them stand out from the crowd, and adding a one-click filter can be seen to have that effect.Also, by adding a faux-aged look to them, we in effect add a history, a longevity to the image that it intrinsically doesn't have.But even in this digital age, every single image is special, is precious, has meaning, tells a story. Every single image captures a moment in time – a wedding, a baby, a friend pulling a silly face,the cat catching a mouse. I'm never going to stop taking photographs; I'm never going to stop sharing them, and I hope you never stop doing so, either.For me, the secret of good photography is editing. Digital means that we can take hundreds of shots and select the very best one to share. It means we can play with them: we can crop out the road sign to the left; we can remove the ex-partner from the party shot, we can enhance and manipulate colours, contrast, exposure to make the best of an image or to turn it into something beyond the workaday capturing of a moment. Pictures tell stories; post-production enhances those stories.But as each moment is distinct, so too, I think, should the images of those moments. Slapping a filter on makes images look the same, gets in the way and spoils the picture. I think that's a shame.(Kate has created aFlickr gallery of images to expand on her points.)
A selection of 15 new and notable apps today:Now TVBSkyB has just launched its Now TV internet TV service, and there is already a native Android app for it. It works on a selection of smartphones – HTC Desire, HTC Desire HD, HTC Desire S, HTC Incredible S, HTC Sensation, Samsung Galaxy S and Samsung Galaxy S2 – and enables people to watch films as part of a subscription, or on a "pay &amp; play" basis.AndroidPassion Pit: GossamerIn time for their new album, Passion Pit have released a creative iOS app that offers interactive videos and remixing tools for two of its songs. The band and their label Sony Music worked with Scott Snibbe Studios on the app – the company that previously collaborated with Bjork on her Biophilia album-app project.iPhone / iPadFieldrunners 2Tower defence game Fieldrunners was a big hit on iOS (and later other platforms too). Now it has a sequel, with more soldiers, weapons and 20 levels to play through.iPhoneOmega | TimingAnother Olympic Games tie-in app here, from one of the sponsors: Omega. The iPad app splits its focus between the last London Olympics in 1948, and the company's 80 years as the official timekeeper for the Games. Oh, and some watches to look at, too.iPadContract KillerThe latest freemium game to launch for Windows Phone is Contract Killer from Glu Mobile. It's a sniper-focused game that sees you trying to assassinate a range of "bounty hunters, mobsters and criminals", with Xbox Live features added into the mix.Windows PhoneFC Barcelona StarscupBarcelona may have lost its crown as Spanish and European champions last season, but the club still has a big global fanbase. They're the target for this new iPhone game, which involves playing seasons by collecting virtual trading cards – like Panini meets Rage of Bahamut. A bit.iPhoneBob the Builder's Playtime FunP2 Games has launched its latest licensed app for kids, this one based on Bob the Builder. It promises six mini-games based on Bob and friends, from cleaning, mixing and painting through to a picture puzzle and memory game.iPhone / iPadConquerorNot an app, but an enhanced e-book released through Apple's iBooks store. Conn Iggulden's book tells the tale of Kublai Khan, with interactive features including a map tracing his journey across the Mongol nation, as well as audio clips from Richard E. Grant and a podcast.iPhone / iPad (iBook)Michael Johnson Motiv8Retired athlete Michael Johnson has released his second app of the month, with this one focusing on "motivational running". Which means Johnson encouraging you as you run, jog or walk, while your music plays. The app tracks details of your exercise, awards achievements and helps you brag about them on Twitter and Facebook.Android / iPhoneFishing SuperstarsOut on Android for a while, Gamevil's Fishing Superstars game has now been reeled into iOS' App Store. It's a freemium fishing game that involves, yes, catching fish – but also working through a competition mode against other players, and completing quests to earn coins.iPhone / iPadLode Runner ClassicThe second Xbox Live-enabled Windows Phone release of the day is much more retro: Lode Runner is a port of the 1983 action game, with all 150 levels making it across. Multiple play speeds, a choice of virtual D-pad or touch controls, and a new magnification effect offer a 2012 spin.Windows PhoneRed Bull X-Fighters 2012 FreePolarbit's freestyle motocross game for Red Bull roars onto Android devices, with a free-to-play title that involves racing, earning credits and customising your driver and bike.AndroidSly FoxChillingo was the original publisher of Angry Birds, and it continues to be a prolific publisher of iOS games in its search to find a similarly-breakout hit. Sly Fox is the latest, starring a fox flying around a farm trying to steal chickens.iPhone / iPadBowmaster Augmented RealityDeveloper iOccam had a hit with its Bowmaster archery game, but its sequel takes the idea into the real world. The game uses Qualcomm's AR technology to get players shooting arrows at 3D objects projected onto nearby printed markers, which have to be downloaded from the company's website.iPhoneSidebarkAnother photo-sharing app with filters? Yes, but Sidebark says its twist is that it's focused more tightly on family and friends, creating "smart lists" for private sharing based on the people you email regularly.iPhone
Apple has been ordered to take out advertisements in major newspapers – including the Daily Mail, the Guardian and the Financial Times – pointing to a UK high court ruling that says Samsung did not copy its iPad, the Bloomberg news agency is reporting.It said the order came from Judge Colin Birss in a ruling on 18 Julyfollowing his 9 July rulingin which he said that Samsung did not infringe Apple's patents because the American company's device was "cool" but Samsung's "are not as cool" even while they were "very, very similar" viewed from the front.Birss's order apparently followed comments made by Apple after his first ruling, when in a statement the company said: "It's no coincidence that Samsung's latest products look a lot like the iPhone and iPad, from the shape of the hardware to the user interface and even the packaging. This kind of blatant copying is wrong and, as we've said many times before, we need to protect Apple's intellectual property when companies steal our ideas."However Bloomberg reports that Birss declined Samsung's requests to block Apple from making such comments: "They are entitled to their opinion," it quoted him saying. Samsung had said that the comments caused real commercial harm, the report said.Birss said that the notice – the precise content of which does not seem to have been specified – must be posted on Apple UK's website for six months and in newspapers and magazines, including daily newspapers and T3 magazine,according to a draft copy of the order seen by Bloombergand provided by Samsung's lawyers.For Apple, complying with the ruling could be embarrassing because it will oblige it to remark directly on a competitor – something that businesses in the highly competitive consumer electronics field are loath to do.Apple's adverts never mention rivals, and the company has shied away from comparative adverts for more than a decade, preferring instead to focus on its own products.Though it had a long-running "Mac v PC" advertising series, intended to dig at Microsoft's Windows software, it never mentioned any hardware rival by name.Samsung, meanwhile,has spoofed the behaviour of Apple customers in adverts, but without mentioning it by name, including adverts shown in the US which depict people queueing for a new phone – as frequently happens for new iPhone releases.The Birss order, if implemented, would mean that Apple's high-profile and aggressive court attacks against Samsung and other Android vendors has backfired.While Apple's decision to sue Samsung particularly has earned high-profile media coverage, the company has not mentioned it in adverts – nor is there any record of an Apple advert referencing Samsung directly or indirectly.A spokeswoman for Samsung said: "Should Apple continue to make excessive legal claims based on such generic designs, innovation in the industry could be harmed and consumer choice unduly limited.Apple declined to comment on the order.A lawyer for Apple previously said that the company would appeal against Birss's ruling, which said that Samsung's Galaxy Tab tablets did not infringe Apple's reference design lodged with the European Union.
It's Thursday, the week is drawing to a close, so let us gather round and talk about games.
A quick burst of 7 links (and a video) for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamSamsung Store opening, Metro VancouverThere's something a bit familiar about Samsung's first North American store.Two years later: the first Instagram photo &gt;&gt; Instagram BlogTwo years ago today, we tested the first photo upload to an app we called Codename. Three months later, in October 2010, Instagram launched to the public.We've got more on Instagram coming later today...Augmented reality law &gt;&gt; TechnollamaBesides privacy, the main legal issue that I guess will be of concern is actually intellectual property. When people are able to over-impose layers to reality beyond the clunky smart-phone camera, there will be quite a lot of potential for copyright infringement. Similarly, there will be new commercial opportunities for content owners, imagine if you could turn our world into World of Warcraft, or superimpose the Wizard and Muggle worlds next to each other. Imagine if you could bring your avatar to the real world and allow anyone with the adequate glasses to see your virtual persona. Who owns that content becomes a truly important commercial question.Via comments of the article linked below...Wearable technology: a vision of the future? &gt;&gt; The GuardianIn case you missed it.Court may order Google to censor 'torrent,' 'RapidShare' and 'Megaupload' &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakGoogle has suffered a setback in its case against the music industry group SNEP. Last week the French Supreme Court ruled that Google can be required to censor the search terms 'Torrent', 'RapidShare' and 'Megaupload' from its Instant and Autocomplete services. The court argued that Google indirectly facilitates copyright infringement by failing to filter these terms. The case is now going to the Appeals Court for a final decision.SNEP argued that when people put music artists' names into its search box, piracy-related keywords then pop up in the autocomplete. It lost in two lower courts, but won in this one.Apple adds unique identifier field to in-app purchase receipts &gt;&gt; TheNextWebSince the change, which Macrumors says developers noticed as of today, comes in close proximity to the hack, it's definitely possible that the two are related, but this identifier won't do anything to prevent the hack as it stands. Apps will have to be updated to check the value, first and foremost, but proactive receipt validation with Apple's servers that checks agains the 'unique_identifier' value is the only way this is going to do anything real from preventing a hack like this from happening again.That's a lot of apps to update.The Yahoo board was very careful to keep the Marissa Mayer news away from Kara Swisher &gt;&gt; Business InsiderThe story is about as long as the headline. Swisher is AllThingsD's executive editor; she's had a hotline, it seemed, to Yahoo's board. But now the mole "within management" has been found - which is why the Mayer news had its bombshell impact.Dear the internet: yes, digital magazines do cost money to create &gt;&gt; Revert to SavedCraig Grannell:One of the UK's Mac magazines, MacFormat, which I regularly write for, justunleashed its new digital version on the App Store. On the iPad, it uses the same underlying framework as the spiffyTap! magazine, making for an entertaining and interactive experience. Hurrah! So, inevitably, people are already bitching about it on the App Store. Here are two choice one-star reviews..."Can pay, won't pay" is the cri de coeur de nos jours.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Not so long ago I was skiiing down a slope in France, wearing a pair of ski goggles which, when I looked down and to my right, showed me my precise location, how fast I was going, where the ski run went (useful in a whiteout). It also told me if I had a phone call and, via a wrist-worn ski-glove-friendly control, allowed me to switch between answering calls or changing the music on my headphones.The goggles, made byRecon Instruments, are popular with snowboarding professionals who want to keep tags on their day's accomplishments – one of the settings tells you how high you have just jumped. For good measure, while you are enjoying the après-ski, you can download that data to a computer.The goggles are part of the next wave – the one that experts say will, in time, enhance and even supplant the smartphones being carried by around half of the mobile-using population in the west. As well as the goggles, there is thePebble watch, a private project in Silicon Valley that has acquired millions in funding from eager buyers (I'm one). The wristwatch will connect to your iPhone or Android phone via Bluetooth and show details of incoming emails or calls. Or there's theNike+, a "sportwatch" that measures how far you have run and at what speed."Wearable computing" is the new buzzword in how we're going to live our lives. It might even free us from what Charlie Brooker called the "black mirror" of our smartphone screens, the ones that seem to obsess us to the exclusion of all else when we're walking down streets, waiting for transport, or even hanging out with friends. Even if our attention is slightly distracted by the wealth of information being screened in front of us, we'll no longer be continually looking down at our phones.Wearable computing suddenly came to notice in April 2012 with the announcement of theGoogle Glassproject. The idea is straightforward: you wear a pair of clear, wraparound glasses; there's an earpiece with a built-in microphone. When someone calls, or something significant happens in your internet life, you get a message appearing on the glasses in front of you. There's also a camera mounted on them which sees what you're looking at and sends that back to Google's servers, which figure out where you are and what you're doing.Need a traffic update? The quickest way to get to your next appointment across town, avoiding closed roads? Google Glass could show the map projected on to the glasses, in your visual field. Theintroductory video, released in April, wowed people with its possibilities – though critics were quick to point out that it lacked Google's normal advertising stream, and mischievous remakes with rivers of adverts appearing before your eyes quickly appeared. Google hasn't said how we might buy Glass – whether on a contract like a smartphone or outright like other products. It's offering prototype versions to developers for $1,500 (£958) from next year, but we don't yet know when it will be commercially available.The idea of wearable computing has been around for a few decades; but it's only recently that phones have acquired enough computing power, data connectivity has become pervasive, Bluetooth connections low-powered enough and screens cheap enough, for us to start thinking of adopting it. In 2000Alexander Pentland, a professor at MIT who helped set up its famous Media Lab and has for years been interested in wearable computing, wrotean article for the Association of Computing Machineryin which he noted that "inaminate things are coming to life", but, reassuringly, more like Walt Disney than Frankenstein: "The simple objects that surround us are gaining sensors, computational powers and actuators [which move things]."He saw a world with "smart rooms" and "smart clothes". The clothes, he said, would be "like personal assistants … trying to anticipate your needs and generally smooth your way".But wearable computing – this stuff is just for geeks, surely? Sergey Brin, Google's co-founder, can wear them and just about not look mad. But even for him there are faint echoes of Star Trek's Borg, the machine-augmented hive-mind group, especially in the way you can see him focusing on the screen by his eye, rather than his audience or interlocutor. But Pentland says he feels "really great about Google Glasses because my former studentThad Starner, who ran the hardware part of my Wearables Project here at MIT for many years, is the guy who is in charge of Google Glasses. They will do it right."Carolina Milanesi, smartphones and tablets analyst at the research group Gartner, believes that there is potential for wearables. "There's definitely room for connectivity through devices that can send you what you need at that point in time; it might be a tweet, or a Facebook notification, or a weather update or a traffic update," she says. "I think consumers are ready for it."Ken Blakeslee, an investor and entrepreneur who has been touting wearable systems for a decade, and runs Webmobility Ventures, thinks an era of "appcessories" is just around the corner. "The real stumbling block is that we're all info junkies, but we only want stuff that's relevant."If our glasses can filter out the junk mail and calls, telling us only what we want, and have really accurate voice input (typing on a screen will seem so antiquated), they will become ever more important. He doesn't think we'll necessarily need to abandon our smartphones; all you'll need is some software that connects to them wirelessly (that's Bluetooth) and a way to feed the data in.The rise of "appcessory" makers such as Pebble suggest it is already happening so where, you might wonder, is Apple? Won't the iPhone quickly sink into irrelevance? Perhaps – though Apple is known for picking its own time to enter markets, just as it did with the iPod and iPhone. In part this is due to its tight connections with factories in the far east and its ability to spot when new technologies are becoming affordable.Furthermore,patent filingsthat have been registered with the US patent office indicate that Apple is indeed looking at the idea of "head-mounted displays". If both Apple and Google were to get into wearables, usage would surely explode.Milanesi wonders, though, how ready society is for the distraction and always-connectedness this technology implies. She thinks that our habits are already bad enough with smartphones (her husband bought her an "I turn it off for you" handkerchief to put over her constantly ringing phone) – won't glasses take it to a whole other level?"I don't know if it's going to be more or less annoying – people peeking at notifications coming on the screen – and I think it's then down to society pushing for more human interaction, and not finding something that's more interesting somewhere else. That becomes a behavioural issue, not a&nbsp;technology issue."Others have pointed to more unsettling worries about wearables; the front-facing camera on Glass, plus its internet connection, plus the ability to share a video feed with others – isn't that a charter for intrusion of privacy? Witness the case ofSteve Mann, a pioneer in the use of wearable computing, who has been wearing devices just like Google Glass for years.He claims that in June he was assaulted in a fast-food outlet in France by its staff. Their concern seems to have been that he would be filming them; a concern that the pictures on his blog bear out. When we wear computers that see and record what we see, they record everything – good and bad.But then, no new technology comes without problems. In fact, the biggest problem that Brin says he has found on his travels while testing the Glass prototypes is a much more boring one: battery life. Powering the little screens sucks all the juice. It may be that wearable computing won't just be about the computers; wearable batteries could be the next big thing too.
Research In Motion (RIM) has had more bad news: Qantas, the Australian airline, is to replace 1,300 BlackBerry handsets used by its employees with iPhones, and says it will save millions by doing so.The switch comes after a survey of staff found many dissatisfied with the keyboard-based BlackBerry, which the airline has been using extensively for years, including acustomer service system introduced in 2008to replace a paper-based logging system.The decision should save Qantas millions of dollars in carrier charges per year, the airlinetold Fairfax newspapers."The iPhone offers a user-friendly interface and simple access to emails, contacts and calendars, as well as meeting all Qantas's security requirements," said a Qantas spokesman, indicating that Apple's smartphone would be the standard it would use.Staff will be able to bring their own Android phones in to connect to Qantas systems, but the spokesman said: "Transition from the BlackBerry to the iPhone is part of Qantas' broader mobility strategy and, once complete, will result in significant cost savings."The loss of such a prestigious client is a fresh blow for RIM, which has seen many of its biggest corporate customers begin to prepare for the possibility that it might either go bust or be taken over.Analysts have downrated its stock, and the analysts Nomura have suggested that the only reason to hold RIM stock is in order to profit if there is a takeover in the near year or so. RIM's stock has lost around 95% of its value from its peak in June 2008.Carriers are also reported to havebegun pressuring RIM to lower its charges to them, which generated more than $4bn (£2.5bn) of its annual revenue, or about one-third of its total revenues.AT&amp;T and Verizon Wireless were both said to be pushing for lower prices on the amount that RIM charges them to carry data for its users over its own network. RIM is the only company that carries customer data over its own infrastructure, and charges a fixed fee; but carriers cannot then drive down their own costs because the data carriage for RIM phones is effectively outsourced.However, RIM has the advantage to carriers that its phones make them the most profit per handset sold – providing a counterbalance to the service fee.The RIM chief executive Thorsten Heins, installed in January, has had to deal with a succession of bad news: the company has lost money for two successive quarters, and Heins has delayed the rollout of the new BlackBerry 10 smartphone platform until at least January 2013 because he wanted it to be developer-friendly as well as ideal for customers.And at the end of last week, RIM lost a court case against Mformation, which claimed that the BlackBerry Enterprise Server 4 software used by corporate clients infringed its patents and was awarded $147.2m on a per-user basis going back to 2008.That could cause ongoing costs for each RIM corporate user as part of a future settlement. RIM has not decided yet whether to appeal against the decision.
File under intriguing: Marissa Mayer may have had one of the most powerful positions at Google, the supplier of the Android operating system, and been in charge of its Local side (which of course would aim to use Google products such as Maps and location services).But for herself, she was an iPhone user even while ruling the top of Google. There are plenty of pics of her holding an iPhone during presentations (such asthis one from August 2007- which of course predates Android).More solid evidence comes fromher Twitter feed. Analysing the method used to send tweets (viatweetstats.com) shows that while the vast majority were sent from a desktop/laptop browser, her next most common method of posting was via the iPhone Twitter client.Marissa Mayer's tweets, by source. Most came from a desktop - but a key few came from an iPhoneFurther evidence? She was also a user (Tweetstats says) of Foursquare (that's cross-platform). And the key clue: Instagram - which was iPhone-only until early April. And here she is in March tweeting an Instagram pic:Very cool thread sculpture at TED.instagr.am/p/HrxeVxkMDa/&mdash; marissamayer (@marissamayer)March 2, 2012And that couldn't have been spouse Zack Bogue because, as we all know, he onlydumped his BlackBerry for an iPhoneearlier this week.(Yes, there are pics of her with Android phones:here's one from October 2008in which she's holding an Android G1. But pretty much all of the pics that come up on an image search show her with an iPhone.)It's not as though Googlers have been unwilling to use Apple gear - many pictures show staffers with Apple laptops, particularly MacBook Airs (though they might be using those to run Windows, Linux or its near-relation ChromeOS). But phones? Googlers tend to use Androids, from what we see.So does this hold any meaning? Clearly, Mayer is her own woman. And some are wondering already whether in her new role at the top of Yahoo she might seek to form an alliance with Apple against her former employer. Apple already uses Yahoo's weather - might it also look to apps, and could there be a linkup with a mobile Flickr (if she can energise the Yahoo developers to produce a world-beating version)? It's clear that Apple is distancing itself from Google (note thedropping of Google Mapsfrom the upcoming iOS 6). Yahoo News is, asDan Gillmor points out, still a huge source of news and attracts many readers.Too fanciful? Making too much of the brand of phone someone uses? Could be. Then again, Yahoo needs all the friends it can get at the moment; the search alliance with Microsoft isn't helping too much, and more than anything it needs to find strength in mobile. If Apple is trying to shove Google off the iPhone, that might leave a gap of sorts. And Mayer is too smart not to have seen all the possibilities that opens up - especially if Apple's new Google-free maps offering isn't up to much. Keep watching her tweets...
The millions of dollars being spent by Microsoft marketing its Windows Phone platform will have barely any effect on sales in the US, with the total number of handsets running its software expected to rise to 5m of the 123m smartphones sold there this year, according to new estimates from the research company Strategy Analytics.Instead Google's Android software and Apple's iPhone will continue to dominate, with Android making up more than half of sales, and Apple growing its share from the 29% it achieved in 2011.Windows Phone sales will grow from about 3.5% of the US market in 2011 to 4.1% in 2012 - equivalent to growth from 3.5m units sold of 100m, to 5m of 123m, says Neil Mawston, executive director of Strategy Analytics. But he warns that the high licence costs of Microsoft's software are holding back its wider adoption by handset vendors – while carriers' concentration on Apple's iPhone, which they subsidise heavily in the hope of attracting premium customers, is cementing that company's position in the market.Meanwhile, BlackBerry maker RIM is expected to see its share continue to fall year on year. Mawston declined to give specific figures for the shares forecast for Android, iPhone or RIM devices, but the growth in both Windows Phone and iPhone sales can only mean a continuing drop in RIM's share of the market with its BlackBerry product.Mawston says that Nokia, HTC and Samsung will drive the growth in Windows Phone sales – principally through Nokia's efforts with its Lumia range.But the gulf in sales between Windows Phone and the other platforms, where Android is expected to make up more than half of all smartphone sales, points to huge challenges for both Microsoft and Nokia.Microsoft put an estimated $400m into its initial launch for Windows Phone in October 2010, and has committed to a billion-dollar subsidy for Nokia.However, the forecast suggests that the mobile software – released on multiple vendors' handsets in October 2010 – has still not acquired traction among consumers or businesses, despite the efforts of AT&amp;T to promote sales through its stores. By combining data from ComScore and Nielsen, which take consumer polls of users, Horace Dediu of Asymcocalculatedthat Nokia sold 330,000 Lumia devices running Windows Phone up to the end of May. That contrasts with tens of millions of Android handsets and iPhones.Mawston said: "breaking the stranglehold of leaders Android and Apple will not be easy. To grow further, we believe future versions of Microsoft's Windows Phone 8 platform will need to dramatically improve support for advanced technologies like multi-core chipsets, enhance the Marketplace app store, expand the number of phone models available from major partners like Nokia or Samsung, and consider reducing the licence fees it charges per unit to smartphone makers."Windows Phone is on "a knife edge" for its long-term chances because of the licence fee, he said.The main Android competitors in the US are Samsung, Motorola and LG, Mawston told the Guardian, with a "long tail" of products from HTC, Huawei and ZTE.He noted that for Microsoft, "adding a few million units to the installed base doesn't make a huge dent in the market position. They are going to have to start competing in the double-digit market share space at the very least."Mawston said that RIM, whose BlackBerry product has begun to look embattled in the US, with its market share of sales and installed base of users both shrinking year-on-year according to ComScore and Nielsen, "really has got one final chance" with its new BlackBerry 10 platform next year. "If that looks good, then it stands a reasonable chance of stabilising."Android market share is expected to stay flat because "Apple is consuming the biggest chunk of operators' subsidies," Mawston said. "They're over-subsidising the iPhone at the expense of other handset makers, which is hurting companies such as LG and Motorola." Carriers do that, he said, because "there's a perception that Apple attracts more premium users which leads to premium ARPUs [average revenues per user]. Whether that really works out is debatable."Benedict Evans, a telecoms analyst at Enders Analysis, haspreviously pointed out that the iPhone's share of sales through carriers is unusually high in the UScompared with other parts of the world, and that this is because they effectively charge the same for cheaper Android handsets as for the more expensive iPhone – which leads customers to choose the iPhone.
Google has unveiled an ambitious agenda to use the internet and other technology to boost state law enforcers and civic society activists around the world.Senior executives, speaking at a Google-sponsored summit in Los Angeles, cast the company as a global force which could team up with Interpol and other agencies to counter crime, repression and terrorism.Using the internet to simply expose criminality and human rights abuses was not enough – Google, and the rest of Silicon Valley, needed to empower the right side with technology, they said. "People think naming and shaming will fix things," Eric Schmidt, the executive chairman, told an audience of officials, policymakers, technicians and advocates. "But external pressure seldom fixes organisations and states that are broken."Such pressure needed to come from within, he said, and technology companies could help make that happen. The declaration suggested a more activist approach from Google's passive – and in some quarters mocked – unofficial motto: "Don't be evil".Schmidt spoke on the opening day of a two-day conference, titled Illicit Networks: Forces in Opposition, which assembled defectors from North Korea, victims of human trafficking in Asia and activists from Latin America. "In the end a connected world is a free world. Connections protect us," he said.The conference was the brainchild of Jared Cohen, a former state department wunderkind who worked in the Bush and Obama administrations before headingGoogle Ideas, the company's "think/do tank" which was set up in October 2010.Cohen, best known for persuading Twitter to delay maintenance so protesters could continue communicating during upheaval in Iran in 2009, said in an interview on the summit sidelines said the "horrific challenge" of Syria's conflict was one of many."What we have learned from Syria is just getting content out into the public domain is not enough. Simple naming and shaming doesn't solve the problems. It gives people a voice but at the end of the day the way you're going to solve these problems is some kind of partnership between humans and computers working together."Asked if Google, whose search engine dominates the web, envisaged a role in Syria or future conflicts, he said: "Topics like Syria are frequently discussed by engineers who really care … [this is] a company which really cares about freedom of expression. Over time as we get more inter-connected we'll get better at reacting to these things in a more timely fashion."Tackling illicit networks – widely defined by the company to signify wrongdoing – was not a political but social issue, said Cohen."Illicit networks affect every society in the world, including the United States. We have to think about new environments that we never imagined before."Technology companies, he said, needed to help people in the "front line" by anticipating their needs. "What tools exist on the ground? What are the limitations? What in a perfect universe would even be technically possible, and then looking at the menu of options to see what could be done in a way that actually has an impact."Google's users, said Cohen, were "increasingly people in very difficult circumstances" who needed help. "If we know everybody is going to be online in the future, even in problematic parts of the world, it makes sense to be proactive and think about the implications of that. Especially when there is no shortage of people on the ground willing to work with you."One analyst at the summit, who declined to be named, said its main motive was not to trumpet a moral mission but to tap into a multi-billion dollar security industry by pitching Google products as ways to safeguard data, ports and borders.Interpol's secretary general, Ronald Noble, unveiled at the summit the Interpol Global Register (IGR), a new mechanism to verify products such as pharmaceuticals, cigarettes and toys through unique security features. Noble thanked Google for developing a "proof of concept" model and said the public would be better protected from fraudulent or illicitly traded products.Hyeong Soo Kim, a biologist from North Korea who escaped the Stalinist state in 2009 and was visiting the US for the first time, said internet access would transform his country. "If we had internet and Google it would be a game-changer."
Nearly two thirds of the government officials, lobbyists and other victims of the cyber espionage campaign dubbed Madi were based in Israel, security experts have discovered.An investigation by the security firmSymantec, published on Wednesday, showed 62% of the approximately 800 victims of the snooping were based in Israel.It is not yet known whether the sustained attack was state-sponsored, but the focus on Israel will heighten concerns over the security of highly classified government projects in the Middle East.The researchers also said a foreign consulate, various government agencies and a US-based thinktank were among those targeted by the eight-month spying campaign, which was revealed for the first timeon Tuesday.The cyber espionage, which has been termed Madi by researchers, began in December 2011 and was co-ordinated by a group of Farsi-speaking hackers, according to the security firms Kaspersky Lab and Seculert.Experts have not found any evidence the attack is state-sponsored and little is known about the perpetrators.On Wednesday those behind the attack were described by researchers as having "a broad agenda" of targeting critical infrastructure in the Middle East.The attackers' servers are said to be based in Canada in January this year. Symantec said on Wednesday that its researchers had detected a further "command and control" centre in Azerbaijan. It is not know whether the Madi cyber snooping is ongoing.The attack works by sending a virus-infected email to its selected targets, who usually work for oil, gas and other critical infrastructure firms in Israel and neighbouring countries.Once the victims have downloaded an innocent-looking attachment from the emails, their computer becomes infected with spying software which can record audio, log keystrokes and take screen shots before sending that information back to the attackers. Researchers estimate that hundreds of gigabytes of data, equating to thousands of documents or dozens of software applications, has been secretly stolen by the Madi attackers."Targets of the Madi campaign appear to be all over the spectrum but include oil companies, US-based thinktanks, a foreign consulate, as well as various governmental agencies, including some in the energy sector," the research firmSymantec said in a blogpost.It added: "Targets like Iran, Israel, and Saudi Arabia might suggest involvement of a nation state, however our research has not found evidence that this is the case. Instead, the current research indicates these attacks are being conducted by an unknown Farsi-speaking hacker with a broad agenda."
Social TV startup Zeebox conducts regular consumer research – about its own service, but also about how people are using devices and apps more widely. Most technology companies do the same, but how many release the data for other people to play with?That's what Zeebox has done with its latest wave of consumer research, conducted online "amongst a representative sample" of people in the UK and US in July 2012.The company's director of insight David Boyle has published the survey data – as in the questions and overall answer-percentages, rather than individual answers from each participant –as a Google Docfor anyone to view."We'd love people to take the data and we'd love to see what they make of it," Boyle tells me. "I'd love to know what patterns people find."Some initial findings that jumped out at me when looking through the UK data: 28% of respondents say they own an Android smartphone, versus 13% each for iPhone and BlackBerry, 3% for Windows Phone and 7% other smartphones. Outside mobiles, 13% of respondents own an iPod touch, and 14% a Kindle e-reader.It's interesting to compare Zeebox's data to thefigures just releasedby UK communications regulator Ofcom, with some interesting differences.For example, Ofcom says 11% of UK households now own tablets, while Zeebox says 9%. Ofcom pegs UK smartphone penetration at 39%, but it's 59% for Zeebox's respondents – perhaps not surprising for an online survey.I'm not sure about the tablet figures, mind. For example, Zeebox's research indicates that 2% of respondents own an iPad – the same percentage as Samsung's Galaxy Tab – with 1% owning an HP tablet, 1% an Amazon Kindle Fire (still unavailable in the UK officially) and 4% owning other tablet models.That may cast doubt on the accuracy of some of the other findings in the survey, so caution is advised.When asked how important apps, music, the internet and general tech/gadgets are in their lives, 4% of respondents said apps were "a passion of mine", versus 26% for music, 21% for the internet and 12% for tech/gadgets.50% of UK respondents use Facebook every day, with 13% saying the same of Twitter, and 7% for Google+, meanwhile.There's also a couple of questions that tie directly into Zeebox's second-screen business. For example, what do people use the internet on their computer, phone or tablet for while watching TV? 46% often use email, 41% use social networking sites, and 13% use Twitter specifically.Meanwhile, 25% say they look up information on the TV show's subject or topic, 21% look up information on the cast or crew, and 14% visit the show's website. 7% of respondents say they often use an app from the TV show that they're watching.That's just my breeze through the data, though. See what jumps out for you, and post your findings in the comments.
The 3DS XL will be out in a couple of weeks. I will be buying it, like the sucker I am. Not because I'll buy just about anything with Nintendo on it – although I do have a Game Boy Micro, so that would probably be a fair accusation – but because I adore my 3DS, and I want a better, prettier one.A lot of people will tell you that the era of the handheld games console is over, but these eccentric devices and their diverse, often fascinatingly bizarre games have been a love affair for me since I was pint-sized myself.My love for handheld gaming began when I was 10 and was given a Game Boy Color as a reward for an excellent school year. This was a monumental occurrence in my young life, mostly because I had spent the previous three entire years lobbying my long-suffering, video game-fearing parents for a Game Boy, which is a heck of a long time for a 10-year-old.Given my fascination with our tightly-controlled family SNES, which I was permitted to play only on Fridays and Saturdays, I presume they feared that if I got a games console I could carry around with me, I'd never do anything else.If they were worried about that, they probably shouldn't have got me Pokemon with it. Pokemon Red and Blue are two of the best games ever made on any console; they're empowering, deeply involving, astonishingly forward-thinking for their time. They were a total obsession.So was Tetris. My brother and I used to have protracted score wars where he wouldn't relinquish the console until he'd topped every single high-score table, and I wouldn't give it back to him until the situation was reversed.It wasn't too long before the Game Boy Advance was out – and boy, what a console that was. It brought a whole generation of SNES-era classics to my teenaged attention.I played Harvest Moon: Friends of Mineral Town, a gentle and dangerously addictive farming-life simulator, for probably about 200 hours. It also had Wario Ware, the most loopily creative game that Nintendo has ever made – a crazy collection of mechanically perfect one-shot miniature gamelets that encapsulate many of the things I love about video games in five seconds or less. I still play it now.As an adult, I still do probably half my gaming on handhelds. My years-long Monster Hunter habit, picked up in 2006 and worsened considerably by a move to Japan in 2008, kept my PSP in my pocket where others were shut away in drawers, attracting thin films of dust to their impressive screens.In the early days of the Nintendo DS, when it was still an ugly grey plastic sandwich, I played everything from weird dating mini-games to eight-player rhythm action music toys to haunting, lonely point-and-click adventures and touching desert-island survival simulators.I played abonkers, effusively soundtracked Japanese cheerleading gamewith a ghost love story that, no joke, made me cry.It was a great time, that DS launch period, before the console found massive success and suddenly every other game was babysitting-themed shovelware. There was such creativity.It might not be such a fecund period now, but the Vita and 3DS still have a lot to offer me. I was recently enraptured with Velocity, a creative little PlayStation Mini vertical shooter that made my miss my tube stop twice.I've got a pretty intimidating (if long-neglected) Nintendogs save file. I played all the way through The Legend Of Zelda: Ocarina of Time 3D in a state of nostalgic ecstasy. I got properly into Mario Kart again for the first time since … well, Super Circuit on the Game Boy Advance.So many of my favourite games are ones made for handhelds. It's weird, really, that this affection hasn't translated into a love of mobile gaming (not yet, at least) – but I think that's mostly because I don't own any iOS devices, preferring to spend my money in smaller increments on sustenance andminiature plastic stuffthan all at once on ludicrously expensive shiny gadgets.But I think it's also because, in my professedly limited experience, mobile games just don't offer the same kinds of experience as handheld games. There's just not the same time or money behind them. Nothing I've yet played on a phone has convinced me otherwise.I look forward to the day that changes. For now, though, I'll pay my money and play Luigi's Mansion 2 and Animal Crossing (again) on a 90% larger screen. And I'll enjoy myself, dammit.•Keza MacDonald is UK Games Editor at IGN.com. You can follow her on Twitter@kezamacdonald
It started with the earliest screenings to specialist bloggers and has continued through to the mainstream press viewings: Dark Knight Rises is getting amazing reviews. Sharp, emotional, exciting – it looks to be an astonishing end to Christopher Nolan's reverent, faithful and stylish movie trilogy.And this is just the latest in a series of comic book translations that have shown how Hollywood now understands the medium and its audience. Ten years ago, superhero films were mostly pretty awful – the risibleDaredevil, the dullFantastic Four, the shoddyCatwoman; all of them cynical exercises in cross-platform marketing with little understanding of the source material. But over the last decade there has been a significant power shift within the major studios. The cigar-chomping old guard has cleared out of the genre in favour of young chancers who grew up reading and loving comics. The big players today are the likes of JJ Abrams, Joss Whedon and Damon Lindelof, geeks who get the culture and respect it – and who also know that their time had come; just as auteurs such as Coppola, Scorsese and Ashby did in the seventies, when Hollywood last lost its connection with audiences.And the world is ready to respond to the idea of Nietzschean mega personas saving us from untold evil. Superhero comics have always been a form of mythology, and mythology is about understanding the world when nothing makes sense. The rise of terrorism and cybercrime, and the collapse of the global economy, have led us to question the fundaments of society and causality – we don't know who the bad guys are anymore. Are they men with AK-47s, training to deliver death in some desert somewhere, or are they bankers, writing off billions with the flick of a Montblanc fountain pen? The classic super villain – ambiguous, malleable, unknowable – provides the perfect screen representation of these unfocused but potent collective fears.So where does this leave games? On Monday, I chaired a discussion on the state of games journalism at Bafta, and during the talk the question came up – are games mainstream? Obviously, in terms of annual revenue, they are huge, and social titles such as Farmville have broadened the audience by many millions. But have they really secured a place in the cultural agenda? Are they taken seriously on television, in newspapers and on the big screen?I don't think so. Not yet. And I think the extreme paucity of good (or even bearable) game movies tells us a lot about where the medium sits in the zeitgeist. Despite masterworks such as Bioshock and Portal, the stereotype of brainless blasters for juvenile boys remains. Meanwhile, the people who play Farmville and Bejeweled in their multimillions don't consider themselves as gamers, at least not in the same way they would think of themselves as readers or TV viewers. And the big successes that advertise our medium to the world – Call of Duty, Gears of War, Fifa – do little to challenge the assumption that interactive entertainment is an enclave of teenage male fantasy.The thing is, comics were here a few years ago. The art form still exists in a sub-culture, but it has become acceptable – it's edgy, it's the good end of geekness. By embracing humour and vulnerability, writers have been able to branch out from the staple readership; the Avengers is really a movie about friendship and insecurity – it's The Breakfast Club with muscles. The Dark Knight trilogy is about trauma, vengeance and madness; it is the stages of grief hurled through a maelstrom of action. We can all relate, we can all understand. And that is why it can be both a meaningful piece of art and a consumerist event (Dark Knight Rises is for example, going to see the screening of the first-ever interactive cinema ad, in which the cheers of the audience will be picked up to decide the narrative arc of a Lynx commercial).Contrast this with game movies. I don't understand Mortal Kombat or Paul Anderson's Resident Evil films. I mean, what are they saying? They are cinematic cut-scenes to a game no one would play. They are not events, they are tacit apologies.The idea of superheroes had to be absorbed into the global consciousness before there could be really good, really mainstream superhero movies (I'd argue that despite the success, Tim Burton's Batman movies were cult flicks writ large). Slowly, the likes ofFrank Miller's Dark Knight ReturnsandAlan Moore's Watchmenas well as likeable Superman TV shows such as Smallville and Lois &amp; Clark engendered an acceptance of the superhero ideology. There's a long lineage leading to the comic book's dominance of mass cinema, and its a lineage games are still building.Like it or not, Hollywood cinema is the touchpoint of western sensibilities – whatever we're feeling on a mass socio-cultural level tends to find itself depicted on the big screen. Forget about the complexities of portraying interactive games in linear narrative form – that's a red herring. If there was a will, Hollywood would do it, and do it well. And I think when that happens, when we get a massively entertaining Elder Scrolls, or Dead Space or Half-Life movies, that's when we'll know games are mainstream – whatever that means, and whatever it will cost us in the end.
UK top 20 video games chart, week ending 14 July 2012PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Lego Batman 2: DC Super Heroes(7+)Xbox 360 (34)PS3 (15)Wii (15)42 (2)London 2012: The Official Video Game(3+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (44)PC (1)33 (3)The Amazing Spider-Man(16+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (41)Wii (1)3DS (1)34 (5)Dead Island GOTY Edition (18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (39)PC (2)25 (9)Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Future Soldier(15+)Xbox 360 (62)PS3 (36)PC (2)86 (8)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 3(18+)Xbox 360 (52)PS3 (41)PC (5)Wii (2)347 (6)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (31)PC (16)338 (7)Fifa 12(3+)Xbox 360 (40)PS3 (32)Wii (11)PSP (8)429 (4)Spec Ops: The Line(18+)Xbox 360 (58)PS3 (40)310 (11)Mario & Sonic London 2012 Olympic Games(3+)Wii (61)3DS (39)3311 (14)Batman: Arkham City(15+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (45)PC (4)2612 (13)Max Payne 3(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (45)PC (3)913 (10)Fifa Street(3+)Xbox 360 (53)PS3 (47)1814 (12)Sniper Elite V2(15+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (45)PC (5)1115 (16)Call Of Duty: Black Ops(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (42)PC (5)5316 (18)Assassin's Creed: Revelations(15+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (39)3317 (–)Lego Pirates Of The Caribbean(7+)Wii (27)DS (24)Xbox 360 (21)PS3 (20)2918 (15)Battlefield 3(16+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (36)PC (14)3819 (–)Moshi Monsters: Moshling Zoo (3+)DS (100)1120 (–)Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure(7+)Wii (48)Xbox 360 (30)PS3 (15)3DS (6)26UKIEGames Charts&copy; compiled by GfK Chart-Track
A selection of 15 new and notable apps today:GeorgieScreenReader's new app Georgie is a "travel and lifestyle companion" for blind and visually impaired people, available for Android smartphones as a download, orpre-installedon certain handsets. It's more a suite of mini-apps, including news, messaging, travel information, social networking and e-books.AndroidThe VergeTechnology site The Verge has launched its official iPhone and Android apps, offering news, reviews and features from the website, as well as access to photo galleries, videos and podcasts. Users can comment on posts too, although The Verge promises more features to come.Android / iPhoneTom Hanks' Electric CityTom Hanks is backing a new 20-episode animated web series called Electric City, and it's got its own app. It streams episodes, while also offering digital graphic novels, character biographies and behind-the-scenes interviews. The episodes and comics are bought using in-app purchases. And that's not all...AndroidElectric City The RevoltThere's also a game for Electric City, released for Android and iOS. It sees you playing hero Frank Deetleman as he leads an uprising against nasty world-ruling Wire Central.Android / iPhone / iPadAutoRapMusic apps developer Smule's latest app apparently "turns speech into rap, and corrects bad rapping". Which means you talk or rap into your smartphone's microphone over beats and samples from the likes of Snoop Dogg and Outkast, and then have your mumblings snapped to the beat with a touch of Auto-Tune-style audio manipulation.Android / iPhoneGreat Big War GameBritish firm Rubicon Development has launched a sequel to its Great Little War Game, for iOS and Android. It's a turn-based strategy game with a beefier solo campaign, online asynchronous multiplayer and bags of character.Android / iPhone / iPadBolt!First Michael Johnsonlaunched his own iOS game, now sprinter Usain Bolt has followed suit. It's an endless-runner game that sees Bolt trying to outrun a gang of "Caribbean pirates who are after his gold". Developer Rock Live hopes fans will spend their own money on in-app purchases of virtual coins.iPhoneO2 LearnThe O2 Learn app is part of a campaign by the UK mobile operator to get teachers and students to upload videos of their best lessons – with prizes of up to £45k for the ones deemed best. This app helps them shoot and edit their footage before uploading it, including emailing the necessary parental consent forms.iPhoneInotia 4Korean publisher Com2uS' Inotia series of RPGs gets a fourth incarnation for Android, following its iOS release. Expect goblins and orcs galore in the fantasy-themed game, as well as a huge world to explore and an "Infinite Dungeon" for hardcore players to dive into.AndroidDeity WarsJapanese card-battling games are making quite a splash in the West, with Rage of Bahamut leading the charge. Now its publisher DeNA has launched a new one on Android: Deity Wars. It involves collecting cards and fighting co-operative battles with friends.AndroidMutant RoadkillAnd still the Android games keep coming – it's a good week for Google-powered gaming. This is Glu Mobile's latest freemium game: a racing title set in "an apocalyptic wasteland overrun with mutants and other hazards". Or Bishop's Stortford's one-way system, as I know it.AndroidToy ShotAnd one more for the road! Gamevil's Toy Shot is essentially Angry Birds meets definitely-not-Lego-because-that-would-spark-a-lawsuit. Firing rockets, cannonballs and other projectiles at toys and bricks, basically.AndroidChirpIntriguing: an app to "share your stuff – using sound". Chirp claims to sing information from one iPhone to another, including photos, links and notes. "The super-simple way to share that everyone's talking about," according to its blurb – optimistic, given that the app has only just been released.iPhoneStyleTapOkay, so Android is fine, but what it's lacking is the ability to run apps written for the Palm OS platform, right? If you're nodding in agreement, StyleTap is worth a look: it's an emulator for apps written for the Palm OS 5.2 platform and earlier versions. A snip at... $49.95?AndroidParental ControlsResearch In Motion has launched a downloadable Parental Controls app for BlackBerry smartphones, to help parents restrict access to specific apps and features before handing their device over to a child.BlackBerry
Wah, how come it's 9am already? Please chat away!
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamMarissa Mayer: "I Really Hope More Women Enter The Field" &gt;&gt; BuzzfeedFrom the long-off days of May 2012: Mayer is asked about why there aren't more women in computing. First question:There's a lot of finger pointing to try and explain why there aren't many women in tech or computer science fields. Some people blame high schools, others say universities aren't discouraging, and others say it's the Silicon Valley attitude that keeps women out of tech. Who or what do you "blame"?Now read on3 Charts That Show How Wikipedia Is Running Out of Admins &gt;&gt; Robinson Meyer - The AtlanticVolunteer editing of Wikipedia is on a long decline. The number of editors peaked in 2007 and has been falling since. Lots of people know this.But while attending Wikimania Friday in Washington, DC -- the conference for the entire Wikimedia movement -- I saw one chart that seemed more dire.Nexus 7 a good rival for the iPad, in a compact size &gt;&gt; Chicago Sun-TimesAndy Ihnatko reviews the Nexus 7.(992) Answer to Stalking: What's it like to be a stalker? &gt;&gt; QuoraA stalker - yes, a real one - replies:Here's the thing. I don't like most people. They are boring. They only care about boring things. But sometimes you meet someone, and there is that spark. A connection.The Dark Knight Rises: This Is Why We Can't Have Nice Things &gt;&gt; Rotten TomatoesEditor Matt Atchity:As expected, we saw a mountain of comments come in about [the first negative] review [of Dark Knight Rises], and we're policing them to make sure they're in line with our TOS. Broadly speaking, threats and hate speech will get your commenting privileges revoked.But Marshall has the right to not like the movie, and people have the right to express their disagreement with him (although if you haven't seen the movie, your arguments may be on shaky ground). And we have the right to pull your comment down and ban you if we think you're acting inappropriately.But if I could ask everyone for one thing, it's this: don't be a dick. Even if you think someone else is being a dick. Just take a deep breath, step away from the computer, and maybe go for a walk. Have a smoke if you need one. There are plenty of other things to get angry about, like war, famine, poverty and crime. But not movie reviews.Upshot: they're going to shift towards a Facebook-based commenting system.Asustek tablet PC shipments to surpass 2.5 million units in 3Q12 &gt;&gt; DigitimesDue to Google's Nexus 7 originally being created to test the water, Google was rather conservative about placing its initial orders and only ordered about 600,000 units for June. However, since demand for the device is stronger than expected, ODMs have already started picking up their production volumes.Asustek only shipped 1.2m tablet PCs in the first half, but with the company expected to achieve shipments of 2.5m units in the third quarter, Asustek's internal goal of shipping 6m units for the whole year may still be reached.Will Apple want to get into the 7in space too, or will it be like the netbook - a market it doesn't want to compete in?Here's a list of what Windows Phone lacks. What's the overlap with the iPhone?Ignore the post at the top (which kicks it off) about the marketing cost of a Lumia v the upfront cost, and consider the list that appears a couple of lines down suggesting 121 (count 'em!) reasons why Nokia's Lumia 900 has "failed". One of them is "generally force[s] users to use IE, Bing and SkyDrive", so as lists go.. The question is, though, how many of these could you find for the iPhone? (And Android phones?)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
It's good to talk, but it's even better to text. Whereas once we kept in touch with loved ones with a phone call, new research suggests we are now more likely to contact friends and family via a text message or email.After a decade and a half of uninterrupted growth, the amount of time we spent talking on our mobile phones went into reverse last year for the first time since they became ubiquitous in the late 1990s.Britons spent 5% less time on the phone in 2011 than the previous year, but texting showed no sign of losing its appeal as we sent an average of 50 messages a week. That is double the figure from four years ago, making texting the most popular form of daily communication.The mobile revolution has continued apace, with just under four in 10 adults now owning a smartphone and 11% a tablet device, such as Apple's iPad, a proportion that leapt up from just 2% in 2010. Kindles and other e-readers are owned by one in ten UK adults.The report by media regulator Ofcom, published on Wednesday also highlighted viewers' fondness for watching TV and surfing the web at the same time. It remains to be seen whether the buzzword it has come up with to capture the phenomenon – "turfing" – catches on.As for texting, more than half (58%) of UK adults tap out messages at least once a day to communicate with family and friends, rising to 90% of 16 to 24-year-olds. The total number of texts sent in the UK in 2011 topped 150 billion.Meanwhile, the volume of calls from landlines fell 10% in 2011 and – as Ofcom highlighted – the amount of mobile phone calls also went into reverse. The 1% fall in call volumes suggests that the long boom in mobile conversation is over.Ofcom's director of research, James Thickett, attributed the decline to the increased popularity of smartphones, which allowed people to communicate using social networking sites, such as Facebook and Twitter, instant messaging and email.He said digital and mobile technology had fundamentally changed the way we socialised with each other, offering "newer forms of communications which don't require us to talk to each other"."We are all familiar with the sight of people looking down, brows furrowed, tapping on a plastic screen," he added. "What we are seeing is different ways of keeping in touch. Smartphones and tablets have substituted for making voice calls. It's about convenience."Smartphones, now owned by 39% of UK adults – up from 27% a year ago – are being used for the sort of day-to-day activities that used to be done on a PC or laptop, including sending emails, watching videos, and browsing the web.Consumers are also using their smartphones to help them pick up a bargain when they go shopping – so-called "robo-shopping" – by comparing prices and reading reviews online.E-readers, such as Amazon's Kindle, have also proved popular, with 41% of owners claiming to have read more since buying a device (but consumed fewer printed books, newspapers and magazines).British homes now have an average of three internet-enabled devices, with 15% owning six or more, including the new generation of "smart" TVs, according to Ofcom's Communications Market Report 2012.The "small screen" is also getting bigger, with more than a third of TVs sold in the UK in the first quarter of 2012 boasting screens of 33 inches or more.Ofcom's 409-page report said mobile phone calls, at an average cost of 8.5p per minute, were now only slightly more expensive than calls from a landline (8.3p), and for the first time the majority of all phone calls (52%) were made from a mobile.But for the over-65s phoning people on a landline still remained the most popular way of getting in touch, ahead of either calling on a mobile or texting.The report revealed UK adults watched an average of four hours of TV a day in 2011, similar to the previous year but up from 3.7 hours in 2004. Radio listening averaged 22.5 hours a week, up 24 minutes on 2010, but the long-term trend among 16 to 24-year-olds was down, by one-fifth since 2001.Eight out of 10 people had access to the internet in the first quarter of this year, said Ofcom, with the biggest growth area among 65 to 74-year-olds. The report also found that British adults spent 3.3 hours a month social networking on a PC or laptop in 2011, up from 3.1 hours in 2010.Overall, 68% of adults said they used text-based methods – including text messages, emails, and social networking sites – to contact friends and family on a daily basis, ahead of 63% for voice-based services, such as landlines and mobile phones.But despite the popularity of text-based services, the vast majority (83%) of adults of all ages said they preferred to communicate face to face.
The Develop conference in Brighton is a great place for UK indie devs to get their games noticed. The first day of the event is dedicated to the independent sector and there are free sessions throughout the week for impoverished industry newcomers.But while the official conference is going on, there's a whole eco-system for small studios looking to get their work out there. Just wandering around the bar at the Hilton Metropole Hotel, where the conference takes place, will get you within business card range of everyone from Dave Perry to Mark Rein, and of course, it being a bar, there are a lot of journalists around.On top of that, the brilliantIndieCityalso held its own evening event, getting indie upstarts together with experts in law, marketing, journalism (that was me!) and development, to discuss their burgeoning careers and projects.So here are eight interesting titles I saw, both at the conference and at the networking events that surround it. Keep a close eye on all of these...Tengami (Nyamyam games, iPad)Set in a stark representation of Feudal Japan, this beautiful pop-up book simulator is designed to quietly reveal its entire narrative as your character slowly explores the minimalist environments. At certain points, players can swipe the screen to 'turn the page' and reveal astonishing buildings or whole new landscapes, all designed to resemble Japanese crafting paper. Indeed, every structure in the game is a genuine 3D pop-up; it could be constructed with paper in real-life. Amazing stuff. Interestingly, the development team are all ex-Rare, and the soundtrack is by the company's famed musician, David Wise, who wrote the scores to titles like Donkey kong Country and Star Fox Adventures. Atmospheric and charming, it's due out on iPad later this year.Kumo Lumo (Blitz, iOS)Originally developed as a secret side-project by staff at Blitz Games Studios,Kumo Lumohas now 'come out' in public, and we're incredibly glad that it has. It's sort of a rain simulator, but a really cute one. You play a small cloud who needs to supply showers so that the trees beneath him can grow. Players move both the cloud and the revolving ground beneath it via simple swipes, and need to catch smaller clouds in order to top up water supplies. Little Lumo can also use lightning bolts to zap enemies, although the whole thing is depicted as a sweet war between lovely sticker-style icons and objects. It's due out later this year on iOS. You can follow the development on theblogor on the Twitter feed at @KumoLumo.Gets To The Exit (Roll7, iOS, Android)If you ever loved Lemmings, you've got to try Gets To The Exit, a really cleverly crafted puzzle platformer where your aim is safely convey tribesmen from one side of the screen to the other. This is achieved by swiping the many platforms on each environment, while avoiding traps and boss characters. The visuals are bright and crisp, and the design is open enough to allow different approaches to the puzzles – a key element. It's already oniPhoneandAndroidand is coming to iPad and PC soon.Chompy Chomp Chomp (Utopian World of Sandwiches, Xbox Live Indie Games)This wins a lot of points for its great name and its resemblance to one of my favourite Dreamcast titles, Chu Chu Rocket. It's a maze-based multiplayer romp in which participants chase each other around trying to eat the correctly coloured opponent. At points in the round, the colours change, turning hunters into hunted and vice versa. As with Chu Chu, it's frantic stuff, the balance continually shifting, the pace continually accelerating. In an Indie Games marketplace dominated by Minecraft-alikes,Chompy Chomp Chompreally stands out – and for 80 Microsoft points it's an absolute steal.Routine (Lunar Games, PC/Mac)Imagine a sort of rogue-like take on Dead Space, with elements of 2001: A Space Odyssey and Duncan Jones' movie, Moon. That's the enticing concept behind Routine, a first-person sci-fi horror adventure set on an abandoned moon base. It looks like the emphasis will be on exploration and stealth, rather than blasting aliens or zombies, and the team has managed to load its early screens with masses of atmosphere. With just three staff, Lunar Games is setting itself an ambitious task, but we'll be watching them closely. You can find out more on their website or on theirFacebook page, or follow them on Twitter at @LunarSoftware. The game is due in early 2013.Moonhelm (Cerberus Software, PC/Mac)And just when you thought it was safe to venture into near-space, here's Moonhelm, another rogue-like sci-fi FPS. This time you're exploring a space base that's riddled with hostile aliens, accompanied wherever you go by an AI helper. In a nod to The Thing, however, you must select your ally at the start of the game and, at some point, he may actually turn out to be a deadly extraterrestrial in disguise. Add in the procedurally generated environments and permadeath mechanic that ends your game after a single mortal injury and you have an intriguing hardcore RPG/FPS that promises an intense and jumpy experience. The game is coming to PC and Mac in January 2013, with an iPad version following.Total Recoil (Eiconic, iPad)I'm really not one for virtual controllers on touch screens – it rarely works. However, I may give the benenfit of the doubt to this twin-stick shooter which seeks to bring the mechanisms of Call of Duty to the top-down domain. Players blast their way through various polygonal environments earning killstreaks and calling in airstrikes while picking up chain guns and other weapons. It's slickly done, but I wish there was some alternative to the virtual sticks. Developer Eiconic has already written an augmented reality title –PulZAR– for Sony and expects to release Total Recoil by winter, 2012. There's a Facebook pagehere.Buddha Finger (Lady Shotgun, iOS)Anna Marsh and Sarah van Rompaey were senior members of the Tomb Raider development team when they cut loose to work on their own projects. They formed Lady Shotgun and funded the development of debut title Buddha Finger through the sale of Anna's flat ("I'm officially homeless!") – a terrifying move, no doubt, but this is a neat casual beat-'em-up in which characters are defeated by swiping on-screen numbers in the correct order, occasionally tapping wildly when the icon demands. It has the feel of a Wario or Bishi Bashi mini-game and the crucial touch UI is wonderfully implemented. Due out in the autumn, this is really promising. You can follow Buddha on theFacebook pageor via Twitter at @LadyShotgunGame.
Age:18.Appearance:Pixelated.It's one of those internet company thingies! It's got a search engine, an email doodah and even an instant messaging oojamaflip!How do you know all that?How does anyone find stuff out? I googled it.So you'd be surprised to hear that Yahoo was once the biggest name in internet search? And that it's still the US's most popular portal?Why? Am I likely to hear that?You just did. Like&nbsp;all famous internet companies, Yahoo was launched by a couple of American students. It&nbsp;was originally David and Jerry's Guide to the World Wide Web, and a simple hierarchical directory of websites. As time went by, it began&nbsp;offering services such as news and photo-sharing, and gained a proper, user-friendly&nbsp;search facility.Yet no one outside the US has ever heard of it …A&nbsp;little harsh, but it's certainly not as popular as it&nbsp;was. That's why it's just appointed its third chief executive in a year to turn things round. The&nbsp;last but one described the board as "doofuses" who had "fucked me over".What's the new bloke's background?It's a blokess, you sexist pig. Thirty-seven-year-oldMarissa Mayerspent 13 years at Google, where she was responsible for much of its "look and&nbsp;feel".Eh?She helped develop Google's home page and&nbsp;search engine.Is this the bit where we agree it takes a remarkable woman to succeed in such a male-dominated industry etc?It certainly is. "She can be difficult, and she can be stubborn," one Googlite told Reuters, "particularly when she has the data to support the facts of her argument." Which sounds very much like good qualities being presented as bad ones.Hmm. What are her priorities now?"Innovative products, content and personalised experiences", blah blah. Oh, and to have a baby.Once Yahoo is safely back on track?In three months! She's planning on taking no maternity leave – instead, she'll be working through it.God bless corporate America and its not-at-all-insane approach to work-life balance.Amen.Do say:"Yahoooooooooo!"Don't say:"Ya who?"
Marissa Mayer is pregnant and assuming the top job at the bumbling technology giant that is Yahoo, and for some reason, people are acting like she either has a debilitating illness or a bomb in her stomach that very well could destroy the company in a few months.I'm just going to center this whole piece on this tweet by Rebecca Traister, which is awesome:It is great that Marissa Mayer is pregnant. But intensity of reaction is slightly depressing. Kind of as if they'd hired a yeti.&mdash; Rebecca Traister (@rtraister)July 17, 2012Before you get indignant about Traister (or me) treating this as an unimpressive turn of events, know this: At a basic level, women understand why this is a great, unexpected, unheard-of thing. It's great to see the working moms of the world feel likethey could've done it too. But when you consider the (small) number of female CEOs who, in fact, have raised children (and the children of others) while climbing the corporate ladder, I don't understand why we're treating this pregnancy as the biggest thing to happen to Yahoo since the 1990s.Look at the bio of any female CEO in the Fortune 500 realm – it will only take you a few minutes, BECAUSE THERE ARE ONLY 18. Babies, children, husbands are the footnotes. The more interesting part of the bio is that women are being trusted to lead Fortune 500 companies in a time of massive disruption.Our economy? Hiccuping. Our technology? Impossible to keep new. The way we communicate? Sentence fragments. How we eat? We're fat. How we buy things? On laptops in the darkness. This is disruption. And now an agonizingly slow trickle of women are stepping in to lead companies that have either have long gone rudderless or need a completely different ship.Mayer may be the first pregnant female CEO in our history, but she's also thefifth person in as many yearsto try to lead Yahoo. In a year, the first line of her bio will not mention the baby sheannounced on Twitteryesterday.Another piece of good news today - @zackbogueand I are expecting a new baby boy!postcards.blogs.fortune.cnn.com/2012/07/16/may…&mdash; marissamayer (@marissamayer)July 17, 2012You get the feeling that "having it all" was never a topic Mayer or any of her new cohorts much considered as they made the impossible climb.Let's look at Xerox CEOUrsula Burns. Burns has a daughter and a stepson. While I'm sure they're nice people, the kids are not as telling of a massive shift in industry perception than the fact that Burns started out as an intern. Or, how about the fact she's the first black woman to ever be in the CEO chair? Or how about the fact that people don't really use Xerox machines anymore? Burns is figuring out how to bring the company into new territory and has exceeded analysts' expectations despite shifting attitudes.Or how about Pepsico's Indra Nooyi? Mother of two, helm at a huge company ... irked investors. Why? Because Nooyi decided to branch out into the healthier (perhaps less profitable) snack foods industry, shifting her company's focus from soft drinks at a time whenAmericans just keep getting fatter. The reasoning behind her risk, simply, is that it's the right thing to do.Here Nooyi is talking about balancing work and motherhood in 2010:There are more women on the CEO shortlist who have dared to do the impossible: Denise Morrison:Campbells Soup, two kids.Irene Rosenfeld: Kraft, two kids.Ellen Kullman: Dupont, three kids.Also, it should be said that these women are millionaires many times over. There is such a thing as excellent-beyond-the-rest-of-our-wildest-dreams childcare when people place your net worth in the millions.It's forward-thinking to hire a pregnant CEO. But hiring a top gun from the company that rules the internet to bring your bumbling giant into the new age has nothing to do with pregnancy. It's good business and – given the past 24 hours of news coverage – a good PR move for Yahoo.What do you think? Leave your opinion in the comments below or tweet it to @GuardianUS and I'll add your responses below.
Downing Street followed the timeworn practice of spewing out a number of important reports before the Commons summer recess which this year began on Tuesday.They included the annual report of the parliamentary Intelligence and Security Committee, which chided the spooks for not anticipating how quickly the Arab Spring would spread. The report also maintained the tradition of marking deletions by asterisks making a nonsense of some passages.Here are a couple of examples: "Describing GCHQ's monitoring capabilities, the Director said: ***".And: "The foreign secretary went on to confirm that in addition to its diplomatic efforts, the UK intelligence and security agencies and others have been working together to try to limit Iran's procurement of material. In addition, [MI6] told us that it has ***".The reports from Downing Street included the annual report of the Interception of Communications Commissioner, Sir Paul Kennedy, who revealed that the police had wrongly accused and detained two people in separate cases as a result of mistakes made in the disclosure of their personal communications data. My colleague, Alan Travis, reported this onFriday.The annualreportof the Sir Christopher Rose, the Chief Surveillance Commissioner and, like Kennedy, a former appeal court judge, was also released by Downing Street.Its contents, which went largely unreported, are highly significant.Rose notes that there has been a decline in covert "directed surveillance" of individuals by law enforcement agencies and public authorities.It is his job to monitor such activities which are covered by the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 (RIPA). But the police and other authorities are abandoning the practice of such covert "directed surveillance" of individuals, Rose suggests, because they can gather more and more personal information differently. They can do so through "overt" investigations simply by trawling through material readily available on the internet, through social media for example, and not be subjected to any RIPA controls.This raises serious questions. Rose says that his staff are concerned that research using the internet "may meet the criteria of directed surveillance". In other words, trawling an individual's social media available on the internet should be subjected to RIPA's statutory controls. These state that the information should be gathered only to protect national security or prevent crime.Rose adds that he is particularly concerned when" a profile is built by processing data about a specific individual or group of individuals without their knowledge".He continues: "There is a fine line between general observation, systematic observation and research and it is unwise to rely on a perception of a person's reasonable expection or their ability to control their personal data".Rose also expresses concern about another issue — the ease with which data on an individual can be shared among government agencies or public authorities in particular when it is the result of covert surveillance.He observes: "I do not detect much effort by some authorising officers to make adequate arrangements for the destruction of [information] which was the result of collateral intrusion or not of value to the investigation or not properly authorised".Rose comments: "The default solution appears to be in favour of retention". It is a polite way of saying that data hoarding is a natural pastime of security services and bureaucracies.How do you effectively monitor the activities of such data miners, especially those determined to evade statutory controls? Rose raises issues which should be addressed, not just tossed away in a report rushed out by Downing Street.They bring to mind the words of Lord Nicolas Browne-Wilkinson, a former law lord, years ago. "If the information obtained by the police, the inland revenue, the social security services, the health service and other agencies were to be gathered together in one file, the freedom of the individual would be gravely at risk... The dossier of private information is the badge of the totalitarian state."
Microsoft has apologised to the European Commission and may face a fine after failing to abide by a ruling to give users of its Windows software choice over their web browser.The EC's competition commissioner Joaquin Almunia said on Tuesday that since February 2011 Microsoft had failed to provide users with a screen – as agreed in a 2009 antitrust commitment – which would let users choose their default browser from a list including Microsoft internet Explorer, Google Chrome, Apple Safari, Opera and others.That means that around 28 million customers might not have seen the "choice screen" that was meant to be displayed when a Windows user in Europe first used their PC.Microsoft apologised hours later, saying "we deeply regret" the oversight, and that it had "fallen short in our responsibility to do this".In a statement, the company said: "Due to a technical error, we missed delivering the BCS [browser choice screen] software to PCs that came with the Service Pack 1 update to Windows 7. The BCS software has been delivered as it should have been to PCs running the original version of Windows 7, as well as the relevant versions of Windows XP and Windows Vista. However, while we believed when we filed our most recent compliance report in December 2011 that we were distributing the BCS software to all relevant PCs as required, we learned recently that we've missed serving the BCS software to the roughly 28 million PCs running Windows 7 SP1."Almunia agreed that Microsoft does not appear to be contesting the facts. He also said this would be the first time such a legally binding agreement had not been complied with."Needless to say, we take compliance with our decision very seriously," he said. "If the infringement is confirmed, there will be sanctions."Microsoft has been fined hundreds of millions of pounds by the ECover antitrust infringements relating to Windows, particularly over interconnection with other software. The EC forced it to include the browser choice screen following concerns that internet Explorer could become dominant simply through its position as the default browser on Windows, which has about 95% of the PC market.Independent data suggests that Firefox and Google's Chrome are the most-used browsers in many countries in Europe.Microsoft blamed the fault on its engineers, who had not realised that they needed to keep Windows PCs in compliance with the EC's December 2009 ruling, under which Microsoft is required to display a browser choice screen on Windows PCs in Europe where internet Explorer is the default browser.Microsoft said that it began distributing a software fix for the error within two business days of discovering it, by 2 July. "We expect to substantially complete distribution of the BCS software to the PCs we initially missed by the end of the week," the company said. It has also offered to extend by 15 months the compliance period during which the EC can oversee its behaviour.The fault was due to the engineering team, Microsoft said: "The BCS provides an easy way for users to choose any browser. As agreed with the Commission in 2009, Microsoft uses our Windows Update service to send the BCS software to Windows-based PCs. Once installed, the BCS software checks to see if internet Explorer is the default browser and, if it is, the BCS is displayed to the user. The Windows Update system uses 'detection logic' to determine which software updates (such as the BCS) to distribute to which PCs. The detection logic for the BCS software was accurate when we began to distribute it in early 2010, and the BCS software was delivered as it should have been."Unfortunately, the engineering team responsible for maintenance of this code did not realise that it needed to update the detection logic for the BCS software when Windows 7 SP1 was released last year. As a result of this error, new PCs with Windows 7 SP1 did not receive the BCS software as they should have."Since most computer users run earlier versions of Windows, we estimate that the BCS software was properly distributed to about 90% of the PCs that should have received it. We recognise, however, that our obligation was to distribute the BCS to every PC that should have received it. Therefore, we have moved as quickly as we can to address the error and to provide a full accounting of it to the Commission."
Double congratulations to you, Ms Mayer, on becoming the fifth CEO (andpresident) of Yahoo in five years and on thenews of your first baby due this October. Impressive!Former Hillary aideAnne-Marie Slaughter calls you "superhuman", but we'd rather go with Woman 5.0. You hardly need advice from us, but we've a couple of suggestions for you, anyway. We're nervous that you're the third woman to take the helm over there at Yahoo, and the other two didn't work out too well. We can only hope the third chick's a charm. With our help, you should be.Don't ever changeWe need an aspirational role model and – tag! – you're it. You say, "My maternity leave will be a few weeks long and I'll work throughout it."  Stick to that promise, 21st Century Mama! Don't let feeding or diaper changes get in the way of running your company. After all, you've got it all. Now make it work.Don't bother movingIf living in the Four Seasons has served you well until now, then fine – add on a couple more rooms for Junior and the Help (lovethat that's your favorite movie, btw). There'll be little time for house-hunting between now and October. And the great thing about living in a luxury hotel is when you have to travel for work, you can literally be in a home away from home.There's no rush to settle down, Ms Mayer. Photograph: Robert Galbraith/ReutersGet those Yahoos running and walkingWay to build community spirit, as you did with your Google team!"Between July 15 and August 15, I challenged my team to walk an extra 100 miles (beyond the two miles a day the average American office worker walks anyway) – mostly to get us out and enjoying the nice weather. More than 200 people took me up on it and we walked, ran, swam, and biked our way there (we had conversion rates for swimming 1:4 and biking 5:1). All in, we walked close to 30,000 miles, more than once around the Earth at the equator and 16.7 times around the moon."We love that you're a fitness buff. Looking at your ski photos, and reading your account of taking part in the San Francisco marathon is almost as good as watching our pilates video from the couch. We can just feel the pounds dropping off.Keep shopping the designersHaving your former colleague Jess Lee running Polyvore should keep your eye sharp. But don't forget to let Vogue know every last choice,as you did at your wedding. You're the graduate school's Angelina Jolie. Give us all the details from sheath to shorts. We love it when a woman who's worth hundreds of millions of dollars spends her own money on clothes, especially on "an ivory going-away number based on a design in which Jackie Kennedy toured India". It makes a nice change from a stylist-clad movie star.Nurture your inner geekYou know when yousorted out at the router situationat home?"I went out and bought a Netgear N600 at Walmart … But, I had continued problems even with the new router – with range and devices getting conflicting IPs (I have a bunch of phones, tablets, TiVos, Google TVs, Apple TVs, etc). So, for Christmas, I asked for an Airport Extreme and 2 Airport Expresses (to chain together and create a mesh with better range). I set them all up last night, got all the devices connecting, and so far, so good. It's not really a fair comparison, since there are three routers to the Netgear's 1, but iStumbler showed a lot more signal strength throughout the house, rarely less than 45%."May all your domestic problems be as simple to solve.Designate your husband the family chefIt was a nice touchtelling Martha Stewart you can't cook. But why should you? If you're bringing home the bacon, leave it someone else to fry. You say your husband, Zack, is a dab hand in the kitchen. Let him stay there. Or get Jean-Georges over to fix lobster salad again. Or take Zack out for a treat. There's no law that says new parents have to give up trips to Caviar Russe.Never stop postingthis kind of thing"Duane Reade carries Kerastase(!) products – yay!"If something's gotta give …You can always drop the Walmart board. Trust us. You no longer need it.
Google is attempting to turn the tables on criminals and terrorists who exploit the internet by using its search capabilities to expose and disrupt illicit activity.The internet giant haslaunched a campaignagainst the secrecy and impunity of drug cartels, organ harvesters, cyber-criminals, violent radicals and traffickers in arms and people.It has assembled victims, law enforcers, politicians, academics and technology experts to devise strategies in atwo-day summitin Los Angeles, starting Tuesday, called Illicit Networks: Forces in Opposition.Google Ideas, the company's thinktank, has teamed up with the Council on Foreign Relations, Interpol and other organisations to look for ways to use technology against organised crime, jihadists and others."Google is in a great position to take these on," Rani Hong, a survivor of child trafficking in India who is now a special adviser to the United Nations, told reporters on the eve of the event. "They're a powerful medium and they have great tools to solve this problem."It is the brainchild of Google's executive chairman, Eric Schmidt, and the thinktank's head, Jared Cohen, a former state department wunderkind best known for persuading Twitter to delay maintenance so that protesters could continue communicating during upheaval in Iran in 2009.The summit has assembled an eclectic mix including Ronald Noble, Interpol's secretary general; Juan Pablo Escobar, son of the late Colombian drug lord; Alejandro Poire, Mexico's interior minister; Okello Sam, a Ugandan former child soldier; Andy Weber, assistant secretary for nuclear, chemical and biological defense programs at the US department of defense; and a group of North Korean defectors.Others due to attend include former homeland security secretary Michael Chertoff, senior executives from JP Morgan Chase and Credit Suisse, experts in DNA and counterfeiting and civic society leaders.Stewart Patrick, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations who helped organise the event, told AP: "It might sound like a different path for Google, but technology companies today have a lot of powerful tools for bringing transparency to these illicit networks, to fight back against corruption and empower those who are trying to combat transnational crime."Participants will discuss how illicit surgeons and organ brokers smuggle kidneys and other organs; how whistleblowers can expose narcotics networks; how insurance fraudsters and counterfeiters use evade borders. Another topic will be how recovered human skin and bone is transformed into dental and cosmetic products for plumping up lips or smoothing wrinkles.This gathering follows a conferenceGoogle organised in Irelandlast year which assembled dozens of former gang members and radical militants to discuss ways technology can inhibit others following their footsteps.Cohen, one of the few high-ranking state department officials to serve both the Bush and Obama administrations, joined Google last year to head a small New York-based team and practise what he has called 21st century statecraft. He calls Google Ideas a "think/do-tank", reflecting Silicon Valley confidence – hubris, say critics – at tackling complicated, deep-rooted problems.
This weekAleks Krotoskiand Technology editorCharles Arthurtake a close look atGoogle's Nexus 7 tabletand discuss anew £1m tech startup prize launched by London's Silicon Roundabout community.Guardian Games correspondentKeith Stuartis joined by games journalistChristian Donlanto discussDevelop 2012, the UK's gaming conference which takes place annually in Brighton. Keith also meets some leading lights and new comers in the gaming community includingGaikaifounderDave Perry,David Brabenthe man behind the low-cost educational computer theRaspberry Pi, gaming legendIan LivingstoneandSimon Reid, the one man band behind the hit iOS game, New Star Soccer.Don't forget to...• Comment below• Mail the producertech@guardian.co.uk• Get ourTwitter feedfor programme updates or follow ourTwitter list• Like ourFacebook page• See ourpics on Flickr/Postyour tech pics
Oh dear. Even as Yahoo's appointment of Marissa Mayer as its chief executive was sending an electric jolt through Silicon Valley on Monday, her husband Zachary Bogue was sendinghis own sort of joltin the direction of embattled BlackBerry-maker RIM. Yes, he's dumping it.Dear @rim, My Blackberry no longer even functions as a phone. At the Apple store right now. It's not you, it's me. Best, The Last BB User&mdash; Zachary Bogue (@zackbogue)July 16, 2012Obviously Bogue is his own man in the Mayer-Bogue household; in his day job he's a cofounder and managing partner of Founders Den, which provides space for "experienced" entrepreneurs.It's indicative of the problems RIM is having though if it can't hang on to a business-y user such as Bogue. He is now, it seems, an iPhone user.We're guessing that Mayer will hang onto her Android phone. As well as her Nest thermostat, Up bracelet by Jawbone (it collects data about your daily activities), Verizon Mi-Fi (for turning a 3G signal into a Wi-Fi network), Google Chromebook (the "cloud-based" computer favoured by Googlers), and Eagle Creek zipper bag.(How do we know about those? From herGeeksugar interview from December 2011, when she shared her Christmas gift choices.)In the meantime, if anyone has seen any good news for RIM, please could you share it in the comments? We think they need a bit of relief.
Government officials in the Middle East are among 800 victims of a sustained cyber espionage attack dubbed Madi targeting critical infrastructure in Iran and Israel, security experts have discovered.A sophisticated hacking group, whose members moved its servers from the Iranian capital Tehran to Canada in January 2012, stole hundreds of sensitive documents from the officials and businesspeople in an eight-month spying campaign. That began in December 2011, researchers from the security firms Kaspersky Labs and Seculert have told the Guardian.Email and Facebook accounts belonging to the victims were also spied on during the attack, which followsa string of attempts to snoopon top-secret projects in the Middle East.Researchers believe the attack, revealed for the first time on Tuesday, was coordinated from four bases in Canada by a group of Farsi-speaking hackers. It is not known whether the cyber espionage was state-sponsored.Aviv Raff, chief technology officer of Seculert, told the Guardian: "Most of these 800 victims are from Middle Eastern countries, starting with Iran, then Israel, then Afghanistan, and are all from critical infrastructure companies, financial services and even government officials."The attack secretly downloaded the Madi spying software on to a victim's computer when they downloaded an email attachment, usually in the form of an innocent-looking Microsoft PowerPoint file.Once downloaded, the software installed a keylogger able to record every keystroke on the target's computer, to track login details for sensitive websites. The Madi malware could also take screenshots of a victim's computer activity – most commonly their email exchanges and social networking habits – and record audio. Gigabytes of data has been stolen from victims' computers over the eight-month period, the researchers said."While the malware and infrastructure is very basic compared to other similar projects, the Madi attackers have been able to conduct a sustained surveillance operation against high-profile victims," said Nicolas Brulez, a senior malware researcher at Kaspersky Lab.Unlike more commonly known spam emails, researchers said these messages were designed deliberately for their targets and not sent to tens of thousands of people across the world.Some of the emails attached a PowerPoint presentation or a Word document, and others had a video of a missile test, pictures of a nuclear explosion and an image of Jesus. Another email contained a copy of a Daily Beast article discussing Israel and Iran.Raff, from Seculert, said: "There's definitely a religious thing. They are trying to lure people to open these emails."News of the latest cyber surveillance plot follows a string of other data snooping attempts discovered in the past 12 months. Two of the most complex online attacks ever discovered – Stuxnet and Flame – were revealed to havecovertly targeted Tehran, in an attempt to sabotage Iran's nuclear program.•This article was amended on 18 July to reflect the fact that it was the hacking group's servers that were located in Canada, not the members of the group themselves.
New Windows, new Office. That has been the pattern for the last few years, with Office 2007 arriving shortly after Windows Vista, and Office 2010 following Windows 7. Microsoft claims that Office 2010 has been its most successful ever; but the new Office unveiled yesterday in San Francisco has the challenge of making sense on (or of) Windows 8, an operating system made for touch control on a tablet as well as for use with traditional mouse and keyboard.This is also the cloud era, and Microsoft says that the new Office has been designed accordingly. "We're transitioning Office as a cloud service" said CEO Steve Ballmer, introducing Monday's launch.Excel 2013, showing the Metro-style ribbon user interfaceBut is there much new, or is this the same old Office dressed in new Metro clothes? A good question; and given the maturity of the suite, which was codenamed Office 15, the fact that the essential features of the core applications are little changed is no surprise. The ribbon user interface, the oversized toolbar first introduced in Office 2007, has had a makeover in Metro (the Windows 8 design language), and includes more space between icons to ease touch control, but functionally is similar to what it was before. This is no bad thing: familiarity is part of what ties businesses to Office, when they could use open source alternatives at much lower cost.A PDF open in Word 2013 reflows to fit the column widthThat said, there are new features, such as the improved reading mode in Word which lets you reflow PDF documents as if they were Word documents, or Flash Fill in Excel, which lets you populate a new column by parsing data intelligently from one or more previous columns. Outlook has a new weather bar, which tells you whether forecasters think it will rain during an upcoming meeting. PowerPoint has new shape tools, new alignment tools, and an enhanced Presenter view that lets you zoom in and out to highlight key points.Outlook 2013 tells you the weather within the calendarUpdates of this kind cannot justify Ballmer's claim that this is the "biggest, most ambitious release in our history." The real change is in the bigger picture of how Office ties in with Microsoft's cloud services, or with the SharePoint collaboration platform which businesses can host on their own servers. The Office 2013 applications save by default to the cloud, so that users can access their documents from anywhere with an internet connection.Into the cloudMicrosoft is also encouraging both individuals and organisations to purchase Office by subscription rather than outright. On Monday it announced new Office 365 subscription services: Home Premium with 20GB of SkyDrive storage for families and consumers, Small Business Premium with email, conferencing and web site tools, and ProPlus for enterprise users. These subscriptions include up to five installations of the Office desktop applications for either or both PC or Mac, so that users can use Office on all their computers. The cloud is becoming the primary focus.Another key aspect of Office 2013 is its collaboration and social media integration. The new SharePoint, which will be released simultaneously, includes newsfeeds and sharing tools that give parts of SharePoint the feel of Facebook or Google Plus. Microsoft is also integrating Skype calls with its existing Lync communication and online meeting services, and integrating therecently acquired Yammer social networking toolwith SharePoint and with Dynamics, its customer relationship management application. The "social enterprise" buzzword came up frequently at the San Francisco launch, and you can "like" documents and "follow" contacts. You can also search across SharePoint and Exchange together for an integrated view of activity for a particular project.Office 2013 has its own integrated app storeMicrosoft is also bringing the app store concept to Office. Each application has an Apps for Office option on the ribbon, which lets users insert apps into documents. These can be content apps, which are hosted within a document, or task pane apps, which work alongside documents. They use a new programming interface for Office which is based on HTML and JavaScript: "An app for Office is basically a webpage that is hosted inside an Office client application," says Microsoft.Has Microsoft succeeded in making Office a productive suite on Windows 8 tablets operated through touch alone? It is a big advance on Office 2010 in this respect, but still a work in progress. Two applications - OneNote and Lync - have true Metro-style apps alongside alternative desktop apps. The OneNote app is particularly interesting, suggesting that Microsoft sees note-taking as a primary use for a tablet. OneNote MX, the Metro version, has an innovative circular tool for selecting fonts and colours, perfect for finger control.OneNote MX, a Metro app, has an unusual wheel control for font selectionUsing desktop applications such as Word and Excel with touch is less satisfactory. Some ribbon tabs, like the Home tab in Word, have too many small icons to be comfortable for touch control. They are better than before, but users will want to have a keyboard and mouse for full productivity.Although Microsoft has made preview code for Office 2013 generally available, it is not committing to any specific date for final availability, nor is it releasing prices or every detail of how the new editions will be packaged. Office 2013 will not be completed as early as Windows 8 (expected to go on general retail sale in October). This has implications for Windows RT, the ARM version, which ships with Office included. The initial release will probably include an early version of Office 2013 with a free update available later.One thing the company has confirmed is that Office 2013 will not run on any version of Windows earlier than 7. The reason, we were told, is that Windows 7 introduced touch features that are required by Office 2013. That said, if the documents are hosted on SharePoint or in the cloud, there are web apps which will make documents available to users on any machine with a modern web browser, including iOS and Android tablets.ConclusionA fresh new look; a new orientation towards the cloud and towards subscription; new OneNote and Lync apps for Metro-style Windows 8; social enterprise features with activity feeds, Yammer and Skype; a touch-friendly user interface: will this add up to another successful Office launch for Microsoft? Much will depend on how Windows 8 itself is received. The new Office will run well on Windows 7, but Windows 8 is its natural home. Office 2013 forms an essential part of Microsoft's vision for a tablet that does not compromise on productivity. The productivity is there; but judging by the preview, Office 2013 on a slate is still a little awkward, with the exception of OneNote where a native Metro-style app exists. Still, the ability to leave the laptop at home and travel just with a tablet is a compelling reason to put up with some slight inconvenience of use, or to tuck a wireless keyboard and mouse into the bag. Office 2013 may not be quite ideal for tablet use, but considering the weight of legacy baggage in Microsoft's suite, it is an excellent start.Try Office 2013 athttp://office.com/preview
When she interviewed for her job at Google in 1999, Marissa Mayer was asked to list three things the fledgling search engine could do better. Reputedly, she could only think of two.Mayer is unlikely to have the same problem when she starts her new job as chief executive of Yahoo on Tuesday. She joins a company in existential crisis, but the 37-year-old artificial intelligence star is seen as one of the few executives able to turn Yahoo around.She joined Google in 1999 as its 20th employee – and its first female engineer – when the company was just a no-frills search page. Over 13 years at Mountain View, she has become a much-admired figure in the technology world."It's pretty hard to overstate her impact," Google's executive chairman, Eric Schmidt, told Glamour magazine in 2009, when Mayer became possibly the magazine's first Woman of the Year from a technology company. "She built the team that designs the products we all use."Unlike some of her former colleagues, Mayer does not have one Google product that is known as hers. Rather, she is present in all major Google services developed over the company's first transformative decade.Eleven years ago on Thursday, Mayer was one of 15 Googlers behind the company's famous motto: Don't Be Evil. According to Steven Levy's In the Plex, published last year, Mayer was on the three-strong team who inventedGoogle AdWords, the groundbreaking algorithm that linked advertisers' keywords to search results and helped deliver96% of the company's $10.6bn revenues in the first quarter of last year.According to those who have worked with her, Mayer is as confident leading a headstrong team of male engineers as she is on the front cover of an upmarket glamour magazine. Vogue profiled her 2009 wedding to the lawyer-turned-investor Zack Brogue underneath the headline "The Bride Wore Snowflakes". Inside, the magazine fawned over Mayer's love of the designers Chanel and Oscar de la Renta.But it is the self-styled internet geek's dedication that has made her such a passionate advocate of Google's work. On 19 August 2004, when Google made US corporate history with its $1.67bn flotation, Mayer reputedly banned her team from checking the stock price throughout the day. When the temptation for some Googlers became too much, Mayer is said to have instructed anyone caught checking the company's inflating share price to buy stock for a colleague. It was a policy that focused the mind for many of the newly made paper millionaires."The first and lasting impression of working with Marissa is of someone incredibly smart," said Dan Crow, a former Google product manager who worked closely with her. "She loves new ideas and finding better ways to do things. She is also extremely intolerant of sloppy or poorly prepared work. She makes decisions based on data, not intuition, so you need strong data that shows your proposal is good for users."Crow said Mayer – whohas said she attendsaround 70 meetings a week and spends 14-hour marathon email sessions on a weekend – introduced something approaching regular office hours at Google, a company famous for its unconventional approach to working life.Mayer's ascent inside Google continued until 2010, when she was put in charge of the company's plateauing maps and location products, including Google Places and Street View. It was a curiously sideways move for an executive who looked cut out for the top job. One year later, co-founder Larry Page wasannounced as the new chief executiveand Mayer, who had been integral to many of the company's successes over the past decade, was not even on the company's board of directors.Now she joins a business in existential crisis, battered by newcomers who have stolen its advertising share and sent a succession of bosses scrambling to reinvent the technology giant as a content company.Mayer's first day at Yahoo is on Tuesday, 24 hours after handing in her notice at the company she joined as a Stanford University graduate 13 years ago. She is heavily pregnant, expecting a baby boy on 7 October, but plans to work through her maternity leave as she breathes new life into a sleeping giant in technology.
A selection of nine new and notable apps for you today:AuriaCan tablets become a serious music production tool? Auria is the latest evidence that they can. It's a 48-track "digital audio recording system" app for iPad, offering mixing, recording and post production. It plays nice with compatible USB audio interfaces (using Apple's camera connection kit accessory), and also works with DropBox and SoundCloud. The app costs $49.99, reflecting its premium features.iPadCity Golf by Mercedes-BenzThe latest brand grappling with augmented reality technology is Mercedes-Benz, with an AR golf game for iPhone released for this week's The Open Championship (it's a sponsor). The idea: "Use your camera to set your pin against a real world setting" and "swing your device like an actual golf club to play through 27 par-3-style holes". There is absolutely no chance you will look ridiculous playing this in your local high street. No chance at all.iPhoneWhale Trail Frenzyustwo has launched a new free version of its Whale Trail game on Android, joining the existing paid version (now renamed to Whale Trail Classic). As before, it involves flying a whale through the clouds with taps on the screen, collecting bubbles and unlocking new skills and costumes.AndroidSydney Opera HouseSydney's famous music venue gets its own iPhone app, with details of upcoming shows, videos from its YouTube channel, and the ability to buy gift vouchers and tickets – including choosing your seat.iPhoneThe Little Girl Who SneezedAs introductions to a children's book go, it's hard to beat "Once there was a little girl who sneezed so hard, her brains plopped out". This book-app tells the tale of said girl with a mixture of illustrations, interactivity and word-highlighted text for young readers.iPadThe Courtship of the Yonghy-Bonghy-BoAnother quirky iOS book-app for kids here, from developer Corky Portwine. It's based on an Edward Lear poem, telling the story of the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo's attempts to hook up with a woman called Lady Jingly Jones.iPhone / iPadDJ StudioDJ Studio is the latest DJing app on iPad, aiming to be easy enough to use without any steel-wheels knowledge, but with features to suit professionals too. A range of samples and loops are included in the free app, with in-app purchses used to unlock pro features and more audio.iPadBrain SnapLess FatBooth and more FreakBooth, this fun photo-manipulation app promises to "transform your friends into weirdos, freaks, skaters, thugs, hipsters, and grass-jellys" (as a Brit, I have NO idea what the latter is, obviously). It uses the characterful artwork of San Francisco-based illustrator Patrick Sean Gibson.iPhoneSo You Think You Can DanceUS network Fox's So You Think You Can Dance TV show has its own second-screen app for its new series. Viewers are invited to check in during live shows to get tweets, polls, badges and to vote for their favourite contestants.iPhone / iPad
Here we are in Tuesday! If you were at the Bafta games journalism event last night, thank you for coming!
A quick burst of 7 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamEric Schmidt's thoughts on Marissa Mayer's departure for Yahoo &gt;&gt; PandoDailyEdited version of what he said - they left out the "perfectionist" bit.From bad to worse and from good to great &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu looks at how much cash phone makers have on hand:In absolute terms the iPhone franchise created $244bn in value while Samsung created $83bn. The others destroyed $37bn.The good news is that the industry has had net value creation - always a healthy sign that innovation is being valued and absorbed.The bad news is that there is vast income inequality. The rich are getting richer and the poor are getting destitute. This is an unhealthy sign. The concentration of power and wealth may indicate a peaking of experimentation and discovery of new opportunities.An iPad Lover's Take On The Nexus 7 &gt;&gt; TechCrunchMG Siegler, self-described Apple fanboy, tries the Nexus 7.Yahoo! appoints Marissa Mayer chief executive officer &gt;&gt; YahooYahoo! today announced that it has appointed Marissa Mayer as President and Chief Executive Officer and Member of the Board of Directors effective July 17, 2012. The appointment of Ms. Mayer, a leading consumer internet executive, signals a renewed focus on product innovation to drive user experience and advertising revenue for one of the world's largest consumer internet brands, whose leading properties include Yahoo! Finance, Yahoo! Sports, Yahoo! Mobile, Yahoo! Mail, and Yahoo! Search.An awesome coup for Yahoo.Goldman Sachs and a sale gone horribly awry &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comAnd yet, even today what happened next to the Bakers seems remarkable. With Goldman Sachs on the job, the corporate takeover of Dragon Systems in an all-stock deal went terribly wrong. Goldman collected millions of dollars in fees -- and the Bakers lost everything when Lernout &amp; Hauspie was revealed to be a spectacular fraud. L.&amp; H. had been founded by Jo Lernout and Pol Hauspie, who had once been hailed as stars of the 1990s tech boom. Only later did the Bakers learn that Goldman Sachs itself had at one point considered investing in L.&amp; H. but had walked away after some digging into the company.Jawdropping. How the sale of Dragon Systems turned into a calamity.Kevin Rose: Digg failed because 'social media grew up' &gt;&gt; WSJ blogMr. Rose chalked up Digg's failure to a combination of its own missteps along with an acknowledgement that the news-sharing site was outmaneuvered by Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. Among the missteps: Digg botched its re-launch in the summer of 2010, and, more importantly, he said the company was slow to respond to the criticism."We were desperately trying to figure out how to get traffic back," he said. "A bunch of the community had already revolted by the time we fixed it."He also said Digg made a mistake by cloning the features of other websites like Twitter and Facebook. "We did a lot of things that went against the DNA of our product."Mr. Rose said that Twitter and Facebook started to eat away at Digg's traffic as both sites evolved into places where people discovered the most up-to-the-minute news and information, the main reason people visited Digg.Call it the first-mover disadvantage.From 15 hours to 15 seconds: reducing a crushing build time &gt;&gt; Songkick tech blogOver the past year we have reduced our website test suite build time by over 99.9%.Build time a year ago: 15 hours. Across 15 EC2 build slaves it took "only" 1 hour of real time.Build time today: 15 seconds. On my laptop.Having a build that took over an hour to run crippled the productivity of our team.So, how did we make such a drastic improvement? There were no quick fixes, though Lord knows we tried to find them. Instead we have had to completely change the way we test.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
One of the first compliments came on Twitter – a service that Marissa Mayer may feel more free to use now."Marissa Mayer is probably the most effective individual I've ever worked with,"commented Kevin Fox, former lead designer at Google, Yahoo, Facebook and the Firefox-maker Mozilla. "I'm really excited to see her at Yahoo's helm."He backed up his words with actions, he said; he had bought some Yahoo stock. Mayer, he said, was "one of only three or four people who would make me buy a boatload of Yahoo. This is ASTOUNDING."Mayer herself,with more than 157,000 Twitter followers– a number that is sure to grow rapidly – had given no clue, tweeting back at the start of the month that she was just about to start watching the hit TV series Breaking Bad. Before that, at the end of June, she was doing what she had been for the past 13 years or so: boosting Google.Mayer's departure from Google – she resigned by telephone on Monday afternoon – for Yahoo has sent shockwaves through Silicon Valley and its associated companies. The first is that this repositions Yahoo back in the fight.That is important, and the fact that Mayer, 37, will be starting immediately – getting her feet under the desk from Tuesday 17 July - shows that she thinks there is no time to waste. For years Yahoo has been drifting like a cruise ship whose engines have broken down, comfortable enough but never able to take control of where it was going. A succession of chief executives who couldn't quite decide whether it was a technology company (a good thing in the fast-moving world of internet brands) or a content company (a dangerous thing, because content is almost infinitely available, and carries little to distinguish it) have seen that drift continue.By appointing Mayer, Yahoo is saying plainly: it's a technology company.Mayer is famous for many things at Google, but the one that always sticks out – and defines her in some ways – is the "Forty Shades of Blue" episode. (It's not pornographic, don't worry.) This arose from an argument between a designer who wanted one shade of blue for web links on a page, and a programmer who argued that a slightly different shade had been shown to produce more clicks – and more clicks were in the end good for Google.Mayer, the manager of both, tried to broker a compromise – but then reversed her position and declared that the result should be figured out scientifically. She ordered that 40 different shades of blue would be randomly shown to each 2.5% of visitors; Google would note which colour earned more clicks. And that was how the blue colour you see in Google Mail and on the Google page was chosen. Mayer, a computer science buff and artificial intelligence expert, will drive Yahoo through data - and she will know as much as, and likely more than, any of the technical staff there.She will have huge challenges – Yahoo has been losing advertising share to Google, Facebook and Twitter steadily for years - but the announcement will have energised staff up and down an organisation that had been wearily preparing for Ross Levinsohn, a name most people in Silicon Valley couldn't pick out of a lineup, to be its next chief.The other shockwave travels in the opposite direction: looking back towards Google. The suggestion already is that Mayer had found herself hitting the glass ceiling. After years when she had headed the search business, the most profitable part of Google, she was made head of its local products in late 2010. Then in 2011, Jeff Huber was made senior vice-president of local and commerce - that is, installed above Mayer.But if Mayer, one of the longest-standing top executives, is leaving Google, the company is subtly changed; for a generation that has worked there and seen it go from plucky startup to stock market darling to internet behemoth, most recently buying the mobile phone company Motorola Mobility and offering an own-branded tablet and TV remote, Mayer's departure is the abrupt end of a chapter. If she can leave Google, who else might think the time has come to strike out too?For Yahoo, it means the invigoration of a new way of thinking. Mayer has indicated to the New York Times that she thinks Yahoo is "one of the best brands on the internet", and recalled that when she first started at Google, user surveys used to find that people didn't know there was a difference between Yahoo and the wider internet. (To some extent, there wasn't; Yahoo started as a catalogue of the early web.) Now she is sure to shake it and give it new data-driven teeth.For Google, Mayer's departure may not hurt its financial position; it is expected to release financial results this Thursday that will indicate that it has kept growing. But something subtle will have changed. Only time will tell if Mayer can lead Yahoo out of its troubled position, but as Fox says, she is probably one of only a handful of people who could save the company from sinking into oblivion.
Marissa Mayer, one of Google's top executives and its first female engineer, will be the next chief executive officer of Yahoo, making her one of the most prominent women in Silicon Valley and in corporate America.Mayer will start immediately, with her first day being Tuesday 17 July. The fact that she was a candidate had been kept completely secret – with no indication from Google's top managers that she was about to leave.The appointment of Mayer is a surprising and impressive coup for Yahoo, a company that has been racked by internal turmoil as it has struggled to compete with Google, Facebook and Twitter in the online display advertising market. Mayer will be Yahoo's fifth chief executive in five years, and its second woman."I am honoured and delighted to lead Yahoo, one of the internet's premier destinations for more than 700 million users," Mayer said in astatement. "I look forward to working with the company's dedicated employees to bring innovative products, content, and personalized experiences to users and advertisers all around the world."Yahoo said that Mayer's appointment "signals a renewed focus on product innovation", indicating that the company aims to compete on the technological – and not just the content – front.Mayer, 37, has a degree in artificial intelligence. In 1999, when Google was barely a year old, she became its 20th employee, going on to spend 13 years there. She had become one of its most prominent voices. More recently, Mayer has also begun to forge a wider role in corporate America, recently joining the board of retail giant Walmart.She is six months pregnant with her first child, due in October, and said her maternity leave would be "a few weeks long and I'll work through it".Mayer joins a very short list of women in top jobs in Silicon Valley, alongside Meg Whitman, the chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, Virginia Rometty, the head of IBM, and Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's chief operating officer.She takes over at a company that has been roiled by scandal and argument. In May, Yahoo lost its last chief executive, Scott Thompson, after only four months. The former PayPal boss was ousted after it emerged that he had padded his resumé, leading to angry shareholders demanding that he go. Thompson's departure also led to a board reshuffle and the resignation of chairman Roy Bostock.Thompson's exit followed the even more tempestuous firing of his predecessor Carol Bartz, who left in a foul-mouthed tirade, calling the board "doofuses" who had "fucked me over."Yahoo has struggled for years to keep up with Google in search ads as Facebook has eclipsed it in display advertising. Yahoo is now worth just over $19bn, less than half the $44.6bn Microsoft offered for the company in 2008.The company stock jumped 2% in after-hours trading to just over $16.Colin Gillis, a tech analyst at BGC Partners in New York, said Mayer was a great appointment and a loss for Google. "She is in a different league," he said. "She is very widely respected and she really knows this business."At Google, Mayer had been responsible for many of the company's key products, including its famous search homepage, Gmail and Google News. More recently, she has taken on responsibility for location and local services, including Google Maps.She was a popular Google prosleytiser, often sent out to talk about Google's services, and she also sat on Google's operating committee, a cadre of close advisers to Google's co-founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin.Shortly after her move into local services in 2010, Google made another executive, Jeff Huber, senior vice-president of local and commerce, one level above Mayer's post.Gillis said she Mayer's career path appeared to have been blocked at Google. "I think she got so far but they were moving her sideways," he said. "I don't think they will be happy about this. It's a blow."Yahoo co-founder David Filo said: "Marissa is a well-known, visionary leader in user experience and product design, and one of Silicon Valley's most exciting strategists in technology development. I look forward to working with her to enhance Yahoo's product offerings for our over 700 million unique monthly visitors."
A federal jury in San Francisco has found Research In Motion liable for $147m (£95m) in damages for infringing on patents held by a US software company.Further costs could lie ahead if Mformation Technologies seeks a royalty on future uses of the technology, which covers wireless management of devices so corporate customers can remotely upgrade software, change passwords or wipe data from stolen phones. RIM said it may appeal.The BlackBerry maker has been relying on its corporate client base to keep up revenues as it tries to regroup and recover from two quarters of losses and a dwindling market share among US consumers. Analysts wonder whether it will run out of cash before it can complete a turnaround.Todd DeLaughter, Mformation's chief executive, declined to say whether his company would go after other companies that incorporate similar technologies in their devices, notably Apple, whose iPhone and iPad have a similar remote access and wipe facility.Mformation was awarded $8 for each user of BlackBerry Enterprise Server (BES) version 4 since the lawsuit was filed in October 2008. It covers 18.4m corporate BlackBerrys connected to BES, which also encrypts content between server and device. Mformation had demanded $12 per two years' use.The company may now sue in Europe, where it holds a patent for the same technology. Asked whether he was worried the verdict could hasten RIM's demise, DeLaughter said: "When BES 4 started shipping, RIM was a healthy company. This suit should never have gone to court. It should have been settled three years ago."RIM's share price briefly dipped below $7 on Monday before recovering to $7.07, after closing on Friday at $7.22. Its stock has lost nearly 95% of its value compared with its $144 peak in June 2008.The company said: "RIM is disappointed by the outcome and is evaluating all legal options. Additionally, the trial judge has yet to decide certain legal issues that might impact the verdict. RIM will await those rulings before deciding whether to pursue an appeal."RIM has worked hard for many years to independently develop its leading-edge BlackBerry technology and industry-leading intellectual property portfolio, and RIM does not believe that the Mformation patent in question is valid."DeLaughter said he agreed with commentators who argue that software patents are an obstacle to business in the US, but added: "In our case we are a software company, it's core to the lifeblood of our business. To let that technology's use go uncompensated would be damaging."The notion of all the lawsuits going on between handset makers is concerning," he said. "But if the courts and the system doesn't allow entrepreneurs and innovators to protect their ideas, then there won't be innovation." DeLaughter said Mformation had suffered material loss through not being able to close sales because of RIM's use of similar technology.It is the second big patent loss in RIM's history. In March 2006 it settled a five-year dispute with NTP for $612.5m.RIM's US market share of smartphone shipments dropped from 41% in 2007, the year the first iPhone came out, to below 4% in the first three months of this year, according to the research firm IDC.There have been repeated delays to its BlackBerry 10 operating software, which is intended to help it catch up to rivals such as the iPhone and smartphones running Google's Android software. Devices with the new software miss the Christmas shopping season and will face even more competition when they do go on sale, including a new iPhone expected this autumn.
News publishers – this one included – are excited about the potential of smartphone and tablet apps as a new way to make money from subscriptions.But at the same time, they're gauging the impact and potential of news aggregation apps: Flipboard, Zite, News360, Pulse, Taptu, Flud and numerous others. What if the app-future for news is more about advertising partnerships with these companies than paying punters for the publishers' own apps?With 1.5m downloads across various smartphone and tablet platforms,News360is one of the aggregation apps that has some traction. In July 2012, the company relaunchedits iPad version. I sat down with chief executive Roman Karachinsky to find out more."We rebuilt the app from the ground up," he says. "It's meant to understand your interests, pick the right content for each one and provide a single, very relevant feed that covers all of them. We've spent literally months working on algorithms that make this come together."News360 is tracking more than 1m different topics, brands, companies and sources, but it's also looking to do more with social networks than simply pull in tweets and status updates from friends.According to Karachinsky, News360 is more about "sifting" through your Facebook history – posts, comments, Likes and jobs included – and using this to provide a list of news topics that it thinks will be relevant. The app then learns as you use it, based on what you read, how long you read it for, and whether you share it.The aim is to take News360 beyond the early adopters – power users who are willing to spend lots of time refining their profiles and browsing separate categories or feeds."We want to map people's interests without them doing a lot of work," says Karachinsky. "People who are intelligent and want to read the news and be informed citizens, but who don't have the time or energy to put a lot of work into it. The main issue they want to solve is content overload. It's impossible for them to follow everything they want to follow."In short, News360 is trying to steer away from the idea of social news aggregators – those that show a feed of stories that all your friends have linked to – and back towards the idea of algorithm-based recommendations that use your social profile as data to refine their suggestions."If your friend posted something on Facebook, you're probably going to read it there," says Karachinsky. "But if we know you're interested in space exploration, say, we can expose you to media and content that you might have missed. And then you can be the broadcaster and post stuff onto those social networks."It's too early to tell whether the relaunched News360 app will break out to more mainstream tablet users to compete with Flipboard, Zite and other aggregation apps.Consolidation aheadThere has been a lot of money heading into these kinds of apps, whether through investment or acquisition – Zite is now owned by CNN for example. Some kind of consolidation seems inevitable, with Karachinsky saying Flipboard and Zite are News360's biggest competitors.Having announced 8m downloads earlier in 2012, Flipboard seems the biggest company in the space, but Karachinsky is understandably keen to stress its differences to his own product."They're not necessarily an aggregator: they're about feeds. Taking existing streams of content and visualising them in a very compelling way, whether that's Facebook and Twitter, or a curated feed from a publisher," he says."That's really valuable, they're creating a new medium and doing great work in figuring out advertising strategies. But they're definitely not solving this issue of discovery."One continuing grey area is over how online publishers – from newspapers and broadcasters to individual blogs – see all these apps, aggregators or otherwise.Zite was sued for copyright infringement before it got bought, while even within organisations like The Economist there aredisagreementsover whether something like Flipboard is an important new distribution partner, or a "head-on competitor".Karachinsky says attitudes are shifting all the time – and in favour of working with rather than against the aggregator apps – but he admits there remain internal divisions in some of the biggest media companies."You often have digital and editorial people really looking for discovery methods, trying to find new ways to get content out there by experimenting and trying new things," he says."But then the business and legal side might be really conservative, concerned about keeping rights protected and opening this Pandora's box of putting content out there. They'd rather use paywalls to monetise rather than try new advertising methods, and so on. In different organisations, the balance is different."Karachinsky isn't anti-paywall: he notes that it seems to be working for the Financial Times, Wall Street Journal and New York Times to name but three. The latter has even signed a deal to take its paywall onto Flipboard, making stories available to any Flipboard user who pays for an NYT subscription.Karachinsky is more concerned about working with the rest of the media industry: sites that are struggling to pay for their running costs with advertising revenues."If they are successful in SEO, virality and so on, they can make money but their content suffers. They become the Daily Mail or one of those sites doing top 10 slideshows of kittens!" he says."What we're trying to do is find a way to keep the content good and effective, and great writers writing and covering great stories, rather than falling into this trap of creating really cheap and plentiful content that's going to be terrible. The problem: great content doesn't make money right now."Discovery solutionAnd News360 has the solution? Karachinsky's pitch is that the solution is discovery: apps and algorithms that help people find the great stories that are most relevant to them, and thus drive enough traffic to those stories to help their publishers make money.That's the theory, anyway. "It's difficult for them, because the model doesn't work yet, and there's no existing service they can look at and think 'these numbers make sense, we can do it'," he says."But CNN buying Zite is an interesting indicator of where this is going. CNN understands very well that in two, three, five years time, this will be the way that most people find content: Zite, News360 and other services of a similar nature."Will they pay for it? That's even less clear. Karachinsky cites the example ofOngo, a website and app in the US that was funded by the New York Times, Washington Post and Gannett to aggregate stories from their sites and others, and charge users from $6.99 a month for ad-free access.It launched in January 2011, but shut down in June 2012, with CEO Dan Haarmannblaming its complex pricingand Apple's 30% cut of subscriptions as key reasons for its failure."They were able to get some people to pay for it, but orders of magnitude less than was needed to make the service viable," says Karachinsky, who goes on to explain that for now, being a free-to-use news aggregation app may be the only way to get such a business up and running."If you're just a free aggregator, at this point most sources are fine because you're driving traffic. As soon as you charge, though, people come to you saying 'you're earning money, where's our share?'," he says."The model is not there yet. At this point, advertising is the most effective and proven model, and publishers understand how it works: the economics of it. When you have this targeted distribution that we can provide, there's an opportunity to create much more effective advertising strategies."That's where we're in very early days still, and at a point when news publishers are trying to get their heads around several new, disruptive business models. The task for Karachinsky and his rivals is to break through any wariness with their message that discovery can have a big, positive impact on their businesses."There is still tons of work to be done," he says. "It's a problem that won't be solved for years to come, but we've made a significant breakthrough."
If you're a fan of 12-year-old Japanese games, you've had a good day so far. Sega has confirmed that it is bringing the Dreamcast hit Sonic Adventure 2 to Xbox Live Arcade and PlayStation Network in the autumn. There are also whispers of Yakuza 1 and 2 re-releases. Meanwhile, Capcom has announced an updated re-run of its idiosyncratic 2D fighting game, Jojo's Bizarre Adventure, originally released in the arcades back in 1999. That will be hitting XBLA and PSN in August.These are just the latest examples in an ongoing and escalating trend. Over the past 12 months we've seen HD re-releases for Ico and Shadow of the Colossus, and for Metal Gear Solid, Silent Hill, Devil May Cry and Zone of the Enders. Often these have tied in smartly with news of forthcoming releases – Silent Hill, Metal Gear and Devil May Cry all have fresh additions coming this year. But in other cases, it's pure nostalgia – or, worringly, the signs of an emerging business model.Take Sega. In March, the company announced that it would be undergoing a phase of 'structural reform', downsizing its Western operation, shedding jobs and focusing on key brands. Part of this process will also involve concentrating more efforts on the publisher's cheaper, less risky digital offerings – and while interesting new titles like Hell Yeah will figure, the emphasis is currently on HD remakes: hence, Jet Set Radio and NiGHTS Into Dreams both returning after a decade in the vaults.There is a growing sense that, in global terms, the Japanese industry has lost its way. Major brands like Resident Evil, Silent Hill and Final Fantasy have failed to compete with behemoths like Call of Duty, Mass Effect and Grand Theft Auto, and innovation has stuttered. In 2009, Japanese game design legend Keiji Inafune controversiallyclaimed that his country's industry was finished– he was at the Tokyo Game Show, once the bright spot on the gaming calendar, now a half-empty shadow, filled with RPGs and mech battle sims.At the Develop conference earlier this month, Dewi Tanner – a freelance developer who spent years working in Japan, most notably for NanaOn-Sha, the creator of Pa Rappa the Rapper – gave a fascinating talk on the state of the Japanese games industry. He argued that Japan traditionally performs much better, creatively speaking, when it is leading trends rather than following them. With the arcade market of the eighties and nineties, Japanese companies like Sega and Namco were at the head of the business, setting trends and leading the way with titles like Ridge Racer and Virtua Fighter.According to Tanner, however, the country struggles when it seeks to reflect or catch up with global trends. Western fads such as vast open-world shooters, seamless driving sims and dark, adult orientated action RPGs, have been more tricky to comprehend because they're not part of the native gaming DNA. The responses to this have largely failed. Japanese studios attempting to create games that look and feel like Western releases have produced the likes of Resident Evil 5 and Final Fantasy XIII – fatally compromised titles that either mimic Western trends or seek to simplify and iron out local eccentricities.Other publishers have attempted to farm out key brands to Western developers, infusing their franchises with global appeal. Or that was the idea. What this has resulted in is titles like Bionic Commando – titlesno onecares about, whether they live in Japan, the States or Scandinavia.Currently, then, Japanese mainstream games development is in something of a rut: attempting western-style games in-house doesn't work, but farming out familiar brands doesn't always work either (though let's see how Ninja Theory gets on with Devil May Cry).A key problem is also in the encouragement of new talent. The major publishers are still dominated by the big name producers and directors we've been hearing about for over a decade. According to Tanner, the new generation just isn't being encouraged. Japan does have a healthy indie scene, but removed from the Western community, its harder for the likes of Dong orMasaaki Hiranoto get wider coverage.The worry, of course, is that the Japanese publishers don't care. Traditional console titles aren't doing astoundingly well in the country anyway. In 2011, only three releases sold more than a million copies in Japan – a country of 128m people: Mario Kart 7, Super Mario 3D Land and Monster Hunter Portable 3rd. There has, however, been a massive uptake of social mobile games, with platform providers like Gree and DeNA becoming hugely successful by tapping into this exploding preference for casual, highly connected phone titles. Indeed, a huge industry of small studios has grown up, all self-publishing their own titles for native phone operators. The traditional publishers like Konami and Capcom are also heavily involved. When Konami announced its financial results last year, titles like Dragon Collection and Professional Baseball Dream Nine, which run on the Gree and DeNA-run Mobage platforms, were among its biggest earners.Could it be then, that far from going through some protracted period of creative decline, the Japanese games industry is merely switching its focus, away from the global console business and toward the booming native market for social phone games? Sega, Capcom and co have struggled for several years to attune  their development studios to Western tastes, with only intermittent successes – they have never really bought into our obsession with gritty realism and graphic brutality. Instead, there is a thriving local user-base with a familiar mindset and huge growth potential.Perhaps this reliance on HD remakes and farmed out brand extensions isn't something we should pity Japan and its developers for. Perhaps we're the ones getting the scraps; we're the ones living in the past. Perhaps, Japan has motored into its own version of the future, far away from ours.
Apple is investigating a method developed by a Russian hacker that allow people to make fake in-app purchases in some apps downloaded from the iTunes App Store, a move that could undermine a significant number of apps' monetisation system.Avideo that showed how the hack workedhas been removed from YouTube "due to a copyright claim by Apple".It is unclear though whether Apple or developers will be able to detect – or take action – against users who have taken advantage of the system, nor whether the company will refund developers who have lost payments as a result of the hack.The system, described and demonstrated in the video by Alexey Borodin, would let users make in-app purchases – a key method used by many free apps to charge users, rather than having an upfront price on the App Store.A significant number of apps appear to be affected, but there are risks implicit in using Borodin's system, because his site could see users' Apple ID and password – which could then be used to defraud users.Affected apps use a method of in-app purchase checking that Apple has deprecated, where validation of an in-app purchase is made on the device, not by checking with the app developer's servers, and then Apple's own servers.On the video, Borodin justifies his method, saying "This project allows you to buy in-app content for free. Why you must [sic] pay for content, already included in purchased app? I think, you must not." The hack does not need the device to be "jailbroken", and appears to work on all versions from iOS 3.0 up to the as-yet unreleased iOS 6.Normally when a payment is made for an in-app purchase, the app checks against Apple's App Store, whichauthorises the transaction.How Apple's in-app purchase system works for simple upgradesBut there are two ways to carry out the transaction; the other method uses a server operated by the app developer, a method that is more complicated but offers greater security, and is not affected by Borodin's hack.Macworld explainsthat "Borodin's hack works with purchases validated solely on iOS, because those purchases look only at the fake Apple server addresses the hack provides. Apps that instead rely on their own web servers to validate receipts, of course, talk to the genuine Apple servers - which in turn respond that the receipts are invalid, since Apple didn't really generate them."Those who use Borodin's system may be putting their Apple ID and password at risk. First they have to install two security certificates apparently self-certified by Borodin and use a domain name server (at 62.76.189.117) based in Russia. That creates certificates for an in-app purchase server and its associated DNS system – in effect creating a closed world to "validate" the in-app purchase against a faked Apple Store.However that will not work against all in-app purchases. Apple's recommended method, highlighted in its Store Kit documentation for purchases of apps, says that in-app purchases should also be validated against Apple's servers: "Your application should perform the additional step of verifying that the receipt you received from Store Kit came from Apple. This is particularly important when your application relies on a separate server to provide subscriptions, services, or downloadable content. Verifying receipts on your server ensures that requests from your application are valid."Natalie Harrison, an Apple spokesperson, said in a statement on Friday that "The security of the App Store is incredibly important to us and the developer community. We take reports of fraudulent activity very seriously, and we are investigating."Apple declined to comment further on Monday morning. It is unclear whether Apple can prevent Borodin's hack on its own; developers choose which method of in-app purchasing system to use, and embed it in their code. Craig Hockenberry, a Mac and iOS developer, told Macworld that "I'm willing to bet that 99 percent of all developers validate on iOS because it's a lot of extra work to setup a server that does the validation." That would imply that huge numbers of apps will have to be updated – but equally, people who want to get the in-app purchases for free won't update themAt in-appstore.com, where Borodin has been showing off his technique, commenters have been posting games and apps for which the workaround is effective, and those for which it isn't. Both are presently small compared to the hundreds of thousands of apps in the App Store, but if developers do not move to fix the hole, it could be catastrophic to their revenues.Greg Boyle, director of mobile product marketing at the online security company Trend Micro, said: "Security of a mobile platform is not just about protecting users, for a successful platform developers need to be protected as well. I think there will be strong calls on Apple to reimburse app developers who have been caught up in this scam. If you take a retail analogy, if a shoplifter steals from a retail store the developer of the product stolen doesn't foot the bill. The difference being the developer has the ability to take their business elsewhere and use alternate distribution channels. In this case however, the developers do not have much control over protecting against the scam, and they can't use alternate in app payment methods."It will also be a wake up call to the big three, Apple, Google and Microsoft. Cybercriminals won't stop looking for ways to make money from their respective platforms, regardless of how secure they think their technology is. As smartphone usage and commerce grows, the focus from criminals will only increase, if app distribution is locked down and controlled, criminals will find a new way to attack. In this case it was a flaw in the billing system, in others it will be security holes in popular apps."
A selection of 15 new and notable apps for you today:Great British Chefs - SummertimeThe excellent Great British Chefs cooking app has spawned a new version for the summer of 2012. If it ever comes. If has 105 recipes from 21 British chefs, with all proceeds going to charity Action Against Hunger.iPhone / iPadThe 2012 Open ChampionshipAs this year's The Open Championship tees off, golf fans can download The R&amp;A's official app for Android and iOS. It'll offer live scores, video highlights, player profiles and stats, as well as live video streams from three holes (9, 10 and 11 if you're wondering) during the tournament.Android / iPhone / iPadDecisions on the Rules of GolfThe R&amp;A has a second golf app out this week, but this is more for amateur players: a collection of every single decision and rule of golf (more than 1,300 in total). The idea being to hit friends with a lawhammer smackdown if they try to cheat against you, or settle friendlier confusion.iPhone / iPadWorld Series of PokerThe World Series of Poker has had mobile games before, but the licence is owned by Electronic Arts these days. Cue a new game for smartphones and tablets to play online (for fun, not real money) against players around the world. It requires a Facebook login to play, though. The link above is for Android buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPadBT London LiveBT's London Live events will be held during the Olympic Games with a mixture of music, entertainment and live sports. There's now an official app for iPhone – I'm guessing an Android version is imminent too – offering news, maps of the three sites, and a personal calendar.iPhoneNimbuzzWindows Phone will soon have the full set of messaging alternatives to its own clients, with Nimbuzz the latest to launch for Microsoft-powered smartphones. It offers instant messaging, picture-sharing and Twitter integration, as on other platforms.Windows PhoneMirror's EdgeFor now, only owners of Nokia Lumia handsets will be able to get the Windows Phone version of Mirror's Edge, thanks to an exclusivity deal. As on iOS, it's a slinky touchscreen-focused version of EA's parkour-based platformer.Windows Phone (Lumias)Jewel Quest HeritageCasual games firm iWin has launched a new game in its Jewel Quest franchise, looking to take the battle back to PopCap's Bejeweled. Expect 175 boards of jewel-swapping puzzling, and three modes of play.AndroidThomas's Travels in BooklandFrench developer La Souris Qui Raconte's latest original book-app focuses on a boy called Thomas, who while locked in a library meets a host of literary characters including Little Red Riding Hood and Alice. A neat idea, complemented by some characterful visuals.iPadNASA Science: A Journey of DiscoveryNASA is on a big apps push at the moment: two out last week, and now another one. This iPad app promises "the latest information from NASA's Science Missions, including the spacecraft, their instruments, the data, and what we are learning about the questions we seek to answer".iPadPocketmags - Digital Magazine NewsstandThere are an increasing number of iOS alternatives to Apple's digital magazine Newsstand, with Pocketmags the latest to launch. Going head to head with that, as well as Zinio, Lekiosk and Next Issue, Pocketmags' app includes mags like Good Homes, Macworld, Digital Arts, Xbox 360 Gamer and more.iPadCowboy GunsThere are some interesting original games coming through for the BlackBerry PlayBook, with Cowboy Guns the latest. Launched by developer Union, it's a cinematic Western with guns, bounties and boss battles galore.BlackBerry PlayBookRipley's Believe It or Not!Ripley's has become famous for its collection of weird phenomena, and now it has an official app. It offers a mixture of photos, videos, stories and trivia, along with an "Oddscan" mode to scan targets in the company's books and museums to get extra stuff.iPhoneMarvin and Molly BookMy children really enjoyed a book called Marvin Wanted More, about a greedy sheep. Now he's popped up on iOS, albeit with a different story. It includes 22 pages, lots of interactivity, and the App Store's first mention (I think) of "sheep face painting" as a feature.iPhone / iPadSmudge.Whoah! We're going to Ibiza... Better take an innovative sound-installation app with us. It's the work of music technology firm Liine, and works with something called ENTER.Interakt at the Space Ibiza club – a solo residency by techno pioneer Richie Hawtin. "Twist, pull and warp Smudge to shape a step in the sequence of audio/visual events in the room," explains its App Store listing.iPhone / iPad
Nokia has halved the price in the US of its flagship Lumia 900 smartphone to $49.99 (£32), barely three months after its launch, in an effort to stem losses in market share to rivals such as Apple and Samsung.The initial handset cost of the Lumia 900 Windows Phone device has been cut from $99 to $49.99 with a two-year agreement, a Nokia spokesman told newswires on Sunday. The contract price has not been reduced.Nokia's phone is sold through AT&amp;T stores. Nokia's spokesman said the price cut "is part of our ongoing lifecycle management, which is jointly done between Nokia and carrier customers". He said a price cut is not unusual at this time in a smartphone's life cycle, noting that Samsung has cut the price for its Galaxy SII, launched before the Lumia 900.Data from ComScore, which maintains a panel of US consumers who it polls monthly, combined with other panel studies from Nielsen, suggest thatNokia has sold about 330,000 Lumia phonesin the US since its launch. Commenting on the data, Horace Dediu, of the Asymco consultancy,said: "If it was a fledgling company, it would be a great start. Depends on whether Nokia sees itself that way."However financial analysts seem to hold little hope for the company: on Friday Bernstein Research's Pierre Ferragu gaveNokia's shares an "underperform" ratingand cut his price target to $1.56. He estimated that over the quarter from April to June Nokia sold a total of 1.1m to 1.4m Lumia phones, of 2.2m shipped.Once the world's dominant mobile phone provider, Nokia was late to embrace smartphones with capabilities comparable to Apple's iPhone or the burgeoning ranks of Android products, and has also been losing market share in less expensive featurephones without data or app capabilities. Its Symbian platform, which once defined its smartphone offering, has been orphaned – although it still sells millions every quarter – in favour of products using Microsoft's Windows Phone software, which was first released in October 2010. Nokia adopted it in January 2011, producing its first phone, the Lumia 800, in October last year. The Lumia 900 features a 4.3in screen, 1.4GHz processor, 8-megapixel camera and LTE (4G) connectivity, and is Nokia's first serious effort to break back into the US smartphone market.However sales have been slow, and Nokia took a further hit in the media when Microsoft said current phones will be unable to run its new Windows 8 software, rendering them obsolete.Last month,Nokia said it would cut 10,000 jobs, and that its handset business would post a larger-than-expected quarterly loss. All three major credit rating agencies have downgraded Nokia to "junk" status.Smartphones using Google's Android system are expected to comprise 61% of the global market in 2012, while Apple's iPhone could capture more than 20%, the research company IDC said last month.Nokia is expected to report second-quarter results on 19 July. Analysts polled by Reuters last week expect a loss in the handset business of €236m, worse than the €127m in the first quarter.Shares of Nokia closed Friday at €1.51, after earlier in the week falling to their lowest since the mid-1990s. They have slid nearly 95% since November 2007.
Apple has been forced into an embarrassing volte-face, announcing that it would rejoin the American EPEAT environmental ratings system for electronic products just days after leaving it.The reversal of the announcement, described by a senior Apple executive as a "mistake", was apparently forced on the company by government agencies, schools and scientists which use EPEAT – the Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool – to certify the environmental credentials of computers they are considering purchasing.Bob Mansfield, Apple's senior vice-president of hardware engineering,wrote in an open letter on Apple's sitethat "We've recently heard from many loyal Apple customers who were disappointed to learn that we had removed our products from the EPEAT rating system. I recognise that this was a mistake. Starting today, all eligible Apple products are back on EPEAT."He insisted that "our commitment to protecting the environment has never changed, and today it is as strong as ever".Apple's move last week looked as though it could lead to a domino effect in which companies and government contractors might stop buying its products due to the lack of EPEAT certification. The city of San Francisco announced that it wouldstop buying Apple computers, and then to reassessments by US government agencies. Although Apple's corporate sales are far smaller than rivals such as HP and Dell, such contracts are still important both for reputation and long-term stability.EPEAT only applies to computers, but not tablets or phones. It was introduced in 2006, and is based on theIEEE 1680.1 standard. That covers elements such as the reduction or elimination of environmentally sensitive materials, material selection, design for end of life (wheh the product is replaced), product longevity/life extension, energy conservation (during manufacture and use), end-of-life management, corporate performance and packaging.Apple has in the past year touted its own green credentials, most recently by announcing an internal initiative to use cleaner energy sources for its data farms in North Carolina. But it has come in for criticism from third parties for the design of its laptop products, notably the top-end Retina MacBook Pro, in which the RAM and storage are glued into the machine and are not user-serviceable or replaceable.EPEAT bills itself as a global registry to which consumers can turn for information when shopping for greener electronics. According toEPEAT's website, its users include federal and state government agencies, colleges, and several private corporations such as Ford and KPMG.Apple's decision this month to stop participating in the registry would have affected computer-related purchasing decisions by governments and universities because many them are required to use hardware that has been rated by EPEAT.The city of San Francisco, for example, has a policy that its computers, laptops and monitors must be EPEAT "gold" rated.Customers contacted Apple directly, which played a "critical part" in getting Apple back on the registry, said EPEAT chief executive Robert Frisbee."The scientific community in the US government are big users of Apple," Frisbee said, adding that they were "particularly influential" in convincing the tech giant to resume its participation.Mansfield in his letter said that "Our relationship with EPEAT has become stronger as a result of this experience" and that Apple looked forward to working on the underlying IEEE 1680.1 standard used to build the tool.
How was your weekend, then? And aren't you glad it's over?
A quick burst of 12 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamA show-and-tell with Google's hardware &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comWhile Mr. Schmidt acknowledged that Google purchased the company and its patents, in part, as a reaction to rival "Apple's behavior," he said its hardware business was a real draw. Mr. Schmidt was tight-lipped about Google's plans for Motorola but he promised that a new batch of products were nearly ready for prime time."We always wanted to be in the hardware business," he said. "Larry and Sergey have always wanted to do hardware in one form or another. This was a way to get into it quickly."If anyone can find a quote from any of Schmidt, Page or Brin from any period before 2012 in which they have indicated that they want to get into the hardware business, please point us to it. (Note: "Android" isn't the hardware business. It was always software, and intended to be software.)Two RIMs &gt;&gt; Benedict EvansRIM's revenues, broken down by geography. Note the divergence.China's smartphone market grows 164%, Apple's iOS takes 17.3% share &gt;&gt; AppleInsiderEven without availability on China's largest mobile provider, the iPhone's market share in China has grown form 9.9% a year ago to 17.3% in the June quarter.Needham &amp; Company analyst Charlie Wolf's quarterly report on the smartphone industry was issued on Monday, and identified the "big news" of the quarter as the emergence of China as the leading smartphone market. Smartphone shipments in China grew 164% year over year to 33.1m units in the June quarter, topping the 25m units sold in the US.Android share: 69.5% (so Android is outselling iPhone 4:1). That leaves 12.6% for all other platforms.Google Android OS Trojan virus hits 100K devices in China &gt;&gt; Computer WeeklyTrojan malware has hit 100,000 devices using the Google Android operating system (OS) in China, say security researchers.The Trojan, dubbed MMarketPay.A, is designed to purchase apps and content without the consent of the device user, running up high mobile bills.Researchers from security firm TrustGo said 10 China-based Android marketplaces have so far been infected with the Trojan, which can be hidden in applications which appear legitimate.Kasabi shuts down, says data marketplace 'too slow' &gt;&gt; GigaomKasabi, a platform that hosted and published linked data, is closing down after owners Talis Systems said the market was growing too slowly to be sustainable.The UK-based company allowed anyone to publish data sets, create APIs and use tools to combine and recombine them with each other. It was spun out of Talis, a semantic web developer that focuses on moving information to the web, last year.But after just over 12 months on its own, the parent company said that while the opportunities were still interesting they were too large and too slow-moving to be sustainable. It said that the market for linked data wasn't panning out as it expected, and it was "time to admit that Kasabi is not getting the traction we thought it would."The seven ways Dropbox hacked growth to become a $4bn company &gt;&gt; KissmetricsMost of them are pretty obvious, but the point where it's compared to Megaupload seems like the most relevant broadly.Judge Posner: US patent system out of sync &gt;&gt; chicagotribune.comThe US judge who tossed out one of the biggest court cases in Apple's smartphone technology battle is questioning whether patents should cover software or most other industries at all.Richard Posner, a prolific jurist who sits on the 7th US Circuit Court of Appeals in Chicago, told Reuters this week that the technology industry's high profits and volatility made patent litigation attractive for companies looking to wound competitors.Patents are in effect a serious cost of entry as well as a source of ongoing litigation. Hard to argue against Posner on their applicability to software.It Took Less Than 10 Years for IT Not to Matter &gt;&gt; BusinessweekTen years ago, writer Nick Carr suggested that "IT Doesn't Matter". Tech execs scoffed. Now:In truth, it has taken just about 10 years for Carr's view of the world to reach mass adoption. Without question, some startups are producing cutting-edge technology and some customers are taking advantage of their wares to one-up rivals. On the whole, however, corporations now seem to prefer, whenever practical, to rent the same computing services their rivals do, rather than try to build custom systems.Yahoo! takes immediate action after hacker incident &gt;&gt; Yahoo Corporate BlogYahoo! recently confirmed that an older file containing approximately 450,000 email addresses and passwords was compromised. The compromised information was provided by writers who had joined Associated Content prior to May 2010, when it was acquired by Yahoo!. (Associated Content is now the Yahoo! Contributor Network.) This compromised file was a standalone file that was not used to grant access to Yahoo! systems and services.We have taken swift action and have now fixed this vulnerability, deployed additional security measures for affected Yahoo! users, enhanced our underlying security controls and are in the process of notifying affected users. In addition, we will continue to take significant measures to protect our users and their data.There was something about the file that was odd: none of the contributors seemed very active. Which this confirms. Even so, bad policy by Associated Content to leave a plaintext password file lying around.Wikitravel editors abandon Internet Brands, join up with Wikipedia &gt;&gt; GyrovagueOn July 11, 2012, theWikimedia FoundationofWikipediafame made adecisionthat has been a long time coming: they decided to support hosting a new wikidevoted to travel, populated withWikitravelcontent and, most importantly, the community that built Wikitravel. It's not a done deal yet, as the decision has to beconfirmed by public discussion, but as it's looking pretty good so far; and if it comes true, this second shot at success is almost certain to result in the new gold standard for user-written travel guides, in the same way that Wikipedia redefined encyclopedias.Involved post, but basically it's moving from being owned by Internet Brands to a fork run by Wikipedia.Nvidia admits forums hacked, user data swiped &gt;&gt; The RegisterNvidia has admitted that it suspended its user forums last week because they were hacked and posters' personal data lifted.The graphics chip maker said last night that its investigation following the discovery that "unauthorised third-parties gained access to some user information", specifically user login names, email addresses and profiles, though the latter just comprised information forum users could view anyway.China's ZTE Corp sees first-half profit down 60-80% &gt;&gt; ReutersThe profit warning comes as a report emerged that the FBI has opened a criminal investigation into the Shenzhen-based company over the sale of banned U.S. computer equipment to Iran and its alleged attempts to cover it up and obstruct a Department of Commerce probe.Neither of these is good. ZTE has an estimated 4.2% share of the global handset market.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice;
Nineties puzzlerLemmingsbecame an early cultural totem for the gaming industry, embraced by both the casual and hardcore market, as people sought to protect, and sometimes blow up, the suicidal little green-haired rodents. So comparingBand Togetherto the classic puzzler is high praise indeed.Set in a beautifully drawn 2D cardboard world, the aim is to lead the cute paper Bandies – so called because they band together around light – towards the exit of 30 different cardboard box levels. One Bandi wears a candle on its head and by pushing it around you illuminate others, whereupon they join the troupe on the quest through the perilous box.Various simple puzzles must be solved, with complex combinations of lever and pressure pads used to free up the creatures, while the deadly "thumbtack death machines" must be avoided to get as many of the group as possible to the exit alive. They can be controlled as a group&nbsp;or individuals, but move a Bandi out of the light and it will drift off to sleep and remain motionless.It looks stunning and plays fantastically and, while it's a shame it isn't available for either the iPhone or the iPad 1, the main problem is that it's over so quickly, with the 30 stages swiftly completed. It's cheap for now, but expect either in-app purchases or a higher price tag to arrive in the future, along with some extra content for this fantastic little game.
BMW 320d Efficient DynamicsPrice £28,080MPG 68.9Top speed 143mphFun Fred, the ebullient old fellow who lives a couple of doors up from me, is delighted. In fact, he's "Absolutely frigging beyond delighted!" He's just heard he's been successful in becoming one of the 70,000 volunteers – "game makers" – for this summer's Olympics. "And it's a&nbsp;good gig," he goes on, jabbering with excitement. "I'm going to be one of the drivers, you know, chauffeuring athletes about. Can't imagine how I&nbsp;got through. Can't work a satnav – and I'm rubbish at sport…" I begin to worry that Fred may think he's actually been selected for the Games. He babbles on and on. If I was an athlete sitting in the back of his car, being pummelled by his good cheer, when all I&nbsp;wanted to do was get in the zone or whatever, I&nbsp;think I'd lose it. I'd unravel.Whether Fred is driving you or not, you will at least be able to depend on the car. BMW is the official automotive partner to London 2012 and is providing a fleet of 4,000 vehicles for use during both the Olympics and Paralympics.If it strikes you as unpatriotic that a&nbsp;German manufacturer is providing the vehicle support for the Games, remember that BMW owns the keys to both Mini and Rolls-Royce, two cornerstones of the UK motoring empire and both about as British as, well, the royal family. BMW also supports directly and indirectly about 46,000 jobs in this country, so as far as  the Games go, they're one of us.All the BMWs doing the business this summer will be super-efficient diesels, hybrids and electrics. Locog, the 2012 organising committee, set a&nbsp;fearsome benchmark for emissions and fuel consumption for its vehicles – a sort of qualifying performance for cars – of 120g/km and 62.4mpg in official tests. BMW didn't just qualify, it posted a record-setting fleet average of 116g/km and 64.5mpg – figures almost unthinkable for most premium manufacturers.Fred could have ended up chauffeuring a Mini Countryman, a&nbsp;magisterial 520d or, confusingly, a&nbsp;Citroën C8 in full BMW livery (the German marque doesn't make people carriers so it had to add a French ringer to its Olympic team). In fact, Fred will be at the wheel of the new 320d with Efficient Dynamics.As you may have guessed, this is the fastidiously clean smaller sister of the 520d – which is itself no slacker. But in the dirty world of performance doping, the 320d is a beacon of Corinthian wholesomeness. It'll knock out almost 70 miles to the gallon while sipping fuel as slowly as a camel with water-retention issues.Agreed, it's not much of a&nbsp;looker. In fact, it borders on the plain – the only real departure from the outgoing model is that the front now boasts some friendlier-looking headlamps with "tear-duct" extensions linking to the classic kidney-shaped grille. But beneath that bland exterior you'll find a world-class runner boasting a remarkable package of fuel-saving innovations – from longer gearing to lowered suspension and low-rolling resistance tyres to improved aerodynamics – which means its lively four-cylinder, two-litre 180hp diesel will prove to be a real handful for both its industry competitors and – I&nbsp;suspect – for Fun Fred…Don't try this at homeRally car driver Tanner Foust and Hollywood stuntman Greg Tracy set a world record on 30 June by driving two Hot Wheels all-wheel-drive advance rally spec coupe cars through the 66ft tall Hot Wheels Double Loop Dare track at X Games LA. The track, two football fields long, was modelled on Mattel's Hot Wheels Double Dare Snare toy racetrack set. Foust and Tracy smashed the previous record for the largest loop in a car, set at 42ft in September 2011 by Chinese driver Li Yatao in a Lotus 5 Sportback in Shanghai. "The moment when it's go time, the heart rate slows down, the adrenaline goes away and it's a matter of letting it happen," Foust said. The drivers hit 52mph in the track and experienced approximately 7Gs going through the loop. "That was pretty hardcore: the 7Gs… I almost felt my chin hit my lap." Impressive stuff. To have a look at the stunt, go tohotwheelsmedia.com/i/videos/view/events/84Top five driving test mistakes and how to avoid themAccording to information released by the Department for Transport, there are several main reasons why learners fail their test. But don't panic. Here, Ian McIntosh, the CEO ofRed Driving Schooldiscusses the most common mistakes people make and how you might avoid them:Junctions – observationsA key part of your junction routine is LOOK-ASSESS-DECIDE-ACT. Give yourself time to look and get into the best place to look. You may have heard your driving instructor refer to it as "effective observation", this means not just looking, but actually seeing what's there, working out what it's doing, making the right decisions and then taking the correct action.Mirrors – change directionIf you are in the habit of just looking at the mirror and not through them for the information they give you, this leaves far too much to chance and increases the risk of crashing. The key steps of LOOK-ASSESS-DECIDE-ACT also apply to the way you use your mirrors. Make sure you can say to yourself: "I've checked the mirrors and it's safe to move."Control – reverse left, reverse parkStudies have shown that spatial awareness can be improved through practice, so to be confident have plenty of practice at getting the car to move slowly on flat roads, on uphill and downhill gradients and corners with varying degrees of sharpness. When turning into a side-road if you find the car didn't go where it should; either hitting the kerb or swinging out too wide, then this is a mistiming of the turning point and is often caused by being too close to the kerb on approach or not looking into the road when turning left or turning too late when turning right, again often because of not looking into the road.Response to signs – traffic lightsYou should scan the road ahead and if the lights have been green for some time, expect them to change. Look for clues such as vehicles approaching or waiting in the side-roads. Most traffic lights have some kind of sensor that is triggered by vehicles approaching – this is similar to pedestrians pressing the button at a crossing. If you can see these clues, reduce your speed to give you more time to react if the lights do change. Don't mentally switch off when you come to a stop at the lights; this is just a pause in moving forward so stay alert. You need to continue gathering information, such as watching the other moving traffic slowing down or stopping because their lights have now changed. However, don't be tempted to go too early on red and amber - wait until the lights are green and it's safe to go.And finally: Simply BondSimply Bond on Sunday 29 July at Beaulieu is a special one-off event connected to the Bond in Motion exhibition at the National Motor Museum. If you own a vehicle of the same make and model as one that has appeared in any of the Bond films, then bring it down to Beaulieu and let your car be the star for the day, from a glamorous Aston Martin, Lotus or Rolls-Royce, to a more everyday BMW, or Renault. To find out if your vehicle has appeared in a Bond film, visitbeaulieuevents.co.ukand click on Simply Bond, where you will find a full list of eligible vehicles. Visitors can vote for their favourite vehicle on display, and the winning vehicle leading a cavalcade of 20 vehicles selected from all Simply Bond participants through the grounds of the National Motor Museum. You can also see the Bond in Motion exhibition, the largest showcase of Bond vehicles staged anywhere in the world, it brings together 50 genuine vehicles from the Bond films as part of the celebrations for the 50th anniversary of the James Bond films. For more information, go tobeaulieuevents.co.ukEmail Martin atmartin.love@observer.co.ukor visitguardian.co.uk/profile/martinlovefor all his reviews in one place
There are things in life that I don't understand. The rules of rugby. The continuing success of David Guetta. How to do an overhead kick on Fifa 12."You press Y and A really fast, like almost at the same time," says my son Patrick, who's six. I watch as his small thumbs flip between buttons. He could play computer games before he could read. Now he reaches for his Nintendo DS like I reach for my mobile; he fills in idle moments on Fifa, playing games or altering his team or practising shots. I don't mind, except when he gets so wound up by a vital match that he cries. My emails don't make me do that.I go to grown-up events – weddings, anniversaries, all-day lunches – and each time, at some point, I see young children gathered around a device: a phone, an iPad, a hand-held console. They're absorbed, and quiet, not ruining anyone's day, which is a good thing. Isn't it? After all, when it comes to kids, there's not much point in pretending technology doesn't exist. It would be like pretending Lego didn't exist. When boys go round to each other's houses, they play football (in real life), or they play football (on X-Box 360 or PlayStation&nbsp;3) – or they jump on top of each other in a big  bundle and roll around and yell.If I'm honest, my son – and even his sister, who's one and a half – have an ease around technology that I find scary sometimes. The baby scares me because she keeps deleting stuff off my iPad. Patrick scares me because he could use the Nintendo Wii controls, shift from game to game, choose players, set up teams by the time he was four. He still can't tie his shoelaces. There is research that says he is not alone: a survey of 2,200 mothers in 11 countries found that 70% of their two- to five-year-olds were comfortable playing computer games, but only 11% could pass the shoelace test.Most kids' shoes have Velcro straps, of course. The shoelace thing is fine. But computer games still bother me. It's the knowledge gap. I have no idea what Patrick's up to when he plays Zelda, or cries over penalties in Classics XI, because, other than the odd game of Space Invaders, I've never got into computer games. Mostly, what my kids play with is a variation of something I had myself when I was young, so if they get stuck, I can help. But with computer games, I am as useful as an instruction manual for a Commodore Pet.Michael Acton Smith is a genial man aged 37. He has big hair and wears black clothes, which means that business journalists describe him as rock 'n' roll. Actually, he's nerdier than that: more of a non-stop enthusiast, a man as dedicated to his weekly mates-together football game as he is to his business. That business? Oh, just Moshi Monsters.Moshi Monsters is a UK-based website for young kids, where they pick their own monster, customise it and take it exploring: off meeting other Moshis, playing puzzles, earning points, decorating its home, acquiring cute pets called Moshlings by growing flowers… Sounds dreadful? You're clearly not aged between six and 12. Half of British children that age have, or used to have, a Moshi pet. Worldwide, there are 60m users and rising; one childevery secondsigns up to the site. It only came online in 2008.Gone are the days when children sat rapt in front of TV programmes, consumed films or books passively, bought the merchandise and that was that. Kids want input – they've always drawn alternative characters, dressed up as their own superheroes – and what the digital world does is give them that opportunity. It lets them shape and share their entertainment. So, with Moshi Monsters, not only do they customise their avatar-monster, but they get to design its room, spend their Rox (Moshi currency, earned by completing tasks), choose their Moshlings. And they can communicate with each other.All of which brings brilliant, inspiring excitement for kids; and instant, hum-dinging, digital Fear for their parents. Michael understands this. (Actually, I think much of what he does is about balancing children's desires with that of their parents.) He calls Moshi Monsters a "walled garden", a training environment, and points out that communication between users is very carefully monitored. You can't use the social aspect, for instance, unless you (the parent) sign up with an email address, from which Moshi obtains and stores your IP address.But he really believes that Moshi's small social networking function is useful for children. His argument is: you don't want to let your 13-year-old loose in the brutal social boxing ring of Facebook without some kind of  primary-school fitness training."We wanted to create a middle ground," he says. "Something between an internet Wild West and a site that is completely locked down. We treat kids with respect, we know they are smart, and it's up to us and their parents to give them guidance about how to behave in this brave new internet world. It's the same as giving them guidance on how not to talk to strangers and how to cross the road. With Moshi, they learn in an environment that is deliberately designed for them."Even in real life, Moshi Monsters is quite an environment. Its HQ is housed in the Tea Building in east London. Its reception resembles a Tahiti beach bar. There are Moshi Monsters jelly-beans for guests; also table football and an old (working) Pac-Man arcade game. It's like a Hollywood set designer's idea of the inside of Nathan Barley's head. Still. Moshi isn't big among my son's friends, I think, peevishly. Not the boys, anyway. The site's bright colours and big-eyed characters are too cutesy, the games not competitive enough.I tell Michael about my son and his crew of Moshi refuseniks. He is as unfazed as a man with a thriving £125m business should be."Girls click with Moshi a little more than boys," he says. We're sitting in a small glass meeting area, off the main room. "The split is about 65% girls, 35% boys. Boys drift away once they get to around eight or nine. When they're there, they're more interested in the competitive elements of Moshi – the puzzles, the games. The idea of mastery is much more of a boy thing: that's why they absorb all the data on Pokémon cards, or learn all the flags of the world. Girls love the social aspect."And it was when Moshi Monsters introduced that social element, in 2009, that the site really took off. "Many kids don't want to just play online; they want to experience stuff with their friends, share gifts with them, show off to them. Similar to grown-ups," says Michael. "And we don't want them uploading photos or giving location details, and we don't allow them to private-message, but I think it's wonderful that they can send a virtual gift to their friend, or leave short messages on their pin board, or chat in forums."The most common social problem Moshi users have is with kids sharing their password with a school friend and then that "friend" going into their room and cleaning it out. What Moshi does in such a case is try to get the person to give the stuff back; or, if there's been some bullying, then they can ban a user for a short time – even permanently. Not only does the Rox-thief learn a lesson but the innocent party begins to understand how to behave safely on a social network.Recently, Moshi Monsters expanded out of the virtual into the real world, with a magazine, which sells 200,000 copies a month; also trading cards, soft toys, Lego, stickers, bobble bots (don't ask), books and music. I have to say that I loathe all this tat, despite Michael's efforts to keep everything Moshi of good quality, stimulating and suitable for young consumers. But then, he doesn't have kids. He doesn't have to tidy up such quality tat every single day.Before I leave, I ask Michael why he thinks Moshi Monsters has succeeded. He tells me it's because of three elements: nurture, social and story. Nurture: kids like to care for things, from a doll, or a real-life pet, to a virtual pet, or imaginary friend. Social: they like to interact with each other. Story: they get bored quickly. If an online environment doesn't have a decent story embedded deep within its psyche, then kids will just stop using it.I come away from Moshi enthused. I like the site's quirkiness – how the six core Monsters were just made up from silly sketches, without market research. I also come away with a game for Nintendo DS, called Moshling Zoo. This was Number One in the DS charts for 15 weeks, the longest-ever chart topper.I give it to Patrick, who plays for around five minutes. "It's just searching for stuff, Mum," he says. "And then finding it." What he's into, tech-wise, is games: playing tennis or cycling on the Wii, Angry Birds on my iPad, Fifa 12 (football) or Zelda (a puzzle adventure game) on his DS. Often, he re-enacts the highlights in real life, so we can appreciate his genius skills.Is any of this beneficial? I have no idea. He really enjoys playing his games, but he also really enjoys stuffing his face with white sugar lumps and I don't encourage that. So I talk to Dr Sonia Livingstone, an LSE professor who's on the executive board of the UK's Council for Internet Safety and directs EU Kids Online. According to Dr Livingstone, there are two common areas of worry for parents. First: how long their child spends playing games. Second: the content of those games."Parents focus on the fact that the game involves football, or killing. But the point for the children is the skill levels, competition, gaining points, beating others. It's not the content, not really. Children have a lot of skills theyhaveto master: like reading and writing, maths, eating with a knife and fork. With games there are skills theychooseto master."But are those skills useful? I know that chess stimulates kids' brains and Swingball improves their hand-eye co-ordination, but does playing Super Mario Kart do anything for my son other than keep him quiet for a bit?Dr Livingstone explains that games where one level leads on to the next challenge can be good for reasoning. Repetitive games that you play by yourself are less useful, though they can help with persistence and concentration. Though she's careful not to recommend anything in particular she mentions that, for kids older than my son, virtual world games such as SIM, SIM City, or World of Warcraft (a roleplay game) can be creatively stimulating.Her advice for parents is two-fold. First, get online with your children when they're little, to help them figure out how to manage their internet use. "And second," she says, "less shouting at the kid to get off the computer and more, 'Let's go to the park.' We're a busy bunch of parents and it's easy to put them in front of a game while we get on with stuff  we need to do. All kids say computer use is  a time filler – a way of avoiding boredom."Boredom. My childhood was filled with it. Hours spent watching raindrops crawling down the window. Days doodling alternative worlds, or inventing radio shows on play-and-record tape machines. Today's kids have far more tedium-killers, from all-day cartoons to a never-ending parade of squeaking, beeping, speaking electronic toys. Plus, they expect us to help them with their entertainment. I don't remember getting instructions from adults about how to do stuff, other than how to ride a bike. And even that was just a sharp push in the back as you careered downhill towards a&nbsp;ditch. Generally, we were left alone to get on with whatever we were doing.These days, not only are we encouraged to show our love for our kids but increasing awareness of children's rights means we also have to take more care of them. The law insists. You can't drive without them being safely strapped in. You can't leave them alone  while you nip to the shops. No way would you chuck an eight-year-old out of the house at 9am on a Saturday and tell him not to come back before tea.Perhaps it's no surprise that we occasionally shove them in front of computer games. Yes, it's to give us a break from them. But it's also to give them a break from us.Dr Livingstone tells me that British attitudes to technology differ from other European countries. Essentially, Britain, the Netherlands and Scandinavia are well ahead compared to other places in Europe when it comes to digital life. But the British are by far the most worried about the internet – we're the most worried about everything. In the Nordic countries child rights are quite advanced, and they have confidence in the good sense and safety of their children. In southern Europe, parents are more confident in their position as heads of the family. They don't feel guilty if they tell their kids to get off the net. Also, the weather means children mostly play outside anyway.In short, in the UK the weather is bad and we're worried about paedophiles, so kids are stuck inside staring at screens. Luckily, paedophiles don't know how to use the net.I can remember the first time I saw a computer game. It was Pong, ye olde tennis game: slow and unsophisticated, as thrilling as playing ping pong with a balled-up sock. No wonder I never became a computer nerd. But what if I'd been born later, spent my teens in a time where computer games were as commonplace and fun as Snakes and Ladders? Would I be as excited about introducing my children to classic video games as I am when I read them my favourite Roald Dahls?I talk to Dan du Preez, a 28-year-old computer programmer who lives in Leeds. His son is six, and he's into Minecraft. This is an online world that looks a bit like Lego: everything in it is made up of blocks. It's massively popular: 9m games have been sold so far, and it's only been out in its full version for 18 months. In Minecraft, there's no end point; you just build things, create your own environment. Though, to spice things up, there's an attack mode, where spiders zoom in to destroy what you've been building: you can switch this on and off.Dan is confident around technology. When he was young he enjoyed chat rooms, but this doesn't mean he wants his son using social networks – "not before he's mature enough to know how to behave on there, and have a thick enough skin". And he's not keen on multi-player online games, either for himself or his son, because you have to be at your computer at a certain time in order to play, and "you can't pause the action, which kids just don't get".What he is keen on is children learning what computers actually are. He's a fan of Code Club, which aims to teach schoolchildren how to programme computers, and thinks it was better when consoles were simpler, not so beautiful. You don't want to take the back off an iPad and fiddle with its insides. It's too perfect, and far too expensive; whereas the computers that Dan grew up with were clunky and basic, easy to take apart and understand. When his son is a little older, he plans on showing him that there is more to an X-Box than just playing the games. Dan will reveal – ta-da! – that there's a computer inside the handheld console and that his son can make it work differently.This is so far beyond me that I feel rather downcast. Oh well. Apparently, you can build a virtual computer on Minecraft, so perhaps Patrick and I can have a go at that.Dan says: "When I worked in a games shop, I saw a lot of parents buying games that were totally unsuitable for kids, and I'd point it out, but they wouldn't take it on board. The best way to find out what's OK is to rent games and play them yourself." Fine for him to say. I don't think Dan has ever spent two hours trying to get Lara Croft to stop walking into walls.Moshi Monsters are nice enough to let me bring some children into their workplace, so I take Violet, who loves Moshi, Francesca, who likes the cards and the merchandise and Patrick, who still doesn't much like any of it, but politely tries a couple of puzzles before we go.At Moshi HQ, they ping about like pin-balls, utterly thrilled by their environment: the colouring-in wall, the arcade games, the Tree House meeting room. But by far the most exciting aspect of the visit for them is the gum-ball machine. They chew gum throughout; neon saliva drips from the corners of their mouths. At the end of their visit, they are brought into a room to try out some carefully presented merchandise. All three ignore everything in favour of hurling themselves on a pile of beanbags and screeching.But then, that's kids for you. They have their own way of doing things. They're always fascinated by something off to the side, they focus in on stuff you never really noticed. You can take them to a playground, but you don't know if it will be the slide or the rope swing or the little switch on the water fountain that grabs their attention.Even if I played every computer game that my kids do, what I enjoy about the experience is not what they enjoy. I like the silliness of the graphics, the funny noises. They take the medal positions deadly seriously. It's their party, not mine. All I can do is visit: check the fire exits, make sure everyone else there is the same age and ensure they don't eat so many sweets that they puke on the way home. Oh, and ensure that a responsible adult – me? – is around, for emergencies.
Every time I go through airport security nowadays the thought that comes to mind – as I take off my shoes and belt, unpack my laptop and display my toothpaste in a transparent plastic bag – is that Osama bin Laden won hands down. The same thought pops up when taking a photograph outside the London Stock Exchange – or inside an airport or a railway station – and a uniformed jobsworth appears from nowhere to inform me that photography is "not allowed, sir". And it also comes to mind whenever the home secretary opens her mouth on the subject of thedraft communications data bill, aka the snooper's charter. Terrorism – or the perceived threat of it – has turned democracies into paranoid armed camps in which the state feels justified in assuming that every citizen is a potential terrorist.The intrusiveness and ubiquity of state surveillance is already shocking. But we ain't seen nothing yet – the technology is just getting into its stride. The powers that be (to use William Tyndale's lovely phrase) maintain that the internet is a great boon for criminals, paedophiles, al-Qaida and other miscreants but omit to mention that it's also an Orwellian tool for them, because everything that one does on the net is logged by internet service providers (ISPs) – and, now, stored for later inspection by the authorities.  The details of every Google search conducted, every email or tweet sent, every file downloaded, every YouTube video watched and Skype call made, are recorded – and are available on production of a warrant or court order in law-abiding societies or on the say-so of an intelligence officer in less fastidious jurisdictions.And that's just in cyberspace. In the real world of "meatspace" the technology of surveillance is coming along nicely too. In airport security we've gone from ancient technology like X-ray scanning of aircraft baggage to the scanners now being deployed in US and other airports which produce fetching images of our unclothed bodies. But at least with this stuff we know when we're being scanned.That too is about to change. We've now discovered that within the next year or so the US department of homeland security plans to deploy anew laser-based molecular scannerfired from 50 metres away which will instantly reveal an astonishing level of detail not only about your body, clothes and luggage but also about the contents of your wallet and even of your intestines. It's claimed that the technology can identify traces of drugs on banknotes, gunpowder on your clothes and even what you had for breakfast, the adrenaline level in your body and substances in your urine. And all of this information can be collected  without even touching you – and without your knowledge.The plan is to install this molecular-level scanning in airports and border crossings across the entire US. The official justification is to be able to quickly identify explosives, dangerous chemicals or biological weapons at a distance. The technology is said to be 10m times faster – and 1m times more sensitive – than any currently available system, which means that it can be used systematically on everyone passing through airport security and not just to monitor suspect or randomly sampled passengers.The machine that enables all this to happen is a picosecond programmable laser scanner, which was originally developed for medical applications (including monitoring cancer cells in bloodflow). Butthe company that markets ithas obviously realised that the security industry might turn out to be more profitable than the health sector. And it has adapted it for these new purposes by making it mobile and relatively unobtrusive, so that the scanees (that's you and me) will be oblivious to its use. And so although the first deployments of the technology will be in airports, it will only be a matter of time until it is in police cars and other everyday environments. In due course, therefore, the requirement that motorists blow into a breathalyser will seem as quaint as the idea of using chicken entrails as diagnostic tools.All of which makes one wonder whether Osama bin Laden ever readThomas Hobbes, the philosopher who first sketched out the essence of our current arrangements. In order to escape from the brutality of living in a state of nature, Hobbes postulated that we need to accede to a social contract in which we give up some rights in order to have the protection of a sovereign authority. Abuses of that authority were, Hobbes thought, the inescapable price of living in security.  By terrorising our governments, bin Laden has ensured that the price of that security would rise in terms of the erosion of privacy, the curtailment of freedoms and of civil rights. The US may have exterminated the old monster. But we're having to live with his legacy.
