Without the driver having to touch the steering wheel, reportsReuters
To quote an article inUSA Today:"People worry a lot about the FBI spying on them," said Lewis Maltby, president of National Workrights Institute. "But your chances of being spied on by the FBI are one in a million. Your chances of being spied on by your boss are better than 50-50."
The biggest-ever government IT outsourcing project was plunged into chaos yesterday as Lockheed Martin dramatically pulled out of the race to supply up to &#163;10 billion of computer systems to the National Health Service.Lockheed's eleventh-hour move could be followed this week by the withdrawal of other would-be contractors, including Accenture and IBM, according to a source close to the bidding process.The source said the companies were 'up in arms' about government plans to impose swingeing fines should their equipment and software fail to meet performance targets.The row threatens to derail the huge public-private partnership just months before it is due to commence.Five regional contracts, each worth an estimated &#163;2bn, have been offered to oversee the modernisation of   the NHS's electronic patient record system - a central plank of the Government's drive to make the service more consumer-focused.Final bids for the work must be submitted next month, and the project is scheduled to be fully online by the New Year.Both the NHS and Lockheed confirmed that the company had pulled out of the bidding yesterday, but declined to comment further.But the source added: 'They have withdrawn because the Government has made it impossible for companies to make money on this deal.'Every bidder is already spending over &#163;50,000 a day and devoting hundreds of staff to the preparation of their bids.'Now the Government is demanding hundreds of millions of pounds' worth of guarantees against failures   and breakdowns. The performance criteria are too demanding. What Whitehall is demanding is mind-blowing. This isn't really a partnership project at all - all the risk is being put on the suppliers.'IBM is fuming, Accenture is angry, and I expect to see other bidders pull out in the weeks to come. If the Government doesn't watch out, it will have no competent suppliers left.'Whitehall's insistence on penalties is thought to have been prompted by a number of recent IT fiascos. In the past year the Home Office and law courts have been hit by costly overruns and delays in setting up IT systems, and the Inland Revenue's tax credits system was paralysed by computer glitches.Other IT firms bidding for the NHS contracts include EDS, Fujitsu and BT.
They call it 'phishing' or 'spoofing' and it is the fastest-growing fraud on the web, netting cyber-criminals millions of pounds. Sophisticated gangs are setting up fake websites that mimic well-established companies and persuading those who visit them to part with credit card details and other valuable financial information.Many of the biggest names in the online world, including Amazon, AOL, Ebay and PayPal, as well as a number of high-street banks, have been victims and experts believe millions of pounds may already have been stolen as a result. In one recent case a gang of Nigerian fraudsters set up a fake version of NatWest's online service and used it to con two Canadians out of more than &#163;100,000.The website was identical to that of the real bank but had an additional 'the' at the beginning of the web address. Once the con was discovered the site was shut down but the people behind it have not been caught. NatWest's owners, the Royal Bank of Scotland, have since bought up a wide range of website addresses which feature 'natwest' in order to prevent a similar con in the future.Last month the US Federal Trade Commission charged an unidentified 17-year-old boy with producing a look-alike web page for AOL and conning hundreds of people - many of them British - out of their credit card information. The teenager produced emails that told the recipients they needed to update their AOL billing information by clicking on a linked marked   'AOL Billing Centre'. They were then diverted to a phony website that contained the company logo and looked identical to the real thing. Here they were instructed to enter their credit card numbers, billing addresses, national insurance numbers and other details including their mothers' maiden names and AOL screen names and passwords. The teenager then used the information he gained to go on an online shopping spree. He has been ordered to pay back thousands of dollars. 'Anyone can mimic a company's logo and graphics,' said AOL spokesman Nicholas Graham. 'We advise people to be wary and vigilant.'A lesser version of the scam has recently hit Amazon, the online book retailer. Last week the company took action against a number of companies who have been 'spoofing' its email address. One company in particular, cyebye.com, was sending out offers that appeared to come directly from Amazon but in fact had been generated by cyebye.com itself, taking advantage of the well-established Amazon name to encourage consumers to buy. Amazon has taken similar action against 10 other companies and is seeking millions of pounds in damages.The problem of 'phishing' and 'spoofing' was highlighted in the latest threat assessment by the National Criminal Intelligence Service released last week. 'I have seen these sites and emails myself and they are often very sophisticated,' said an NCIS spokesman. 'They are extremely convincing, especially to people not very experienced online.'
Kaspersky Labs has just published its Virus Top Twenty for August, and no one will be surprised that SoBig has taken the top spot, being responsible for 61.5% of incidents. The Top Five is as follows:1 I-Worm.Sobig............61.5% 2 I-Worm.Mimail.............4.6% 3 I-Worm.Tanatos..........3.9% 4 Worm.Win32.Lovesan...3.2% 5 I-Worm.Klez................1.1%
Two white papers that provide a snapshot of the British games industry and the growing cultural significance of video games have been launched this week at the European Computer Trade Show (ECTS), which has formed the core of London Games Week."Despite some turbulent times, we are remarkably privileged here in the UK to remain at the forefront of the games industry," said Roger Bennett, the Director General of ELSPA (Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association), the organisation behind the white papers."For over 20 years - since the days of Sir Clive Sinclair's ZX80 and later the ZX81 - the UK has innovated and excelled in the development of computer and video games."
	
Bennett went on to claim the UK games industry has become one of the most influential sectors of the gaming world, with more development studios than most of the rest of Europe.He also praised games such as Grand Theft Auto and the Tomb Raider series, both conceived on home ground, for helping bolster the UK market.Lara Croft, who has stolen quite a few headlines recently, was also honoured as she, or rather her creator Toby Gard, entered the newly created ELSPA Hall of Fame, launched to duly recognise those who have helped put the UK games industry on the map.
	
"Tomb Raider is the UK games industry's most successful export, doing more to promote games to a wider audience than perhaps any title previously," explained Bennett about the decision to honour the "first lady" of video gaming."Of course, the games success is down to many people, but we felt it right to reward the man with the original vision for igniting the spark that fuelled the fire," said Bennett. "The Hall of Fame is all about recording the achievements of extraordinary individuals - we want generations to come to know the talent of the industry trailblazers."The second white paper cites how electronic entertainment is slowly becoming the medium of the moment, joining the long line of entertainment forms from campfire story-telling to TV and film that have enthralled and delighted us in their gripping worlds."I am confident that when future generations look back at the early years of the 21st Century, they will recognise this period as one of the most important in gaming," said Bennett. "Were not there yet, but much of what I have discussed points to the fact the industry truly is emerging as a dominant force in entertainment - not only in terms of value, but in terms of worth."We are often guilty of underselling ourselves; of feeling inferior to other industries more accepted by the mainstream. I firmly believe our time will shortly come."- Don't forget to check out next week's Guardian Online section for all the ECTS highlights.CHARTSOfficial UK Leisure Software Charts (c) ELSPA compiled by Chart-Track1) Eyetoy: Play (PS2) Sony - £39.992) Pokemon Ruby (GBA) Nintendo - £29.993) Pokemon Sapphire (GBA) Nintendo - £29.994) Tomb Raider: the Angel of Darkness (PS2, PC) Eidos Interactive - £34.995) The Sims (PC, PS2, Xbox, GM) Electronic Arts - £32.996) Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PC, PS2) Take 2 - £29.997) The Sims: Superstar (PC) Electronic Arts - £17.998) Norton Antivirus 2003 (PC) Symantec - £34.999) Norton Internet Security 2003 (PC) Symantec - £47.9910) Harry Potter: The Chamber of Secrets (GBA, PS2, PL, PC) - £17.99
When it comes to buying cars Britons are more than happy to haggle for the best price, so it is a bit of a mystery that millions of pounds are wasted paying high rates of interest on loans and finance deals when there are cheaper alternatives.Eager motorists will descend on dealerships on Monday when the new 53 registration launches. According to the AA, a large proportion of buyers either part or wholly pay with a loan. With even a modicum of research each one could save around &#163;1,000 on repayments. Car buyers have been on to a bit of a winner for the past few years. Prices have been tumbling - 3 to 4% on average in the past 12 months, according to CarPriceCheck.com. Over 2.5m new cars are expected to be sold in the UK by the end of the year.However, 51% of buyers fail to shop around when taking out a loan, choosing to rely on their own bank, while over a quarter take up the often expensive option of finance deals offered at showrooms."These can be some of the most costly places," says Neale Phillips of the AA. "It's really surprising people don't spend just a few minutes shopping for the best deal."The best unsecured loan rate on offer is 6.3% from Northern Rock. The rate charged, as with many loans, depends on the amount borrowed and credit history.However, assuming that a buyer borrows &#163;7,000 (the average amount borrowed to buy a car) from Northern Rock at the 6.3% over three years, they will pay back &#163;7,680.60 at &#163;213.35 per month.Someone borrowing the same amount on a Barclayloan would pay back much more - &#163;8,177.76 (an APR of 10.9%). A Natwest customer, meanwhile, could expect to fork out &#163;8,393 over the same three-year period, and, if you have a bad credit history, expect to pay out somewhere in the region of &#163;9,500 on a &#163;7,000 loan with rates as high as 26%.A glance at the best rates on financial website moneysupermarket.com shows 12 separate rates below 7% APR.Some, such as Tesco Finance's 6.7% and Lombard Direct's 6.6%, are internet-only, so if you haven't done your research beyond the high street, you will definitely be missing out.There are a variety of ways to finance a car, the benefits and drawbacks of each are set out here:Personal loans:The simplest - but compare what's on offer and read the small print. Avoid the ads that promise low-rate, no-fee, immediate decision loans. They are generally more expensive and the loan is secured against your home.Think before buying "payment protection" as this can add around &#163;45 a month. There is no obligation to take it out. Another thing to beware of is quotes involving "typical rates". You could end up being charged much more depending on your credit rating.Also look out for charges for early repayment. Many people take out car loans with the hope of paying it off early, but some lenders slap heavy penalties on to borrowers repaying early. Last but not least, there's the added extras.If you're buying a used car, the AA's free car inspection (value &#163;99) with its loan could be a winner, while other loans come with benefits such as MOT discounts or payment holidays.Deferred purchase:These plans allow you to defer paying for a percentage of the car's price (usually 30%-60%) until the loan expires. Drivers pay interest and capital for the life of the loan, which can range from one to six years, and settle the outstanding balance when it expires. These plans bring down the monthly cost by, in effect, extending the loan period.Personal contract:This works in a similar way to deferred car purchase but is usually offered by car dealers instead of traditional lenders. A deposit of at least 10% is paid and repayments are low because a minimum guaranteed future value (MGFV) is taken off the purchase price.The MGFV is what the car is worth when the deal ends, as long as the driver has not exceeded mileage limits.At the end of the agreed period, the driver can keep the car and pay the MGFV, or take out a new loan. You are less likely to be rejected for a personal contract plan - as the finance is secured on the car, which can be repossessed.Hire purchase:The borrower pays a deposit of around 10%-15%, makes monthly payments over one to five years and does not own the car until they have made all payments. The finance is secured on the car.
If you want a peek at the future of home entertainment there's only one place to be this weekend and that is at the ICC Exhibition Centre in Berlin.For over the next few days this enormous building, which is capable of housing thousands of stands, hosts IFA - the world's largest consumer electronics show.Held every other year, IFA has witnessed key product launches, seen the first skirmishes in format wars and propelled unknown companies into the spotlight courtesy of their innovative devices.This year's theme is inevitably convergence, with IFA focusing on the way PC-oriented technologies are muscling on the consumer electronics world.Pretty much gambling its entire future on the belief that people want to take content (video, audio, images) away from the PC and into the living room is Dutch consumer electronics giant Philips.It kicked off the exhibition on Thursday by parading devices ranging from tiny USB keychains with integrated MP3 players and cameras to a bathroom mirror that also features an LCD screen for viewing video and Internet pages.Its big news was the confirmation of a trio of products designed to bring video wirelessly from the PC to the main screen in the living room via a broadband connection. Due out early next year, the Streamium MX6000i is a complete home entertainment system including DVD/CD player and surround sound decoder.It  streams video content (almost always MPEG4) in addition to audio and images from both a user's PC hard drive and the Internet. The system, which uses the 802.11g wireless format, also boasts a limited web browser that can access video content from Philips partners who include Yahoo and Ivideo.The company is also launching a pair of set top boxes (the SL300i and SL400i) that act as a wireless bridge between the PC and the TV. All the products are set to go on sale early next year. Philips also confirmed it would be delivering LCD TV screens with Wi-Fi at some point next year.A couple of days prior to the show it announced a deal with BT to sell its products through the telecommunications company?s chain of stores.Japanese giant Sharp was another manufacturer continuing the show's wireless theme. It gave its first European outing to a TV set completely free from wires and antennas. Powered by an integrated Lithium Ion battery, it is an LCD set that connects wirelessly to a unit that sends out video signals (including TV signals, DVDs and so on). Sharp even claims it is possible to take the set and watch TV in a sunny garden.The TV will be available in the next few months with a price tag of around £1200. The only downside is that the battery needs a recharge after two hours.Another of the show's key innovations came from German manufacturer Metz. Its key product is a widescreen TV with an integrated hard disk video recorder.Its unique feature is that users can program the recorder from outside their home using a PC or web-enabled mobile phone via the Internet. Sadly, the device is unlikely to reach the UK, although several other companies are likely to offer a similar proposition next year.Also likely to remain vapourware (as far as the UK is concerned) is a high-tech Bicycle Courier's outfit developed by the Fraunhofer-Institut. It comprises a PDA, mobile phone, and a screen and control panel woven into the fabric.The clothing also includes a navigation system, kidney warmer, and automatic security that recognises the owner of the bicycle and releases the bicycle's lock. The whole system is powered by the bicycle's dynamo.Products more likely to reach the UK include the world's first hard disk-based camcorder from Samsung. The IT Cam 7 stores footage on its built in 1.5Gigabyte hard disk. Also set to launch here is Thomson's handheld video player the RD2780. It can record footage from a TV, which it then converts into the MPEG4 format for playback on its 3.5inch LCD screen.Its 20Gigabyte hard disk can apparently archive up to 80 hours of video. Panasonic displayed a similar device, though this also features a camera/camcorder and saves footage on a Secure Digital card.
Mobile phone users will soon be able to view video clips of football, news, comedy and adult content without upgrading to a third-generation handset.Flix, a new mobile content company, plans to launch a mobile video portal this month that will work on existing networks and use technology developed by Finnish company Oplayo.News clips will be provided by Reuters and GMTV, and adult content by Soho Original. Flix managing director Nic Gorey said the service would also offer fashion, music and "Jackass-style" comedy clips.Anyone with a mobile phone with a colour screen will be able to download the video player, regardless of the network they use.The technology will work on most handsets bought in the past 12 months and Oplayo estimates 50m compatible phones will be in circulation by the end of the year.Customers send a text message to Flix, which will automatically download the video player and a regularly updated library of content. They are charged for each clip watched.Oplayo's UK chief, Philip Bourchier O'Ferrall, said Flix was the first service of its kind not to be tied to an individual network provider."The beauty is consumers no longer need to fork out for a 3G phone to view mobile video entertainment."Mr Gorey said the company was hoping to sign deals with mobile phone retailers so they could introduce customers to the service whenhandsets are upgraded.Oplayo has also developed a pin code system to stop under-18s downloading adult content on to their phones.Mobile operators, which between them spent &#163;22bn on 3G licences, have suffered delays in getting the new generation network, which promises high speed video and sound, into service.The only one in operation is Hutchison-owned 3, which only recently notched up 100,000 sales despite a widespread advertising campaign and a series of price cuts.
The FBI has arrested a teenager as the author of a copycat version of the Blaster worm that worked its way through computers worldwide this month. 
 
Jeffrey Lee Parson, 18, of Hopkins, Minnesota, a middle- class suburb west of Minneapolis, was arrested on one count of intentionally causing or attempting to cause damage to a computer, according to a St Paul district court clerk.The teenager is accused of writing one version of the damaging Blaster infection, which spread quickly across the internet attacking computers running Windows software.Further details were expected to be disclosed today by the FBI and US attorney's office in Seattle, which has been leading the investigation. A news conference was scheduled for 21.30 BST.Collectively, different versions of the virus-like worm, alternately called LovSan or Blaster, snarled corporate networks worldwide. The infection inundated networks and frustrated home users.Symantec, a leading antivirus vendor, said the worm and its variants infected more than 500,000 computers worldwide. Experts consider it one of the worst outbreaks this year.The Blaster.B version of the infection, which began spreading August 13, was remarkably similar to the original Blaster worm that struck two days earlier. Experts said its author made few changes, including renaming the infecting file from "msblast" to an anatomical reference.All the Blaster variants took advantage of a flaw in Microsoft's Windows software. Government and industry experts had expected such an outbreak since July 16, when Microsoft acknowledged the flaw, which affects Windows technology used to share data files across computer networks.     The infection was quickly dubbed "LovSan" because of a love note left behind on vulnerable computers: "I just want to  say LOVE YOU SAN!" Researchers also discovered another message hidden inside the infection that appeared to  taunt Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates: "billy gates why do you make this possible? Stop making money and fix your  software!"     Infected computers were programmed to automatically launch an attack on a website operated by Microsoft, which the software maker easily blunted. The site, www.windowsupdate.com, is used to deliver software repair patches to Microsoft customers to prevent against these types of infections.
&gt;connecting to server...Current Host:Chris2Current Topic:Tony Blair gave an assured performance at the Hutton inquiry yesterday, taking full responsibility for the decisions which led to the naming of Dr Kelly and claiming he would have resigned if the BBC story about the "sexed-up" Iraq dossier were true. But has he done enough to restore public trust in his leadership? What do you think?Bronco:u do anything else last nightLadeezMan:nanudeguy:I am nudePhallusy:n e ladys fancy a chat with menolife:lolcapitalistpiglet:then why didn't Blair just release the earlier draft of the dossier, which also contained the 45 minute claim?Host_Chris2:apparently the JIC didn't want the FAC to see itPhallusy:do they wanna see minenolife:he heLadeezMan:that aint funnyPhallusy:that offer is open 2 n e ladys in ereBronco:there aint no ladys in ere u idoitnolife:lolLadeezMan:get a life nolifenolife:no*Pashmina has entered the NewsRoom*Phallusy:hi Pashmina u think u can handle mePashmina:do I know unolife:LOLHost_Chris2:hello, Pashmina. What did you think of Tony Blair's appearance before the Hutton Inquiry?Pashmina:dunno i didnt see itcapitalistpiglet:none of us did. It wasn't televisedPashmina:THEN WHY R U ASKIN MEnudeguy:I am still nudePashmina:hi nudeguy hows uPhallusy:I am still hugenolife:LOLHost_Chris2:can we stick to the topic pleasenudeguy:fine. nude*hello has entered the NewsRoom*Bronco:u doin anything tonite thenhello:helloLadeezMan:naPashmina:hello hellohello:helloPhallusy:hi hello. r u a fit girlhello:hello. noPashmina:crowded in ere innitHost_Chris2:it is rather full today. Could it be that the unfolding drama of the Hutton Inquiry has rekindled an interest in current affairs?capitalistpiglet:noPashmina:its probly cos its raininPhallusy:pashmina u interested in a bit of the otherPashmina:your pathetic phallusyHost_Chris2:nicely putPashmina:dont u start&gt;connection to server has been terminated...
Extreme Techon "Govt. Explains How It Caught 'Blaster' Author", except it hasn't. It has caught an 18-year-old kid who created a variant that renamed the executable to teekids.exe ... and hosted the t33kid.com site on his own PC. In other words, a completely clueless 18-year-old kid.USA Todayhas a mug-shot and a much more interesting piece on the "6-foot-4, 320-pound" high school student who "had no other hobbies besides computers, and idolized Bill Gates," according to a friend of the family. (This is presumably why he added anti-Gates and anti-Microsoft profanities to his Blaster variant.)
"The disclosures were included in court papers filed against a Brooklyn woman fighting efforts to identify her for allegedly sharing nearly 1,000 songs over the Internet. The recording industry disputed her defense that songs on her family's computer were from compact discs she had legally purchased," reportsAP. "According to the documents, the Recording Industry Association of America examined song files on the woman's computer and traced their digital fingerprints back to the former Napster file-sharing service, which shut down in 2001 after a court ruled it violated copyright laws."
Mobile phonesMotorola takes 3 to a new levelUntil now, the verdict on UK 3G mobile network 3 has been great applications (Video Calling and Premiership goal downloads), shame about the handsets. That looks set to change with the launch of the triple band Motorola A920 early next month. Pitched as a rival to gadget cameraphones and top-end personal organiser-style smartphones like the Sony Ericsson P800, the A920 crams a huge number of facilities into its rectangular frame.Crucially it takes 3's video services to another level, in that it offers both Video Calling and playback at 24 frames per second - nearly four times faster than 3's current flagship handset the NEC e606. The handset makes the most of this, allowing the user to expand images to fill its 208x320 screen in either portrait or landscape mode. Video on the A920 is sharper and more detailed than on the NEC's smaller screen.The other A920 big feature is integrated GPS, which enables the user to access 3's service that directs them to their nearest pub, cashpoint, etc. Running Symbian's 7.0 operating system (similar to the Sony Ericsson P800), the A920 also includes support for POP3 email (another feature missing from the NEC e808), an integrated speakerphone (no headset required during video calls), photo messaging, MP3 playback, and extra storage via an SD card. There are no price details yet.Becks winnerHaving previewed the GX20 earlier in the month, Online has had a chance to play with the new "Becks phone" and it looks as though Vodafone and Sharp have another winner on their hands.The device, successor to the David Beckham-promoted GX10 and GX10i, has the same clamshell design as its predecessor. But it has an even bigger and better screen, and the mini screen on the lid is also in colour. It can be set to show a picture of the person phoning you as it starts to ring.In addition to ordinary high-quality still photos, you can take 10 second video clips (with sound) and send them to friends with similar phones (if the network supports it). The tri-band phone (which means it works in the US) comes with some free retro games, and plenty more can be seamlessly downloaded (at a cost). And it only weighs 105g. Pricing has yet to be announced.www.vodafone.co.ukPhones upThe cameraphone market will double by the end of the year, according to ARC Group wireless industry analysts, by which time there will be 55m users. The growth will come from existing mobile users upgrading, rather than first-time buyers. ARC also predicts that the mobile handset market will grow by 10.3% to 444m units this year, and will continue to grow to 689m in 2008. However, the fastest growth is expected in the Asia/Pacific region. This is already the world's largest handset market, with 174m handsets sold last year, but "penetration remains low". European sales fell last year, and ARC says "growth is expected to be slow up to 2008". Beyond 3G phones, ARC expects mobiles to support more networks, including Wi-Fi wireless Lans.www.arcgroup.comIncoming!One of the crazes currently sweeping Asia is the "incoming ringtone service", which enables the caller to decide which ringtone you will hear on your own phone, albeit just for that call. NTT DoCoMo has just launched its Melody Call service in Japan, at &#165;100 and &#165;200 per month, but operators in Taiwan, China and Singapore already offer similar services.According to the PMN news service: "The most advanced option offers a choice of 3,000 different ringtones which can be assigned to individual callers, so that each person calling hears a different tone."www.pmn.co.uk/20030822docomo.shtmlMating callsIt is one of the most familiar sounds of the English summer - the sound of starlings making their repetitive high-pitched mating calls. But something is amiss among the rooftops and hedgerows where the birds live. Starlings have begun to imitate the ring tones of mobile phones. Researchers at the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB), and in Denmark, had noticed over the past year that the birds are adapting their mating calls.Starlings, well known as mimics, are members of the same family as the mynah bird. But until now they have limited their mimicry to that of other bird songs or, in some cases, shepherds whistling at sheep dogs. "The birds incorporate the sounds because it is believed that the richer the sound, the variety of tones it has, makes the male more attractive to the female," says a spokesperson for the RSPB.Digital camerasKodaks for the keenKodak is pitching its new digital camera at what it describes as "advanced amateur photographers". Capable of capturing four megapixel images, the DX6490's key feature is its Schneider-Kreuznach Variogon optical zoom lens, which magnifies images up to 10x - much more than most of its rivals. Also new is Kodak's Colour Science Imaging Chip, which the company claims produces richer colours and enhances shooting in low light conditions. Other facilities include a 30x digital zoom, a range of manual controls, a 2.2 inch LCD monitor and 16MB of internal memory with the option of increasing this via adding an SD/MMC card. The camera will go on sale in early September for around &#163;400.wwwuk.kodak.comCanon takes aimCanon has unveiled a pair of cameras including a scaled down version of one of its key professional digital SLR models. Based on the widely respected EOS 10D, the EOS 300D is a 6.3 mega pixel model compatible with any of the 60 Canon EF lenses.It features Canon's Digic processor, extensive exposure control options, a 1.8inch LCD monitor and support for the recently-launched 2GB CompactFlash storage cards. It goes on sale next month for &#163;900. It will be joined by the PowerShot A80a four megapixel, 3x optical zoom model due in October priced at &#163;350.www.canon.co.ukGadgetsTosh's tiny beatJapanese company Toshiba has become the latest manufacturer to unveil a rival to the Apple iPod hard disk-based MP3 player. Only this time the Tosh is actually smaller than its rival.Available soon in Japan, the Gigabeat 20 20GB player is 3mm thinner and 20 grams lighter than the iPod. With a casing made from aluminium alloy, the Gigabeat 20 plays MP3, WMA and WAV files and features a USB 2.0 connector for fast file transfer. It also   trumps the iPod in battery performance, offering 11 hours' playback to the Apple product's seven.www.toshiba.co.jpRemote harmonyUniversal remote controls that operate your TV/hi-fi etc are great ideas - in theory. Yet keying in all those codes to teach the remote to control your various devices can be a real pain. Harmony has a neat way of making the process more pleasant. Its SST-768 connects to a PC's USB port and then goes online to download all the data for the remotes it is replacing.The controller is due on sale in September, retailing for around &#163;250.www.harmonyremote.com4GB to goYou could soon have a 4GB hard drive in your camera, PDA or MP3 player, as long as it has a CompactFlash II memory slot. Hitachi has announced that it will start shipping the new sizes in its tiny Microdrive format, which it acquired when it took over part of IBM's storage business.Hard drives are cheaper than chips. Hitachi expects the 4GB card to cost about $500, which is a third of the price of a 4GB memory card. The drawback is that not many people need that much capacity. A 4GB drive should be able to hold about 36 hours of video, 64 hours of MP3 music, or 8,000 good quality photos.Online shoppingMidnight shoppersTesco claims this week that this month's hot weather has caused a boom in night-time shopping on its website. The supermarket says orders placed between midnight and 6am have jumped by 73%."Instead of counting sheep, people are turning to their computers instead," suggests Tesco's David Clements. "They've decided that, since they can't get to sleep, they may as well do something useful."What are they ordering up in these nocturnal visits? Bizarrely, cooking utensils, silver foil, tomato ketchup and toilet rolls are doing particularly well. But the most commonly ordered item, the shop claims, is greaseproof paper. We suggest you insert your own gag here.www.tesco.co.uk&#183;Contributions from Ashley Norris, Jack Schofield, Victor Keegan, Sean Dodson and Neil McIntosh
Tibco'spress releasesays it has "filed suit against Apple Computer, Inc. for trademark infringement of TIBCO's RENDEZVOUS(TM) and TIBCO RENDEZVOUS(R) marks. The suit, filed in the District Court for the Northern District of California, alleges that Apple has carried out acts infringing on TIBCO's trademarks, with the intention to trade on TIBCO's goodwill and harm TIBCO's business. TIBCO seeks remedies for the competitive and economic harm caused by Apple's acts." Internet.com has a storyhere.
Hi-tech crime is now one of the major threats posed to the UK by organised crime, says the National Criminal Intelligence Service (NCIS).In its annual UK Threat Assessment report published last week, it lists the leading activities of criminal gangs. Some are expected: class A drugs, fraud, money laundering, firearms, immigration crime and sex offences against children.But, increasingly, the use of computers and technology for fraud, extortion, and other criminal profit is also figuring in their investigations.Malicious viruses, and the odd email swindle or pyramid scheme, have always been a tiresome feature of the internet experience. Historically they've been the work of some backroom scam artist or anarchic individual out to get attention by hacking a system.But organised gangs and professional con-men are working the net for criminal profit "wherever there is money to be made", the report concludes.In short, cybercrime is on the rise. "There are two main categories of hi-tech crime," says Detective Chief Superintendent Len Hynds of the National Hi-Tech Crime Unit (NHTCU). "Traditional crimes revitalised within the digital environment, such as fraud, extortion and child abuse type offences. Then there are newer crimes, offences under the Computer Misuse Act, such as hacking and virus writing."Viruses are the most commonly experienced new hi-tech crime. Systems around the world are still reeling from the effects of last week's Sobig worm, just one in a recent flurry of malicious programs that   have propagated themselves across the world's networks in record time.Sobig's distinctive new twist - its potential to turn every computer it infects into a spam relay - thankfully didn't materialise. But many viruses these days contain "Trojan" code to leave "backdoors" open on infected machines. Any hackers with the correct tool can then control the computer remotely and use it to generate huge quantities of spam or host porn sites - without the owner knowing."If there's no anti-virus, no firewall, they can control huge amounts of machines... It's near perfect and almost untraceable," says Paul Wood, information analyst of internet security firm Messagelabs. "If anyone does trace it, the trail ends with you. And you don't want the police banging on your door in the middle of the night."This is exactly how the F variant of the Sobig virus originated last week. According to the FBI, which was unravelling the trail as it unfolded over the weekend, a hacker - perhaps the author - seized control of a home computer in British Columbia made vulnerable to infection by a backdoor Trojan.Using stolen credit card details, an account was created with a local ISP and this served as a launchpad to unleash the virus on the net. The whole process took minutes. The owner of the computer was unaware until the FBI confronted him. The hacker remains unknown. He is still at large.Among the old-school crimes given new life on the net, fraud is the most widespread. Auction fraud accounts for 46% of all net fraud, according to the FBI.People buy bargain laptops, the latest videogame consoles or rare col lectable Beanie Babies on sites such as eBay, but they never arrive. Expensive watches or software may be delivered but turn out to be counterfeit.Besides auctions, internet con-men rely on a tried and tested standby: spam fraud. Like all scams, spam preys on people's hopes and fears. Offers of bigger penises, cheaper drugs, and money for nothing often lure the unsuspecting into parting with money or revealing bank details. Other spams fake the corporate appearance of institutions or lead to realistic looking but wholly fake financial sites."This is your final notice," reads the email from the billing department. "Please take a moment to update your credit card information by clicking here and submitting your information." Most users hit the delete key. But a gullible minority don't. "There are always small numbers of people who respond to spam," says Wood.Despite massive publicity, bogus investment schemes like the notorious Nigerian 419 fraud ("I am a senior account officer of one of the banks in Lagos. I have a very urgent and confidential business proposition for you,") still ensnare victims.In the US this year, a secretary of a Michigan law firm fell victim and ended up moving $2.1m (&#163;1.3m) to various bank accounts in South Africa and South East Asia. She said she intended "to pay the money back" when she received her windfall. And in February, the scam claimed its first life when a 72-year-old man entered the Nigerian embassy in Prague and shot the Czech consul dead. The gunman's bank account had been drained by someone posing as a senior Nigerian official in a classic 419 sting.The extent of spam fraud is difficult to monitor since it goes mostly unreported. "Many victims, embarrassed by their naivety and feeling personally humiliated, do not report the crime to the authorities," say the Metropolitan police.For those who don't fall for spam, and are boxed to the hilt with firewalls and anti-viruses software, a more disturbing form of fraud may yet sneak through.Identity theft, where someone uses your personal data to obtain credit cards in your name or even assume your identity, is on the rise. According to the Fraud Advisory Panel, more than 42,000 people suffered some form of identity theft in the UK last year.The crime is still largely low tech. "The thieves obtain information by going through trash outside of businesses and government offices, and by stealing mail," says Beth Givens, director of Privacyrights.org, which advises the public on how to protect their private data."We are also seeing more cases of multiple identity theft emanating from the workplace. A dishonest employee obtains a printout or diskette, or even a laptop, full of names and details, either of the organisation's employees or its customers."However, electronic means of extracting personal data is becoming more common. The Sobig virus's ability to install Trojans could easily have led to the theft of bank details. As our personal information - passwords, bank details, our mother's maiden name - is disseminated across wider and wider networks of companies, shops and websites, or stored on easy-to-steal handhelds and laptops, the risk increases that it can fall into the hands of those looking to profit quickly.An alliance between organised crime and virus writers is not far away, most experts maintain. As the NCIS report puts it: "Criminals are becoming increasingly technologically competent and serious and organised criminals have demonstrated in other areas that they are willing to buy in skills and expertise, or subcontract to specialists, where there is a need or advantage in doing so.""It's the profitability that attracts them," says Woods. "The lure for them is the same as for any e-business. Low overheads. Potentially high profitability. Massive global reach." Plus the added bonus of relative anonymity.In the UK, at least, cybercrime is still relatively rare. The National Hi-Tech Crime Unit focuses on five main areas: hackers and virus writers, online child abusers, extortionists, drug traffickers and fraud.The growing ingenuity of the cyber villain is a serious challenge to modern law enforcement. Like hackers, organised crime is always on the look out for holes to exploit in the system and has always enjoyed the challenge. "Whenever there is new technology, it will look to adapt that to its illicit use," says Hynds.A lot of the unit's work is preventative, focusing on increasing awareness and encouraging users not to be duped into revealing their personal data."If a man came up to you in the street and asked you for your credit card details or what your ATM card Pin number is - would you give it? Of course not. If someone on the internet asks you, your answer should be exactly the same," is their advice.Yet it appears a certainty that hi-tech crime will increase. Spam traffic now exceeds that of legitimate email. Viruses are mutating rapidly in the wild. And criminals, in line with the rest of the population, are becoming increasingly technically savvy.The NCIS report concludes on a foreboding note. "It is reasonable to assume that criminal use of hi-tech methods will only increase as banks, businesses and individuals become more reliant on IT and online transactions, and more and more potentially valuable data is stored on networks."Anti-viruses and firewalls are the best way of preventing most of the new or emergent forms of cybercrime, experts say. Unfortunately, as the MS Blaster epidemic proved, many people don't keep their security updated on a regular basis.The internet is at risk of being split into two castes: a higher caste of immunised power users and a lower caste of naive "vectors" who spread the bulk of the infections from their unprotected machines. Not having a firewall, says Wood, is "like driving without insurance, just hoping it won't happen to you."
Picture a small, corporate meeting room, somewhere in the north of England. In it are the secret rulers of Britain's broadcasting establishment.They are the great and the good of the BBC, and they are thrashing out the next Royal Charter: the Queen's own job spec for the BBC, setting out its goals and responsibilities for a decade, starting in 2006.But planning for 2016 in today's media world is proving to be an impossible task. Why, notes one of the great and the good, what about this Napster business? With people copying music and television and film and distributing them among themselves for free, the whole business model on which commercial broadcasting depends could be undermined by 2016. It could...He pauses."Wait a minute. Why do  we care about them sharing our programmes?"It's a scene of revelation that has, quietly but steadily, recurred across the corporation for the past two years. And in the last few months, fuelled by transatlantic visits from net advocates such as Stanford professor Lawrence Lessig and the Library of Congress's internet archivist, Brewster Kahle, the observation has been nudged into a full-scale mission for the BBC: a mission whose first fruit was announced last Sunday by the corporation's director-general, Greg Dyke.But first: why isn't the BBC worried about Napster-like file-sharing networks, when other media companies are screaming for the blood of the online pirates?Mainly because while other media companies worry about too many net users getting hold of their creations for free, the BBC worries about too few. The BBC's mission is to distribute its work as widely and as cheaply as possible. Unlike other media companies, it doesn't depend on controlling that distribution to obtain its revenue. Quite the opposite: if the BBC doesn't get its media out to as many people as possible, it's failing its charter requirements.The BBC, in theory, shouldn't care how many times you share a copy of, say, Dixon of Dock Green. On the contrary, it should thank you. You're taking the hard work - and cost - out of distributing the works you have already paid for with your licence fee. So not only does the BBC not need to care about Napster and other file-sharing systems - it can actively take advantage of them. Distributing content in this way does not reduce the BBC's income, but it can reduce its costs. Copy protection devices and clampdowns on internet copying just get in the way of the BBC's mission.Of course, simply allowing anyone to download and copy the BBC's output has its problems. While broadcasts are free, the BBC makes money selling DVDs and tapes of its work, and reselling to other countries. Not a great deal of money - less than 5% of the &#163;3bn it receives in licence fees - but some.The BBC doesn't have the rights to all of its material. Some of the BBC's broadcasts have copyrights owned by others, who'd be rather less keen to see their intellectual property spread around the net. Actors have contracts that specify residuals - payments that kick in each time a   programme is shown. But there is a stash of material that currently does not earn the BBC a penny, and for which it owns exclusive rights. What's more, it's been listed in every Royal Charter that it has a requirement to present this material to the world.Last Sunday, Greg Dyke changed that. He revealed that the BBC is planning to digitise and offer for download, for free, as much of its back catalogue of programmes that it can legally do, from the earliest radio reels to nature documentaries to educational programmes. Anyone will be allowed to re-use, re-edit and mix this material with their own, provided it's for non-commercial use.The project is called the BBC Creative Archive. It draws some of its inspiration from Lawrence Lessig's Creative Commons project, a US legal project that provides artists with boilerplate contracts that allow their works to be shared more easily on the net, rather than tied up in copyright restrictions that make copying their work illegal.To fulfill Dyke's vision - where, as he describes, children can download BBC material to include in their own presentations for free - the BBC's work will have to be largely free from copyright controls.And if the BBC takes this route, it will have the biggest, most responsive file-distribution on the planet to help shift this treasure trove of material: the file-sharing networks.Presenting its archive material without restrictions would allow the BBC to occupy a niche that no other commercial company would dare to assume. It would allow them to tap a vast distribution system that no other company feels confident enough to use. It would serve a public good, in refilling the public domain diminished by companies attempting to restrict their customers' use of their works.And it would be the BBC as it was always supposed to be. BBC material is supposed to be free to use and download. After all, you've already paid for it. It belongs to you, to do with as you wish.
How did the KaZaA Media Desktop software evolve?It began with a talented bunch of people in Holland and Estonia who had a very clever idea. My company, Sharman, bought the software and the brand at the beginning of 2002 and our vision was to carry on developing peer-to-peer. Critical for us was moving the whole file-sharing phenomenon that began with Napster, into a powerful and legitimate distribution model that's great for users and artists.I know in my blood how compelling and logical P2P is as a direction for technology - it's the internet's destiny.How does it feel to have the most downloaded software?It's certainly an honour and we take it very seriously. There are a lot of pressures being as big as we are, so we want to make sure we keep our users safe, which is why we pioneered the first P2P anti-virus technology and we've embedded the privacy and family filters in the software.Can you clarify the debate about whether KaZaA contains spyware?It's almost an urban myth now! Really we have no spyware in the KMD - one of our struggles is that there's a whole industry out there that makes its business from mythologising spyware and creating software to remove it. If you were a fly on the wall in the Sharman office you would hear passionate arguments about users' privacy, and we have rigorous privacy testing procedures for any software that goes into KaZaA.Do you see games consoles becoming P2P-equipped in the future?I hope so. As our licensed content becomes more popular, then it seems logical that you should be able to use your games console to download stuff in your living room.How do you see file-sharing evolving?It'll definitely become more democratised in terms of how users interact, so we may see things like the collision of the blogging phenomenon with file-sharing, so users are sharing a bit of their personality as well as the files on their system.So you're a blogging devotee?I'm a fanatic! I don't have a blog myself but I sometimes emerge from a trance to realise I've been reading other people's blogs for three hours! I think it's a tremendously interesting phenomenon.Favourite blogs/sites?boingboing.net/is a fantastic blog for the way it skips between being incredibly intelligent and provocative to being quirky. One website I've been enjoying greatly iswww.davidbowie.com/splash/splashV3.html. It fascinates me because somehow he managed to get me to part with $69 to join!iTunes and similar Windows services?It's good to see and good luck to them. I think the file-sharing debate is really important but certainly the current vilification is disappointing to us. It's especially a shame when Sharman in particular is working on positive solutions - we're here to make a positive change, not to just cause trouble!&#183;Visit:www.kazaa.com
Chap bought a car on Saturday. Never having driven before, he wasn't sure what the steering wheel was for, so he wrenched it off and threw it away. Eventually he figured out how to get the thing going, and accelerated straight into a wall. Now he is going to sue the manufacturer for selling him a defective product.This story is not true, of course. We don't let people drive cars unless they learn how, and pass a test. We have regulations to keep defective cars off the roads. But millions of people buy PCs they don't know how to run, mess them up, and then blame everybody but themselves.When computers were standalone machines, this was not a problem. Now that so many people have high-speed internet connections, it is. PCs and servers are being hacked to relay spam, circulate viruses, mount denial of service attacks, and perform other antisocial actions. My mailbox is overflowing with the evidence.Nor are companies wholly free of blame. Suppliers have deskilled networking to the point where almost any small company can afford to put a cheap, insecure server on the net. And they do.Can we afford to let this state of affairs continue? Should users be required to present a European Computer Driving Licence before they are allowed to buy a PC? And should we make the installation of critical security patches obligatory?Well, it is not going to happen. The PC market is open. Many users can build their own machines and install whichever operating system they like. Even if rules could be enforced in Europe or the US, there is no chance of that happening globally.However, things can be improved: if Microsoft does a much better job of locking down its systems, and if companies put some effort into user training.There is no doubt that Microsoft has to shoulder a lot of the blame for the current situation. It has generally taken the line that "all things are possible" instead of "all things are forbidden".The operating system should, for example, encrypt address books, block access to email attachments and close all ports by default. Rather than trying to limit what is bundled with Windows, the US justice department and European Union should be insisting on built-in firewalls, anti-virus software and Trojan checking.Bugs can, and do, happen to everyone, but that's no excuse for shipping systems that are insecure by design and/or default.Companies also need to invest in user training, including security awareness. After 20 years of microcomputers in British schools, this should not be necessary. However, half an hour in any office will show that, in most cases, it is.A lot of expensive mistakes are the result of dumping people in front of PCs and terminals and giving them no clue how to use them safely and efficiently. Most people can't program a video recorder or use half the functions of their mobile phones, so you should expect them to need some help with computers.
Uncle Sam just got a little more user-friendly. Since last month, Americans wanting to contact federal government agencies have had to know only one phone number (1-800-FED-INFO). It's provided by USA Services, a new "one-stop shop" for citizens' inquiries, whether via phone, fax or emailed through the federal web portal,www.firstgov.gov. This site in turn connects to more than 22,000 federal and state sites, aiming to get users wherever they want with a maximum of three clicks.All this is an impressive bit of citizen-centred e-government and all the more remarkable because e-government was very much a Clinton-era project. Al Gore, Clinton's vice-president, was largely responsible for the US's original e-government target, the 1998 Government Paperwork Elimination Act, which requires government agencies to offer electronic services by October this year.Bush is not known for his ideological commitment to federal government. So why is he putting so much effort into making it work better for the citizen? One clue is in a presidential memo on the subject: Bush says that "Government should be citizen-centred, results-oriented, and market-based."The White House sees e-government as the key to all three. But more important, it is also the key to smaller government. With phase one of the e-government project almost complete - most services are online - the Bush administration is looking at ways of cutting costs by consolidating federal offices.Step one of the project is to draw up an "enterprise architecture" for government. Enterprise architectures, loved by management consultants, are functional explanations of what an organisation does and how it does it. Armed with such a model, it is easy to see what can be computerised - and what can be cut. The White House Office of Management and Budget is now working on a federal enterprise architecture which will "guide IT investment decisions within agencies, and support the identification of opportunities to collaborate on, consolidate, and integrate current and planned initiatives".One model is the US government's e-payment system, which claims to have reduced the number of centres processing government payrolls from 22 to two, saving $1.2bn. The enterprise architecture will also identify opportunities for vertical collaboration, between federal, state and local governments. Departmental processes will move from multiple agencies to "a joint solution, supported by one or two service providers".If all goes according to schedule, this re-engineering of government will begin in earnest next year.In theory, this is not very different from the UK's e-government programme, run by the e-envoy. In some areas, such as the Government Gateway authentication engine, the UK can claim a lead. What the e-envoy cannot do is talk so candidly about merging the functions of departments of state, tiers of government or appointing a single contractor to run all government's systems. He must be green with envy.
Google calcWhat is half a cup in teaspoons? The answer, according to Google, is 24. You can find this out just by typing in the question, because Google is no longer just a search engine, it's also a calculator. Not only does it do simple arithmetic, such as cube root of 343 and 17.5% of 49.99, it can work out more complicated sums such as 99! and 99 99. The examples quoted include (G * mass of earth) / (radius of earth 2) and e (i * pi). However, while Google will give answers for some measures, such as Btu, the first question here assumes US cups and US teaspoons, so British cooks may not find it so useful. Also, so far, Google does not convert currencies, so you will still need a link to the Universal Currency Converter or a similar site.www.google.com/help/features.html#calculatorwww.xe.com/ucc/www.alltheweb.com/Brain feedOne of the few things Google is not so good at is answering plain English questions. That is something lots of people have wanted to automate, but just understanding the questions is hard work for a computer. Start, from MIT's Artificial Intelligence Lab, has been doing it on the web since 1993, and Ask Jeeves has invited natural language questions without, in my experience, handling them particularly well. Brainboost uses machine learning and natural language processing with variable results. Links from the results allow you to compare its answers with Start, Ask Jeeves, Google and other alternatives.www.brainboost.comwww.ai.mit.edu/projects/infolab/ailab.htmlwww.ask.comCollect BritainThe richness, variety and sheer scale of the Smithsonian Institution web site make it hard to beat. However, Collect Britain - home of the British Library's new lottery-funded digitisation project - is at least a step in the right direction. The site has three sections: Collections, Virtual Exhibitions, and Themed Tours. So far there is only virtual exhibition online, Literary Landscapes, and one themed tour, The Old East End, but both are well worth a visit.www.collectbritain.co.uk/www.si.edu/Pay &amp; playIn what is claimed to be the world's first online music competition, musicians can upload their entries as an MP3 file. All the judges have to do is download them and listen. Members who pay to join the site can also vote in all the competitions, which start with piano, oboe, violin and trumpet. Musicians must be aged between 17 and 27 and have to pay &#163;50 to enter, but the winners get a cash prize of &#163;5,000 and a trip to Cardiff to perform live. These concerts will be webcast, then broadcast later by the BBC World Service - the competition's supporters include the BBC and the Welsh Development Agency. You have to play scales before recording your competition piece, and the organisers reckon their software will reliably weed out any attempts at cheating.www.worldwebmusicians.comBlog controlEuropean blogging site 20six has moved to a new platform and now offers new features such as team blogging and access control as well as, finally, RSS syndication. Access control could be very attractive to business users, and it is still free. 20six is run by Azeem Azhar, who used to work on Online. Indeed, he put together the Guardian Online website, which we launched in 1995.www.20six.co.ukGolden gamesVoting has started to reward the games of the year in the long-running C&amp;VG Golden Joystick awards. Last year, more than 30,000 people voted online. I suspect even more might do so if the website was not so horribly hard to use.www.goldenjoystick.comShortsTiscali Entertainment has started streaming short films, starting with Sixth Scent (a comic tale about the laws of karma at work) and The Brixtonian (spoof documentary about a white trustafarian who wants to be black) in RealMedia format. It's hardly competition for Atomfilms but at least Tiscali also has a plain text version of the site.www.tiscali.co.uk/entertainment/shortfilmswww.atomfilms.com
Nutch pointRe Jack Schofield's column (Online, August 21): why does Jack object to Nutch, a project to produce search-engine technology to rival the usefulness of Google but on an open source basis? His knee-jerk reaction to the mention of open source means he misses the point of the Nutch project.Nutch is not aiming to usurp Google the website, it is not in danger of challenging the good work of Google and allowing poorer proprietary companies to take Google's place.Nutch is developing the underlying technology of a useful search engine, and by making it open source Nutch aims to provide an alternative to proprietary search engines where you can be confident that commercial interests can not warp the usefulness of the search results.Tim O'Reilly puts it well: Nutch is "trying to provide an open source reference implementation of search to help keep Google and other search engines honest, by letting people compare the results of an engine whose algorithms and methodologies are transparent and accessible."Schofield clearly likes simple, good technology, and Google's website is a rare example of how to do it right. Open source does not imply good technology must be difficult to use, despite Jack's (and my own) experience of Linux and other open source solutions. The Nutch engine is just the engine, not the web interface.So why does Schofield object to an open source search engine? Because he does not understand that proprietary computer technology will, to a greater or lesser extent, always defer to commercial pressures that are harmful to computer users whilst at the same time obscuring the existence of those same commercial pressures. In an ideal world computer technology would be easy to use and its workings would be transparent. Proprietary technology may be easy to use but its workings can never be transparent. Open source technology may not be easy to use but its workings will always be transparent.David BuxtonVirus dodgeWhile my competitors were running around like headless chickens trying to recover from the latest round of Windows-only computer viruses, I was busy getting on with my work safe in the knowledge that my computers are immune from such attacks. That's because I chose not to use Microsoft Windows and, instead, chose to use Macintosh.In the article "New strain, old refrain" (Online on the web, August 21) I find it strange that switching to Mac or Linux was not mentioned as an extremely good method of protecting yourself from such attacks.Also the statement that "SoBig does not exploit a flaw in Microsoft Windows" beggars belief. How come it only runs on Windows computers and uses Outlook, a Microsoft e-mail client to spread. How come it can also spread via network shares? If that's not exploiting a flaw in Windows then please tell me what is.I really think the Guardian should have the courage to suggest platform switching as a viable method of dealing with these virus threats.Paul TuckeyNorfolkWindows onlyIn your online article "New strain, old refrain" you state "SoBig only works in Windows, but there's no reason why it couldn't be adapted to any other system." I think you should explain how this remark could possibly be true.There are  no viruses swarming around in Unix/Linux systems, and continual patch availability means that any security problems are quickly fixed.Put it this way: if there wasn't any reason why these horrific problems infecting  only Windows systems couldn't be adapted to other systems, they would have been.If there's an old refrain, it's that journalists never tell the real story: viruses are a Microsoft Windows problem. If you have a virus problem, perhaps it's time to consider a different operating system.Murray AltheimMilton KeynesSometimes onI laugh, and sometimes nearly cry when I constantly read of the "always on connections" offered by various service providers. I have used the net for a number of years - 11 to be exact. First I think with Compuserve at enormous expense, then AOL and Claranet at more sensible prices. Also Freeserve and other providers where one only paid for the 0845 local call connection.Twelve months ago I signed up for NTL's broadband connection. I have been offline for more often and, in total, for longer in the last 12 months than in the previous 10 years. Always on connection? I don't think so.Lee YarkessLancashireRISC suggestionRe: Time for some basic training (Online 21 August 2003). If you really want to do it properly buy a RISCOS machine. It has full BBC Basic version 5 and 6 on board. You can run all your old BBC programs and even older Atom programs with as much memory as you like. And you can also do almost anything a Windows machine can do both better and more quickly and more reliably in a superb GUI. And, in case you want some more, no virus and other bugs from the internet!Dr C H KingsburyDerbyshire
Liverpool is on the up. In June, it won the race to become European Capital of Culture for 2008, and is planning to make great use of IT in its programme.Some places try to use new technology to reinvent themselves and forget the past: Liverpool is deploying it to remember more effectively. To celebrate the city's 800th anniversary, which falls in 2007, and the City of Culture, one of the central projects - and part of a redevelopment of the city's central library - will place 100m of the city's genealogical records online.The Liverpool People project, which will cost &#163;5m over five years, will digitise records such as births, marriages, deaths and street directories stretching back to the 16th century. "The records in the Liverpool Record Office are the second richest in the country, after the Public Records Office in Kew," says Joyce Little, head of libraries and information services for the city council. Previously, those wanting to consult this data had to visit the city, but the project will allow records to be searched online.Little expects plenty of interest from North America, Australia and South Africa, as Liverpool was the departure port for many emigrants to those countries, and they often left records while staying in temporary accommodation. The city will probably charge for online access to records, although this is unlikely to apply to those who visit in person.All paper records will be scanned in colour at a high resolution and then indexed, which means translat ing images into words and figures. "We're looking at OCR &#91;Optical Character Recognition&#93;, as some are typed records," says Little: OCR software is good at reading print. "But there will be some cleaning up. Others are handwritten, and some are in Latin." The only way to get these into a database involves a lot of typing.Liverpool has yet to choose the hardware and software that will support this task. "We're talking to the Genealogical Society of Utah - the Mormons," says Little, which has already built a similar huge database.The result should be records that are easier to access - and better protected. Little says a significant number of records should be available online by the end of 2005.Another ambitious history project taking shape is Mersey Gateway. A lottery-funded website, it contains 20,000 digitised images from councils and other organisations and has been successful enough to persuade London, Bristol, Southampton and Hartlepool to build their own, under the umbrella name Port Cities.The Mersey Gateway site is organ  ised around 350 "stories", such as the local bridges, how the docks grew, and the slave trade. The city's council made a formal apology for its role in the slave trade in 1999, and has made this the subject of the first of a series of CD-Roms on Liverpool's history; another on the city's Irish connections will follow next year. "It's highly interactive, and that makes a big difference with young people," says David Henshaw, Liverpool's chief executive. "It's no longer good enough to have a glossy picture on the page." The council is using CD-Roms extensively in other work for young people, such as in providing information for those leaving care, and - asSocietyGuardian.co.ukreported last month - as keys to information on the birth parents of fostered or adopted children.Liverpool city council has developed its IT through a joint venture with BT, known as Liverpool Direct Ltd. This runs the call centre for the council, but will also provide technological expertise for some of the big IT developments.Henshaw has ambitious plans for using IT to help guide visitors around the city. "We're talking about massive screens at Lime Street station, and at other gateways. You might even get a handheld computer when you get on the train at Euston." The city is also developing a new website which will ask users what they want to do."The biggest thing is we've got a drop-dead date," says Henshaw. "It's got to be ready for 2008. It's not just about blue-sky thinking about IT and its application, it's about changing the visitor experience of Liverpool."
If you're buying an MP3 player with a big hard drive, filling it up with music quickly needs a fast interface such as USB 2 - not the old USB 1.1 ports that are 40 times slower. The problem is, because the USB 2 standard is backwardly compatible you can legitimately sell a USB peripheral that runs at the slower speed and call it USB 2.The USB Implementers Forum would rather you didn't: the official terms are hi-speed USB for the 480Mbps version and plain old USB for the slower connections, and there are official logos to match. But even the forum occasionally refers to 12Mbps USB as "full-speed USB" and while you'd expect 2.0 to be faster than 1.1, full-speed actually sounds faster than high-speed.Buyer beware applies even more when you're looking at standards and specifications from more than one group. Web services are designed as the ultimate standard - a way of passing information from one system to another without worrying whether they come from Oracle or SAP, whether they're based on .Net or Java. Goodbye monolithic systems, hello components and services.Survey after survey show huge interest in web services but there's a catch. A new report from Vanson Bourne shows over 60% of IT directors calling web services a key priority but far fewer having a strategy for doing anything about them. Part of the problem might be the alarming number of proposed web services standards which overlap or compete with each other, and the number of standards bodies involved.Achieving the interoperability web services need means standards for exchanging the XML messages that make up a web service. The Web Services Interoperability Organisation's Basic Profile is already making its way into development tools. As long as web services stick to the Basic Profile, other applications can work with the messages they send, no matter what tools you use to write them.But the next set of standards are proving more of a challenge. Competing specifications are being submitted to groups like the W3C and to Oasis, or published but not yet submitted to any standards body, so there is no guarantee they won't change.If you want the messages your web service sends delivered reliably, you'll be interested in the Web Services Reliability specification which Sun, Oracle and other companies collaborated on. Oasis has formed a technical committee to develop a standard based on it.But you should also think about the WS-ReliableMessaging specification that Microsoft wrote with IBM and others. It has been published, but not yet offered to any standards group. It is designed to work with two other specifications from the Microsoft-IBM group; WS-Addressing, which covers getting acknowledgements when messages arrive, and WS-Security, which allows messaging products that are normally incompatible to work together.WS-Security has been submitted to OASIS and it's gaining support from organisations including the Liberty Alliance - a group of companies (including Sun) which is coming up with specifications for managing identity online based on open standards. Piggybacking on other work means there are already products supporting the specifications, including intranets at General Motors and American Express. Vodafone is looking at using Liberty specifications for Vodafone Live, so you don't have to sign on to every site you visit separately.There's another specification from Microsoft and IBM - this time working with RSA Security and VeriSign - it might make sense for the Liberty Alliance to adopt. WS-Federation covers the same issues of online identity and credentials, for web services rather than individuals, but again it hasn't gone to any standards body yet.Just because a standards body picks up a specification doesn't mean the problem is solved, either. The W3C choreography working group that includes Oracle and Sun is looking at rules for exchanging information between businesses, as is Oasis with the Business Process Execution Language for web services.Don Deutsch, Oracle's vice-president of standards strategy, talks about setting up the working group to "smoke out" IBM and Microsoft's plans, but the plethora of standards isn't a grudge match between Sun and Microsoft as such; it's just business."No one participates in standards out of the goodness of our hearts," observes Deutsch. "We're all in business. We develop standards to grow a market. You agree to agree on what you can agree on and to disagree on other things; that's what you compete on. If you agree on enough, it results in a bigger pie."Microsoft's Ivo Salmre agrees: "The goal is innovation: the two things that support it are a good standards process and an IP model that allows people to build their own marketable intellectual property on top of that."He puts the emergence of multiple proposals down to Microsoft's step-by-step approach of tackling one area at a time, and believes the standards will merge in time. Deutsch thinks it's more to do with companies who don't feel a standards process is giving them enough advantage starting their own, and confusing the marketplace.Web services are a victim of their own potential, says Andrew Nash of RAS: "The need for web services is so great that people are desperate to get systems up and running even before the technology's fully baked."And after all the standards are finished, most developers will find they only need a subset of them. If you want to go beyond the basics with web services now and you don't want to be on the bleeding edge, you'll have to stick to a proprietary infrastructure until the dust settles.
New HatterSun Microsystems will reveal more about its Mad Hatter desktop environment for Linux at the SunNetwork event in San Francisco next month. With the first release imminent, the suite will bring Sun's Star Office (the original version of the OpenOffice suite) and Java together with Mozilla's browser, Ximian's Evolution email and scheduling package and the Gnome Desktop user interface. Sun hopes this will compete with Microsoft's Windows products. Attendees will be invited to suggest future developments for the Mad Hatter bundle. Martin Butler, president of British analyst firm the Butler Group, believes Mad Hatter will force Microsoft to add significant benefits to Windows to retain its desktop dominance.sunnetwork.sun.com/sf2003/conf/sessions/display-1569.en.jspHealth aidsMicrosoft and 12 of its software partners are targeting healthcare with a range of products based on Office System 2003. The majority of the products concentrate on information discovery, access and sharing. Accompanying the launch of Office in October will be a knowledge and document-sharing portal from Quilogy and, from Elsevier, interactive access to dictionary definitions of medical conditions and drugs information. Clicking on a word or phrase in an Office document will get the latest information from the database. The interaction between applications and the ability to generate reports is simplified by using XML wherever possible.www.microsoft.com/presspass/press/2003/aug03/08-21OfficeHCVendPR.aspTough diamondJapan's NTT (Nippon Telegraph and Telephone) is investigating diamond to replace silicon in its next generation of frequency amplification semiconductors. A prototype to demonstrate the advantages of these carbon crystals runs at 81GHz suitable for high-frequency, high-power devices to replace vacuum tubes in digital TV transmitters and radar.Microprocessors based on diamond are only at the concept stage because large-scale wafer production is hindered by graphite impurities in the crystal medium. With nanotube technology making rapid progress and silicon-germanium chips promising 200GHz, the diamond processor could be outmoded by the time the problems are solved.www.brl.ntt.co.jp/E/#Identity crisisBritish business travellers to the US may face delays when the deadline for biometric passports expires next year. From October 26 next year, visitors will have to present hi-tech passports containing fingerprint, iris or facial recognition data at US immigration desks to gain fast-track entry to the country. Failing this, a biometric visa will have to be obtained from the US embassy to avoid arduous security checks at airports. The current schedule for the UK passport service is to start issuing passports with at least one form of biometric identifier by 2005 and new passport smart cards in 2006. This will mean the end of postal applications as physical attendance at an issuing centre will be required to scan in the data.www.ukpa.gov.uk/images/UKPSAnnualReport2003.pdfGillette in denialGillette has denied a report in the Financial Times that it is backing away from attaching RFID (radio frequency identification) chips to individual products. But the company says it will introduce the tracking technology first within its supply chain. "We can see it being applied to pallets and cases in five years," says a spokesperson for the US firm. On tagging individual items, a practice that has raised privacy concerns, "current opinion is that it will be unlikely for at least 10 years". RFID chips are currently too expensive, the company says. "That does not mean we have backtracked on the technology," the spokesperson added.A US privacy group, Caspian, recently launched a boycott of Gillette following trials of RFID chips on individual packets of Mach 3 razor blades, at sites including Tesco's Cambridge branch. Gillette's spokesperson says it will respond directly to Caspian, but adds that the company wants to work towards integrating the technology into the existing framework of privacy and consumer protection laws.www.nocards.org
Business integration is at the heart of many of today's industry trends. As businesses consolidate infrastructure, and look at rolling out service-oriented architectures, they are finding they need to link previously isolated applications. It's not easy. You can't link applications without some form of middleware, an extra application layer that lets their various systems communicate. Whether you use web services, or a message-based solution, there's one key feature that's at the heart of modern integration technologies: XML.Middleware can be something as simple as storing data in a known place in a file system, or as complex as installing a custom message routing system. But to get middleware working well, you'll need to take enough time to understand your business processes, and how you want to link your applications. You'll also need to think about how you're going to use XML to describe your data. And no matter how closely you link your middleware and applications to the way you do business, you are still going to have to deal with one key component: people.XML is all very well for machine to machine communication, but it's not really something you would ask someone to produce or read as part of their regular duties. You can build custom XML tools using web applications, or Java or Visual Basic, but these take time to get right, and may not be flexible enough for your business. Flexibility really does matter, so that you can get what you need and so that you can adapt and change applications as business needs change.So how do you build front ends for your XML applications? One option is to take advantage of a new generation of XML tools and technologies. Applications such as Microsoft's InfoPath let you take XML schemas and turn them into well-designed, easy-to-use forms, which can deliver XML information straight into the heart of your business processes. As flexible as InfoPath is, it's a new way of working, and there can be a learning curve.If your staff are more familiar with paper forms and you want them to use a familiar interface, you can use a scanner to turn your existing paper documents into a PDF file, and then build an XML application using the latest generation of Adobe's Acrobat tools. These include form designers that take you through the whole process from a scanned piece of paper to an application that delivers XML data into a business process.SmartDraw has recently launched a new tool that builds on those drawing tools, turning then into an XML application development platform. Unlike most XML tools, VisualScript gives you drawing tools to sketch out business processes, and then generates the XML you'll need to handle the process. You can design XML actions and forms in the same tool and link them directly to the process you've drawn out. To make things easier, it also comes with templates for common tasks, including business process management and web services integration, and, of course, forms design.While these tools are a good start, there are standards in development that will eventually make it easier to   build and deploy XML forms -among them the World Wide Web Consortium's XForms standard. After a slow process, the XForms standard was recently made a W3C proposed recommendation, and will soon become part of the ever-growing basket of XML technologies. XForms separates the purpose from the presentation, and describes both what a form does and what it looks like. Data collected by an XForms application will be XML - making it easier to handle workflow, as well as pre-filling and auto-filling forms.It's not just specialised form tools that will be able to deliver XML messages to business processes. There's a next generation of web technologies on the way that will work with XML data and web services, rather than HTML and web servers. Task-specific smart clients will connect you directly to XML services, or you'll find your word processor is already saving specific templates as XML files.So where are XML forms already in use? One place is in e-government, where central and local government bodies have been enthusiastic converts to XML and XML forms. As Jim Proctor of Cap Gemini Ernst and Young points out, governments are probably the world's biggest users of forms, and have staff and systems that are ready to work with form-based information. Form-driven applications are an important tool, helping government bodies capture information, manage it and then deliver services. However, what are really needed are tools that can work with forms in multiple formats: paper, PDF, HTML, XML, even Wap and interactive TV.The push to e-government has made XML application development easier, as it means that there is an agreed set of standards you can use to manage XML information. The e-government interoperability framework, e-GIF, defines XML schemas for everything from addresses and personal information, through property management, to managing farming aid applications. It's not just government that has been developing schema standards. There are plenty of projects where companies have used industry specific schemas, or have worked with their partners to create their own schema that is suitable for just their own projects.It's easy enough to use schemas like these to build forms that deliver valid data to your applications, but remember that existing business systems will need changing to work with these technologies, either by using new or existing web services interfaces, or by adding a new integration middleware layer, that handles connections and message routing.Microsoft has recently rolled out the first beta of its ambitious middleware project. Codenamed "Jupiter", it will encompass new releases of the BizTalk XML message router, the Commerce Server e-commerce pipeline, and Microsoft's Content Management Server. BizTalk 2004 is quite different from earlier versions, using web services standards to handle message routing and application integration.But you don't have to wait for Microsoft to finish Jupiter. Sonic has been developing message-oriented middleware for some time, and has now extended this to what it calls an enterprise service bus (ESB), a tool that allows you to orchestrate your business processes. An ESB will manage the flow of messages through your business, working as an intelligent document router. It can direct messages through a sequence of applications and services, or pass them directly to the appropriate service. You can write rules to look at the message contents and attributes, and to handle the flow of messages between services, without needing a central message broker.XML has started to prove its mettle as a tool for linking applications, turning isolated systems into parts of a business process. The arrival of the first XML form tools mean that it can also be a bridge between your processes and users by giving them familiar tools - a bridge that will make it easier to build flexible businesses that can cope with the stresses and strains of a turbulent world.
And so as the holiday season draws to a close, only one question remains - what in the world are you going to do with all those digital pictures currently resident on your shiny new camera?Many people will have taken or intend to take a digital camera away with them for the first time this year, and once you're through editing and gawping at the pictures on your screen, the inevitable question is how you make the best use of them afterwards.Initially your reaction is bound to be "print them out", but it can be worth taking a step back from this - you no longer need to print out your snaps to show them around. If your nearest and dearest have a computer without an internet connection then, unless it's an ancient system, it'll have a CD-Rom with it. All of the major digital camera manufacturers issue software that will turn your pics into an album viewable by people without any need for extra software on their system, so it's an option worth noting if your computer has a CD writer.Failing that, there is the option from Fujifilm and others to put together a web-based album. You can then share them with people by send ing them a password, so that they can have a look at them online. There's usually a small cost associated with this and you will need to register your details, but it's not a major hassle. Naturally, if you don't mind who sees your pics you can opt to put them on to any web space to which you have access, although the camera specialists are the ones who can put them into an organised, easily-viewable album.Meanwhile, back on planet Earth, few people will want to log on to a website to see your pics, or look at them on a screen. It will take an extreme cultural change before people want to do anything with holiday snaps except look at them on paper. It's a social thing; people like passing them around and spilling tea on them. Paper is the only answer here, but even then there are options.For example, Jessops, Boots, Fotobox, Truprint and Foto First will happily take the memory card from your camera - or your CD or floppy disk - and get prints done for you, delivered to your home at around 25p per 6x4 print, which compares reasonably with standard photo printing. Or, if you have a digital camera from one of the companies offering the service, you can use something like the Canon Image Gateway to send   your pictures over the internet and have paper copies delivered to you at home. Payment is by credit card, and the company is looking at adding T-shirt, jigsaw puzzle and mousemat options as well as plain paper print. Paper prints, the only option available at the moment, take two working days to come through.If you're less patient, the other option is to print them yourself. Most colour bubblejet printers will print photographs without much fuss but inevitably the cheaper ones can make pictures look smudgy. The first thing to look for is the paper on which you're printing. Printer manufacturers as well as photography specialists like Kodak sell different grades of photo paper; glossy or premium, and matt for greetings cards. It's essential to open up the "properties" box for your printer when you're printing. Most will allow you to select the sort of paper you're going to use, and to get a decent result you need to get this right.People who have yet to buy a printer for their system, or who are thinking of upgrading, might want to consider opting for a photo printer rather than any other sort. As the name suggests, these are aimed at printing pictures rather than text, and the quality and speed goes up since they are designed for the purpose. Prices start under &#163;100, but clearly only the individual can decide whether a second printer for pictures is an extravagance or a necessity.Many dedicated photo printers will take the memory card from a digital camera (but frequently with the exception of proprietary technology such as Sony's Memory Stick) so there will be no need to start the computer every time you want to print a photograph.Another option, but only if you're going to do a lot of printing, is a photo printer such as the new Fujifilm CX-400. Its cost of &#163;399.99 is alarming until you appreciate that the pigment is included in the paper, so there are no toner cartridges to replace. It will require heavy duty use to make this economical, but the quality is comparable to laboratory processing. And it's a nice looking toy.
Plain sailing DisneyPirates of the CaribbeanPC, &#163;29.99 Xbox, &#163;34.99 Ubi Soft/Bethesda Softworks&#42;&#42;&#42;Pirates of the Caribbean originally went under the lesser-known title of Sea Dogs II, but since a tie-in game is now part of the whole plastic-lunchbox-and-soft-toy shebang that accompanies most blockbuster films, Disney stepped in and secured the game of the film, for itself.The swordplay, sailing and general swash-buckling, however, are the only things that the game and film have in common. You play Nathaniel Hawk, a young captain who is enlisted to help after a local port is captured by the French.Although Pirates doesn't have the detail and depth of Bethesda Softwork's previous epic Morrowind, you still get a fair amount of freedom to explore the various islands, trade, pick up quests and indulge in some simplistic sword or pistol play, while negotiating the treacherous waters.Exchanging cannon fire with enemy ships is fun, but is hampered by dodgy AI. General movement is also cumbersome and particularly uncomfortable for PC users.In its favour, the game's graphics engine does create stunning water effects, which sparkle and shimmer as you sail into the sunset. The general console feel to the game makes it quite accessible, but may disappoint PC users. Also, given the pedigree of Bethesda, the role-playing could have been much meatier, but instead seems to have suffered from a Disney-style dumbing down.Rhianna PratchettPredatory failAliens vs Predator: ExtinctionPlayStation 2, Xbox, &#163;19.99 Electronic Arts&#42;The idea of pitching two of Hollywood's scariest species - Aliens and the Predator - caught the games-buying public's imagination, thanks to two classy shoot-em-up games. But reflected glory is pretty much all this limp offering has going for it.It is not a first-person shoot'em-up but a real-time strategy game. You can play as Alien, Predator or Marine, each of which has pleasingly different strengths and weaknesses, but the missions are so bog-standard, and the artificial intelligence so basic, that boredom swiftly sets in. A certain amount of strategy is required, but nowhere near as much as in, say, the Red Alert games. The graphics are appalling and any semblance of personality has been excised before birth. The sub-&#163;20 price is a plus, of course, but do we detect a hint of apology? This may be the last fruits of EA's stewardship of the licence to publish games based on Fox's intellectual property, and that is something no one will mourn.Steve BoxerEmpire strikes backStar Wars Jedi Knight: Jedi AcademyPC, &#163;29.99 LucasArts/Activision&#42;&#42;&#42;Once peerless, now tarnished, the videogames based on Star Wars have followed the downward spiral of the films.Thankfully, recent events have perked up the franchise for gamers. The forthcoming Knights of the Old Republic looks very promising, while the latest PC game, Jedi Academy, is something of a return to form. Set after the events of Return of the Jedi, the story sees you helping Luke Skywalker polish off the remnants of the empire. More importantly, it lets you swing lightsabers with merry abandon. These swashbuckling battles are the meat of the action, letting you cut through hordes of stormtroopers.Depth is added by the character development that allows you to learn Force Powers. These let you pin down enemies or push them off bridges and are devilishly enjoyable.Less so is the AI of your opponents and the effect of your weapons on them. Blasting stormtroopers should be more satisfying than here, with limited animation not helping.Academy is an improvement on last year's Jedi Outcast, though there are few real innovations. However, the role playing game character elements and 'saber battles, combined with the still interesting Star Wars environments, make Jedi Academy a fun place to attend.Greg Howson
Are you finally getting frustrated with your dial-up internet connection? It might be time to consider broadband: a net connection that's up to 10 times faster without having to dial up, and which shares your telephone or cable TV connection, so you can still receive and make telephone calls while online.There are two main kinds of broadband. The first, cable broadband, comes from your cable TV provider, so only works in those areas which are cabled. You can check if cable is in your area atwww.ntlhome.com orwww.telewest.co.uk/html/getservice/getservice.htmCable services running at 600Kbps cost from around &#163;25 a month, and faster services are available.If you cannot get cable, or even if you can, you'll want to consider ADSL - the version of broadband that comes via your telephone line. Again, not everyone will be able to get ADSL, as you have to live within a certain radius of the telephone exchange. BT says it now has 71% of the UK population covered - see if you are in the lucky majority by typing in your home telephone number (or postcode) atwww.bt.com/broadbandIf you can get it, ADSL comes in two forms and a variety of speeds. A division of BT always installs the ADSL connection, but you are not obliged to pick BT Openworld as your internet service provider. There are dozens of ISPs competing for your custom: you can get a list atwww.adslguide.org.ukIt pays to shop around. You'll find there are lots of "all in" offers that include the connection at the telephone exchange and modem and filters that ensure you can make voice calls once the ADSL is connected.You pick the ISP and the speed you want, and everything is done for you. It is likely that you will get a modem that plugs into the USB port on your PC, which is fine for single users.If you have more exotic needs, like a desire to add more than one device to the line (such as a games console as well as your computer) the other option is to buy a "wires only" version, which sorts out the connection at the exchange but not much else. You have to buy your own modem and filters - an additional fuss, but with some ISPs the only way you can attach an "Ethernet" modem. Ethernet is the method of connecting the modem to other devices and makes it easier to attach a wireless base station, or a network hub.You will find most big computer retailers stock ADSL modems, or you can go to a specialist supplier likewww.broadbandbuyer.co.uk. If there are problems with the hardware, you might find your internet service provider can't help.One important point, especially after the recent appearance of the Blaster worm on the internet. It's important to make sure your computer has "firewall" software which acts like a front door to the internet, and keeps the bad guys out.
Search XPI have bought a new computer running Windows XP, and the system's search facility seems very inferior to Windows 98. Is there a solution?Colin BarkerJack Schofield replies:Microsoft has made XP's search "easier to use": they've dumbed it down and put a useless animation on top. Most or all of the old functionality is hidden underneath. Go to Search and select Change preferences, at the bottom of the left-hand pane. When you get How do you want to use Search Companion?, click Change files and folders search behavior. Choose the Advanced option and click OK, then the down-arrows for More advanced options. Now you can choose to search subfolders, system folders, and hidden files and folders. You must now do a search to make the options stick. If you liked Windows 98, you will also want to change the preferences to "Without an animated screen character" and make XP hide the Search Companion pane. For faster searches, you could also consider turning on the Indexing Service: seehttp://masl.to/?A5E2215B5for details.Microsoft's changes annoyed at least one person into writing a $10 replacement, Find Files XP, which you can download fromwww.find filesxp.com. There are other alternative search programs such as Find Express (www.armenm.com/FE.html), Cool Find (www.nihuo.com/coolfind.html), Ava Find (www.think-less-do-more.com/avafind), EF Find (www.efsoftware.com/fn/e.htm), and Effective File Search (www.sowsoft.com/search.htm). If you have a serious need to file and find things, then the most comprehensive option I know is Enfish (www.enfish.com/Products_individual.asp) but it is expensive.Hiding addressesSince a number of viruses rely on sending themselves to everyone in your address book, what are the prospects for storing your Windows Address Book file on a removable medium such as a floppy disk?Mike EllistonJS:If your mail software can find addresses on a floppy, then so can a virus - and anyway, I can't see how to do it with Outlook Express. The correct answer would be for the mail client to encrypt its address book. The obvious examples for Windows are Calypso (www.rosecitysoftware.com/calypso) and its updated cousin, Courier (www.rosecitysoftware.com/Courier/); perhaps readers will let us know if there are others. However, recent viruses are capable of searching for addresses in text files, letters and web pages on your hard drive, so they will work even if you do encrypt the address book.Incidentally, the most common suggestion is to add special entries to the address book, starting with !0000. This idea doesn't work, and is covered in Vmyths' list of common email hoaxes (http://vmyths.com/hoax.cfm?id=263&amp;page=3).Java stopI downloaded the Opera web browser, and the site advises you to download the Java option. I opened up the Java Web Start folder and found it contained four items, two of which appeared to be games, but it crashes my machine. What is the purpose of Java Web Start? Do I need it?Stephen GibbinsJS:You don't need Java Web Start to run Opera 7 and if you don't need Java for other purposes, you don't need to take the large (12.5MB) Opera download instead of the small (3.1MB) Java-free one. Java Web Start was Sun's attempt to recover from Java's failure to make progress on the web. It lets you start a Java application by clicking a link on a web page. JWS is bundled with Mac OS X in the hope that sites will offer Java applets that run on Macs and Windows, and it does have security advantages. However, Windows users might regard it as pointless bloatware.ProxyconnIn the US, Proxyconn is advertising near-broadband connection speeds for a fraction of the price. Would it work as well here, and why don't we hear more about it?Martin BlinkhornJS:Proxyconn software filters out pop-ups and adverts, compresses data, and uses a proxy server on your local hard drive as a cache. It cannot and does not change your connection speed. Seemasl.to/?U58B11865for a review. Proxyconn should provide an increase in surfing speed, but nothing like broadband. If you like the idea, you could always try using The Proxomitron, which does some of the same things. However, instead of costing $9 a month, it's free. (www.spamblocked.com/proxomitron)Backchat&#183;Steven Randell wanted to know why Apple would not let him upload files from his iPod to his PC running Windows XP. Paul Dixon says: "you can do this using EphPod (www.ephpod.com). It's far superior to the bundled iPod software, too." The website says EphPod also "imports Microsoft Outlook contacts," among other things.
Microsoft is introducing a licensing scheme for third parties that use its instant messaging network, reportseWeek.
Ars Technicahas compared the contenders. No prizes for picking the most likely winner....
Amazon is seeking millions of dollars in damages against 11 email marketing companies for allegedly using its identity to send spam emails.The online retailer has filed lawsuits in the US and Canada against the email marketers, seeking injunctions to stop the alleged forgeries as well as punitive damages.Amazon said the move was part of a wider attempt to stamp out so-called "spoofing", whereby spammers hide their identities behind purportedly bona fide email addresses.In one case referred to by Amazon, a Miami-based company Rockin Time Holdings used the address andrea.cvalenzuela3@amazon.com to send out ads for Gain Pro Penile Pills, while another used tifqixcnti@amazon.com to promote tools for creating and sending spam."Spoofers lie about who's really sending these emails. Spoofing is forgery and we're going after spoofers to the full extent of the law," Amazon's associate general counsel, David Zapolsky, said in a statement.Amazon said it has set up a special email address, stop-spoofing@amazon.com, for users to report suspected spoofing.The online retailer also said it had begun working with internet service providers and other legitimate online operators to develop a technical remedy for the problem."Spoofing is a problem faced by any company with a trusted domain name that uses email to communicate with its customers. It's not just spam; it's consumer fraud," Mr Zapolsky added.In a related development, the New York attorney general's office said it had settled civil fraud charges against one of the alleged fraudsters identified by Amazon.The settlement against white goods promoter Cyebye.com prevents the retailer from using third party names to market its products without an express agreement to do so.Cyebye is now required to keep records of all emails sent over the next two years and was fined £6,000.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857
"You've got mail? You've got a problem," reckoned theSunday Telegraph, one of several papers to counsel caution in the use of email following disclosures to the Hutton inquiry. More than 900 confidential government emails and memos were published over the weekend, including 44 emails specifically relating to the dossier on Iraqi weaponry, which were sent during a four-day period last September."In terms of cyber investigation, email is the new DNA," the paper said. "Hit delete? You might as well try to clean up a crime scene with a blood-soaked rag." It thought the emails the inquiry had published demonstrated how complacent we have become about electronic communication: "In conversation we blag and obfuscate. In letters we practice caution and observe formalities. Let loose on email we spill our guts."TheObserver's Nick Cohen agreed. "Email encourages people to blurt out their feelings. It's easier, and somehow more intimate, to bash out whatever crosses your mind than walk a few yards, close an office door and have a prudently deniable conversation away from witnesses," he said.But some are more cautious than others. Cohen said ministers have been taking more care in their use of email after being caught out by gaffes in the past. "The higher you go up what Campbell calls the Downing Street 'pay-grade', the more cautious the written record becomes," he added.Adam Nicholson was more concerned by the tone that email correspondence engendered. In theDaily Telegraph, he blamed the widespread shift to email for "the snappily acute and the harshened tone" and "the macho brevity and the non-official tone of voice" that he considered to be rife within the Downing Street machine. He regarded it as "a sign of the culture we now live in: demanding the instant and comprehensive answer; impatient with ambiguities ... email is the medium for the sexed-up century".Only theTimessaw cause for optimism. It viewed the disclosure of the emails as reason to argue for freedom of information more generally. The possibility of future missives surfacing in similar circumstances "may be enough to impose precisely the same costs in terms of changed behaviour that full disclosure would produce", it said. "We should be grateful when officials are honest and eloquent, and not take words or sentences out of intended context. If fear of attention becomes the guiding principle of government, we will be poorly governed."
Rob Pegoraro argues today in theWashington Postthat Windows is insecure by design, ports open to all and nary a firewall to be seen. All of which, I think, we knew (he rather also glosses over the fact that it only takes a tiny percentage of naive Windows users to create a huge problem, through sheer force of their numbers).I like his final paragraph, though. It sums up an important point about the need for Microsoft to do more to protect users. His suggestion? "Microsoft should use some of its $49 billion hoard to mail an update CD to anybody who wants one. At $3 a pop (a liberal estimate), it could ship a disc to every human being on Earth - and still have $30 billion in the bank." Blimey - that would be a mailing almost as large as one of AOL's.
Wiredhas an interview with Neal Stephenson, presumably as part of the run-up to the launch ofQuicksilver : Volume One of The Baroque Cycle. The official site has anexcerpt.Comment: it's still not too late to readSnow Crash, but you should have done that a decade ago ;-)
The headline tothis storyraised a childish chuckle. Well, it is a bank holiday...
"After months of speculation, Microsoft plans to give developers their first hard look at the next version of Windows in October. The Redmond, Wash., company expects to release a 'developers preview' of the new operating system, code-named Longhorn, at its professional developers conference in Los Angeles," reports CNET. Also, WinInfo has some earlyscreen shots.Comment: don't get excited: Longhorn is probably at least three years away from shipping.
The joy of being a reporter is you never know where the story takes you. Take this week. On the face of it my brief was straightforward: look at some of the top websites dealing with, or purporting to deal with spin. Four days later it feels as if I have stumbled across a revolution.'Something is happening out there and it is hard to see how it is going to end up', says Brent Cunningham, managing editor of the  Columbia Journalism Review , the prestigious press watchdog. Professor Jay Rosen, Chair of Journalism at New York University, says: 'A new world is being born.'In the forthcoming issue of the  Review,  Rosen says we may be witnessing nothing less than a transfer in   authority from the media elite to the consuming public. Cunningham says: 'Previously authority moved in one direction but the weblogs and the bloggers have enabled the public to talk back and fact-check the media.'Significant evidence is piling up. Trent Lott, the Senate majority leader may, as Wired News says, have had no idea what a blog (a diary on the web) was until he flushed his reputation away with racist remarks at Strom Thurmond's 100th birthday bash. He will never forget now because pages like Instapundit, run by University of Tennessee law professor Glenn Reynolds, and Talking Points Memo, by political columnist John Marshall, forced the   issue onto the mainstream media and forced Lott's resignation.But it is, alas, the agonies of the  New York Times itself that are at the centre of Rosen's analysis. Hindsight can give a better perspective of the magnitude of the events that seared the soul of the paper in June, when executive editor Howell Raines resigned after letting a star reporter, Jayson Blair, go for plagiarism and faked reports. Remember we are dealing here with the loftiest citadel of journalism, says Rosen. Look what happened: an editor tossed out as never before at this paper, the decision-making processes made transparent, the inner workings of the paper laid bare as 'the troops' withdrew their support.It was just as much a symbol of the new world when celebrated  Times  reporter Rick Bragg went soon after Blair because of his reliance on stringers. The paper was alerted to this by a reader who whistled that it was his intern who did the work and should have had the byline. Oh, the agony of it!It was, in a way, trial by media. And now there is absolutely no doubt which is the top site for media folk. It is Romenesko, part of the site of the Poynter Institute. It is a sort of bulletin board for media folk, including not just journalists and writers but academics and those members of the public - and there are a lot of them - fascinated by the inner workings of the media.Romanesko, formerly Jim Romenesko's MediaNews, really came into its own with the crisis at the  New York Times . Jim Romenesko, a veteran reporter, gets up at five every morning, scans the web for articles interesting to journalists, writes a brief blurb and is filing within the hour. He is a guide for those who want a fuller perspective on the news: this view from the left, this from the right and a lateral open-minded approach somewhere else. The biggest complaint about mainstream media is   that it is forever pushing its own agenda, not seeking the truth.Trawling through the other sites, I find many are captive to their ideological baggage. This is not to say that they are not full of energy, verve and in-your- face passion as at Media Whores Online, set up because, in the view of its founders, 'media malfeasance' was robbing Al Gore of the Presidency. Spinsanity, set up 'to counter techniques of deception and irrationality in American politics', is equally passionate.I must also mention PR Watch, the pioneering giants of the anti-propaganda movement that most inspired me in setting up my own website, anti-spin.com.The revolution has started. It is a revolution of influence, not the hype about the web taking over the world. Who knows where it will end?&#183;Patrick Weever is owner/editor ofanti-spin.com
"A NEW WORLD record for throwing a mobile phone was set on Saturday by Petri Valta using a Nokia 5110 handset. The competition took place on Riihisaari Island, near Savonlinna in Finland. The distance covered was 66.72 metres which is around 219 feet using the 'original' style of throwing," reportsThe Inquirer.
"The US Federal Communications Commission, throwing out its earlier ruling, has decided to allow AOL Time Warner Inc to offer advanced instant messaging services without first requiring it to commit to interoperability. In a 3-2 vote, split long party lines, the FCC lifted conditions that obliged AOL to interoperate with two other IM providers before it could offer so-called 'advanced IM-based high-speed services' such as presence-aware videoconferencing," reportsComputer Business Review.Meanwhile, Microsoft is going to oblige users to upgrade to its latest IM protocol by October 15 or stop using the service, reportsIDG News. The latest version requires an SSL log-on. Users of third-party IM clients such as Trillian will also, like many millions of Microsoft IM users, lose access until their client software is upgraded. There are links to the Microsoft Windows, Mac, CE etc upgradeshere.
As they clicked on the pornographic image, they could not have realised the havoc they were about to cause. These internet users were triggering the biggest virus attack in history.FBI investigators have now tracked down the source of the virus, known as SoBig F, to a porn website in Phoenix, Arizona. It was put on the net in the guise of a photograph posted in an adult 'newsgroup', a forum where users post messages and pictures. When people clicked to download the picture their computers unwittingly became infected and spread the virus which emailed copies of itself from their accounts.The virus was uploaded on to the internet by an individual with an account at Easy news.com, an Arizona-based internet company. The account was set up just seven minutes before the virus first appeared. However, the writer has hidden his tracks well. The account was set up using a stolen credit card and via a computer, belonging to an unwitting resident of British Columbia, that had been hacked into by the virus writer.The use of stolen property to set up the account will increase speculation that the virus writer is working with 'spammers', who send out mass junk emails.Experts have appealed to the public to delete any emails they receive from the virus. They are easily recognised because the header field of the infected message begins 'Re:' followed by a phrase such as 'that movie' or 'your application'.
"The Sobig.F worm may have attacked 30% of China's poorly protected Internet users, wreaking havoc on more than 20 million computers, business executives and officials said. China's growing online population has been an easy prey to the virus, which has exploited a low level of awareness and a widespread absence of efficient anti-virus software to infect computers across the country," reportsAFP.
The hunt is on. Teams of FBI experts are poring through computer databases in the United States, tracking a shadowy quarry through cyberspace. They do not know their target's name but they do know he is clever and that he must be stopped.He is a virus writer and mastermind behind the fastest computer virus ever devised. His creation spread its tentacles around the globe last week, smothering countless computer systems with its sheer weight of email traffic. It was called SoBig F, and it lived up to its name by becoming so huge that by the end of the week one in 15 emails across the entire world was coming from the virus.But the identity of SoBig's creator, like so many in the world of computer viruses, remains a secret. He could be a teenager, holed up in a bedroom and nursing a juvenile grudge against the world. Or the virus writer could be on an ego-trip: simply wanting to see his creation dominate the world's computer systems. He could be a criminal, working in the pay of 'spammers' who send mass junk emails across the world and who want to learn new techniques from the virus's astonishing speed.FBI and anti-virus computer sources confirmed that the author was an American and almost certainly a man. They have also determined that his virus shares some of the characteristics popular with spammers. As most spammers live in Florida, that could place the virus writer in that state as well, perhaps near the town of Boca Raton, the unofficial spam capital of the world.He also may have had a holiday recently. The 'F' at the end of SoBig denotes that it is the sixth generation of the virus to be put into cyberspace, following on from A, B, C, D and E. Each one has been bigger and faster than the last. Yet there was a gap of four weeks between E and F. 'We think he may have taken a vacation or something,' said one exasperated FBI source.There is one other thing we know. SoBig F will not be the last in the line. Each generation of the virus is built in with its own termination date. SoBig F will end itself on 10 September. Those hunting the virus writer believe that means he is seeking to hone his techniques, clearing the internet of his previous creations as he waits to send out the new improved version. Unless he is caught, there will soon be a SoBig G.Virus writers are hidden around the world. They create bits of computer code, designed to self-replicate like a living organism, and then send them out into cyberspace. A few can be almost harmless, but many are vicious: infecting computers, disabling them and deleting valuable files.There is a stereotyped image of the virus writer: male, in his teens or early twenties, technically talented but lacking in all the social graces. They live their lives in cyberspace, expressing themselves through alter egos such as Dark Destroyer, Mental Driller or Zombie.Some are grouped in 'teams' who compete to develop the most effective viruses. They also choose juvenile names, such as the Beta Boys and the Association of Really Cruel Virus Writers. International borders mean relatively little to them. Top virus writers live in Spain, the Czech Republic, the Philippines and the United States. During the early Nineties, one of the main centres of virus production was Bulgaria, where the end of the Cold War had produced a group of under-employed but highly skilled computer experts.Many anti-virus experts are scathing about their enemy. 'They often have problems communicating with people face to face. They usually stop when they grow up and discover girls,' said Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at the anti-virus firm Sophos.When the reality behind the macho-sounding alter egos has been revealed, the truth has often fitted Cluley's analysis. One writer, Gobo, was responsible for several viruses, including one that in early 2002 became the third most common on the internet. In all, his creations infected 27,000 computers in 42 countries.Yet detectives who hunted him down in a joint operation by the FBI and Scotland Yard found themselves raiding the home of 22-year-old Simon Vallor at Llandudno in north Wales. He was an unemployed warehouseman who had boasted in internet chatrooms that 'at last there's a Welsh virus'.Sometimes the stereotype does not hold, however. After making public comments about virus writers being male, Cluley was targeted by a female virus writer, a 19-year-old Belgian who styled herself Gigabyte. One virus, featuring Cluley's face, invited the owners of infected computers to throw images   of coconuts at it.That sounded amusing until you realised that hitting the face meant that the virus deleted fewer files from your hard drive. To save your precious data you had to throw the coconuts accurately. Cluley, however, was not put off by becoming the writer's target. 'I think she has a crush on me,' he joked.Virus writers themselves are angered by the usual stereotype. Virus Blaster is 30 years old and lives in Spain. He is a self-styled 'virus collector' and a member of a gang of virus writers called 29a, who swap and trade viruses, as well as creating them. 'Of course, there are some young boys without girlfriends matching that old and rusty profile, but there are also people over 30 years old, married and with children and coding viruses,' he told  The Observer.Virus Blaster said writers each had their own motivations for their creations. It was 'a pleasure for many people', he said. He denied that most writers deliberately released their viruses onto the internet. But the fact is that the most famous authors are generally those who have created the most havoc. When Chen Ing Hau, who created the Chernobyl virus, was arrested   in his native Taiwan, he was immediately offered a job by a local software firm and became an overnight celebrity. Yet his virus had infected tens of thousands of computers throughout the Far East.What seems really to drive most virus writers is fame. Similar to graffiti artists, it is the desire to see one's creation on the biggest stage possible. And there is no bigger stage than the almost infinite expanse of the worldwide web.But this is a game that could have deadly results. A type of virus called a worm and known as Slammer infected the safety monitoring systems of the Davis-Besse nuclear power plant in Ohio last January.It came in via a link with an outside contractor's computer network, completely bypassing the 'firewalls' set up to keep the plant's safety system free of outside interference. Once inside, the virus quickly spread. At 4pm, on 25 January, workers noticed the plant's computer systems slowing down. By 4.50pm the virus had crashed the computerised displays which monitor vital safety indicators such as reactor temperatures, radiation sensors and coolant   systems.It took almost five hours to get the system up again. It was a lucky escape. Production was off-line at the plant at the time because repairs were being carried out, but the implications of the failure are terrifying.It is the general damage done by viruses, however, that causes the most obvious havoc. Infected computers can take weeks to fix, and invaluable files and emails may be lost. From the grandmother losing messages from her family to the multinational business having its financial records wiped out, the cost in emotions and cold, hard cash is enormous.Last week the SoBig virus infected the American railway system, causing widespread delays. The week before the Blaster worm had crashed Air Canada's computer systems. The Love Bug virus of May 2000 is thought to have caused economic damage worth &#163;5 billion.Another potential disaster is the effect that viruses have on the world's email system. Like the hundreds of millions of spam messages carried each day, they are slowing down the network. Eventually they could overload it and bring it to a halt. Some experts believe it could happen within the next six months.Certainly the numbers of viruses and worms being released is on the rise. The past few weeks alone have seen three major viruses or worms rocket around the world. So bad has the problem become that the anti-virus industry is booming, spawning dozens of firms dedicated to fighting off the threat. The scrap is fierce. 'It feels like we are fighting World War Worm,' said one anti-virus programmer with a top firm.Writers say most of them design the viruses for innocent pleasure and do not spread them. Nearly all the personal websites of virus writers have messages warning of the contents and saying they are not to be spread. Critics, however, dismiss that as simple 'arse covering' to protect them from the law. 'Posting these on the web is like having Ebola in your lunchbox and taking it to the canteen. You may not be deliberately spreading it, but its not very helpful,' said Mark Toshack, a virus engineer at the anti-viral firm MessageLabs.Simon Vallor was sentenced to two years for his Welsh viruses. But a Dutch court handed out only 150 hours of community service to Jan de Wit, the Netherlands-based man who wrote the   Anna Kournikova worm which set new records for virus activity in 2001. The difference symbolises the problem facing those who wish to catch the virus writers. Proving intent is extremely difficult. Proving exact amounts of damage caused by an given virus is also next to impossible.Virus writing is a hard crime to prove and virus writers are criminals who are hard to catch. The nature of the internet allows them to hide behind countless aliases. Even if the source of the virus is detected a writer may have used a false identity to set up the email account that first brought it into the web.But the hunters of virus writers are catching up. The Home Office is now studying numerous proposals to tackle internet crime, and the problems caused by virus writers are at the top of the list. Among the proposals are training IT professionals as special constables to provide the police with the much-needed expertise to track down the writers quickly.Certainly the need is becoming more vital with every fresh virus attack. The author of SoBig F is still out there, plotting, planning and writing ever more devious lengths of his devastating code.How the SoBig virus works1. A hacker in America develops a program that turns computers into junk email production centres.2. The virus is spread to other users, hidden in an innocent looking email.3. Unwitting users open an attachment in their email, triggering the virus, which sends itself to every name in their address book.4. A chain reaction of email spreads across the globe, jamming computer systems.Other bugsBugbearA sinister virus that steals credit card numbers and online banking details. Bugbear secretly records every number and letter typed into an infected computer before sending details to the hacker who wrote the virus.Anna KournikovaUsing the lure of pictures of the Russian tennis star, this virus infected millions of computers of love-hungry males in 2001. Its Dutch creator, Jan de Wit, was given just 150 hours' community service as punishment.BlasterAlso known as MSBlast, this viral worm emerged just a few weeks before SoBig F. It causes most disruption because of its wild, destructive hunt for new victims which rapidly clogs up networks it has infected.MelissaCreated by American virus writer David Smith, 30, a freelance programmer, who named it after one of his favourite strippers. It infected 100,000 computers in its first five days of life. Smith was tracked down by the FBI and jailed for 20 months.ILOVEYOUNicknamed the 'lovebug', the ILOVEYOU virus spread quickly. It sparked a worldwide manhunt that eventually pinpointed the Philippines. Police there arrested computer student Onel de Guzman, 23, who admitted 'cooking it up' but denied releasing it. He was not charged.
Some misguided people seem to think Microsoft.com is "running on Linux". This is not true under any meaning of the word "running". It is true that Netcraft's query server says so, but it is wrong. Anybody who can be bothered to look will find that Netscraft has also answered the question as to "why we are reporting www.microsoft.com running the 'impossible' combination of the Linux operating system and Microsoft-IIS/6.0 web server"here. It says, correctly, that:"On Friday Microsoft changed its DNS so that requests for www.microsoft.com no longer resolve to machines on Microsoft's own network, but instead are handled by the Akamai caching system, which runs Linux. Akamai provides an internet-wide caching system, which can act as a symmetric defence to distributed denial of service attacks."In other words, Microsoft.com is still running on Windows Server 2003, but the company is, very sensibly, caching the traffic to maintain service to its customers. But as Netcraft says: "Akamai also forwards the http Server: header from the original server as part of the cached content, and so we report 'Microsoft-IIS/6.0' as the web server." Which it is. But it still isn't running on Linux.(Note to the bigots: I wouldn't care two hoots if it was. In fact, years ago, the Guardian Online Web site ran very happily on Linux. My objection is to people telling lies.)As a matter of fact, Akamai and Microsoft often work together, and Microsoft has invested in Akamai. They started developing EdgeSuiteSM for Microsoft.net ("a service designed to offer Akamai customers high-performance delivery of XML Web services and Web applications built on the Microsoft.net platform," announcedAkamai), and Microsoft has also used Akamai to deliver streaming Windows Media content. Akamai appeared in the Microsoft's Partner Pavilion during the Windows Media 9 Series beta launch event.But Akamai works with lots of companies, including Apple, which has been a customer since 1999. The two companies extended their deal in April, so that "Akamai Technologies will continue to power streaming media downloads for Apple, including the company's new music service iTunes," asBoston Internetreported.
If you are a parent worried that your son or daughter is spending too much time sitting in front of their games console, you can inject a little exercise into their life by giving them a rhythm action game.This kind of game first appeared in 1997, when Sony released PaRappa the Rapper. The idea was that the player copied on-screen images by pushing buttons in time to the music.From those beginnings, Konami's Dancing Stage games were born. Simple button-pushing was transformed into players moving their feet on sensor-filled dance mats to try to mimic scrolling arrows in the game.Arcade and home versions of games such as these have seen them become a trend. Now Sony has announced its new EyeToy: Groove, a new rhythm action game for the recently-released EyeToy camera.Eyetoy: Play, with its ability to get the player heavily involved in the game, has proven to be one of the great gaming successes of the year, despite being regarded by many as something of a gimmick.The series of mini-games that comes with the camera allows players to try their hand at washing windows, sweeping away bad guys away with a flick of the wrist, and creating the kind of weird effects normally only seen in the opening credits of a James Bond movie.With Groove, gamers can dance to familiar tunes from the likes of Madonna and the Cheeky Girls. Those feeling especially energetic can challenge their friends to a dance-off via the challenge mode.Like many rhythm action games, it will also contain a calorie counter, meaning that people will be able to swap an aerobics session for an hour in front of their PlayStation2 instead. Who said that gaming wasn't good for you?Eyetoy has been at the top of the gaming charts for a number of weeks, clocking up a few awards along the way.Its appeal as a pseudo-games platform that everyone can enjoy is obvious, and undoubtedly the reason why it picked up the Best in Show award at Edinburgh's recent Go Play Games exhibition.The EyeToy will be running as part of the PlayStation Experience at the European Computer Trade Show in London (www.ects.com) next week.Anyone unable to tear themselves away from this year's Pop Idol competition to experience ECTS could always stay in and wait for Codemaster's official Pop Idol rhythm action game, out in October.Here, players get to strut their stuff in the dance mat mode, control the vocal talents of your on-screen character with well-timed button presses, and face down the ultimate Pop Idol baddie, Simon Cowell.Don't live the dream, play it!Official UK Leisure Software Charts (c) ELSPA, compiled by Chart-Track1) Eyetoy: Play (PS2) Sony - £39.992) Pokemon Ruby (GBA) Nintendo - £29.993) Pokemon Sapphire (GBA) Nintendo - £29.994) Tomb Raider: the Angel of Darkness (PS2, PC) Eidos Interactive - £34.995) Norton Antivirus 2003 (PC) Symantec - £34.996) Norton internet Security 2003 (PC) Symantec - £47.997) Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PC, PS2) Take 2 - £29.998) The Sims (PC, PS2, Xbox, GM) Electronic Arts - £32.999) Harry Potter: The Chamber of Secrets (GBA, PS2, PL, PC) - £17.9910) Aliens Vs. Predator: Extinction (PS2, Xbox) Electronic Arts- £39.99
"The Internet was quiet as the clock ticked past the scheduled start time for a massive, coordinated action by Microsoft Windows machines infected with the Sobig.F virus," reportsIDG News. The SoBig servers were shut down.
An internet security company has issued an urgent warning that the email virus SoBig.F could cause further mayhem by instructing infected computers to automatically download a malicious programme tonight.The worm, which has spread to thousands of computers this week, has been programmed to turn PCs into "zombies", directing them to a server controlled by the virus writer from which a so-called "Trojan horse" could be downloaded, according to experts at Sophos Anti-Virus.They believe that this secondary attack is primed to occur between 1600 and 2100 BST today and on Sunday.At the moment, it is not known what the downloaded material will do, but possibilities include launching another virus or spam attack, collecting sensitive information, or deleting files stored on an infected computer or network."The main effect of SoBig.F to date has been to slow down the internet with the sheer quantity of emails it has generated," said Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at Sophos Anti-Virus."At 8pm tonight, most British companies will have left the office for the bank holiday weekend, but any infected computers that are left on have the potential to become zombies, doing whatever the virus writer wants."If the writer of SoBig.F succeeds in installing a Trojan on infected PCs, users could be in for a nasty shock when they return to work next week."The message is simple: ensure your anti-virus is up-to-date, run your anti-virus to check for infection, disinfect if necessary and ensure your computer's firewall is properly configured.""What the worm downloads will not be known until this evening - it could display an offensive but largely harmless message or launch a malicious attack."For home users, the Guardian's technology correspondent Jack Schofield advises the following action:&#183;Run your anti-virus software to detect and delete the SoBig.F virus.&#183;If you do not have anti-virus software installed, visit a site such asTrend Micro, which offers a free on-line scan and also has specific instructions on identifying and dealing with the virus.
"Sophos has today warned that the mass-mailing Sobig-F virus (W32/Sobig-F), which has flooded computer users this week,could attempt to download a Trojan horse between 8pm and 11pm BST today. At 19:00-22:00 GMT (which is 8-11pm in the UK) on Fridays and Sundays, the worm has been programmed to automatically direct infected PCs to a server controlled by the virus writer from which a malicious program could be downloaded. At the moment, it is not known what the download material will do, but possibilities include launching another virus or spam attack, collecting sensitive information, or deleting files stored on an infected computer or network.""You can find out if your PC is infected with SoBig.F by searching for a file called winppr32.exe. While you are at it, search for the previous version, winssk32.exe, too. You can remove it by running a free program such as McAfee's Stinger or Norman's SoBigFix or by updating and running your usual anti-virus software." (Quoting myself fromhereThere are links in the original.)Comment: it would be interesting to know how many PCs are affected. It may be less than 1%, but that could still mean there several million infected PCs.
Criminals and fraudsters are being blamed for the worldwide wave of emails unleashed by a new computer virus.The Sobig.F virus, which first appeared on Monday, has entered the record books as the fastest spreading infection of its type, generating tens of millions of emails in three days, clogging up inboxes and bringing many computer systems to a standstill.At its peak, between Tuesday and Wednesday, IT security firms estimate that the virus generated as many as one in 17 of every email sent worldwide.Experts suspect the virus installs a program that attempts to download a further malicious program from the internet - nicknamed malware - which acts as a secret server for routing unsolicited "spam" emails such as those advertising pornography or quack remedies. It may also forward credit card details and passwords."We think there is a big tie-in with spam sellers, who may be writing these viruses in order to find new machines that they can exploit to send more spam," said Alex Shipley, senior anti-virus technologist at MessageLabs security company.What makes the Sobig.F virus different to previous email scares - such as the so-called LoveBug virus and Klez worm - has been its sudden appearance and rapid spread."It's hard to say where it originated from; it exploded so suddenly that it may have been started using spammers' tools," said Graham Cluley, a senior technology consultant at Sophos, an anti-virus IT firm.Indications are that the virus first appeared in the US, being posted to a number of sex and erotica news groups late on Monday night. Within an hour the first infected emails had appeared in inboxes.The sudden upsurge may have been helped by a commercial spammer sending out the emails using mass-mailing software, catching many recipients unaware that a new virus was on the rampage.The sheer bulk of email traffic caused many IT systems to feel the strain. America Online, the world's largest internet service provider, said it checked 31m emails on Tuesday, and found that 11.5m were infected.By yesterday morning, MessageLabs said its email filtering software had blocked more than a million messages carrying the virus, while another company, Postini, reported trapping 2.6m infected mails in a 24-hour period.The spread of the virus even disrupted communications at the Massachusetts Institute of   Technology in Boston, the world's leading hi-tech research centre. "There is a special section of hell reserved for the guys that write these things," said Jeffrey Schiller, manager of MIT's network.The Sobig.F virus does not affect computers running on Linux or Macintosh operating systems, but infects popular Microsoft operating systems such as Windows XP.Unlike many other viruses, Sobig.F does not rely on exploiting a security flaw or weakness. Instead, the virus propagates by unwary users clicking on an attachment that arrives in an email carrying a subject such as "Wicked screensaver!" or "Your details".The attachment is a ".PIF" or ".SCR" file, which when clicked executes a program and replicates itself, harvesting email addresses off a user's computer and sending itself on."This virus doesn't exploit any vulnerabilities or bugs in Microsoft's code, what it is doing is exploiting a bug in people's heads," said Mr Cluley of Sophos.The appearance of Sobig.F has meant the IT sector has faced a "perfect storm" of IT incidents this month. Last week's power outage in the US temporarily knocked out swaths of internet infrastructure, while two other internet-distributed programs that exploit holes in Microsoft software - called Blaster and Nachi - also spread recently.The Sobig.F virus does carry an instruction that stops it operating from September 10 - but experts warn that this will not be the last of Sobig's activities.The first variation, Sobig.A, appeared in January this year. "The Sobig author is effectively test-driving his creations to see which tricks work best," said Mr Cluley.Since the author or authors have proved impossible to find, the best guess is that a Sobig.G virus may be arriving via email in October.Fighting a system infectionWhile the ultimate objective of Sobig.F still puzzles experts, the virus itself is easy to spot.Sobig.F spreads through computers running Microsoft Windows operating systems by users receiving an email from an infected machine and then clicking on an attachment. Computers running Macintosh or Linux operating systems cannot be affected.Infected emails usually read "Please see attached file for details". The attachments all end with ".pif" or ".scr" suffixes: if clicked, they infect the computer.Sobig.F then sends itself as an attachment to email addresses collected from files on the infected computer and from websites. It forges the sender's email address.Many anti-virus programs then send an email alert to notify the supposed source that they are infected, even when the virus fakes the address. As a result, innocent users whose addresses have been forged will get email telling them they have spread the virus.Anyone who thinks their computer may have been infected should update or install anti-virus software.The good news is that an in-built off-switch will stop the virus spreading on September 10. The bad news is that the author may use the information gleaned for the next virus - likely to be called Sobig.G.
