The speculation that Apple isdeveloping a touchscreen computerhas once again stepped up another gear, following detailed internet rumours that have sent the company's fans into a frenzy.A report from the iLounge blog - which has a fairly good record at getting details of forthcoming Apple launches - says that the machine will boast a10.7" screen, use the iPhone operating system and come in 3G and non 3G versions. That detail has been enough to get the gadget blogs talking, with speculation focused on where exactly Steve Jobs and friends are going to find a capacitive touchscreen of that size.Rumours of such a device are hardly new in themselves: it is believed that Apple has worked on a number of prototypes over the years, but never come up with something that it thought could turn into a viable product.But with a constant stream of reports appearing to back up the idea that a project is in the works, it seems that Apple has had a change of heart - largely thought to be due to the success of the iPhone, which helped bring multitouch technology to the masses and has proved a hit with more than 20m sold worldwide.Despite the interest in the company's plans for the future, though, it is not smooth sailing for Apple at the moment. While plenty of fans hope that a larger touchscreen machine could help boost the fortunes of tablet computers - which have been tried many times in the past, but failed to take off - the Californian technology company is also taking plenty of jabs from critics.Locked in an ongoing battle with handset rival Palm - which is caught in a cat-and-mouse game in which ittries to make its Pre handset compatible with iTunes- the volume of voices lashing out at Apple's dominance and control has increased recently.The company is being investigated by the US communications regulatorover its dealings with Google, as well as allegations of anti-competitive hiring practices.And yesterday saw the return of another one of the thorns in the company's side:San Francisco startup DoubleTwist, which has developed software that allows other manufacturers access to iTunes. Three months after the startup cheekily placed an advert on the side of the company's flagship shop in California, it launched another campaign - this time spoofing Apple's famous 1984 commercial.
Microsoft's top executives have seen their pay drop following the worst financial year in the company's history.According tofinancial documentsfiled with US regulators, the American software giant reduced the sums paid to its leading executive officers following itsfirst ever drop in revenuesand the decision to lay off 5,000 staff.Although most of the company's top executives saw salary increases of around $20,000, a mix of cash bonuses and smaller stock increases meant their overall pay packets decreased by around 22% overall.Chief executive Steve Ballmer earned $1.26m for the 2009 financial year, down from $1.35m in 2008, while chief operating officer Kevin Turner saw his remuneration drop from $8.6m last year to $5.4m this year.Financial chief Christopher Liddell had his pay packet reduced by 28% to $3.5m. The company's highest-paid executive, Robbie Bach - who is in charge of Microsoft's Xbox games consoles and Zune music players - saw his overall pay fall to $6.2m from $8.2m in 2008.In fact the only senior executive to see an increase in pay was Stephen Elop, who heads up the company's business division. However, his pay increase - rising from $4m last year to $4.8m in 2009 - is largely attributed to the fact that he joined the company part of the way through the last financial year.Although stock awards were significantly lower in 2009, however, none of Microsoft's travails seemed to significantly reduce the bonuses awarded to top staff.Despite the company's unprecedented struggles - including the first significant layoffs in its 34-year history, and the first slowdown since the company went public in 1986 - Ballmer was still awarded a $600,000 bonus, with others given even higher rewards.And although can be blamed on the recession - which has seen a drop in spending by many companies and consumers - other events over the past year have proved troublesome.A series of legal predicaments - including an ongoing dispute with European regulators - have taken their toll on the company finances, while its drawn-out attempt to buy Yahoo's search engine business also hit the bottom line.And though the lower pay awards will undoubtedly carry something of a sting, it is unlikely to get them in too much trouble with their bank managers. Ballmer, for example, remains one of the world's richest people thanks to the significant share of Microsoft that he owns - a fortune estimated at $11bn byForbes magazine.
Icann, the body that administrates the internet, is an organisation that most people find byzantine and confusing. The non-profit body oversees many different aspects of our online life, most importantly the domain names that websites use (including approving new extensions like .mobi and .tel).The organisation is given its mandate by the US government - a deal which isnot only controversial, but is due to expire this week. It's expected that a new deal will give Icann more distance from Washington, although it's not clear yet whether (as some have claimed) or simply bea little more independent.I'll be talking to new chief executiveRod Beckstromabout Icann's status on Wednesday, but thought that it would be a great chance to give Guardian readers the chance to ask him their own questions: I can't promise I'll be able to ask all of them, but if you leave your query in the comments below, I will try to get some answers.
If there's one thing that the last 20 years has proved, it's that TV and gaming very rarely make a good match. FromThumb Banditsto Bits (both featuring our ownAleks Krotoski) to Gamesmaster, no one's ever managed to come up with a treatment for videogames on television that feels like a natural fit.BBC2's cult Videogaidenhas its fans for its anarchic humour and watchingPatrick Moore's disembodied head doling out gaming tips that he clearly didn't understandexerts a weird fascination, but there's never been a treatment that's managed to break down the feeling that, for most people, it's just all too niche or childish.So Charlie Brooker's Gameswipe, airing as part of BBC 4's Electric Revolution season, had a lot of ground to make up. It certainly helps that Brooker has more credibility in the eyes of the general public than anyone who's presented a gaming programme before. Even more importantly, his history in games journalism and his love of the medium means that he's eminently qualified for the job.Right from the start, Gameswipe gave me the unusual feeling of being in safe hands. Smartly, this one-off show stuck fairly rigidly to the formula that made Screenwipe and Newswipe so successful. While Brooker's love for gaming was evident, the clear-eyed cynicism he brings to his television criticism balanced out any sense of nerdiness. In fact, the most refreshing aspect of the whole show was the way it tackled the subject without anyone involved being too defensive or overly enthusiastic. It presents games as they are - something that huge numbers of people play in a huge number of different ways. For the first time on television, games seemed, well ... normal. Even more surprisingly, this was a gaming TV show that felt like it could be appreciated by gamers and non-gamers alike.Typically, Brooker didn't shy away from the fairly awful history of gaming on TV and spent the opening minutes of the show addressing not only gamers' failures to communicate the pleasures of their hobby but also the mainstream media's tendency to demonise (courtesy ofthe astonishing Glenn Beck on GTA IV) and patronise (Mark Kermode dripping sarcasm during Newsnight Review's take on the Wii) in equal measure.From there Brooker took us on a whirlwind tour of the main genres that constitute today's gaming landscape (describing Mario en route as "the king bitch in platform prison"), stopping off every now and then to review a few more recent examples (The Beatles Rock Band,Wolfensteinand a musical take on the violent slapstick of Clover'sMadWorld), cleverly catering for both the established audience and those people who didn't spend their youths delicately adjusting the volume on a tape deck to load up a pirate copy of Jet Pac. I'm hoping that those reviews are an indication that BBC4 might be inclined to see Gameswipe as having a life beyond this first instalment.It's telling that a lot of the programme was spent bemoaning the things that still make gamers feel like apologists for an unsavoury pastime. Ryan and Rab from Consolevania lamented the demise of the surreal joys of the 80s British software scene and the homogeneity of most modern games, Graham Linehan poured appropriate scorn on the failure of apparently sophisticated 21st-century games to rise above the most primitive levels of story telling and characterisation and Dara O Briain pointed out the stupidity of creating hours of content that developers hide behind absurdly difficult or repetitive challenges. It's an indication of how ghettoised gaming is on television that it was a shock to see talented, popular contributors discussing the subject at such length and in such detail.For me, Gameswipe is the first TV treatment of gaming to be really convincing for a broad adult audience. Funny, thoughtful, critical and passionate, it feels like the games programme the medium deserves but also needs.Let's just hope it's not game over...
For most people, the reaction to discovering that your computer has a bug is to throw your hands in the air, swear and call a friend. That might be about to change, now that US researchers have discovered a fresh approach to computer security that takes real-life bugs as its inspiration. Their idea? Hordes of "digital ants" that find and destroy viruses and computer worms on your PC.The team – from Wake Forest University in North Carolina – has studied angry ant swarms, which converge on an enemy and then overwhelm it. By copying this behaviour ("swarm intelligence") the researchers think they can create vast numbers of virtual insects to patrol your computer. Each of the 3,000 digital ants would be primed to search for a different threat. If they find one, the rest of the ants help eliminate deadly viruses before they can do any damage.It may seem peculiar to look to insects for guidance – but the technology industry has been using the natural world in this way for years, in a discipline known as biomimetics.Countless inventors have looked to the world around them for ideas, with the best known example probably being Velcro, devised in the 40s by a Swiss engineer who took his inspiration from the way burdock seeds hooked on to his clothes. More recently architects have studied the air-cooling system in termite mounds to help design energy-efficient buildings, while engineers in Leeds built a cane that uses bat-like echo-location to help blind people find their way.While copying the behaviour of animals, rather than their physical abilities, is a newer development, animal attributes have long informed fields such as artificial intelligence, computing and robotics.Alex Parfitt, a senior scientist at defence company BAE Systems, has worked on a number of biomimicry projects – including camera lenses based on the eyes of flies and lightweight materials that take their cue from the hollow bones of birds. He suggests hubris often leads us to believe that we can come up with new solutions to problems that are more efficient than nature – despite the fact that it has taken millions of years of evolution to get us where we are today. "There are potentially so many ideas that you can take from nature," he says. "We don't have to copy the biological system totally – just take the bits that are of interest to us."
One of the last vestiges of the former Yugoslavia will  disappear tomorrow as internet officials prepare to close down the web address belonging to the disintegrated country.The .yu domain name, which has been used by tens of thousands of websites over the years, is being shuttered up as administrators look to clean up the remnants of the country's collapse.The address is being replaced by a number of other options, including .rs for Serbia or .me for Montenegro. But around 4,000 websites are thought to have so far failed to transfer themselves to such new addresses.Converting a website cost around €25 (£19), a price some had warned may be too high considering that it is often cheaper to buy a more widely used .com or .net domain instead.But web officials are confident shutting down the address will cut one of the final administrative ties to the former republic, which fell apart in the 1990s and plunged the Balkans into a series of brutal and bloody conflicts.In 2007 Icann, the international body that oversees web domains, agreed on the plan to retire .yu just a year after the last two Yugoslavian states, Montenegro and Serbia, declared their independence.Although Yugoslavia is one of the few web addresses left that links to a nonexistent country, other contentious or historical internet domains still remain. These include the .su address representing the Soviet Union, which officially collapsed in 1991.The move comes as Icann, which currently exists under the auspices of the US government, prepares to announce a new operating deal with Washington. The existing situation grew out of the internet's roots as a US military research project, but a fresh agreement is expected to give the organisation greater independence and more authority over its own affairs – a change that is likely to appeal to foreign governments who have complained.Among those objecting to US oversight of the online world was the European Union, which complained earlier this year that, given the global importance of the internet, Icann should be "universally accountable".
In the week when the gaming world gathered in Tokyo to show off its latest and greatest accomplishments,Bobbie Johnsontakes us on our an expedition into the industry as we talk to the people behind some of the planet's biggest games.But first,Charles Arthurriffs away with Dan Rosensweig of Activision Blizzard – the makers of the enormousGuitar Herofranchise – the game that has fulfilled the axe-shredding fantasies of millions of air guitarists and turned Activision into one of the world's most successful studios along the way. Dan explains what's new in version five of the game, and how they chose the music for the title - it involves some clever algorithms.Bobbie also plays keepy-uppy with one of the producers of best-selling football simFifa 10.  It's one of EA Sports's biggest properties and has recently gained extra fans by dispossessing its main rival – Konami's Pro Evolution Soccer – and taking the critic's crownas you can read in Greg Howson's review.  David Rutter, the producer of Fifa, explains how there's still plenty of opportunity for invention and development within the title, and that (eventually) goalkeeping will be part of the game.There's also this week's tech news, and we go all the way to the top floor with another Elevator Pitch fromCompletelyNovel. There's also a clutch of your comments and opinions, so leave a comment below, on ourFacebook wall, orby tweet, and we could be incorporating your thoughts in next week's programme.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Light Peak connectorIntel showed off a new optical connector at its developer forum that it believes could replace therat's nest of cables behind your computer.Light Peak moves data at 10Gbps over cables up to 100m, which leapfrogs USB 3.0, which manages about 4.8Gbps overshorter distances than the current USB 2.0 connection.To put this in a little context,USB 3.0 can move the 700MB of a CD in a second, but Light Peak can shift a full-length HD film on a Blu-Ray disc, capable of holding between 25 to 50GB, in 30 seconds.Intel says that 10Gbps is only a start and that they have kit running in the lab at up to 100Gbps. The 100Gbps speedsspeeds aren't economical for all but very high-end equipment using current technology, but of course, costs will come down over time to bring those speeds to mainstream computers and devices.Copper is inexpensive, but with high-definition video becoming more common, copper is reaching its limits. Analysts say that connectors running at 60Gbps will be needed soon to drive networking, storage and super HD displays.Light Peak works with multiple protocols, and it's hot-pluggable just like current USB technology. AsStephen Shankland says at CNET:Light Peak uses circuitry that can juggle multiple communication protocols at the same time, and the Light Peak promise is for a universal connector to replace today's incompatible sockets for USB, FireWire, DVI, DisplayPort, and HDMI.A lower-power mobile version of the connector is also in the works. Intel says that the technology will be ready to ship next year.That's the technology, but that's only part of the story. Intel demonstrated the technology running an Apple computer running OS X 10.6.Engadget says that not only is Apple a supporter of the technology but that Steve Jobsand Apple brought the technology to the chip giant.Apple and Intel won't comment, and I'm not sure how important it is apart from Intel needing as many supporters as possible for a successful launch. This is playing into Apple tablet watch, but really, I don't see how a new connector makes a tablet any more or less possible. I can see how the dream of one tidy connector appeals to design-focused, some might obsessed, Apple.Here is the demonstration at the Intel Developer Forum:If you'd like a more technical overview,Jason Ziller, director of Intel's optical input-output program office, gives you a tour of the technology.
Supporters of Bletchley Park, home to crucial code-breaking work during the Second World War and birthplace of the computer, expressed delight today after outline proposals to overhaul the site were given approval by the Heritage Lottery Fund.Bletchley Park Trust has been awarded development funding to help prepare an application for a £4.1 million grant towards a £10 million restoration project including repairing key buildings, improving visitor facilities and expanding educational programmes.However Sue Black, a campaigner who has sought to gain heritage status – and funding – for the site, said that the award was "the end of the beginning for Save Bletchley Park, not the beginning of the end".On the social networking site Twitter, shepointed outthat the site "needs £10 million plus £250k per annum operational funding for five years. HLF [Heritage Lottery Fund] funding gives £500k plus hopefully £4m to come..."The site in Buckinghamshire was home to code-breaking work by early computers such as Colossus, believed to have shortened the Second World War by two years, saving countless lives. It has been open as a museum since 1994 but is in urgent need of repairs and maintenance work.The grant award comes after Prime Minister Gordon Brown earlier this month issued an apology to Alan Turing, the gifted mathematician at the heart of Bletchley Park's code-breaking successes, who committed suicide in 1954 after being found guilty of gross indecency with another man.Actor and author Stephen Fry said: "The news that Bletchley Park has the initial support of the Heritage Lottery Fund (HLF) is simply wonderful."And yet, what should the Heritage Lottery Fund do if not exactly this? As each year passes it is becoming clearer and clearer just how vital a role in winning the war Bletchley played."Carole Souter, chief executive of the Heritage Lottery Fund, said: "Bletchley Park is an extraordinary part of the UK's heritage."The Heritage Lottery Fund's initial support for the Trust's restoration plans demonstrates our belief that Bletchley's story should be much more widely known and appreciated."We also recognise the importance of preserving the site as a tribute to the men and women who worked there with quiet and tireless dedication during World War Two."Without their dedication, our nation's history might have been a very different one."Simon Greenish, director of the Bletchley Park Trust, said: "The support offered by HLF is a landmark event for the trust in our quest to provide a permanent solution for Bletchley Park in that we are now able to work up detailed plans to help ensure that it is developed and preserved for the education and enjoyment of future generations."
Uncharted: Drake's Fortune has always been my favourite PS3 game. Forget space marines, World War 2 and the usual gaming fodder. Here was an old-fashioned Indiana Jones/Tomb Raider/Hollywood style action romp that mixed great action – combat and platforming – with some surprisingly strong narrative. Plus it looked gorgeous – possibly the most beautiful game of this current console generation. The good news then is thatUncharted 2– due out on the 16th October – looks even better.Yesterday I met up with the developer Naughty Dog and was shown a level set on a moving train as it sped through the jungle. The visual excellence of the original had been amplified – the bright jungle setting and frankly gorgeous backdrops especially - but it was the pace that really impressed. Set piece – helicopters crashing into carriages – followed set piece as the level progressed. There also appeared to be more options for progression with fire fights avoided by sneaking or clever clambering around carriages.Naughty Dog were keen to talk up narrative, AI and how the game "maxed out" the PS3 and whereas normally you put this down to pre-release hype what I saw yesterday suggested they may have a point.  Online reviews should be hitting this week - a demo is released on the PSN today - but on initial impressions at least Uncharted 2 looks like something special.What do you think then? Uncharted 2 a must-buy for PS3 owners? Or did the original game pass you by?
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; In a move that could deal a huge blow to computer security vendors,Microsoftisset to launch its free Security Essentials suite on Tuesday. It's a replacement for the paid-for OneCare product that Microsoft used to sell - but the question that companies likeMcAfee and Symantec have said it won't be a major competitor.&bull; The decision byAppleto re-hire Michael Tchao - who previously worked on the Newton handheld back in the early 1990s, but has more recently been working on Nike+ - hascreated some interest, not least from the New York Times. Speculation, logically, tends towards a possible role in marketing tablet computer. But really, given that tablets have been entirely underwhelming for years, does Apple think marketing is the missing piece of the puzzle?&bull; If you haven't seenthis video tributeto the astronomer and pop-sci advocateCarl Saganthen you're missing out. Keep your eyes peeled at around 2.20, when Stephen Hawking makes a special appearance.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Orange signalled a Christmas price war yesterday as the mobile phone company prised the iPhone from the clutches of rival O2, which has had the Apple handset to itself under an exclusive deal for the past two years.It will join a host of other touchscreen mobile phones that will hit the British high street in the run-up to the festive season, all aimed at persuading British mobile phone users to surf the web, listen to music, access Facebook and Twitter and download applications such as games to newspapers.More importantly for the mobile phone networks, they hope the next generation of gadgets will convince cash-strapped consumers it is time to bin their old mobile, grab a new one and sign up to a long term contract.Since it partnered with Apple in the summer of 2007, barging Orange aside at the last minute, O2 has used the headline-grabbing phone to cement its position as the market leader in the UK, with 20.7 million customers. It has sold an estimated 1.7m iPhones, despite users having to sign up for at least a year and a half at a starting price of £44.05 a month if they want the phone for free.To get the newest iPhone with the largest memory – able to store tens of thousands of songs or dozens of full-length feature films or hundreds of applications – for nothing, consumers currently have to shell out £73.41 a month over two years.Orange, which made use of a two-year break clause in O2's contract with Apple, will not reveal its prices until closer to launch, but it is expected to undercut the current price.Even without any announcement on what the phone will cost, more than 65,000 people had registered for the iPhone within hours of Orange saying it had got it."This was right at the top of my list when I joined," said Orange UK's boss, Tom Alexander, who took up the post just after the company lost out to O2. "The Orange brand and the Apple brand and the type of customers that like the Orange brand and like the Apple brand are so similar and it has been so good for the O2 business that we really wanted it."He added that the sheer number of mobile phones that can access the internet that will be available for consumers to buy from this autumn will make it "a multimedia Christmas".O2, however, is expected to retaliate in any price war as it is understood to have renegotiated its deal with Apple. Certainly, O2 insiders maintained yesterday that the company had been preparing for an end to its exclusive hold for some time. It has already grabbed another hotly awaited handset, the Palm Pre, under an exclusive deal for the Christmas market.The iPhone is also likely to be available from at least one more mobile phone operator, with Vodafone understood to be close to signing its own deal with Apple, though it may not have the handset in time for Christmas.
BBC Four is booting up its shortElectric Revolutionseason tonight - a series of documentaries - and one drama - covering the consumer technology explosion. Afterlast week's Watchdog vs PS3 debacle, this is yet more required viewing for Gamesblog readers - though hopefully, it should be a much more positive experience.Tonight's offering isUpgrade Me, in which poet and novelist Simon Armitage analyses our obsession with gadgetry. The key stuff for us, though, begins tomorrow withElectric Dreams(21:00pm), in which the Sullivan-Barnes family from Reading is filmed experiencing life via three decades of contemporary gizmos. They spend a week in each era, using only the electrical products of the time: for the seventies (which forms the basis of tomorrow night's episode) that means a diet of Pong and top-loading washing machines; for the eighties, it'sBig Trakand the ZX Spectrum.As for the nineties... well, just wait and see who turns up with a PlayStation...Then at 10pm tomorrow, there'sGameswipe, Charlie Brooker's no doubt acerbic glance at game culture. I'm also looking forward to Micro Men, the 90-minute drama following the rivalry between Clive Sinclair and Chris Curry, each hoping to dominate the early eighties home computer market. Check out the trailerhere- Alexander Armstrong is absolutely uncanny as the ginger bearded creator of the ZX81.Interesting stuff, then - but not nearly enough of it. The BBC archives must be stuffed with fascinating technology and videogame reportage from the last thirty years - and surely notallof it is on YouTube. Famously, a BBC documentary crew was present when legendary 8bit development studio Imagine combusted (you can see the resulthere) - I'd love to see an update to that, catching up with where all the staff are now.Game culture is criminally neglected on TV - Electric Revolution is a promising undertaking, but it's a brief one.
Two billion applications have been downloaded from Apple's iTunes App Store in just over a year since its launch, the company announced today.With roughly 85,000 different apps now available, and around 50m iPhones and iPod Touches (capable of running the apps) in use around the world, the statistic confirms the importance of the store to the success of the iPhone - which in the UK will get an added sales boost once it goes on sale through Orange in competition with O2, which has previously had the exlclusive franchise here.And hey, here's an official quote: "The rate of App Store downloads continues to accelerate with users downloading a staggering two billion apps in just over a year, including more than half a billion apps this quarter alone," said Steve Jobs, Apple's CEO. "The App Store has reinvented what you can do with a mobile handheld device, and our users are clearly loving it."Of course, you could ask whether they'd be loving it slightly less if they had to pay for the overwhelming majority of those apps, rather than getting them for free; Mark Mulligan of Forresternotedthat "lt took Apple over 3 yrs to hit 2bn song downloads.  It took less than 1.5 years to hit 2bn app downloads".But of course, those 2bn song downloads will have brought in around $2bn in revenue (of which record labels get about $1.4bn and Apple gets the remaining $600m or so - which it's earned, don't forget, over three years, accelerating as it goes.For apps, the income is rather smaller because the average price is likely to be lower because so many of those downloads are freebies.That means thatclaims that the App Store is bringing in $2.4bn per yearlook vastly inflated (as that blog post points out). The proper number might be closer to $250m to $500m per year, of which Apple gets 30%, or $75m-$150m.Even so, that implies that the App Store is doing pretty well for something that's only a year old. If multiple phone carriers gooses that, the indications are that it will keep being a tidy money-earner - though nothing much compared to the actual hardware sales, which keep the coffers full.Update: Mulliganadds: "Lots of you [on Twitter] commented [that] many Apple apps are free. Very true. But also remember Apps only work on a quarter of all 212m [iPod] devices sold to date." Which suddenly makes it look like a much more promising market, doesn't it?
Man City and Spurs are adding some variety to the tediously predictable Premiership and the same thing is happening in the virtual football world.For the past decade or so, Pro Evolution Soccer (in all its guises) has played a far better game than the glitzy official licensed Fifa series. But in the past couple of years, things have changed. Fifa has radically improved, with an emphasis on simulation rather than arcade. Think gritty 1-0 away wins rather than the 5-4 goalfests of yore. PES, while still hugely entertaining, has stagnated with online play especially antiquated. Unless the forthcoming PES 2010 is a return to form, the trend looks set to continue as Fifa 10 is a winner.The key addition this year, and the main reason that Fifa 10 is so enjoyable, is 360-degree control. This gives a real fluidity to the previously rigid player movement, allowing skilful players the opportunity to weave past defenders or avoid tackles.  This is the closest yet to the "feel" that PES has always had and easily the main improvement on Fifa 09. Another area where Fifa has historically struggled is ball physics. While passes pinged and crosses hung in the air correctly on PES, Fifa's ball movement felt heavier and less satisfying. Not so now. Short balls zip and lofted through balls move accurately. Headers and some shots are still an issue though, with the occasional goalbound effort lacking the oomph you would expect.There are some other issues. Player models are as appallingly ugly as ever, while the commentary feels slightly off the pace at times. The management part of the game feels undercooked too. Also, the pace is much slower and more realistic than other football games and PES fans in particular may find it a bit too lethargic. New features such as adding your own face to a virtual player or creating bespoke set-pieces feel a little gimmicky, but on the pitch Fifa 10 plays a more fluid and expressive game than any other Fifa before it. PES 2010 has got it all to do.
With an indefinite wait till Halo 4, Bungie resorts to that old trick of a taking an anonymous minor character and spinning off a standalone episode to keep the fans occupied. In this case, it's an Orbital Drop Shock Trooper (ODST) referred to only as Rookie.Based on the Halo 3 engine – albeit now filled with a darker colour palate filled with stark red skies, skyscrapers and smoke rising from the ruins – it's a small but well-formed filler. And yes, the main news is that there's no sign of Master Chief, as the game is set before his return to Mombassa in Halo 3. Although fans might miss Halo's surly protagonist at first, in gameplay terms it makes ODST a more unexpected game. With a less powerful character, capable of wielding just a single weapon and surviving less in the way of falls, bullets etc, suddenly the type of skirmishes and foes that were breezed through in Halo 3 become deadly serious.Set-piece battles now take real skill, planning and stealth to survive – with formerly easy opponents like Hunters and Drones now posing much tougher challenges and Brute captains positively ferocious in their speed and determination. This is compounded by the fact that your Rookie has lost his ability to sprint as well as a shield, although he now has Stamina, which replenishes in much the same way before your health takes a more serious hit. The single-player game is basically a series of interesting flashbacks. As you come across artefacts left by your five ill-fated comrades, they trigger playable segments revealing what became of them. This takes you through the full gamut of weapons, vehicles and locations, all based around the familiar Halo hub-structure, albeit now played out in a totally free-form way enabling you to tackle the scenarios in any order.Of course, Halo has never been just about the single player element, and this time you get two beefy new multiplayer modes – a Campaign Co-Op and Firefight, where up to four players face off against endlessly increasing Covenant waves in closed arenas. Together they add significant mileage to what is undeniably a short single-player story. And ultimately, that's it. ODST is unmistakably Halo and while Bungie deserves credit for an inventive twist on the familiar engine and universe, £40 is still a lot for a standalone episode that single players will complete well within the first weekend, a limited number of new weapons and maps and a flurry of extra multiplayer tools. ODST is as polished impressive as you might expect but, for me, a tenner less would have merited a higher rating.
Orange's success in breaking into O2's exclusive deal to stock the iPhoneis expected to lead to a Christmas price war with the cost of the Apple handset coming down for UK consumers.It is also likely to be available from at least one more mobile phone operator, with Vodafone also understood to be close to signing a deal with Apple, though it may not have the device in time for Christmas. Executives at Vodafone, which stocks the iPhone in just under a dozen countries,have long maintainedthat they would like to get their hands on it in the UK.T-Mobile, whichhad been holding on-off talks with Apple for some months, is understood to have dropped out of the race.Orangeearlier announcedthat it will stock the latest version of the iPhone – the 3GS – in time for Christmas. Ithas refused to give any detail on pricing, but the Orange deal is understood to be less complicated than the one O2 signed in the summer of 2007 to gain its status as exclusive UK partner, and it is expected to undercut the current hefty price of the phone.Under O2's dealthe network had to share some of the revenuesit made from customers using the iPhone, with Apple. The Orange deal, in contrast, does not have any revenue-sharing component and as a result the company, owned by France Telecom, is expected to offer the iPhone at a cheaper price than O2.The basic 8GB version of the handset currently costs £96.89 for a customer willing to pay £29.38 a month under an 18-month contract, but is free for anyone willing to spend £44.05 a month for the same period. The largest 32GB device is £274.23 at £29.38 a month over 18 months and free only for someone willing to pay £73.41 a month over two years. This makes the total cost of the phones between £625.73 and £792.90 for the basic phone over 18 months, and between £803.07 and £1,761.84 for the 32GB phone over 18 months.Losing its exclusive grip on the iPhone is a blow to O2, which has used the phone to cement its position as the market leader in the UK over the past two years with its rivals consistently blaming the "iPhone effect" for the brand's success. O2 has 20.7 million UK customers and has sold an estimated 1.7 million iPhones in the UK.It has also provided a boost to Carphone Warehouse, which has been O2's exclusive independent retail partner. The company, Europe's largest independent mobile phone retailer, will also stock the iPhone for Orange. But in a note to staff this morning, Orange UK chief executive Tom Alexander suggested that more independent retailers may also get the phone."It'll be available in all of our Orange shops, online, and will also be available through some of our specially selected partner stores," he said.It remains unlcear, however, whether Orange's use of a two-year break clause in O2's five-year deal with Apple,originally revealed by the Guardian more than a year ago, has allowed the company to renegotiate its own terms and therefore retaliate in a Christmas price war.In other countries where Apple has released the iPhone to more than one network, its partners have not had to sign away some of the ongoing revenues they make from customers so it is unlikely that O2 is being kept to its original terms. Part of the reason for the change in tack at the Californian company is that the Apple iTunes store has been so successful in selling applications to iPhone users that these revenues are starting to replace revenues from the mobile networks.Certainly O2 insiders maintain that the company has been preparing for an end to its exclusive hold for some time. It has already grabbed another hotly anticipated handset under an exclusive deal for the Christmas market, butthe hefty price tag it has placed on that device– the Palm Pre – may put off many users.The breaking of O2's exclusive deal in the UK leaves the US as the only one of the original four markets in which Apple launched with just one operator after legal issues led to the German and French markets having to be opened up.
The Orange UK chief executive, Tom Alexander, has heralded as "a fantastic endorsement"his company's success in wresting the iPhone from the clutches of O2.In an internal memo to staff, Alexander added that the company, whichrecently announced a merger with rival T-Mobile, will have the device in stores in time for Christmas.But in his memo, a copy of which has been obtained by the Guardian, Alexander keeps his own staff guessing about the price which customers will have to pay to get hold of the Apple handset.The memo says:Great news. We've got the iPhone.It's one of the most sought-after phones by our customers, and is widely acknowledged as one of the best devices ever made in the history of mobile. And now it's on Orange.This is a fantastic endorsement of our company, our brand and you – the people who make it all happen.We'll be stocking the iPhone 3GS – that's the latest version of the iPhone – before Christmas. It'll be available in all of our Orange shops, online, and will also be available through some of our specially selected partner stores.That means our customers will be able to get their hands on one of the most exciting and sought-after devices around, on the number one network for 3G coverage – Orange.It means that our company will benefit from offering one of the best products around.And it means that we, as employees of Orange, will also soon be able to get our hands on this absolutely stunning device. As you'd expect, there's going to be huge demand from our customers, and we need to prioritise that, but we'll do our very best to get the device out to you as part of Orange offers as soon as we can.We're keeping the exact customer launch date and pricing a secret for now, but all will be revealed soon.I hope you're as excited as I am about today's news – it's another big day for Orange, and another big step toward fulfilling the plans we laid out in the agenda last summer.But things like this don't just happen overnight. It follows months of hard work and dogged determination from a small group of people who made it happen. So thank you to all of those people involved, and congratulations – you've pulled off something very special.And to everyone else who keeps this great company ticking over day in day out to make sure that each day is a special day for our customers – thank you. You are what makes Orange special. Let's keep it up as we head towards Christmas...... and bring on the iPhone from Orange.Cheers,Tom
O2's exclusive deal to support Apple's iPhone in the UK is to come to an end, after Orange announced today that it would also be selling the handset later this year.In a brief statement, Orange said it had agreed a deal with the Californian computer company to start selling the iPhone in Britain."Orange UK and Apple have reached an agreement to bring iPhone 3G and 3GS to Orange UK customers later this year," it said. "Orange, which has the largest 3G network covering more people in the UK than any other operator, will sell iPhone in all Orange direct channels including Orange shops, the Orange webshop and Orange telesales channels, as well as selected high street partners."The network did not reveal pricing plans or exact dates, but it has already put in placea websitewhere potential customers can register their interest.The deal comes as O2's two-year exclusive to provide service for the iPhone in Britain comes to an end.While the move was seen at the time as something of a risk - particularly since Apple is believed demanded a slice of revenues from sales and even monthly contracts - it has largely been seen as a success for the company, with O2 gaining more than 1m iPhone subscribers as Apple pushed on to sell more than 20m units worldwide.In fact, Britain is one of the few countries where the supply of iPhones is still limited to a single network. While the situation is mirrored in America, where telecoms giant AT&amp;T still has exclusive iPhone rights, the handset is available from different providers - or even unlocked - in a number of other countries.The Californian technology company is hoping that branching out to new networks will help it sell more handsets, while Orange is desperate to enhance its offerings ahead of aproposed merger with the UK arm of T-Mobile. That move would create the UK's largest mobile network, and would mean that the iPhone - often seen as an elite, high-end product - would be available to more than 49 million mobile users across Britain.
FIFA 10,PSP go, Gran Turismo PSP – this week has a stack of big releases and feels like the start of the Christmas rush.  Also coming out on Friday are Dead Space: Extraction for the Wii and sprawling RPGRisen. I'm optimistically holding out high hopes for Risen, mainly because console RPGs are increasingly rare. But, unless you've decided to cough up for the PSP go, the chances are it will be FIFA or GT vying for your cash this week. So what will it be?FIFA 10 is a decent upgrade on 09 – the 360 control is far more than a marketing bullet point – and Gran Turismo PSP is the most in-depth driving sim ever released on a handheld.  But what do you think? Planning to splash out this week or waiting for Modern Warfare 2 or PES? Me, I can't wait forBorderlands, the hugely promising open world shooter-roleplayer, which is out on the 23rd October.
Confucius's birthday has been marked by the search engine Google with another of its home page 'doodles'.The Chinese philosopher has joined Paris Hilton and Oscar Wilde in the latest Oxford Dictionary of Quotes, was brilliantly misquoted by Stewart and Guy Crump, the psychopathic trivia-loving twins in Steve Coogan's much-underrated 1995 seriesCoogan's Run, and his pearls of wisdom have probably been used at countless management seminars across the south-east.(David Brent didn't quote him, as far as we know; he preferred books on Native American wisdom, particularly if they contained aforward by Duncan Goodhew.)But it seems Confucius has made his mark on many. And perhaps we should all raise a glass - or maybe recite a gnomic philosophical axiom - for today, 28 September, marks the historic birth date of the legendary Chinese philosopher, teacher, ethicist and political thinker (551-479BC).And internet giant Google - after celebrating the birthdays of HG Wells, the 400th anniversary of the first public demonstration of Galileo's revolutionary telescope, and the 11th birthday of Google itself - has found time to mark this special anniversary with a special image, or Google doodle. The Google image has beentemporarily replaced with a picture of Confucius himself.The doodle is the latest in the recent rehabilitation of Confucius. His emphasis on moral order, the humanity and virtue of China's ancient rulers, and gentlemanly education, fell out of favour during the Cultural Revolution: Mao referred to his "stinking corpse", and ordered his Red Guards to destroy thousands of artefacts at his ancestral home.But over the last 20 years, the Communist party has welcomed many traditional Confucian ideas. AsTimothy Garton Ash says: "In China, Confucianism is back." A recent book on his classic text, the Analects, became a literary hit, explicitly Confucian private schools have sprung up, and the opening ceremony of the Beijing Olympics last year contained a key Confucian quote.And soon we'll be able to see our hero on the big screen. Anew film starring Chow Yun-fat- he of Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon fame - will hit cinemas to mark the 60th anniversary of Mao's revolution. The movie, whose working title is the reassuringly prosaic 'Confucius', has no confirmed release date. But of course, as the great man said himself: 'It does not matter how slowly you go, so long as you do not stop.'Happy birthday, Confucius.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
&bull; Hear that? It's the sound of a zillion iPods getting a tiny bit quieter, thanks to plans by theEuropean Unionto introduce a new limit on how loud MP3 players can get.Officials say the default limits should be lowerto protect the hearing of future generations, according to the FT.&bull; Big questions about former eBay chiefMeg Whitman, now that she's pushing to inherit the California governor's mansion from Arnold Schwarzenegger.This critical piece in Advertising Age boils down the arguments: yes, she presided over the immense growth of the auction website, but she also signed a crazy deal tobuy Skype - but not the underlying technology, let amultimillion pound scam take place on the siteand got out just before things crashed and10% of workers were laid off. We've argued before that Whitman's reputation doesn't match her track record: surely California needs somebody better.&bull; A weird collection of stuff around over the weekend, and - to be honest - not a great deal of it worth your time. The Wall Street Journal says that fans of the Dvorak keyboard layout are nowlobbying smartphone makers to offer the alternative to Qwerty on their handsets. Robert Scoble continues hiscrusade against Twitter's "suggested users list"by suggesting it needs to feature more geeks (including, no doubt, himself) - and, finally, I'm going to save you the bother of readingthis New York Times piece on whether Amazon will open the Kindle to third-party developersby giving you the answer: "probably not".You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Fans of football games and The Enemy (a band which I guess I'd be more aware of were I ten years younger or lived nearer to Shoreditch) will be pleased to hear that the band's new single, Be Somebody, will feature on Fifa 2010, released this coming Friday.The band, it seems, like playing Fifa when they aren't strumming their guitars or growing their hair - you can see them playing the game in the video above.'What's new?' I hear you shout. 'Who cares?' Well what makes this slightly different from Song 2 from Fifa 98 or that annoying song about Kennedy and King and something else from Pro Evo 09 is that both game and song are being released in the same week - cross-promotion on an scarily well-organised scale.While the use of films to sell music is now a well established part of the Hollywood blockbuster system (cast rappers to be in soundtrack, or have a single released which has a film trailer as a music video), music and games is a relatively untapped marketing avenue.If you think about how well you know the songs from your radio station of choice on GTA 4 for example (Fusion FM for me) it's easy to see how the real estate of your ears could be exploited.Of course, the fact that early consoles couldn't manage CD quality audio is a large factor in this tactic taking a while to catch on, but if you consider how likely the average gamer is to be a music fan it's surprising we haven't seen more of this type of cross-promotion. Cynical it may be, but if in-game music gets better as a result the consumer stands to benefit greatly.If EA succeed in getting both The Enemy and Fifa 2010 to the top of their respective charts next week, it's a practice we're bound to see much more of. What's to say that at this very moment Take That aren't writing a song with lyrics inspired by BioShock 2?
Last year will go down in history as the point at which the UK videogames industry pulled decisively away from cinema, recorded music and DVD sales to become the country's most valuable purchased entertainment market, with combined software and hardware sales topping the £4bn mark for the first time: more than DVD and music sales combined, and more than four times cinema box office takings.Industry insiders agree that the last few years have been something of a golden age for the videogame, with titles setting new records almost every other month for both sales and critical acclaim. On Thursday, the Tokyo Game Show, billed as the world's largest computer entertainment fest, kicked off, offering a glimpse into the future of entertainment. Meanwhile, the biggest gaming release of this month, Halo 3: Orbital Drop Shock Troopers, sold 2m copies worldwide on its day of release.Yet if videogames now self-evidently demand to be taken seriously as an industry, they still have a long way to go before they are also taken seriously as a medium. When critics look for an insult to throw at a film such as Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen, one of the first phrases on many lips is "it's like a videogame".Videogames may be economically formidable, but they remain a byword for crass, shallow thrills. A game, it's understood, can look spectacular, but it will have little to offer its audience in the way of values, insights or craftsmanship. It's a curious and increasingly untenable situation, given that, to the increasingly large percentage of the population who play them, games are rapidly establishing themselves as the single most exciting and vigorous creative industry around: a sector able to boast not only booming revenues and growing audiences, but a melting pot of talents and new ideas that is increasingly attracting some of the biggest-hitting figures in film, television and the other arts.Perhaps the biggest global headlines of all were made in 2008 by a British-produced game, Grand Theft Auto IV, which on 29 April took the title of the most successful entertainment release in history. Within 24 hours, GTA IV had grossed $310m (£157m) – comfortably more than history's most successful book (Harry Potter &amp; The Deathly Hallows, at $220m in 24 hours) and its most successful film (Spider-Man 3 at $117m).Despite this jaw-dropping success, however, few commentators paused to consider the kind of production that had made such a game possible. With a budget of around $100m, the game credited a production team of more than 550 people, plus almost double that number again of voice actors and performers used for motion-capturing virtual citizens. The result was anything but disposable: a product retailing at £50 intended to occupy players for up to 100 hours of open-ended exploration through a highly detailed virtual world. The scripted incidentals, some reviewers noted, wouldn't have been out of place in a primetime television slot, and they were almost right; if the in-game scenes didn't quite fit the TV mould, it's because they were fresher, funnier and braver.Grand Theft Auto IV may have marked a watershed in the public profile of games, but its level of sophistication and production values – albeit not quite its budget – has increasingly become the rule rather than the exception.The videogame industry is an area in which consumers are voting with their wallets and their eyeballs: audiences, according to recent surveys such as the Pew Internet &amp; American Life Project, are increasingly switching off their televisions and abandoning passive media for the kind of interactive experience that games are able to offer. Games consoles, too, are becoming not only a favourite device for play, but fully fledged media hubs that are used by the whole family, thanks to their ability to stream television services, play music and DVDs, offer social networking services and even record sound, video and motion. We've come a long way since the old days of teenage boys hunched over flickering screens in their bedrooms; and it's time that public perceptions caught up.It's not just money that is flowing into the games industry: it's talent and a sense of possibility, a combination that is rapidly tipping on its head the old media pecking orders. Take the hit game Ghostbusters, a product whose relationship with the two 1980s Ghostbusters films is rather more complex than the tacky spin-off fare that was standard for games even a decade ago. For a start, the game itself is based around an original script part-written by Dan Aykroyd and Harold Ramis, the writers and stars of the original films, and features the vocal talents of the entire original cast, not to mention motion-captured computer recreations of their 1980s appearances. The banter and visuals, in fact, are of a standard that comfortably exceed many beloved movies of the 1980s, much like the game's budget of more than $15m.What's perhaps most difficult to grasp from outside the games industry is the sheer complexity of the world-building process that modern titles require. Turning a major game from concept into reality demands thousands of hours of work by artists, animators, musicians, actors, writers and directors, as well as computer programmers and technicians. In a virtual world, everything must be created from scratch, from the tiniest sound effect or musical note to the light glinting off a virtual office building.There is no reality beyond the fiction the game itself generates, and this must be maintained at all costs. Yet the actual process of creating a virtual world is only the beginning for a game – and it's here, in the fact of their interactivity, that they begin to move beyond much of what takes place in other media.There is, in the games industry at the moment, a sense that boundaries are being broken every year. Take the increasingly important phenomenon of massively multiplayer online gaming, embodied above all in the phenomenally successful World of Warcraft. Such games involve not only the construction of online virtual worlds used by thousands of people simultaneously but, more crucially, the maintenance and development of these worlds: something that can approach the complexity of running a city, or even a small country. WoW now boasts more than 11 million paying players, and revenues in excess of $1bn per year.The science and the art of running a world like Warcraft in such a way as to keep players happily playing, and paying, is boggling in its complexity. Running a modern online game can involve employing professional economists and community architects dedicated to maintaining the balance and integrity of the game world and the billions of virtual goods earned, traded and sold within it every week.What's perhaps most staggering, though, is just how much growth the videogames industry has yet to come. Like the early days of cinema or television, gaming is a young medium, and one that is still growing. It will be another half-century before gaming is truly as "native" to almost everyone alive as cinema, television and recorded music are today.It has existed in a commercial form for less than four decades and is only just beginning to come into its own, expanding conceptually as well as commercially to answer both the increasing sophistication of its consumers (the average British gamer is now aged in their 30s) and the increasingly formidable aspirations of the people drawn to work within it.These are not only gamers or computer programmers: television producers, writers, actors, directors, musicians, even performance artists are flocking towards the medium. In 2008, for instance, Steven Spielberg was credited as lead designer on a game, Boom Blox, for the Nintendo Wii. This wasn't just a title he had been paid to dignify with his name; it was a game he had devised himself from first principles, and that was aimed at creating an interactive version of the kind of cinematic space he made his own – somewhere where parents and children come together to share a creative experience.Gaming increasingly has its own auteurs: creative directors and designers whose latest titles create much the same waves as Spielberg's or George Lucas's films did in the 1970s and 1980s. The name of Shigeru Miyamoto, creator of some of the best-selling games of all time, serves on its own as a promise of excellence.So, too, do names such as Will Wright – the creator of the Sims, the best-selling games series in history – or Cliff Bleszinski, who merited the unusual distinction of a profile in the New Yorker thanks to his role as lead designer on the "sensually overwhelming" title Gears of War. It's perhaps unsurprising that, in a recent MTV survey of teens in America, "videogames designer" came out as the top professional aspiration, ahead of the more traditional astronaut and movie star.Although the analogy may sound fanciful, there is an element of the Elizabethan stage about the games industry today: a coincidence of public taste with critical excellence in a young, booming medium where much is being done for the first time and is being reinvented on an annual basis. Not everything is excellent. But it's a peculiarity of the games industry and its high-cost products – retailing at an average of £35 each – that top-notch production values are not so much a bonus as an absolute requisite. Among the coming generation, it's a quality that already speaks for itself.Tom Chatfield is arts and books editor at Prospect magazine. His book Fun Inc: Why Games are the 21st Century's Most Serious Business (Virgin Books) is published on 14 January 2010 @ £12.99
Google is celebrating its 11th birthday today with another example of its famous Google 'doodles' - a special logo on its search front page. The internet giant has added an extra L to its name to form an 11, representing its 11 years as a company.However, there is some confusion over the exact date of the company's birth. Last year, Google put up its 10th birthday logo on 2 September and,according to its Wikipedia entry, it was incorporated as a privately held company on 4 September 1998.Google's 10th birthday doodle displayed on search page last yearThe world's favourite search engine, founded byLarry PageandSergey Brinwhile they were PhD students at Stanford University, could also choose to celebrate on 15 September, the day the Google domain name was registered.Google, whose name originated from a misspelling of the word 'googol' - a one with 100 zeroes -  may have been unable to celebrate its own birthday until now because it has been busy changing its famous masthead to reflect other anniversaries.Google used a series of three logos of flying saucers and Martian fighting machines tomark the 143rd birthday of War of the Worlds author HG Wells, who was born on 21 September 1866. And last month Google changed its logo into a telescopic doodle tomark the 400th anniversary of the first public demonstration of Galileo's revolutionary telescope.
The quest for the Holy Grail is generally regarded as a preoccupation of those of a religious or mystical bent. But in fact the community which suffers most from Holy Grail Syndrome is made up of geeks and early adopters who would never be seen within a mile of an altar.For Christians, the Grail is the cup, plate or dish supposedly used by Jesus at the last Supper. For the computing community it is the Tablet, a slim, lightweight device which combines significant computing power with the convenience of a paper notebook. And sightings – or rumours – of the mythical device provoke the kind of delicious excitement so masterfully exploited by the novelist Dan Brown.We had such a sighting last week, courtesy of the technology site Gizmodo (http://bit.ly/3ScSo) which had descriptions, photographs and even a video of an intriguing manifestation of the Tablet concept.It's called the Courier. At first sight, it looks just like a notebook, but when you open it you find two hinged screens with elegant, touch-driven interfaces. When you want them to behave like paper, they are happy to oblige; you can scribble and sketch away to your heart's content. But when you want them to behave like computers, then they do that too, enabling you to browse the web, compute with spreadsheets, manipulate images and pull in data from just about any application you can think of. Then when you're finished, you close the "notebook", put it in your bag and resume normal life.What made the Gizmodo scoop even more intriguing was its claim that the Courier is not just a concept but a real device under development in the bowels of a big, powerful corporation. But the thing that really caused a stampede for the smelling salts was the news that this company is, er, Microsoft! This was definitely not in the mystical Tablet script. It was as if Vladimir Putin had suddenly announced that the Kremlin had been in possession of the Holy Grail all along, and indeed that Lenin used to take his breakfast on it most mornings.The Keeper of the Tablet flame, you see, is supposed to be Apple, the home of everything cool in modern computing. There has been fevered speculation that the Tablet is what Steve Jobs and his designers would do next. One couldn't go to any gathering of the faithful without people whispering that Apple had been secretly placing large orders for 7-inch (or 9-inch or 10-inch) screens.The company's patent applications were scrutinised with an intensity previously accorded only to the Dead Sea Scrolls for evidence of interface technology (touch-screen, gesture-based) that would confirm that the Tablet was nigh. Kids with a mastery of PhotoShop were taking images of the iPhone and iPod Touch and producing pictures of what the Apple device would look like. And so on.So you can see why the revelation that the Evil Empire (aka Microsoft) might actually have some better ideas on the Tablet front has caused such discombobulation. It wasn't supposed to happen this way. And of course it might not: these are still early days. The Microsoft concept seems more ambitious, in a way, than what Apple is rumoured to have in the works, which will probably be an iPod Touch on steroids.And even if the Courier and the Apple device do eventually go head-to-head, what will determine the outcome will be mundane things such as which operating systems they use. Because Microsoft's co-founder, Bill Gates, was a strong believer in the Tablet-computing idea – and always used one himself – the company has been producing software for "Tablet PCs" for aeons. But these were very clunky devices, mostly laptops with reversible screens made by Taiwanese manufacturers. They were relatively expensive to buy and heavy to lug around. And they ran Windows, which meant that they were not exactly intuitive to use.Since Apple made its own hardware and produced more intuitive software, the assumption therefore was that, in the end, the Tablet market would be Jobs's for the taking. Maybe it will be. But this week's revelations about the Microsoft Courier have planted the first, tentative, thoughts in the minds of detached observers that the quest for technology's Holy Grail isn't over yet. All we need is for Dan Brown to take up the story.
With a typically surreal plot involving the King of the Cosmos building a robot king that accidentally eats all the stars, forcing you to repopulate them, Katamari Forever is like a greatest hits of the series. For the uninitiated, a katamari is a ball rolled by your tiny character, the Prince. Whatever he rolls over sticks to the ball, gradually increasing its circumference and causing even larger items to adhere to it until you're cheerfully rolling up picnic tables, zoo animals, people and an entire catalogue of household bric-a-brac. Adding spice to this formula, there's a rich diversity of level goals, from finding and trundling over specific objects or creatures, to rolling balls of a particular diameter or monetary value to dipping your katamari in water and using it to return plant life to a patch of parched earth. The mechanics of rolling around are at least as absorbing as ever and, while it's not difficult, scoring well certainly is, even if it's a strangely mellow experience getting there.• Namco Bandai, &pound;44.99
Traction Man is a poor soul confined to a British hospital bed from where he reports on his daily travails, mainly involving the cuisine. The NHS is under great pressure to reduce costs, but evidence here would suggest that little can be cut from the catering budget. The only explanation for giving patients food combos such as macaroni cheese and chips or samosas with mixed tinned veg must be that they are incentives to go home for a proper meal. Traction Man has been photographing these treats so we can share in his digestive turmoil and join him in games of Hospital Food Bingo. Elsewhere, he compares and contrasts the merits of Dickinson's Real Deal and Cash In The Attic, notes the decline of the bed bath and has a grumble at "Andy 'Max Factor' Burnham".
As a reaction to the technology age, crafting has become a popular trend in recent years. However, homemade creations from wool and wood are no longer of the variety that could be put to use (spice racks, tea cosies, etc). Instead, today's craft projects fall into one of three categories: owls, pointless crap or weird pointless crap (sometimes involving owls). It is the latter category with which this wonderful site concerns itself. Current crafting disaster highlights include a set of saucy knitted underwear, a horse (or possibly monkey) made from wire and, our favourite, useful when you can't find flowers, a bouquet made of salami. Readers can send in their own craft malfunctions or join in on Guess This Mess and caption competitions.
After the superb Ragdoll Blaster, Max Injury offers another opportunity to simulate appalling physical damage to a crash test dummy, this time in pursuit of the ultimate injury. In each of its eight levels, your dummy starts in a standing position from which you hurl it via the touch screen, or punch it using short swipes of your finger. Extra points are earned for hitting objects on the way down and particularly for severe cranial trauma, with impacts marked by a series of cartoon twangs, crunches and frying-pan-to-the-head clangs. While the global leaderboards won't do much for your self esteem, beating your own scores becomes an obsession as you take tactical advantage of each level's dramatically different construction to do as much damage as possible as momentum takes its toll on the long, bumpy, slow-motion fall to the bottom.• Box Shaped Games, 59p
In exactly the form set out by its predecessor, Marvel: Ultimate Alliance 2 sees you wander from room to room with your team of four superheroes, feverishly mashing buttons until all faceless henchmen are dead, before occasionally employing the same tactic on a supervillain or two.Once again, the role-playing elements see you upgrading your team, unlocking new heroes and shopping for new abilities; in fact the only significant difference is this game's combination fusion powers set off by two characters together and more often than not resulting in screen-filling eye candy. Patches of mildly interactive dialogue notionally let you select an aggressive, defensive or diplomatic answer, although in reality they're all equally smart-arsed. The resulting game, while mildly engaging, constantly manages to feel like less than the sum of its faintly creaky parts. Batman: Arkham Asylum proved that superhero games don't have to be rubbish, but Marvel: Ultimate Alliance 2 reminds us that mediocre is still the more common order of the genre.• Activision, &pound;29.99-&pound;49.99
Twitter today confirmed reports of a fresh $100m investment in the company, by announcing that it has closed what it called a "significant round" of funding.In apost on the company's blog, co-founder and chief executive Evan Williams said that the three-year-old internet startup had received a new injection of money from four investors - though he did not confirm the size of the deal."It was important to us that we find investment partners who share our vision for building a company of enduring value," he said. "I'm proud of the team we've built so far and I'm confident in the future we'll build together."It heralds the latest march forward for the highly-regarded startup, which now has more than 30m users worldwide using its service to send each other short messages through the web and their mobile phones.The site's growth has been boosted by celebrity users including Britney Spears and Ellen DeGeneres, as well as many prominent British figures such as musician Lily Allen and theprime minister's wife, Sarah Brown. as it attempts to find a business model that it hopes will propel it to profitability.The company has now raised $155m over the course of four investment rounds, and has said that it plans to start rolling out money-making services in the coming months - including commercial accounts for businesses and brands - as well as saying it wanted to "leave the door open" on advertising opportunities.It recently brought in a new chief operating officer, hiring former Google executive Dick Costolo earlier this month, as it attempts to expand even further and make its service more widely available. Costolo had been with the internet giant for two years, since selling his own startup, FeedBurner, to Google in 2007 for a reported $100m.
Stan Lee led the American comic book revolution in the 1950s and 1960s as president of Marvel Comics. Under his astute stewardship he built a strong and loyal fanbase for a host of groundbreaking titles such as the Incredible Hulk, Iron Man, the X-Men and the iconic Spider-Man series. He also was responsible for turning Marvel Comics into the giant multimedia corporation it is today. The veteran publisher talks to us about Marvel Ultimate Alliance 2, the latest videogame featuring his stable of characters …What was the role you played in developing Marvel Ultimate Alliance 2?In all honesty I'm not involved with the development. Activision deserves 100% of the credit. But when the game is done they show it to me, and I'm usually so impressed that I tell them, next time you have one of these conventions you'd better have me there so I can talk about it.What do the characters get up to in Ultimate Alliance?It has more characters than I have ever seen, more characters that you yourself can take the identity of. You can play it with three other people, and I think it has 150 different ways of having fusion with their powers. It's based on a theme from Marvel Comics about the superhero wars where the superheroes fought each other. They use their powers exactly the way they do in the comics, yet it's highly original and a new experience.Did you have any idea back when you were creating them that in 2009 these characters would be living on in this way?I'd love to be able to sit here and say, "Oh sure, I knew these things were destined for greatness," but no, I had no idea at all. We were sat in this dusty little office, the artists and me and we were drawing them and writing them and we just hoped people would buy the magazines. That was as far as our aspirations went.If you were starting out now, do you think you would have started out in games rather than comics?If I were young now and I wanted to do stories, I would very much want to get into the videogame business because it's the most exciting. Videogames and movies are the most exciting forms of entertainment. But a videogame in a way is more imaginative, it has more variety. In a movie you stick to the plotline, in a videogame you go in a million different directions. I have no idea how they're able to do that. It's like a miracle.What advice would you give to a newcomer?Well it's like anything else, if he or she wants to be a writer they should first study writing. Don't study comic writing, study writing – read literature, read the best writers you can find. Learn the language, learn how to use it. If you want to be an artist, you've got to study the best artists in the business and try to draw as well as they do. But too many people try to become artists in comics and they're not as good as the ones that are presently drawing the comics.Are you working on any other projects?We have a new company called Pow! Entertainment. The only thing I can give away is we have three movies in development at Walt Disney.Have you been surprised by the way recent superhero movies have reinvigorated the comic book genre?It doesn't surprise me at all. There is still nothing that can take the place of a comic book, just as nothing can really replace a videogame, or a movie, or a double-rich ice cream sundae!What do you think is the greatest misconception about comic books?The fact that it isn't really literature. As far as I'm concerned, a really great comic-book story is every bit as creative and important as a great story done in any other form of the media.Of all the comic-book icons, you seem to be one of the most recognisable personalities. Do you cultivate that?Somehow anonymity seems to have eluded me. Since becoming Marvel's editor in what feels like a zillion years ago, I always tried to talk up Marvel and promote all our stories and writers and artists, and in so doing, I guess I became like the figurehead for the company. So, like it or not, I've been the Marvel spokesman for decades – and after all this time, I think I've managed to get used to it.Which character did you wish you had created?I wish I could've created all of them. Imagine how great it would be to say, "Oh yeah, Superman is mine and I dreamed up Batman when I had some spare time!" I've always liked offbeat characters, so it would have been nice to have created DC's Lobo, and I wish that I could have dreamed up Wolverine. Another favourite of mine is Jack Kirby's Darkseid.Which of your characters is the most like you?They all are. When writing about a character, the only way to make him empathetic and believable is to imagine that you are that character. All of them are representative of me – especially Irving Forbush.You recently announced a TV project concerning a gay superhero. How's that progressing?So far it's looking real good.&nbsp; We're waiting for the final decision from the network.How much of a difference has it made now that Marvel is able to make its own movies?A great difference. Nobody knows our characters or what makes them popular as well as Marvel. Now that they have complete control of the movies it's certain that each production will be as true to the characters as possible.•Marvel Ultimate Alliance 2is out now
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?Probably, I'm sorry to say, guilty of being a cult member, my iPhone.When was the last time you used it, and what for?What time is it? I used it five minutes ago, to read these questions. I used it to find my way here, wherever that is. I used it to repel mosquitoes (really).What additional features would you add if you could?Something that made it look like another device, so people wouldn't say, "Oh, you're in the CULT ..."Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I think the concept of "10 years" will be obsolete in 10 years' time.What always frustrates you about technology in general?The fact that when I yell, "Fuck you, why are you doing that?," I never get an answer.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?Yes, I bought a primitive DVR to work with my kick-ass satellite dish in Los Angeles, and it never worked. Not once. And the guy who custom-designed it for me went out of business shortly after it arrived on my doorstep.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?Read the freaking manual.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?A nerdite.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I guess my first laptop, in the early 90s, about $2,500.Mac or PC, and why?Mac, because it's easy.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?Both. I bought three CDs today at Sister Ray's: Os Mutantes, Soul Savers, and Soundtrack of our Lives.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I don't even think real butlers are a good idea.What piece of technology would you most like to own?My automatic Guardian questionnaire question-answerer.•Harry Shearer is best known for providing the voices of half the characters on The Simpsons, and as one third of the legendary four-piece heavy metal band Spinal Tap. The live concert DVD ofUnwigged and Unplugged - An Evening With Christopher Guest, Michael McKean and Harry Shearer, performing songs from This is Spinal Tap, A Mighty Wind and more, is out now.
After what feels like a million interviews, you've finally gotten a job. You're still on probation, but it seems like a nice place, and there's a salary. When you were hired, though, it was mentioned that things are pretty tight.While working on a new project, you notice that the expensive software it employs flashes up a licence splash screen... suggesting that it's actually licensed to somewhere completely different. Yup, it's a pirated copy.To add to the discomfort, the reason you're using this software - in fact, the reason you were hired - is because you know it really well: you used to work at the company that made it, where piracy levels led to the last round of cost cuts that pushed you out of the door.You could report this company anonymously to theFederation Against Software Theft. The fines might put the company out of business, or reduce the number of people it can employ. Or you could turn a blind eye, which means your former co-workers aren't getting paid for their effort.If it were you - what would you do?
Did Apple hold up the appearance of the 0870 application for the iPhone in the iTunes App Store because of lobbying by O2 and BT - which wanted to protect the lucrative income they could get from the higher-rate calls rather than landline calls?That's the accusation being made at theTelegraph's blog.O2 has denied that it blocked it: a spokesperson told  Guardian Technology "We have no problem with the app at all... We didn't hold it up."The 0870 app, as shown in the iTunes App StoreAt issue is the 0870 application written bySimon Maddox, which has been available on Google's Android platform for, oh, about a year. But it had been sitting in Apple's App Store approvals queue for, oh, about the same length of time. Why? No answers. Apple doesn't do "answers" to explain delays; it barely does them for its rejections of apps.But the 0870 app has finally appeared on the iTunes App Store. (Here's thedownload link- opens in iTunes.) And it's popular (going by the ratings for the app), of course, since it saves people money.The app, which finds standard landline (non-087x//084x) numbers as alternatives to the pricier ones (which won't be included in the O2 package if you're on an iPhone, meaning calls to those numbers won't be part of your inclusive minutes), wasn't rejected. It just wasn't approved. Thismay remind you of Google Voice, which Apple has said it didn't reject. It's just "considering" it. The effect, of course, is the same.O2 is (in effect) blaming Apple for the holdup. In a statement to Guardian Technology, the company said: "We can confirm that O2 was first contacted about the iPhone 0870 app in September this year.  We asked for more information on what it would do and confirmed within two days of the initial contact that we would not have a problem with the app."The accusation is that O2 - and/or BT - didn't like the idea of people actually (gasp!) saving money. Even though they could, of course, have gone on to thesaynoto0870.comsite on their iPhone and found the landline number (using O2's data service, which they get free) and then made the call - which would actually work out more expensive to O2, because it would mean a data lookup as well as the call. (But of course not everyone would use the website if they didn't have the app - just as there will still be people who, even though the app is free, won't realise it's there. Do tell them, won't you?)O2's claims do however fit in with Maddox's experience. Two days ago, Maddox wasat a low ebb: "Well, it's official. 0870 will NEVER be on the iPhone App Store. Will be releasing it for Cydia soon." He added that he had an (unofficial) Apple response from a source inside the company who said: "I've finally gotten word from O2 that neither they, nor anyone at BT, would be happy about this service."Yet two hours later he was told that O2hadapproved the app - which just left it up to Apple. And very soon, the app was in store.So the question now is: did Apple lose it down the back of the sofa? Did it think that it would protect its telco partner in the UK by delaying the app? The case isn't quite closed. But iPhone users, just like Android users, can at least avoid one of the big money-spinners for the telecoms industry of recent years.
Online security experts have called for greater efforts to protect internet users, amid rising concerns that adverts on popular websites are being used by criminals as a way to target unsuspecting web users.The calls come after a spate of so-called "malvertising" attacks - in which fake ads are placed on well-known websites as a way to reach millions of people through names they trust. Sites hit by a series of recent strikes include the New York Times and Horoscope.com, each of which receive millions of visitors every day.Unlike traditional spam or virus attacks, which rely on victims clicking on a link in an email or mistakenly downloading an infected program, malvertising attacks are often hidden on popular websites and can sometimes even inject malicious code directly to a computer as soon as the target sees the compromised commercial."This is a growing problem," said Graham Cluley, a consultant with online security firm Sophos. "Hackers are making more and more use of ad networks to distribute their attacks to users visiting legitimate well-known sites.""These are not random attacks. When they infect third party ad networks they may not know precisely which website will end up displaying their ads - but, frankly, they don't care about that.  The important thing for them is that they get eyeballs."Malvertising was first identified by security experts several years ago, but the growing breadth of online advertising has made it more attractive to criminals as a way to reach millions of web users quickly and easily.A string of incidents in recent weeks have stepped up concerns, including attacks last weekend where popular sites including rightwing news service the Drudge Report were hijacked by criminals. The attackers succeeded in placing malicious ads through Google's DoubleClick service, which were then syndicated around a range of different sites.The previous weekend, readers of the New York Times - the world's biggest newspaper website - were subjected to a malvertising attack after hackers posed as a legitimate company in order to buy advertising space.While the incidents are embarrassing for those companies which get caught out, they pose a very serious threat to the readers of those sites - many of whom are not running up-to-date virus protection."Attackers use online ads for the same reasons a legitimate company would do so," said Mary Landesman of web security firm ScanSafe."When an attacker can infiltrate an advertising network, it enables them to reach a broad number of websites within a chosen category. This provides the attacker with the same return on investment that it would a legitimate advertiser – broad exposure to the audience of their choosing."Among those lobbying for more awareness of the problem is Google executive Eric Davis, who heads up the company's anti-malvertising team. He told a security conference in Geneva yesterday that greater cooperation was required from internet providers to prevent the problem spiralling out of control."The internet service providers are in the best position to detect infected machines," he told the audience at Virus Bulletin conference. "They already have monitoring systems that could be used to identify signs of malware and botnet activity."Other companies are taking more direct action: last week Microsoft filed a series of lawsuits against suspected malvertisers who used its services."Although we don't yet know the names of the specific individuals behind these acts, we are filing thee cases to help uncover the people responsible and prevent them from continuing their exploits," said Microsoft associate general counsel Tim Cranton.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox
Earlier this week I linked tothe horrendous Windows 7 'party' video, which tickled our funny bones for all the wrong reasons.In the comments, a few people suggested that it was a triumph of marketing because, after all, we were talking about it. That's rather optimistic, isn't it?Best response was from RCroasdale: "People also talked about Harold Shipman, but it didn't make me join his surgery."A few others suggested it was actually a spoof. Were they right? Well, I think that would only count if Microsoft had a sense of humour that is drier than the Sahara - in my experience, it doesn't have much of a sense of humour at all.But let's be fair - it wasn't like the car crash commercial in question was intended to be a widely-viewed TV ad promoting Windows 7 to the general public. No, it was just an attempt to prime the pump for those Microsoft fans who might want to evangelise the software to their mates.Those mitigating circumstances, however, That doesn't mean, however, that Microsoft hasn't produced some corkingly bad adverts in its history. So let's take a trip down memory lane...1986: Steve the salesmanThese days, Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer is known as a hot-headed, testosterone-pumped spokesman for the company. But he started off as a hot-headed, testosterone-pumpedsalesmanfor the company, pitching new products to retailers and the public. Back in 1986, he led from the front with a spot for Windows 1.0 that aims squarely at the world of late-night ads and infomercials."And can you believe it, REVERSI?" he screams, his eyes bugging out and his sports jacket no doubt drench with spittle. "All these features and Reversi all for just... how much did you guess? $500? $1,000? Even more? No, it's just $99 dollars! That's right!"Somehow I can't imagine him doing anything else.1988: W-w-w-Windows 386Forget Michael Jackson's Thriller - this 12 minute promotional tape (sent to retailers in as a way to show them what Windows 386 could do) is possibly the best video of all time. This is an edit that covers the basics - including some convoluted, boring plotline (Windows saves the day!) - but the real excitement comes when mild-mannered administrator Linda starts singing about the virtues of Windows 386.After rapping away to herself for a minute or so, Linda launches into some drug-crazed 1980s song that runs through some of the system's convenient multitasking and compatibility features, with the memorable refrain to "Stand back, William, stand b-b-b-back - Windows 386 is on the ATTACK!"1995: Rolling strongI admit it: there's nothing embarrassing about this advertising campaign for Windows 95, featuring a montage of people getting maximum excitement from their computers to a soundtrack of the Rolling Stones' Start Me Up. But it's worth watching just to remind yourself that Microsoft ads don'thaveto be rubbish. And just when you're thinking that, take a look atthis Windows 95 ad.2008: Bringing in the big boysSkipping forward a little, we have last year's attempt to mix things up by having Bill Gates (who had, by this time, retired from day to day work at Microsoft) appear alongside comedian Jerry Seinfeld, who was reportedly paid $10m for his appearance in a trio of ads. The campaign's creators said it was a "teaser" that was meant to "get the conversation going again about what Windows means in people's everyday lives". Instead, it left millions of people confused and the campaign was axedjust a couple of weeks later.2009: OMGIGPWarning: you're probably best not watching this one while munching that Pret-a-Manger sandwich al desko.This isn't a Windows advert; it's promoting the Internet Explorer web browser. And it was only ever released online (for obvious reasons). Presumably intended to appeal to the gross-out frat brigade, instead it ends up feeling fake, forced and very, very wide of the mark.Trivia fans may like to know that it was directed by American comedian Bobcat Goldthwait - better known for his pioneering Hollywood work asZed in Police Academy 2,3 and 4.
The judge overseeing Google's controversial agreement with American publishers to digitise millions of books has delayed a hearing into the $125m deal - effectively shutting down the settlement and sending it back to the drawing board.Instead of proceeding with the internet giant's plans to make millions of in-copyright books available online and take a slice of the proceeds - a dealfirst announced last year- the groups will now go back and renegotiate the settlement in way that satisfies critics including the US Department of Justice.A hearing into the existing deal had originally been scheduled for early October, as the court prepared to rule on whether the settlement was fair or not. However, followingobjections posed by Washington, the groups involved in the deal had said they needed more time to re-work the agreement.New York district judge Denny Chin, who is overseeing the case, said on Thursday that the parties would be granted their request to return  to the negotiating table to work out more details."The current settlement agreement raises significant issues, as demonstrated not only by the number of objections, but also by the fact that the objectors include countries, states, non-profit organisations and prominent authors and law professors. Clearly fair concerns have been raised," he wrote in atwo-page order.He added, however, that there was substantial public benefit to be gained from the deal and that future tweaks would be dealt with as quickly as possible."The proposed settlement would offer many benefits to society, as recognised by supporters of the settlement as well as the Department of Justice. It would appear that if a fair and reasonable settlement can be struck, the public would benefit."The case had proved one of the most controversial in recent memory, creating atidal wave of criticismfrom a wide variety of groups, including authors, publishers,advocacy groupsandgovernments in Europe.The criticisms were varied. Some groups were unhappy that the deal effectively turned copyright law on its head, since those who did not want to be subject to it had to opt out of the agreement rather than opt in. Others said the specific terms of the deal would effectively hand Google a monopoly.Some, meanwhile, had more obviously commercial motivations for opposing the deal: technology companies such asAmazonandMicrosoftopposing the deal as "susceptible to abuse".In Europe, concerns were raised since the deal could have significant global implications, despite only theoretically applying to the US.Google had tried to head off those criticisms byassembling its own alliance of supporters, including Japanese electronics giant Sony and a number of groups who backed the wider availability of information promised by the book scanning project.The Californian internet company said that it intended to continue pursuing a deal, while the Authors Guild - which was one of the groups that agreed to the settlement - said the details would eventually be thrashed out."We'll continue to work on amending the settlement to address the Justice Department's concerns," it saidin a statement on its website.
&bull; After bickering on all sides, the controversialGoogle Bookssettlement has been shelved for the time being, after a federal judge in New York granted a request from both sides to renegotiate the deal.&bull; Mixed fortunes for some of the industry's biggest names as they try to push through the recession: a slightly under-parHewlett Packardsaid that it thinkstechnology spending will bounce back next year, whileResearch in Motionmissed its targets andsuggested the future could be tougher than expected.&bull; Don't know if you've seen this one already - but with the weekend coming, I thought that it managed to be absurd and geeky enough to warrant sharing: The team behind new rapid prototyping toolmbedmbed took one of those irritating Big Mouth Billy Bass singing toys andreplaced the "brain" with a Twitter-friendly microcontroller. The result?Now it says whatever you send it. It's likeNabaztag, but more fun.You can follow our links and commentary each day through Twitter (@guardiantech, or ourpersonal accounts) or by watching ourDelicious feed.
Dotcom darling Twitter is close to securing a cash injection of $100m (£62m), with executives due to complete a surprise funding round that would see the total value of the much-hyped Californian company quadruple to an estimated $1bn.More than half a dozen investors – including some existing backers – are understood to have lined up to pump even more cash into the three-year-old San Francisco-based startup, despite the fact that it has yet to make any money.Twitter tonight refused to comment on the deal, but it is believed to have secured cash from new investors Insight,  a New York venture capital firm, and the mutual fund T Rowe Price. Existing investors Spark Capital and Institutional Venture Partners have also put in more funding, through it was unclear whether the site's other existing backers, Benchmark Capital, Charles River Ventures or Union Square Ventures, had also done so.The move comes just seven months after Twitter, which allows people to post 140-character messages to each other through the web or mobile phones, raised $35m in a deal that valued the business at $255m, and is another indication of the phenomenal growth of the micro-blogging company. It catapults Twitter into the big league of recent Silicon Valley fundraising, although it still lags some way behind its rival Facebook.In May, the Russian internet company Digital Sky Technologies snapped up a small stake in Facebook for $200m, in a deal that valued the social networking site at $10bn, even though it too has yet to make a profit.Facebook has about 300 million users and Twitter a tenth of that number, but the latter has been winning the headline battle in recent months, generating acres of coverage for the way it allows people to connect with each other.Twitter's rapidly increasing valuation makes an imminent takeover less likely, particularly since the company has turned down substantial offers from Facebook and Yahoo in the past.The option to float on the stockmarket, meanwhile, is still a pipe dream as long as the company has no obvious way to make money from its services.The latest round of funding does, however, give Twitter a war chest with which it could attempt to acquire and find a way to create revenue. In doing so, it would follow the model set by Google, which had no way of generating profit from its popular search engine until it bought another startup, Applied Semantics, in 2003.That acquisition gave Google access to technology that formed the backbone of its advertising system, which became a huge success and helped to turn its founders into overnight billionaires when the company went public in 2004.Earlier this year,Twitter's co-founder, Biz Stone, told the Guardianthat the decision to buy the search outfit Summize had already proved a significant turning point for the messaging startup, but that he did not necessarily think the company needed to mimic the size of Google, Yahoo or even Facebook in order to be successful. "Do we need to be a company of thousands? Maybe not," Stone said. "Maybe we can be a company of hundreds and still bring Twitter to a huge number of people around the world."
Four months after struggling Palm tried to pick itself up with the American launch of the Pre handset, we now know when it will be available in Britain - and how much it will cost.O2, the country's largest mobile network, has anexclusive dealto supply the Pre in the UK, said the gadget will go on sale on October 16 - andunveiled the tariffsearlier today.O2's Palm Pre tariff pricingEssentially, you can get the Pre - asmart little handset that gives the iPhone a good run for its money- for free, if you spend at least £44 each month on your bill... or if you decide to pick it up on a two-year contract.Subsidies are always complicated of course (the total cost of ownership is easy to calculate in pure financial terms, but that doesn't tell the whole story) but perhaps the most interesting point is that this isprecisely the same cost structure that O2 offers for the iPhone 3G.That makes sense for O2, which doesn't want to subsidise too heavily and is able to position the Pre as a high-end option - and doesn't have much budget for marketing, since it spends all that money on the iPhone.But that fine line for O2 is a problem for Palm, which isdesperate for sales of the Pre to pick up and give it some breathing room. Perhaps that is part of the reason why Palmrecently made the confusing predictionthat sales would drop over the next three months, despite the European launch and the Christmas rush (traditionally a good sales period for the mobile industry).Still, while the prices might disappoint some customers, it will be interesting to see how this plays out. Is it enough to tempt you to buy a Pre? Are these prices way off base?
Sony have cleared up one of the main issues surrounding the new download only PSP go by announcing an "upgrade" incentive for older style PSP owners with extensive disc collections. Yes, and you probably already know this, Sony are giving away three downloads to any PSP owner (assuming you have at least one game on UMD, which you do – right?).  The catch? Well your choice islimited to 17 gamesand the quality is variable. Some of them are decent – Wipeout, Daxter – but not many are recent. In fact chances are you've already played plenty of them. Free game can never be sniffed at of course, and this, along with the free launch offer of Gran Turismo, will tempt some. But will it tempt you? Or is the go simply too pricey?*Friday update* - this reward scheme is for EU only. It isnot available in the US.  Is this the first time Europe has had a better deal than the US? But is it enough to tempt you?
There are plenty of things to hate about the early levels of Marvel Ultimate Alliance 2. For the first few hours, not much happens aside from a heavy-handed tutorial, a spot of clumsy plot exposition and a lot of awfully repetitive button-bashing fights to plough through in some not-particularly-interesting environments.There's also a rather unsavoury tone stemming from the large role given to Captain America, Marvel's embodiment of knuckle-headed jingoism, who in the first level leads his whooping crew of superhero buddies on an overseas jaunt to beat up some swarthy foreigners, like some kind of awful costumed stag do. However, after this poor start, Ultimate Alliance slowly reveals itself to be really very good indeed.Like its predecessor, MUA2 is an action role-playing game with the emphasis heavily skewed in favour of action. The bulk of the gameplay involves guiding a team of four playable characters through linear levels populated by scores of angry henchmen and bosses. Viewed in a dungeon crawl perspective, with no zoom function on the camera and dozens of characters on screen, it can often be difficult to tell exactly what's going on in the middle of a fight, leaving no option but to hit your attack buttons wildly and hope for the best. Nevertheless, with a bit of perseverance the fighting mechanic becomes increasingly satisfying. With the ability to switch between each of your team members at any time, a strategic element emerges in assessing which character's attack moves are best suited to take down the enemy at hand. Better still, there's a range of "fusion" attacks to be perfected, in which two characters are teamed together for a bigger hit against foes.Aside from its well-balanced learning curve (initial drudgery aside), the game's major strength is its plot. Based on the 2006 Civil War story arc penned by Mark Millar, it sees Marvel's roster of superheroes pitched against each other when the US government decides to impose a Superhuman Registration Act. In Watchmen-esque style, all masked vigiliantes are forced to sign up to a register, agreeing to work with in line with government restrictions, or else break the law and go underground. Here's where the RPG elements come to the fore; it's up to the player to research the various arguments for and against abiding by government rules, and then decide whether to join the goody-two-shoes side led by Iron Man, or a breakaway rebel faction led by the execrable Captain America. It's an ingenious premise that forces the player to give some serious thought to the outcome of their decisions, as well as giving the potential for several fanboy-pleasing clashes between some of Marvel's biggest stars.Although in no way a perfect game, Marvel Ultimate Alliance 2 deserves at least a few hours of your attention to get past the initial flaws and discover some good, potentially addictive, gameplay. For the very dedicated only there's some average side missions and achievements to slog through, but most players who pick it up will surely enjoy the fleeting cameo appearance of a certain Mr Stan Lee, co-creator of such celebrated Marvel characters as Spider-Man, The Incredible Hulk and Daredevil. (Not Captain America though. That was someone else's fault.)
Do you crave an obsessively realistic simulation of real-life driving, right down to the finest details? For example, would you be aroused if I told you that for a Ford RS200 Evo 2 4WD Division 2 Rallycross to spin while negotiating the Nürburgring's Carousel at 88 miles per hour, factoring in a crosswind, the weight of the driver's lunch and the drag coefficient of the windscreen wiper requires an imbalance of at least 1.1G between the vehicle's front and rear axes?If you are, I'm afraid you're going to have to wait to get your ultra-realistic-driving-simulator kicks until either Gran Turismo 5 comes out or you buy yourself a real car. Complex and adjustable logarithms for axle-flex and tyre-wear, along with everything else that comes with the geek-racer genre, are not what the Need for Speed series has ever been about.To be fair, this one is trying. It certainly looks real enough, especially from the much-exulted in-car view, in which you can move your head about to look left and right, and see the little driver on the screen change gear when you change gear. The screen goes blurry when you crash, too, which sounds annoying but is in fact incredibly satisfying. It sounds pretty real, too. The engine noises are spot on: I'm not sure whether they sampled each car separately or if they're faked, but either way they are satisfyingly loud, and while there may not be the frankly nerdy number of cars GT5 is promising, the several there are here have been lovingly modelled, and look great once I've painted them pink and covered them with tribal markings.You can also tinker with your car, fiddling with things like the tyre pressures and the toe-in angle of your front wheels. My nerd alarm rang, but it's very well judged: the predicted effect of your inexpert messing about is explained in layman's terms as you go, so you don't accidentally set your car up to shed all four wheels after half a mile. Expecting not to be able to tell a difference after having been baby-sat through the tuning process, I was pleasantly surprised when I found that I really could. The game lets you set your car up however you like it, and even twiddle it for different track conditions, without needing a postgraduate degree in mechanical engineering. Which, as anyone with a postgraduate degree in engineering will have guessed after reading the first paragraph, I do not have.It is lucky that all these attempts at reinventing NFS as a geek-racer has not translated that much to the actual driving experience. It is hard enough, once you whack up all the difficulty settings and put everything in "manual", to hold the interests of the serious geek-racer enthusiast for a little while, but it is forgiving and intuitive enough for the amateur to have fun without being alienated by obsessive, and oppressive, realness. The easy setting is quite ridiculously easy, and the points system is so generous that you can drive like you're holding the controller in boxing gloves and still rack up a hundred thousand stars, badges, style points or one of a silly number of other prizes to progress.Shift is a jack-of-all trades. It doesn't go as far as the hyper-detailed and gruellingly realistic Gran Turismo games, but in making overtures to the geek-racer crowd it has allowed itself to mature slightly.
Nintendo UK says that it has cut prices for the Wii, just as has been done in the US - but that it's up to retailers whether you'll actually see that difference when you come to hand your cash over.Following the news ofbig price cuts in Japan and the US- the price of the machine would fall by ¥5,000 (£33) in Japan and drop from $249 (£152) to $199 in America - Nintendo UK has insisted that over here the price has also fallen, though it will not say by how much.A Nintendo spokesperson told the Guardian:Unfortunately I cannot disclose the Wii trade price to you - it is a confidential figure shared only between Nintendo and retailers - just in the same way Apple and Sony will not disclose their trade prices if were to ring them up today and ask.But, the spokesperson insists,We ARE lowering the cost price of Wii to retailers in the UK. If retailers do not decide to pass that saving onto consumers - we cannot be blamed for that - but we have lowered the price.Under EU Anti-Competition law, of course, Nintendo cannot set the retail price. It can offer the SRP - suggested retail price - but under laws passed some years ago, it cannot set the final price. This allows retailers to compete on price with each other, and to come up with different ways to market things. (In general, it's a good thing.)As a rule of thumb, the trade price for most goods is about 40% of the retail price. (If you don't know that, you haven't been watching The Apprentice closely enough.) If the Wii retail price been cut by $50 and ¥5,000 in Japan, should we expect - given the way that goods so often seem to have a unitary dollar-pound conversion rate - that the Wii's £199 price will fall by £50? Or is the $50 price fall in the US indicative of a wholesale price fall of $20?It's interesting that Nintendo has managed to drop the price to retailers, and Japanese companies have been suffering from the effects of the yen's rise, which has effectively cut their profits from overseas sales - hence the price rise (from £179 to £199) earlier this year.Let us know if you see the Wii falling in price. Perhaps a pricetracker would work...
If you want to control the web, control how people get content onto it: be the filter through which that content both arrives and is passed to people.It's an ambitious target. But if you're Google, and your aim is "to organise and make useful the world's information", then it's quite obvious (once you think about it) that what you need to do is be at the centre of all the discussions going on.Google can't control what people put onto their individually-owned websites, of course. But it can index them (where people let it). And if it owns the means by which people put content onto the web - as it does with Blogger - then it has a far better chance of selling advertising against it (which is, don't forget, how it makes its money).Once you understand this, you can see that Google's Sidewiki project - which aims to provide a means for anyone who has Google's Toolbar installed to comment on any website, which is then visible for any Toolbar user to see - makes complete sense. If, that is, you're Google.To lots of other people, though, it looks perilously like Google trying to control the conversations that go on across the web. Comments, and everything.In fact, we've been here many, many times before. In 2001 a company called "Third Voice"fizzled outafter it had tried much the same for two years. At about the same time Microsoft was suggesting it wouldadd an extension to Internet Explorer called "Smart Tags". That went away before it launched in the face of opposition from people - specifically, webmasters - who didn't want stuff attached to their websites without their knowledge.And then there'sDisqus, "a global comment system that improves discussion on websites and connects conversations across the web".The idea behind all of these concepts - and Wired noted a few more back in 2001:a number of alternative Web open-source annotation applications have been around for a long time, many of them predating Third Voice by several years. They includeCritSuite, JotBot, ComMentor and Xanadu, among othersis that if you know what everyone's saying, then you can sell them adverts, you can mine information and sell that to advertisers, and you basically know everything that's happening online. BWAA-HA-HAA! In fact, it's a bit like the idea behind Phorm - which this week announced that it's so popular in the UK it's given up trying to market its products here.Google insists that it's raising the quality of conversation:talking to Paidcontent, Toolbar product manager Caesar Senguptawas insistent that it was all good:Sengupta tells us that Sidewiki is "complimentary" since it provides additional features. The system, for instance, takes into account the "quality" of a comment in ranking it, which it determines based on how many people have voted that they like it, as well as how much the commenter has used Sidewiki in the past and the language he or she uses. (An ALL CAPS comment isn't likely to show up at the top—if at all.) Comments can also be added to specific phrases on a site and show up when those same phrases are used elsewhere on the web. And because a commenter's user name links back to their Google profile page, Sengupta says it's more likely that comments on Sidewiki will be of higher quality. "It elevates the discussion," he says. "People stop making trivial comments when it ties back to them."Ah, sure. We do of course applaud the sentiments in the image below (via Malcolm Coles), but still feel that the web must be useful for something more... well, useful.Whether it's really raising the quality we'll let you decide. But the reality is that (a) only a minority of people will use Google Toolbar (b) only a minority of people will bother with Sidewiki (c) it will be impossible to keep the spammers out (d) as the spammers come in, more people will give up on Sidewiki.What do we give it - six months before this is internet roadkill?
