Starting a new company, it's easy to imagine there's nobody there to help. Come to think of it, when things are going badly it's easy to imagine small children are pointing at you in the street and laughing. But that would be paranoid, right?  And anyway, there's plenty of help and information out there.There are two good options if you want a pointer to where you might find help. BusinessLink is a government agency offering help and advice to people who want to set up by themselves. Its strength is in offering one-to-one, honest advice from qualified advisors, face to face. One contact point is www.businesslink.org - soon to be www.businesslink.gov.uk so if the former doesn't work, try that one. The parent site, www.sbs.gov.uk, is also worth looking at.Thanks to internal politics, the BusinessLink site, although containing generic thoughts on IT and telecoms, makes little mention of the other government sites designed to help, ukonlineforbusiness.gov.uk. This is the successor to the Information Society Initiative and makes much of electronic trading, electronic customer relationship management - essentially if you think you could be doing something better by doing it electronically these are the people to speak to. Through roadshows and a network of advisors frequently based at BusinessLink sites, they offer (initially) free advice.Before leaving the government areas, it's worth noting www.inlandrevenue.gov.uk, where you can learn to fill in your tax return online if you're a sole trader (hint: make your accountant do it) or www.hmce.gov.uk which has information on VAT as well as the facility to accept your returns online. Returns can also be submitted online to www.companieshouse.gov.uk.Outside the government's provisions, there is a lot of advice and information to be had. Chambers of Commerce can be contacted through chambersofcommerce.co.uk, and the pressure group/SME organisation, the Federation of Small Businesses is at www.fsb.org.uk. You can join, read about campaigns and learn how to get more involved - membership beneÞts include free legal advice and discounts on some insurances. Legal advice is also available through the Institute of Directors (www.iod.com), which, in spite of its daunting reputation, has a lot of small business members, who can use its extensive business library and its premises all over the country, and hire rooms at very competitive rates.Other niche sites abound. www.pr4everyone.com is a portal for companies wanting to launch some sort of public relations initiative but who have never tried it before. www.new2marketing.com is a similar idea. Using it you can build up your own portfolio of marketing services and pay as you go, making the results simpler to quantify in terms of return on investment. And www.startups.co.uk examines issues such as broadband, doing business online, marketing and PR, and finance.
This True North isn't on the map. It's the code name of a government computer suite being built at a secret location somewhere within 150 kilometres of London.The site (actually two sites, called data centre one and data centre two, at least 16 kilometres apart for security), is "x-listed" as part of the UK's critical national infrastructure. If Whitehall were reduced to a radioactive smudge, True North's disc drives would go on whirring.A Nato command centre? International terrorism database? Tony Blair's Outlook Express server? Unless the spooks are playing a very devious game, True North is none of those things. The centre is being built by a contractor, ITnet, for the office of the e-envoy under   an &#163;83m contact signed on July 23. Its main purpose is to host government websites.The doomsday precautions aren't there to impress enemies so much as to persuade other government agencies that True North is a safe home for their e-government projects. This could play a pivotal role in the government's plans to reform - and shrink - the civil service.True North's first job, from January, will be to host the knowledge network, a briefing database for civil servants and politicians. It will also house the government gateway, a central authentication engine, and the hush-hush "online government store" website due to open for business mid next year.True North will also host a system called DotP (which stands for "delivering on the promise"). This   is a shared content-management system designed to handle big departmental websites on an application service provider (ASP) model.Technically, the idea makes a lot of sense. So far, electronic government has created electronic duplicates of existing bureaucratic structures. There are well over 2,000 .gov.uk sites on the web, run by local authorities, service agencies and fully fledged civil service departments. Standards of usability and legibility vary widely, even chaotically.Hosting sites on a single service would create a common look and feel, and simplify searches for information across agencies. Also - and this is the interesting bit - it would allow different departments to share processes, such as administering payments. Hence the potential role in civil service reform.The problem now is how to sell True North to government. ITnet has a commercial incentive to promote the service, as it will make money from hosting departments' systems. But history suggests that agencies will not pool their functions voluntarily. Organisations will always find reasons, from high constitutional principles to straightforward cost justifications, for doing things their own way.So far, e-government has allowed them to get away with it. The climate is now changing. For months, Whitehall has been buzzing with talk of the prime minister appointing a new IT supremo, a chief information officer with the authority to bang heads together. It's still unclear how this would work in practice. But handing out directions to True North is one thing certain to be in the job description.&#183;If you would like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.
Paying VAT is a quarterly chore for 1.7 million British businesses. Nearly all - 89% - pay by cheque. Only 0.02% of firms file their VAT returns online.This paper mountain costs millions to manage and is a standing reminder of a basic flaw in the &#163;1 billion e-government project: the difficulty of persuading Britons to do business with the government online.Parliament's watchdog, the National Audit Office, last week warned HM Customs and Excise that its flagship e-government project is at risk unless more people can be quickly persuaded to use it.It also raises the question of whether government should make the use of some e-services compulsory.The NAO's report, Transforming the Performance of HM Customs and Excise through electronic service delivery, is the latest of many to find fault in a government IT project.As usual, the report cites budget overruns and delays. The cost of Customs' IT systems rose from &#163;500m to &#163;929m in three years, while a new web site is six months late in appearing.The report ticks off Customs and Excise for spending &#163;28m on IT consultants without proper documentation.In a tacit acknowledgement that by government standards, this is not too bad, the NAO's head, Sir John Bourn, commended Customs for "good progress in getting their electronic service delivery underway". However, he warned of "some large risks" ahead.The main one is that too few people will take up e-services, rendering the whole investment uneconomic. This is a headache for the entire e-government project.In theory, businesses are obvious early adopters. Almost all have some form of IT and most resent the time they spend filling in forms. Customs has a target of 50% of its VAT returns to be electronic by 2006.The NAO warns that this will be "a major challenge". The basic problem is that there is nothing in it for the user, especially for small businesses. The paper VAT form needs only eight pieces of information: 89% of businesses find filling in VAT returns either easy or very easy. The only obvious beneficiary of electronic returns is Customs and Excise itself.Customs did offer a &#163;50 reward to businesses signing up for a pilot electronic service, but this was cancelled out by the &#163;50 annual cost of a digital certificate needed to use it.Only 400 of 1,110 business taking   part in the pilot service continued filing electronically when e-VAT was launched nationally in 2001. Two years on, only 2,700 out of 1.7m traders have done so.Low take-up threatens the whole business case of the project, which even now is shaky. Electronic service   delivery was supposed to make a profit by generating &#163;4bn in extra tax revenue (on top of &#163;150bn collected today). Earlier this year, the estimate of extra yield was revised downwards, to &#163;1.2bn. Estimates of efficiency savings have also been cut.The NAO urges Customs to develop   "robust business cases" for the e-programme. Customs is due to produce a full business case by April - three years after the project began.Everything depends on persuading people to use the service. The NAO commissioned a leading academic expert on e-government, Professor Helen Margetts, of University College London, to look at ways to "incentivise" e-government.Margetts came up with four types of possible incentives:&#183;Money: either direct subsidy or flexibility on payment deadlines;&#183;Compulsion;&#183;Time - services packaged to save users time; and&#183;Information - access to government expertise and other "value added" services.Although Margetts says that all four could usefully be considered, the report stresses the second. "We recommend that compulsion be considered as part of a government department's e-strategy."Customs and Excise says it is still confident of success. A test version of a new e-VAT return is due to go live this week. It will be aimed specifically at IT companies, which of all people should be willing to go online. And instead of complicated and expensive digital certificates, users will prove their identities with passwords. (Impersonation for the purpose of paying a tax bill is not a major law enforcement problem.)Meanwhile, a new web site packed with e-features, originally due to go live in June, will be launched "in the very near future", a spokesperson said.There is, however, a spanner about to be thrown in the works. In two weeks' time, a review of tax administration ordered by Chancellor Gordon Brown is likely to recommend merging Customs and Excise with the Inland Revenue. The Revenue, in the dog house for wasting &#163;2bn through mistakes in tax credits, is in the middle of placing a billion-pound IT contract of its own.Merging the two departments may be logical. But combining two huge and rapidly evolving IT systems is a gold-leafed invitation to disaster.
Tittle-tattle scamI received this slightly chilling email that says: "Someone who knows you just submitted a Word-of-Mouth Connection about you at our website, WordofMouthConnection.com." I followed the link to find four entries of someone talking about me, but it will cost me $20 to become a "power user" and gain the ability to send them an anonymous email asking them what they said.Stuart BlakemoreJack Schofield replies:I have several of these and just deleted them, and I advise everyone else to do the same. In June, the New York State Consumer Protection Board listed the site in itstop 10 list of internet headaches and scams. Also, theSnopes Urban Legends sitesays: "all the 'power users' who have written to us about their experiences with Word-of-Mouth have reported that after they paid fees to learn what was being said about them, they learned that the anonymous contributors had 'misplaced' whatever information they supposedly had to share."However, the British site atwww.reader-development.com/wordofmouthis a legitimate site for book lovers.Flicker freePlease advise me on a suitable monitor. I am very susceptible to flicker: a CRT refresh rate of 110Hz, or a TFT at 75Hz, are still far from comfortable.Peter McCourtJS:A CRT (cathode ray tube) monitor paints the screen from top to bottom, and is usually considered "flicker free" if it refreshes the image 75 times a second, or more. To do better, you must have a video card that supports a higher refresh rate, and a monitor capable of handling it. You can usually increase the refresh rate by reducing the number of pixels on the screen. For example, a video card may be able to produce a 1280 x 1024 pixel screen at 90Hz but only an 800 x 600 screen at 110Hz. A "multisync" monitor will automatically change its frequency to match the graphics card, if it is within its range. Nowadays, even low-cost monitors such as LG Flatron models can support 160Hz, with a suitable graphics card, but in your case, it would be best to see a system in action before you buy it."Refresh rate" is not a very useful concept for TFT (thin film transistor) LCD (liquid crystal display) screens since they do not flicker at all, if they are digitally connected, and if the screen image does not move. On an LCD, pixels are not refreshed, just updated when they change. This can produce a smearing effect with things that change quickly, such as games. However, I would not expect an LCD to show "flicker" at a 60Hz setting, and increasing the setting would not necessarily make it better. If an LCD doesn't look good at its stated resolution and recommended settings, you probably need to buy a better screen.Bank on itI am attempting to obtain a telephone banking system with Yorkshire Bank, but my Windows 98 PC does not have the level of encryption required. The bank cannot help.AllanJS:Internet Explorer v5.5 and above include 128-bit encryption. If you have an earlier version of IE, and don't want to upgrade, you can install a High Encryption Pack fromwww.microsoft.com/windows/ieBackchat&#183;Ted Constable asked about the longevity of CD-R/RW discs. Roger Moore from the Open University says: "I did a test with a couple of CD-Rs with identical content, both in their jewel cases. They were left exposed in a sunny window, one with the "underneath" uppermost and the other the right way up. The "underneath-up" disc became unusable in approximately 18 months, with "noticeable bleaching of the dye".Imation, a large manufacturer of recordable storage media spun out of 3M, says CD-R/RW discs should last for more than 30 years "assuming good care is taken with regards to handling and storage conditions. Also, frequency of use will have an impact, with media that is used every day having a shorter lifespan than media that spends more time in storage".However, there is some concern that "operating hardware or software will not be available 25 to 50 years from now to read the CD-R or CD-RW media. It is suggested that archived data must be migrated to newer storage media every five to 10 years to avoid obsolescence."&#183;The saga about storing digital camera images while on holiday continues apace. Michael Christie says there's a new product from Alera in the US, the $249 (&#163;147)Digital Photo Copy Cruiser. It's a portable CD recorder that writes directly from a Flash card to a CD R/RW. "This seems to be the ideal solution at a very acceptable price," says Michael. There's already a very similar product available in the UK for around &#163;200: theDisc Steno CP200 portable photo CD burner, "designed for photographers, business professionals and travellers". Chris Lythall says he used one recently on a trip to Brazil, and "it is excellent".
Prince Of Persia: The Sands Of TimePlayStation 2, &#163;39.99 Ubi Soft &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;In 1989, the original Prince Of Persia arguably invented the action-platform game as we know it. With its mix of trap-avoidance, swordplay and mechanical puzzles, it undoubtedly influenced Tomb Raider and is still regarded with much affection.Updating classics can be a thankless business, but Ubi Soft has covered itself in glory on this occasion. Prince Of Persia: The Sands Of Time remains true to the original in all aspects bar its use of modern, 3D technology. The familiar spike-pits and revolving blades are present and correct, as is the eponymous Prince's fantastic repertoire of moves. He can run along and up walls, swing on poles and leap from pillar to pillar. A beguiling storyline, in which the Prince accidentally unleashes the Sands Of Time and must collect them with the help of the beautiful Farah, glues proceedings together.The Dagger has two functions: when fighting Sand Creatures, it launches special attacks, which increase in sophistication, and then finishes them off. It can also be used to rewind time, if you are trying something but do not quite pull it off. Regular save points and four time-rewinds per life ensure that Sands Of Time is more forgiving than most of its peers, but it is meaty enough that you will not finish it even in a marathon single session. And although some of the fighting is quite violent, the game is blood-free, which means it has true mass-appeal.Steve BoxerEmpires: Dawn of the Modern WorldPC, &#163;34.99 Stainless Steel/Activision, &#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;You have to sympathise with Rick Goodman. Having created the Age of Empires while at Ensemble and then left to form his own team, he seems hell bent on proving he still does it best. This is the third in his Empires series, and it again provides a satisfying romp through history.Empires has everything you'd want from a real-time strategy game - depth (most of history to play through), variety (each of the nine playable nations is significantly different), and it has three excellent single player campaigns (the Crusades, 16th-century Korea and the closing stages of the second world war) where winning is not dependent on the usual strategy of amassing overwhelming armies. Unfortunately, although you can start with a medieval settlement and progress through civilisations, this is only possible in the skirmish or multiplayer modes. Single players cannot experience the breadth and enormity of the game.A big and varied RTS with cracking multiplayer potential, it is a shame there are so many equally entertaining rivals out there.Mike AnderieszCrimson SkiesXbox, &#163;39.99 Microsoft, &#42;&#42;&#42;      With only around 50,000 subscribers in Europe, Xbox Live hasn't been the success Microsoft predicted. Barriers have included the technical knowledge needed to set it up. As important has been the choice of games, with little to tempt casual gamers. Crimson Skies will go some way to rectifying this. This stylish aerial combat title is easy to play and looks gorgeous.Crimson Skies jets you around some stunning environments as you advance a storyline out of Boy's Own. Control of the planes is simple, although practice is rewarded. It seems that since Grand Theft Auto, every game must have a free-form mission-based structure allowing players a choice of what to do and where to go. Crimson Skies is no different, but it feels better integrated. Missions include dogfighting and bombing runs, and the sharp characterisation keeps things fresh. But things get repetitive offline and it is online where the action really heats up. A 16-player team dogfight is what marketing people would call a compelling proposition, and it's a selling point of Xbox Live. With its exhilarating action, Crimson Skies comes recommended.Greg Howson
The third incarnation of Orange's Windows-powered SPV smartphone reaches stores this week with a features list swelled by an integrated camera and Bluetooth. The SPV E-200 is similar to the second version - the E-100. However, the keys are softer and easier to use.Orange has also tweaked the joystick, although users might not always land on the application they were hoping to reach. Orange has also made the interface, which offers access to applications such as Internet Explorer and Outlook, more intuitive. In doubling the Ram to 32MB and enhancing the operating system, the handset appears speedier.The main difference is that the phone has a built-in camera. It is easier to operate than the snap-on modules used previously and it can also shoot video. Finally, Orange has added Bluetooth, although it does drain the battery. This version is a world away from the original and a must for those wanting an easy-to-use smartphone.www.orange.co.uk
Static visionVictor Keegan defended the BBC's internet activities (Second Sight, November 20) while omitting the serious questions licence payers should ask of it.There is no doubt the BBC provides us with a great suite of websites, but at what cost? Can this investment generate a common good from which we can all benefit in years to come?In theory, internet publishing involves a significant amount of software code that could be made available to the global community. Take, for example, Apache, the leading internet web server. Apache was originally hacked together for the website Hotwired but was made freely available for the rest of the community to develop.The BBC is close-fisted about virtually all of its software developments. AsI argued last year, if any organisation should have a mandate to share this material with the public, it is the BBC. The BBC creative archive, where the entire BBC's TV output is to be placed online free, is a step in the right direction but represents a small proportion of the investment made by the corporation in the past seven years.The bottom line is that the BBC's annual investment of &#163;110m in digital media could help build the infrastructure on which a digital Britain could thrive. It could be an investment that creates a digital commons for 60 million people. Instead, the BBC chooses to develop static websites or closed code which cannot be shared, exploited or reused by the rest of us. In other words, it acts like   a proprietary rights-minded private firm. The real problem with BBCi is not the level of its investment but its lack of vision.Azeem AzharLondonA dog's breakfastIs anyone as disappointed as I am with the BT Yahoo web portal? Originally a BT Openworld Broadband customer, I was happy with the BT offerings, then BT announced it was going into partnership with Yahoo. This sent a shiver down my spine, and I was right to be concerned. The new offering is abysmal, the TV listings only offer a small selection of channels and the navigation is like a maze. Every time, I struggle to find my way to the information that used to be a click away with the BT Openworld portal.BT Yahoo has set me up with a number of Yahoo profiles. I did not ask for this and nor do I want any of my details available to Yahoo customers and associates. There seems to be no way of removing them.I feel conned as I signed up for BT Openworld Broadband, not this mess of a BT Yahoo Broadband offering.Roland J YoungCamping on the lineRecently I moved and set up with BT a new contract for the phone on the existing phone line using the previous tenants' old phone number. I've not had my own landline so the number wasn't an issue to me.However, on trying to set up a broadband account I have found my path blocked. The previous owner had an ADSL connection with Freeserve, and as this account has not been settled, Freeserve is refusing to free up the line and allow me to get my own broadband connection. BT is of no help. It says it can't remove the ADSL link as it is not its equipment. Neither company wants to take responsibility!This is my phone line, and I have the contract with BT in front of me, yet Freeserve feels it has the right to   camp on my line until the previous tenant sorts out his account.Has anyone else had this problem?Jason McLoughlinNot just hot airSarah Cook's comments (Feedback, November 20) are not unique. Here at nclwireless we were just as surprised at the apparent profusion of hotspots in our fair city. We are working towards building a free wireless network on Tyneside.If Cook would like to contact us at getwireless@nclwireless.net or visitwww.nclwireless.net, she would be very welcome at one of our monthly meetings.Alastair MackieNewcastleA probable rulingIn relation to your article about the misleading advert by Apple and its G5 computer, I wonder whether the ITC ruling would be the same had Apple included the word "probably" in its "the world's fastest, most powerful personal computer" claim - as Carlsberg lager's advertisers have done.Emmanuel KanakisLondonMultiple powersRe Jack Schofield's column (November 20), there is a standard for defining the powers of 2 multiples used in computing. It was defined in November last year by theInternational Electrotechnical Committee. The proper SI use of kilo is retained. Powers of two "thousands" etc become "kilobinary", abbreviated to Kibi or Ki etc (Mebi, Gibi and so on). Go back a few years and many manufacturers would slip "unformatted" into the small print somewhere. Looks like it's about to come back into fashion.Roger MooreThe Open University
In just a few years' time, the world's fastest supercomputer - currently the Japanese Earth Simulator - will see its 36 trillion operations per second dwarfed by a new &#91;Intel Itanium-based&#93; Lawrence Livermore beast running 10 times faster. It is not a wild guess to imagine that somewhere, a couple of years after that, someone will be building a 3,600 trillion operations per second machine.What all this means, of course, is that in a few years' time, we will all have access to a supercomputer. We will either have one at home or our home PC will be part of a supercomputing grid of incredible power: it is interesting to note that the world's third-fastest supercomputer is currently a grid of 1,100 PowerMac G5 machines at an American university. Setting aside   Terminator-style speculation about what my Mac will do when it is cleverer than me, it certainly seems that another IT-driven paradigm shift will be upon us.Some of things that supercomputers are used for - messing about with DNA and proteins, for example - might be jolly useful in a domestic setup. A USB 2.0 blood sample machine might do better than the NHS at early stage diagnosis: if your PC detects a genetic predisposition to a particular kind of obesity, then it could step in and stop you from ordering the wrong kind of pizza.Once someone has figured out how to write games for the next generation of supercomputers (a fundamental problem), then it is much more likely that the prosaic uses for domestic supercomputers will come out of left field.As a mechanic says in the original (and best) Mad Max movie, speed is just a question of money: how fast do you want to go? Why would an ordinary person buy one of these machines or want access to this sort of computing power?We shouldn't fall into the Bill Gates "640Kb should be enough for anyone" trap and assume that because we can't currently imagine what to do with a supercomputer at home that we will never have an application for one. The news that IBM is launching a dishwasher-sized, air-cooled supercomputer (only the 73rd fastest in the world) means that perhaps some imagining is worthwhile.As it happens, I don't need to imagine because I could use one right now.Having received my BT bill and   my cable bill last week, I need something on a par with the Japanese Earth Simulator to work out whether it would be best to take the all-in two kids plus lawnmower evenings-only unlimited package, or the basic 147 channels plus alternate Wednesday international calling friends and family package. This seems to me much more complicated than weather forecasting.When it is done with that, the supercomputer can move on to a few airline sites and figure out the best way to get to Paris, factoring in real-time taxi fares and traffic updates with passenger tax and frequent flyer miles.&#183;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Online, send your emails toonline.feedback@guardian.co.uk. Please include your address and telephone number. If you do not want your email address published, please say so.More from Intel
The great thing about technology is that it does so much thinking for you. Given the right widget - say a global satellite navigation unit in your car - you don't even need a map of where you're going. You just switch it on, say "I want to go to Edinburgh" or wherever, and it talks you through the trip.The same isn't yet true for business, sadly. When you want your company to do anything you need a plan, even when you just wish it to come into existence. And business planning is a tough science to learn. If we accept, for example, that two out of every three businesses close before they complete two years of trading, then clearly some of the planning is coming unstuck at a fairly early stage.It's tempting to start extolling the virtues of business planning software, and, to an extent, that's a valid thing to do. The likes of Palo Alto Software and ClearlyBusiness offer excellent products, frequently based around a good, old-fashioned spreadsheet, to facilitate your business planning and lay it out professionally. But this is a fraction of the story."I see 75 to 100 business plans a month and I very rarely see a good one," says David Giampaolo, chief executive of Pi Capital, and himself a seasoned entrepreneur and private business angel (see page 7). "Usually they are overly optimistic and make too many assumptions; there's been very little diligence or research happening."This may sound negative, but it appears to be true of a number of start-up businesses. Amanda Samson is the owner of Magicspellbox.co.uk (think power of positive thinking and the effect it can have on your life - Samson considers herself a "green witch" - rather than Paul Daniels's supplier). She freely concedes she needed help with predicting all of her expenses, for example. "I designed the website but then someone has to host it on their system and that costs," she says. Only by writing all of this down can a realistic picture of where the company is going be built up.For some people, the secret of successful business planning starts even before that stage. Susan Lucas Conwell, director of the Forum for Women Entrepreneurs, believes a lot of Þrst-time businesspeople ought to sit down and take a look at themselves rather than their market before beginning. "I was talking to one woman in a corporate company a couple of weeks ago and she was saying she wanted to start up on her own. I upset her by saying no, that is not what you should do." The working implications of setting up on your own are vast; anyone accustomed to working in a large company will be struck by small things: you don't get your stationery (or furniture) on tap, you have to rent your office and if your computer goes down there's nobody on the end of the phone to come and Þx it, unless you've put them there. The hours are long and it can be a while before you're able to pay yourself - it goes without saying you'll be last in the queue if the money starts falling short, if you're working legally and ethically.Once the decision has been made, though, you'll need to start on your business plan. This is your map to where your company wants to go, and it needs a cash flow forecast but also your mission statement, contingency plans, a skills audit and preferably a timetable as to when things are going to happen. You need them for when you're looking for funding, for example. Giampaolo is the first to conÞrm you won't get any cash without one, but he remains sceptical about their use."I don't put too much stock in a business plan, I think they can be overrated in what they actually say." He does, however, offer some pointers as to what he looks for in a plan: track record, the right mix of people and a realistic view of your staff. "Maybe they identify they haven't got a Þnancial person - that's Þne, we &#91;business angels&#93; can often help."This was the experience of Peter Kane, founder of specialist human resources magazine Kane Communications, which recently published the first issue of The HR Director. He sought information on setting up by himself from Business Link and from the bank, but found some of the information too generic. "It was quite useful but they were trying to write for both someone setting up as a consultant and someone wanting to sell Þsh and chips from a van." He resolved this by getting face-to-face advice from BusinessLink, and under their auspices found an accountant, which was utterly vital to his company. "My biggest concern and biggest headache has been cash flow - you really need advice on keeping your options open in terms of credit, for example."He adds that a plan isn't something that should be immovable either. "We've changed it a number of times over the course of the year &#91;in which we've been trading&#93;. It's still important to have it, although it doesn't bear a lot of resemblance to the plan we started off with."External help with business planning is readily available; like Kane, Samson went to BusinessLink. She attended a course: "It wasn't a case of not knowing anything beforehand, but it was good to have stuff we knew conÞrmed and to Þll in the gaps," she says. "It certainly impressed on us that you've got to spend money on your marketing as well as knowing who your market is."Help is also available in the form of software, of course, as mentioned above. Business Plan Services recently launched Bizplanwizard, which is available from its website, www.bizplans.co.uk, as well as a similar cash flow wizard product. These grew out of its background as a general business planning consultancy. Matt Mason, editor of dance magazine RWD (pronounced "rewind" or "how can you dance to that rubbish?" depending on your age) went to the site and was impressed by a link with the London Business School, so gave them a call. The advisor assigned, Jane, did more than help with the planning: "The London Business School had a thing called the LBS 100, which is a group of investors. Jane told them they ought to look at us and they put us together with King Street Partners, which bought 12.5% of the company and let us increase our sales team and print run."And funding is what a successful business plan is all about. Whether a plan's done using straightforward Excel, or using some of the aforementioned third-party tools, it needs to be tailored for this purpose. Sage makes WinForecast, which has the advantage of linking in to several of the company's accounting systems, but this sort of sophistication isn't always necessary. The essentials are more along the lines of common sense:&#183;The cash flow forecast. This is vital, and you need to be well aware of where all the money's coming from and who's going to pay it. There will, of course, be guesswork in this, but it needs to be substantiated. This is effectively the mechanics of how your business will survive.&#183;Swot analysis - Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, Threats. Don't be afraid of putting the weaknesses in, your potential backers will understand this means you're serious and may be able to plug some of the gaps.&#183;Crisis plan. Let's assume your customers go bankrupt: how will you survive? Tell your bank or other backer you've allowed for this.The end result, if written properly, should help achieve the funding you're after. Samson won a loan from her bank on the strength of hers, but you can take things further later; Tim Duffy, co-founder of audio and web conferencing system Meetingzone, has raised more than £2m from venture capitalists and business angels since 2002, when the company launched. A former venture capitalist himself, he believes business plans need to be clear, concise and give a good idea of where a company is headed, but he offers one more piece of advice: "Venture capitalists get tons and tons of things coming across their desk, and they will remember only a small amount of them." In other words, follow the basics by all means, but after that have some fun with it - it's your baby and a bland, "vanilla" business plan won't stand out.Oh come on, you didn't think it would be easy did you?Common errorsEvery business plan is different but there are some mistakes common to many new entrepreneurs:&#183;Over-optimism. You feel passionately about your business idea and you know everyone is going to be interested when they hear about it. Actually they don't care now because they don't know you exist, and it's up to you to make them give a damn. Be aware also of the difference between detecting enthusiasm when you're talking about your product or service and someone actually handing cash over - they are vastly different things.&#183;Undercapitalisation. Everything you need to buy, from IT equipment to desks to paperclips, needs to be paid for. Put it in the plan and be realistic about how much you need to spend.&#183;Crisis management. Everybody assumes on starting that their customers will pay them on time without fail. They won't. And your suppliers might not be sympathetic - they have their own cash flow to worry about. Plan for the worst.
The era when we all believed fortunes were to be made on the web is over. The dotcom crash of 2000 saw off many over-ambitious e-commerce ventures, and received wisdom these days is that the websites most likely to make a proÞt are those linked to established bricks-and-mortar businesses. But is it still possible for a beginner to set up a successful web-only business?Dr Ian Alcock, a Cheltenham GP, certainly thinks so. Cotswold Aromatherapy (www.aromatherapy.uk.com), the business he runs with his wife Julia, was launched on the web in May 2002. In the Þrst month it took £74. Eighteen months later it's taking £10,000 to £12,000 a month. "It's gone mad," says Alcock. "We're struggling to manage."Alcock started small with, he says, "no business training, no advice, no outside help". Having identiÞed a potential market for essential oils and herbal remedy kits, he taught himself web design from a book and created the site himself, using Actinic Catalog and Macromedia Dreamweaver. Initially, he bought tiny quantities of aromatherapy oils from larger retailers and sold them on at a small profit. The next step was to find wholesalers."We spent a few long nights trawling the internet, trying to find hints and glimpses of who the suppliers were." Once he had that information, he was able to buy the oils in bulk very cheaply and undercut other retailers; essential oils from Cotswold Aromatherapy cost about a third of those from rival Neal's Yard.The experts, however, are still cautious about the possibilities offered by the web. "The get quick rich model is dead and gone," says Michael Bayler, digital branding consultant and co-author of Promiscuous Customers: Invisible Brands. Bayler says the best opportunities are in "alternative" products "where a small but relatively robust community is served with a niche offer." Phil Flaxton, CEO of InterForum, an independent organisation offering advice on e-commerce, is even more wary. "Unless you can think of something truly innovative, you're going to have a tough time."  Before you set up a website, you have to do your market research, says Flaxton, and draw up a business plan, just as you would for a conventional business. "If you're starting a business online, you need to know what the national competition is and possibly even the international competition because you're operating in a global market." Bayler describes the web as a "punishing environment in which to trade," and argues  you have to be offering a service that clearly differentiates you from your competitors.On the other hand, the risks involved in setting up an e-commerce website are arguably smaller than those of establishing a bricks-and-mortar business. The Alcocks were able to ease themselves in gently; between them, even now, they only spend about six hours a day on the business - Julia also looks after the couple's two small children, while Ian still has a full-time job as a GP. Overheads are small as the business is run from home. "An aromatherapy business Þts into a very small space," says Alcock.Once you're trading online, the critical question is how to Þnd and retain customers. For the Alcocks, the turning point came when they decided to use pay-per-click advertising so that a search on "aromatherapy" on the main search engines brings up an advert for their site. The advertising would have been ineffective, however, without a high level of customer service - these days, a high proportion of their business comes from repeat custom. The Alcocks despatch orders straight away, and answer all emails personally. This commitment to customer service is essential, says Bayler. "People's expectations of service are far, far higher in this environment. They are very unforgiving of failure to deliver on promise."According to Bayler, the really difÞcult part comes when you try to expand your business. "The major problem is that almost any business on the web lays itself open to commodity." In other words, bigger, more experienced competitors look at what you're doing and copy it. They usually have a large existing customer base and are able to undercut your prices. The way to resist this, says Bayler, is to offer something the competitor can't copy - expertise, for example, or an added service.The Alcocks are quietly conÞdent that their business can continue to grow. Recently they have begun to sell to retail outlets, and have taken on a part-time employee. Their plan now is that within a year they'll be able to move to dedicated business premises and Ian will be able to give up his day job. For a couple who, 18 months ago, knew nothing about running a business, that's not bad going.The Alcocks tips for success&#183;You must have a good product&#183;Put customer care first&#183;Undercut the competition&#183;Use pay-per-click advertising
Junk email isn't a problem for businesses, as far as the anti-spam legislation that comes into force on December 11 is concerned. Based on a European directive aiming to outlaw spaming across the EU, this makes it illegal to send unsolicited bulk email to individuals - on pain of &#163;5,000 in fines, or unlimited fines if the case goes before a jury. But in implementing the directive, the UK chose not to apply this rule to business email addresses.But Stephen Timms, the e-commerce minister, and therefore responsible for the UK's implementation of the directive, says the opt-out for business email addresses was what people wanted. "It was down to the consultation," he says. "One thing we've done, which goes further than we might have, was on cold-calling to businesses. We have said, and this is in response to people like the Federation of Small Businesses and the British Chambers of Commerce, that we want to give access to businesses to the Telephone Preference Service, which individual private subscribers have been able to register with for some time, not to be rung up for marketing purposes." This will be effective from April next year. "That seemed to be the priority for this area, because phone usage has a time commitment involved."And he defends the position on junk email. "I think on the whole what we've done has been pretty robust on spam. I think it'll be pretty effective as far as intra-European spam is concerned, but of course the   big difficulty is that most spam is coming from outside Europe."Whether or not the UK extended the rules on personal email addresses to businesses, volumes of spam would be little-changed. Much comes from the US. "I think it's very important that we are in discussions, specifically with the US," says Timms. "There are some initiatives at the &#91;US&#93; state level which look more like what we've done in Europe."Next month, spam is on the agenda of the World Summit on the Information Society in Geneva. "The key question is, is there some way we can reach agreement, either bilaterally or, preferably, multilaterally, that would allow us to apply some of these sanctions to spam from outside Europe?"Away from spam, Timms, who worked as an IT and telecoms consultant for 15 years before becoming an MP, believes British firms often under-invest in technology. "We've always had an issue with small business take-up of IT in the UK," he says. "That's why we introduced the tax incentive, three years ago," under which small businesses can claim all the cost of ICT against a single year's tax. This applies until March 31, 2004, and may be extended again.But it needs more than tax-breaks. "There is an issue about small business awareness and willingness to take up the benefits of IT," says Timms. "That's been the mission of the UK Online for Business programme, which has done a good job in drawing people's attention to those benefits, and has been focusing on broadband over the past few months."
This isn't a plane. It's a flying restaurant. That seems to be the thinking behind the new eating arrangements at Song, Delta's low-cost spin-off.Song (www.flysong.com) isn't exactly a no-frills airline; rather, it's a no-frills-included airline that tries to make the extras worth paying for. Passengers can create an MP3 playlist and watch pay-per-view TV on their seatbacks. Drinks are free. The menu - with ranch-sourced roast beef wraps, vegetarian sushi, cream cheese bagels and trail mixes - is a revelation in a country where passengers often fly from Denver to Florida with only a pack of pretzels to sustain them.Judging by the comments posted at Airlinemeals.net, the verdict is highly favourable, with Song's salads attracting the kind of appreciation normally reserved for Tajikistan Airlines (yes, really) and Virgin.Compare Song's menu with the bland snacks sold by easyJet and Ryanair. They undoubtedly invigorated the airline industry and did away with the pungent foil containers. And no one can fault the logic of economising on food to cut the price of a ticket. But why sell such fatty, unappetising snacks at rip-off prices? EasyJet asks £1.50 for a Galaxy muffin, £1 for a Peperami and £2 for the relatively healthy option of a cup of soup and a roll. Water - which really should be free on every flight - costs £1 for 330ml. No wonder so many passengers bring their own packed lunches.Airline food matters more and more to Americans. That's partly because it was the Þrst perk to go when the big carriers were Þghting to avoid going under after September 11. While travellers in Britain tend to be nonplussed by airport catering, on US sites you'll Þnd tips on locating the best guava pie at Miami airport (www.zyworld.com/ brancatelli/eat/eat021303.htm). Americans tend to ply the same routes on business as they do to visit relatives, making them alert to differences in service.But British short-haul travellers have been so seduced by cheap fares in recent years that free food has ceased to be an attraction. Regular travellers will have noticed that a number of the "full-service" airlines have started charging for food on their short-haul economy flights. Swiss charges £8.15 for a full lunch and around £5 for breakfast, with sandwiches and pasta on sale separately. What are passengers willing to pay for?"The take-up is very mixed," says the general manager of Swiss UK and Ireland, Richard Castle. "The lunchtime and evening meals tend to be generating more custom than breakfast" - something Swiss hadn't been expecting. "The most popular purchase is a cup of coffee, the next is the sandwich, which is about ó6 and changes every month. The salads and the sweet items seem to be less popular."How do customers feel about paying for something that used to be free? Castle says there have been relatively few complaints. "The fare is lower and the customer decides whether he or she wants to add to the cost of the flight," he bristles. "I take exception to the term 'full-service airline'. We offer a far bigger range and far higher quality than our rivals."Swiss is toying with the idea of allowing passengers to pre-order their food online, he says, but that may have to wait until significant numbers of people start to check-in online.Austrian Airlines has also begun to charge for food on very short flights, although London-Vienna passengers will still enjoy their salmon ciabatta and fruit for free.So why is it that, when everyone else is cutting back on the free food, British Airways is trying to improve it? The Deli Bag, which often contained a roll stuffed with a limp slice of ham and a miniature Kit-Kat, has been replaced by a Deli Box. Hot sandwiches will be served on flights to "mid-range" destinations, beyond France. It "sets us above the no frills carriers", said a spokesman.Like Song, BA may be on to something. When passengers choose a long-haul flight, cost and comfort are their top criteria, with food a distant third. "I've flown Virgin &#91;Atlantic&#93; a couple of times," says one veteran of long-haul flights. "And in their Upper Class they'll bring you a bacon butty with HP sauce when you wake up. This is outstanding, and just what I want. But I don't really like flying with them - and choose not to - because their old seats were just a pain (literally)."But on short-haul, where the prices and legroom vary relatively little, good food can make an indifferent flight into a pleasurable one.
This month's queries are answered by Chris Green, technical editor on Computing, Paul O'Brien, a UK Online for Business advisor based at The Argyll and The Islands Enterprise, Graham Oakes, director of technology at Sapient, John Irvine, VP of Inclarity and Glyn Baker, business director of FaceTime Solutions. If you have a query for the next edition of Business Solutions, drop us a line at the address above.&#183;I run a website which offers listings of Freeview receivers, and where to buy them online at the best price. Currently, all the research for this is done by "humans" using old-fashioned methods. Is it possible to buy a "bot" off the shelf that will crawl around the relevant sites and collect all the prices for me? If so, will it be expensive?CG: The most effective internet search bots are ones that have been custom written and optimised for a speciÞc task, such as searching just for information on digital TV receivers. However you can buy some off-the-shelf bots, such as WebSeeker and AimingClick. These bots work by aggregating the search results from multiple search engines and news groups, and by monitoring specific web pages and sites These two are quite cheap, costing $30 (£18) and £10 respectively. But remember, these bots are unlikely to be quite as good as a custom bot written to search for info on Freeview and DTT receivers.   For more information, advice on how to write a bot, and some working examples of search bots you can experiment with (and buy), take a look at www.searchlores.org/bots.htm and www.botspot.com.&#183;I've heard of grid computing and am about to specify a new system for my company - what is it, and under what circumstances should I consider it?GO: Grid computing is simply accessing computing power as you would plug into a socket and get electricity. With the National Grid, we don't know which power station generated our electricity, what power line carried it, or which substations transformed it. The same goes for computing grids; by drawing on a pool of computing power, you can increase or decrease your use as and when you need to.   Should you consider grid computing for your company? Well, grid can cut costs and is a far more flexible way of managing resource for your IT and business processes. However, although major vendors are starting to deÞne and support the necessary interface and routing standards, grid use is still predominantly conÞned to the scientific and academic worlds. So, I would recommend grid if you have people in your company using supercomputers or other specialised facilities. In this case, you probably have the skills you need to exploit grid.   For the rest of us, grid will happen in a few years.&#183;I've heard that subscribing to a broadband telephony service is far cheaper than going down the traditional BT route. But what are the upfront costs?JI: Traditionally, the headline cost of installing a telephony system has been the installation of a private branch exchange (PBX). This is essentially a telephone switching system that routes calls and offers abbreviated internal dialing. The cost of a PBX can run to several thousand pounds. Additionally, many SMEs install a PBX that has twice the capacity than is currently required. This is so that lines can be added as the company grows, and the PBX doesn't have to be replaced.Although many IP telephony solutions offer much more scalability (as adding users simply requires additional software licences), many still incur high upfront investments in IP PBXs and still require lines from the PBX to the external network, as only the internal connection between the phones and the PBX is IP.By far the cheapest and most efficient way to save altogether on PBX set-up and upgrade costs, and even phone lines, is to subscribe to a broadband telephony, IP Centrex service. IP Centrex offers all of the scalability of an IP PBX, except that no PBX hardware is needed. The IP Centrex switch resides at the service providers' site, typically an ISP. Under this model there is no need to hedge your expansion bets by purchasing a larger PBX than is necessary. Additionally, the service breaks out to external networks via IP, making not just PBXs, but also BT lines redundant.&#183;I work in a small Þnancial services Þrm and clients are increasingly communicating with us via Yahoo! Instant Messaging. While I'm convinced of the business beneÞts, we operate in a very regulated environment and I'm concerned by our inability to track and store conversations. Is it possible to monitor this technology, or should I stop its use?GB: The simple answer is yes, it is possible to track and audit IM conversations. IM is increasingly being adopted across Þnancial markets and exchanges, where the need for real-time communication and explicit records keeping go hand in hand. However, you should be aware that while IM users may be able to locally save individual conversations, this doesn't allow compliance or management to check or audit the content of these messages.While we don't yet have regulations in the UK that mandate the recording of electronic messages (as the SEC demands in the US), IM could be used to infringe other regulations, so it's essential to monitor and store IM in the same way as we do email.But there are speciÞc management products, like ours, that record and monitor message content, allowing Þrms complete access to their IM history. Switching off IM is not the answer. It's better to let people use this technology, but have the right controls in place.
&#183;Online store creator company Shopcreator has signed a deal with BT Global Services that it believes will put it at the forefront of selling its shop-in-a-box solution to small businesses. The significance to the company is that this should open up new markets including overseas; the significance to the customer is the chance to buy their online selling capacity alongside their other communications needs. The software will now be available through all of BT's business outlets, and applies to large as well as small businesses - the company has recently sold systems to Sainsbury's among others.&#183;Running a call centre can seem irrelevant for the smaller trader. NTL Business's new pitch, however, suggests that anyone who handles calls from customers is already working a call centre of sorts, and the sooner they acknowledge it the better. It has therefore launched a new reporting tool called Call Analyser 2, which allows people to track call length and employee efficiency through a set of easy-to-get-at reports. Further information at &lt;A HREF="http://www.ntlbusiness.com."" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.ntlbusiness.com.&#183;Setting up a mobile email system is relatively simple for the sole trader. For the larger company, even when there's a network of only a handful of you, it's more difficult; this is why communications specialist Isis has set up a service to get the new Blackberry communications devices up and running with a one-month free trial. The installation is guaranteed to be complete within 72 hours and research suggests improvements to the business are immediate; Isis says it saves, on average, 53 minutes   a day, during which the owner would otherwise be unreachable, and this means 10% to 20% of the individual's salary is saved in terms of increased productivity. Isis's number is 0870 163 5000.&#183;Backup is a vital area of security - lose your data without it and you'll no longer know who your customers are or what they've ordered. Distributor Norwood Adam, which sells only through the trade, is priming its dealers to sell a managed back-up and restore system to small companies. There will be a monthly charge per megabyte stored and a disaster recovery service. The service will run in partnership with the storage and backup specialist ImperaData.&#183;Document specialist Danka Europe has published research that suggests companies are wasting loads of money by handling their documents badly. The sound of grinding axes and the vesting of interests aside, it's an area worth looking at. The problem, the company believes, is as much procedural as technical and if businesses managed their output of   printed documents better the UK would save around &#163;1.25bn a year. The organisation has coined the term "documess" to describe the way in which documents are handled and not catalogued at the moment.&#183;Lending company the Davenham Group has come out with what it believes is the first structured lending package tailored especially for the small business. Called 4 Dimensional Finance, it assesses a business's needs in terms of trade, asset, invoice and property finance, and applies to businesses turning over between &#163;1m and &#163;5m a year. Applicants can ask for between &#163;50,000 and &#163;2m. Further details on eligibility and how to apply can be found at &lt;A HREF="http://www.davenham.co.uk."" TARGET="_NEW"&gt;www.davenham.co.uk.&#183;Tis the season to be_ ah forget it, you're right, it's only November, so only the shops and their staff think Christmas is upon us just yet. Nevertheless, there's no Business Solutions in December   so now would be a good time to remind readers of the importance of sending out corporate Christmas cards. It could be more serious than you'd think; research from the Royal Mail says 56% of small businesses who send Christmas cards out to clients believe it helps to improve bottom line profit by around 25%. Of the companies surveyed, 54% said receiving a card from companies they've worked with helps then decide to work with them again. There's nothing like a cool business head in deciding on your partners.&#183;Concerned about security and don't know where to start? Try putting a security camera on the internet. Panasonic has released its KX-HCM280 cameram (below), a full-colour device that will send images to your computer whether you're in the same room or in another building entirely. It works using IP (internet protocol) standards and basically persuades everything else that it's a small computer sending out images, so you don't have to have it attached to a computer the whole time. It has a built-in alarm mode so pictures can be sent to your PC immediately it's activated, and it has an impressive array of sensor and remote positioning features to make operation extremely simple. Seewww.panasonic.co.uk/cctvfor more details.
There is a certain shame that accompanies early business success. That's because   no one - not investors, not suppliers, not customers - likes dealing with a start-up company. Which means that the first rule of being a brand new business is to pretend that this is anything but the case. And that means telling lies.As a result, despite having (just about) played within the rules, those that have enjoyed impressive results tend to be a bit embarrassed about admitting to some of the scams they had to pull to get them where they are today.Take Andy Phillipps, CEO of Active Hotels, which recently won Ernst &amp; Young's Emerging Entrepreneur of the Year award, and now lays claim to being Europe's largest online reservations provider for the hotel industry.That he had to resort to a few underhand tactics in the interests of creating a credible image, while trying to get the business off the ground, is now a slightly uncomfortable subject. Phillipps is proud of his achievements, but is also concerned about giving customers and suppliers the wrong impression of the way he runs his business. Other start-ups will be enthralled, though."When you start out, you have no customers, no products and no money, so you need to bluff to potential clients, suppliers and investors all at once," Phillipps says.   Although he had attracted a lot of initial interest from the investment community, getting the Þrst company to make a substantial commitment wasn't proving quite so easy. "Several were interested in coming in at the £25,000 mark, but we needed £400,000."So Phillipps just happened to mention that he'd already secured the "Þrst hundred". He wasn't lying; a friend had written him a cheque. What he didn't mention was that this was for £100, not the £100,000 that the investors automatically assumed. "I was suddenly oversubscribed, with £1.25m on the table," he recalls guiltily.Then there was the matter of office space. Like many new enterprises, Active Hotels kept its initial outgoings as low as possible, for as long as possible, its four staff operating from the co-founder's house for the Þrst eight months. Then the issue of credibility began to rear its ugly head again. "You can only get away with meeting people in Starbucks so many times," Phillipps says with a smile.When the Þrst client expressed an interest in visiting Active Hotels' offices, Phillipps and his team borrowed a friend's offices in Cambridge and got another friend to phone every couple of minutes, to make the business look busy. "I think we got the idea off Richard Branson," he says. It worked.When they later had the resources to secure their own premises, the team had to act quickly again, as a client was due to visit on the day they were due to take occupancy. "We crept in the night before to set up. We spread out newspapers and made it look as though we'd been there for ages."Feeling devious suggests an over-active conscience, but Phillipps concedes there is a serious moral to his story. "People would be surprised at what you can do without when you Þrst set up. We signed two big contracts with nothing behind us - just suits and enthusiasm. One was for some major computer hardware, which we provide to hotels to manage their reservation systems, and the other was an exclusive UK distribution deal to sell hotels to US consumers - even though we had no hotels at the time."This is exactly the sort of tale that gives Greg Gianforte, CEO of computer software company RightNow, renewed faith in the UK entrepreneurial spirit. Perhaps because he is American, Gianforte is less coy about the means by which he has conquered his market (he sold his previous business, Brightwork, to McAfee - now Network Associates - in 1994 for $10m). He is so proud of his penny-pinching exploits when founding companies that he now lectures on the virtues of "bootstrapping" and is writing a book on the subject.A key thrust of his evangelistic message: "Don't confuse shipping with selling". His point is that it is wrong to assume you have to go out and develop a product before you can call yourself a business."Don't put any energy into the product until you know you can sell it," he urges, noting that RightNow's software (for managing companies' customer care activities) wouldn't be the product it is today if he'd developed it before trying to sell it to customers. "Selling the concept was the best form of market research we could have done," he recalls."We started out simply with a single sheet of paper which described the product we wanted to sell, and asked potential customers if they'd buy such a product if it existed. When they said no, we started with a fresh sheet of paper. We only built the product when we knew people wanted it."Other tactics in the Gianforte handbook include piggybacking on the reputations of other, more established players. When he was founding Brightwork, a network management software company, he decided that a distribution deal with a large brand would be a good way of growing a reputation without investing himself.He paid $200 (£118) a month for a 48-foot billboard opposite Novell's headquarters, with a simple ad that ran: "Don't just network - Brightwork". Within days, Gianforte received a call from Novell's head of corporate communications, asking for a press kit. He secured the desired master distribution agreement, which then gave the company the credibility to win further contracts.Proby Patel, co-founder and managing director of north London-based Asian talent agency UK Talent Spot, has also done well from this strategy. The company, which started up in January with the help of its local enterprise support agency and BusinessLink, is already in profit and that's without any expenditure on marketing."We quickly established lots of contacts and have used these to promote us," Proby says. "When BusinessLink gets involved, they get you lots of press, and we've done a series of contra deals with big events - Asian gigs, fashion shows and beauty contests, and one mainstream event - which make us look bigger than we actually are. In return for the association, we put their logo on our website or promote their activities at our own gigs, which doesn't cost us anything."By saving money on marketing, which can make a huge dent in any new business's start-up funds, UK Talent Spot has been able to keep its initial expenses relatively modest, and has not yet had to call on external investment. As a heavily web-driven business, the company's main expense has been a professionally designed internet site, which the company had done in India where IT talent is abundant yet prices remain low. "The site cost us about £2,500 to develop, whereas it would have cost more like £12,000 in the UK," Patel says.
Television ads reach more people, and a face-to-face chat in the lift might get you the order straight away. But it's hard to beat direct mail for cost-effectiveness in getting your name in front of your prospective customers.That's because you're able (hopefully) to address a named individual. In fact, the value of the mailing drops dramatically if you don't have someone's name - "Joe Bloggs" is much better than "The director of sales". So rule one of direct mail is: the list is more important than the message.Direct mail is often termed "junk mail", but it's only junk when sent to people who don't want it. Ensure that you keep your own mailing lists up to date by cleaning them regularly,  deleting unwanteds as well as undeliverables.   The strongest list is one on which the recipient will recognise your organisation and be receptive to your offer. So include all your normal sales contacts, all those business cards you've accumulated, anyone who stopped by your stand at the exhibition. Of course, the ideal is a fully opted-in list, one that contains only people who have specifically requested information.   Be aware that you'll need to register under the Data Protection Act if you maintain a mailing list on a computer.ContentThe classic formula for copywriting is AIDA (attention, interest, desire, and action). Grab their attention, kindle their interest (the key question to answer is "What's in it for me?"), build some desire (major on the benefits, sell solutions) and make it easy for the reader to take the next step - a reply-paid envelope or postcard, for instance, or a clickable link on an email message. Encourage a speedy response ("reply within seven days and we'll send you a free bottle of champagne") and prove there's nothing to lose: a money-back guarantee should do the trick.  Design scannable content; make the text easy to digest. Include a short but punchy subject line, use short paragraphs and bullet-points, allow plenty of white space.Mail-mergeA mail-merge means creating multiple copies of a standard document - a letter, say - and including some unique data from an external Þle or database on each copy. The classic example is a letter with an individual's address and their name on the greeting line. With mail-merge you can produce letters, envelopes, labels, emails, directory-style listings, and even personalised newsletters, training handouts and friendly front-ends to spreadsheet information.The mail-merge wizard in Microsoft Word hand-holds you through this process. Click on the tools menu, point to "letters and mailings", and you'll find the mail-merge wizard. You can turn any Word document into a mail-merge document by including merge Þelds (placeholders for the variable information).You also specify a data source, an external Þle containing the information that you want to merge into the document. Word can use other Word documents, the Outlook Address Book, Excel workbooks, Access database Þles, comma-delimited or tab-delimited text Þles. If you do not already have a data file, Word can help you create one.   Whatever the exact format, the data Þle is made up of records - one per contact name - and the records contain separate fields for the unique pieces of information in each contact record.   The results of the mail-merge will be a number of new documents that you can save or send directly to a printer or to your email program.Mail merge for emailEmail-merges work in the same way - you create a standard message and merge in personalised data. That may be no more than an individual's email address, but you'll probably have a customised greeting ("Dear Donald" instead of "Dear Customer"). Americans like to scatter the recipient's first name throughout the message - "I assure you, Don, that we really like you".Word can be used with Outlook's address book to produce an effective email mailshot. Create a new Outlook contacts folder containing your prospect names (it's easier to keep them separate from your master list). Now go to Outlook's tools menu and select "mail merge" - it won't be there if you have left the contacts folder, incidentally. From the "Þelds to merge" area you might as well go for "all contact Þelds" - you don't have to use them, but they'll be available. Select either "new document" or "existing document" (must be a Word Þle: Outlook message formats aren't acceptable here). Browse to locate the Þle, if you're using an existing one.Use the "document type" list to choose the document - probably "form letters". The "merge to" options include a new document, the printer, or your outbox. Click OK and Word will load. The rest of the process is essentially the same as a landmail mail-merge. The mail merge toolbar appears automatically; use "insert merge Þeld" to set up the variable text in the message, then click the merge button on the toolbar to start the merge.  If you are merging to the outbox, click the setup button on the merge dialog box to specify the email address Þeld for the recipients.Incidentally, while Word can use Outlook's contacts list as a data source for an email mail-merge, it's better to use the Outlook mail merge wizard rather than Word's. It seems more reliable, and anyhow Word can't cope with some of the more useful Outlook contacts Þelds - such as categories, nickname and even business address.   The bad news is that Outlook's Þeld names may not suit your needs. For instance, there's no salutation field - which you might want to use to include a familiar name in your personalised letter, so Mr William Beattie could be addressed as "Dear Bill". There are two ways round this: you can create your own additional field, or you can simply use one of the existing named fields for a different purpose.   Email messages will appear to come from the active Outlook user. Return messages and bounces will be received by that user. To avoid cluttering your inbox, set up a separate email proÞle to cope with this.Why email for mass mailing?&#183;Email marketing can be extremely cost-effective - no paper, envelopes or postage. It all depends on defining clear goals and expectations, but cost per lead should be low.&#183;Email provides an opportunity to start a dialogue. It's easy for the prospect to respond (simply by hitting the reply button) and it's easy for you to come back quickly with the required information.&#183;List management can be largely automated. Additions and deletions are quick and simple; bounces (usually dead or misspelled email addresses) are identified swiftly and can be corrected or discarded easily.HTML vs plain textPlain-text emails don't look as attractive. But they are cleaner, quicker, more compact, and can appear more businesslike on the roll-up-your-shirtsleeves Protestant-work-ethic principle. What's more, the mail servers at many recipients have been set to reject HTML mail for security reasons and/or to save on mail storage space.But sending in HTML format does mean the more sophisticated sender will be able to track several useful metrics - click-throughs that get the reader further information, for instance. You can find out exactly who is reading what. As a broad rule of thumb, HTML is more acceptable when your target audience is consumers; they like the graphical content.Corporate or technical markets prefer a simpler, more concise and less adorned message.
&#183;Rail operators run hundreds of short-term special offers, most of which never appear elsewhere. If you travel regularly with a particular company, try checking the promotions page on the National Rail site. http://www.nationalrail.co.uk/promotions/promotions.htm&#183;Delta started a low-cost spin-off airline, Song; now United Airlines has launched Ted (half of UniTed, geddit?). It's taking on the successful Frontier (www.flyfrontier.com), which also has a hub in Denver and links southern cities with the west coast. Flights start in February. Seats are pre-assigned, and passengers can check in online: united.com; www.flyted.com&#183;Japan Airlines is launching broadband internet access in all cabins on London-Japan routes in December 2004. JAL's own news and weather forecasts will be free, but passengers will have to pay a charge - not yet announced - to email and visit other sites.  Singapore Airlines has adopted a similar system. www.jal.com; www.singaporeair.com
So you've written the perfect business plan for what you honestly believe is the perfect business. No, don't be modest, everyone thinks their business is just what their market needs when they start up, no matter how ropey the initial concept.But to make it happen you need money in your account, and that's where it's easy to come a little unstuck unless you resort to outside help of some sort. There are a number of possibilities, each with advantages and disadvantages. The Þrst, clearly, is to put in your own money. Robert Drew, chief executive of the SME leaders forum TEC EEMA, has a policy of "your money Þrst" when advising people on getting funding. "Otherwise you end up going to external people and giving up part of your equity when you're at a particularly vulnerable stage," he says.By "your money" you can include family and friends; but it is essential to take into account that you'll be playing with their cash and that, if things go wrong for you, you've lost your friends' money as well.The next step, suggests Drew, should be the bank. Banks are a good source of funding and will generally ask only that you make the repayments. Payment plans can be flexible under the terms of the Small Firms Loan Guarantee, a government-backed scheme in which the Small Business Service will guarantee 75% of a loan of up to £100,000 or £250,000 if you've been trading for two years or more; terms are supposed to be flexible, although none of the companies we spoke to had typically had any response other than "Here's the deal, sign or not" from their banks. However, the scheme does liberate cash that would otherwise be cut off to an SME.Companies often ask whether they're eligible for grants rather than loans, and indeed the prospect of free money is an attractive one. Unfortunately it's also a non-existent concept. There is honestly no such thing as free money; you need to meet the criteria. Take the Prince's Trust. It offers a lot of help to business start-ups and tries not to turn anyone away - if you're not ready to present a business plan to the awarding committee then you'll get support and advice until you are, if you're under 30 and in the right disadvantaged group. Other funds aim to bolster a particular geographical area which will mean relocating your business.It can be done, though. John Summers is one of the owners of RF Engines, an engineering company that gained a government grant of £15,000 under a scheme for innovation, and repeated the success a year later. Both of these grants helped to get his ideas beyond the drawing board and into a demonstrable state, and this in turn helped reap an allowance of £100,000 from a business angel (see below). "At the time we were valued at £300,000 excluding their equity, so they took a 25% stake," says Summers.Giving up some sort of stake in your business can be a tricky decision, and most business advisors will suggest at least retaining 51% so you will always be in control. In RF Engineering's case it worked well; the business went on to raise £1.3m from Þnancial institutions.The usual way of servicing start-ups, however, is through the owner's capital or a bank. If you're determined to look into grants, it's worth checking www.grantÞnder.co.uk, which is a well-researched resource outlining many of the external funding sources available. Be careful, though; as one business advisor suggested, you can make a full-time business out of researching grants and drafting applications that will make you look like the ideal candidate for funding, but wouldn't you be better off spending your time selling and marketing your company for recurring revenue?Take the money and runEnough already with the experience and anecdotal stuff - you want to know where you can walk in somewhere and walk out with the Þnancing for your company established, signed, sealed, in your back pocket. You'll need money of your own before you begin; nobody is going to give you a handout if you're not going to risk any of your own cash.The rule is "own money Þrst" and only after that should you consider going to the bank for a loan. After this you start to look at giving away control of your company in some way. This needn't be a bad thing but you need your wits about you. A business angel, for example, will be pleased to look at a business plan and offer some funding where appropriate; these are private investors often operating as a group and they will expect some equity in return for their money, and will be likely to want a degree of influence. This could mean anything from sending a financial director in occasionally, to more executive responsibility. Remember also that if you're asking for funds at the outset, your company will be worth less than if, say, you waited until you were trading successfully. Though this might not happen at all without the money, of course.Venture capital is another way of turning your equity in the business into cash, but it works slightly differently in that unlike a business angel, the VC will not use his or her own money. This means they're representing an institution or individual that probably won't even know it's one of your backers. Expect zero interest in what you're actually doing but maximum expectation of a solid Þnancial return.And don't forget grants, although don't assume you'll succeed in every (or any) application and remember whoever is offering funds will have their own agenda, whether they want to build up a particular run-down area, re-skill a group of potential employees or any number of other motivations, you need to ensure that you match their criteria or you might as well give up on the idea of applying.What not to do&#183;Assume turnover is equal to profit. When you're first starting up, if you're not used to running things for yourself, assuming all the cash that comes in can be spent on salaries etc is not a runner - you'll have obligations that must be met.&#183;Assume all your debtors will pay up on time.&#183;Assume all your debtors will pay at all - they can go bust too.&#183;Assume, based on the above, that an issued invoice is as good as cash and can be factored into your spending plans immediately it's issued. Cash flow is the barrier to success for a lot of companies - don't let yours be one of them.
Managing your cash flow is probably the least glamorous aspect of running your own business, but it is one of the key areas that can make a signiÞcant difference between failure and successfully bringing your dreams to life.Standard cash flow management advice typically recommends you make your payment terms clear; invoice early; follow up late payers efÞciently and cultivate an open and honest relationship with your bank. But in the hectic world of SMEs it's never that simple. You can follow the theory to the letter and still not get paid on time."The ones that tend to be late payers are the bigger companies and it causes much more hassle in the business. It means you have to delay decisions and hold up some plans until the money comes in," says Paul Barnett, director of BlueÞn, a small London-based design and marketing company. He feels that bigger companies normally enjoy much more muscle in negotiating terms, and can pretty much set the payment terms they like. So how does the company deal with late payments? "We keep an eye on it. We start a process of chasing. But you have to make a judgement call on whether or not that will piss the client off."BlueÞn has recently appointed a chairman who has a Þnancial background to help them. "We want to learn from the lessons he has learned rather than making mistakes ourselves," Barnett says.The Institute of Directors sees cash flow problems as a failure of management. "Everything goes back to management. Financial management skills are probably not as good as they should be," says Richard Wilson, business policy executive for the IoD. "The overall trading conditions are pretty good for SMEs right now."To guard against cash flow issues, Wilson recommends that SMEs have a broad range of clients and thoroughly check out any new business prospects before they start trading with them. "SMEs need to diversify their range of clients but that is easier said than done," he says.Some SME websites (such as bizhelp24.com) provide support materials and advice with Þnancial management matters. Online advisers say start-up businesses should try to avoid the temptation of over-investing in equipment and instead hold money back for unanticipated events.While borrowing is often essential, they point out that too much borrowing can lead to bigger interest rates and tighter repayment schedules. And once you've broken out of the start-up phase, high growth can be risky too, as it costs to sell in terms of spending on raw materials and perhaps overtime. Web-based SME advisers agree that steady growth should be the overall goal, but achieving this state of affairs can be difficult.Sally Preston knows all about business growth issues. She is a single mother and the founder of Babylicious, which provides quality frozen baby foods to supermarkets. She set the business up in October 2001. It has won awards and is experiencing huge growth. "The growth next year is a 1,000% increase. It's horrendous when you are sitting where I'm sitting," she says.Preston groans when you mention cash flow issues but she has always been bullish about chasing up late payers. The size of customers does not bother her. "I don't care how big they are. If they owe you money, they owe you money."She says you can get tough with Þnancial departments of big companies because they are usually separate from your buyer and they usually never talk to each other. To get her business going, Preston had to remortgage her house and she admits that her daily approach to cash flow is unorthodox. "I have always refused to do a business plan and I have refused to look at my bank balances. I have a vision and I know what I want to achieve. Looking at my balance day-to-day will only depress me."If you hit cash flow problems, she thinks the best policy is to be honest and negotiate pay deals with suppliers. In the past she has paid for magazine ads in installments.For many entrepreneurs, online banking is widely recognised as an effective tool for managing cash flow. HSBC currently has 600,000 SME customers in the UK and, of that, 100,000 are start-ups. Research recently conducted by the bank reveals that SMEs Þnd online banking convenient because they can access their balances and check on payments at any time of the day or night, without having to talk to someone.John Rendall, head of business banking for HSBC, recommends that SMEs shop around and don't automatically go for the bank they personally bank with. If you sign up to HSBC you get a computer disc which provides basic Þnancial templates to guide you forward. Rendall accepts that agreed overdrafts are an acceptable means of protecting against fluctuations in cash flow and he says the bank would never suddenly pull the rug out from under the feet of an SME unless it was an extreme case such as fraud.However, Rendall recommends that SMEs quickly develop a dialogue with their local branch so there is mutual understanding on both sides. "When big issues emerge they are easier to deal with if we have an understanding of each others' perspectives. We would rather know earlier than wait for it to have an impact."Despite banks' glossy literature and slick, heart-warming ads, many SMEs are still not convinced that their lenders are really doing all they can to help them with cash management issues. "I think they are completely risk-averse," says Preston, who claims that when you request loans a bank nearly always suggests you go on a training course. "I don't think banks understand SMEs. SMEs need accessible cash to buy raw materials and packaging."Being an entrepreneur is not for the faint-hearted, and managing cash flow is not a precise science. Instincts come into play as well. Clearly it's sensible to take free online advice but at the end of the day it's largely a question of what you feel works best for you and your business.
IT tsarThe government is planning to recruit an outsider, possibly an American, as an IT generalissimo. The new post of chief information officer for government is being created to coordinate an annual IT bill likely to exceed &#163;22bn by 2005. The CIO will replace the e-envoy, a post created in 1999 to promote internet use in Britain. Among the CIO's duties will be to improve government's dismal reputation as an IT manager, reduce duplication between departments and agencies and to oversee security policy. The CIO will also be responsible for government strategy on open source software. Although the government will advertise the post openly, promising candidates have already been identified. The salary is likely to exceed the &#163;250,000 paid to the NHS's IT chief Richard Granger, who is already Britain's highest paid civil servant.UtopiaSalt Lake City and 17 others in Utah are about to start building a fibre-optic network to deliver high-speed broadband to more than 700,000 residents and 35,000 businesses for less than a dollar a month. Utopia (Utah Telecommunication Open Infrastructure Agency) will also offer digital television and VoIP (Voice over IP) telephone services. Phone and cable companies are protesting that they should not have to compete with a publicly funded network, but the city argues that high-speed data networks are the contemporary equivalent of roads and sewers - essential infrastructure. San Francisco is also considering the idea as the city will soon have to install new sewers, and city supervisor Tom Ammiano is wondering why they shouldn't just lay high-speed fibre at the same time.http://deseretnews.comSmall gainsIntel is demonstrating the viability of a new chip process technology that promises to double the power of today's microprocessors. The proof of the 65 nanometer technology is a Static Random Access Memory (SRam) chip, which the company claims will result in cheaper chips with greater functionality. Intel will refine the process over the next year, and expects to have a production line in operation during 2005. Following the launch of the current 90nm process, analysts speculated that traditional production techniques had reached their limit. Intel has confounded this prediction, thereby offsetting the need for building costly new fabrication plants.www.intel.com/research/silicon/micron.htmCapital advanceEdinburgh last week opened a web site that can be personalised with localised news and information. It gives users access to discussion forums, an email address, city maps, directories and a personal calendar. The &#163;485,000 site allows local organisations to design and edit their pages within the site: 150 local community groups are involved. The site is managed by Cityconnect, which also runs IT training courses in the city.www.myedinburgh.orgChristmas guardsSwivel Technologies, an authentication and secure card transaction vendor, is advising retailers on how to enjoy a fraud-free Christmas. The five-point guide covers the main commonsense precautions to avoid online and point-of-sale scams. Authenticating the customers' ID tops the list, followed by informing them how to keep their details safe. Internally, web sites must keep their database protected, especially if credit card details are included. Swivel also advises making web sites difficult to copy to discourage the hijacking of payments by spoofing web sites. Finally, checking crime prevention agencies, such as Crime Concern, Crimestoppers and the Home Office, will keep retailers up-to-date on new threats.www.swivelsecure.comLondon's failingLondon is 55th out of 84 cities worldwide in provision of e-government, behind Dhaka in Bangladesh and Tehran in Iran, according to a UN-backed report. London's rating may have been affected by e-government functions being split between several websites: it is currently piloting a single portal. The study, by Rutgers University in New Jersey and Sungkyunkwan University in South Korea, looked for the official site of the biggest city in 100 countries or territories, and judged on issues including usability, content and citizen participation. Seoul in South Korea was rated top, followed by Hong Kong, Singapore and New York. Sixteen cities had no site.www.andromeda.rutgers.edu
There's a lot of data on our hard disks, and there's more accumulating by the day. The University of Berkeley School of Information Management and Systems has just updated its "How Much Information?" study. In 2002 we created over five exabytes of data, in the form of video, print, magnetic and optical media - an increase of over 30% a year since 1999. That's equivalent to half a million new collections the size of the US Library of Congress - 92% of which was on magnetic media, and most of that was on hard disk.We're drowning in a sea of data, both business and personal, and it's not information we can throw away. Regulations and laws make retaining information important, and it's often just good business practice to keep clear records of transactions and correspondence. But how can we manage the information on our hard disks, and keep it from taking over?Back up can take time - slowly transferring data on to magnetic tape or burning it on to optical disks - and restore can take even longer.It's harder, too, to delete unwanted files, especially in the financial markets or in health care. In the US, laws and regulations demand that infor mation is stored for several years, and that it can be easily retrieved. Elsewhere, the Basel II operational risk rules mean that banks need to store more and more information, so that they can reduce the amount of capital set aside to cover any risks. It's not just financial information or medical records that need to be stored, web content and customer emails also need to be managed.Storage has become a huge issue for business, along with data centre consolidation. Network storage is now within the budgets of SMEs as well as large organisations. You can buy three terabytes of network attached storage from companies like Evesham Technologies for less than &#163;6,000. This will allow you to take a snapshot of your business data and drop it on to a near line storage system. A snapshot takes minutes, so your data can be spooled from a near line cache on to tape or optical disks without affecting your business. Microsoft has built tools for managing snapshots into Windows Server 2003 in the shape of Volume Shadow Copy, while many third-party applications offer similar features across most operating systems and storage platforms.Implementing a near line storage system needn't be expensive, as it can   be based on lower cost commodity ATA (ie IDE) drives, rather than SCSI drives used in traditional network storage. In some cases disk storage is now cheaper than tape, and the overall cost of ownership can be substantially less (especially when you don't have to reinforce data centre floors to hold a tape jukebox). However, the real decision on what you use to store your data rests on what you intend to do with it. Disk works well for archiving information where quick access is required, and as a cache for tape storage. Tape systems work well as long-term storage and allow you to store information off site. Optical media are good for handling large amounts of data, especially medical images, but can be expensive.Mike Van Eerd, HP's European information lifecycle management business development manager, sees companies managing information in two ways. Some take a bottom up approach, determining which files are needed, and then filtering based on time stamps, usage or file types. A more effective top-down approach starts with a business process to determine the applications used and the data that needs to be stored.Regulations aren't the only business driver for use of near line storage   as an archiving tool. The shift from analogue to digital media in the broadcast industry is having a large effect. To help support some of this demand, BT Broadcast Services and HP have launched a pay-per-use storage system for digital broadcasting at BT Tower. Future large projects like the BBC's creative archive will need large amounts of archival disk if they're going to offer the performance that users expect. Renault Formula 1 is using Network Appliance's NearStore products to manage its archive of design information. As well as using near line storage to handle back up, the team use it to manage component design and manufacture.EMC's recent announcement of its plans to acquire Documentum is a sign of increasing maturity in the near line storage marketplace. EMC's vice-president for content addressed storage, Roy Sanford points out that the value of stored information is variable, and can rise or fall over time, even suddenly increasing in value. Keeping control of archived information may turn the costs associated with regulatory compliance into a business benefit, allowing organisations to use valuable stored information just when it's needed.Managing archived information is   important, especially when dealing with regulatory compliance. Archive systems will need to be able to apply business rules to your data, and will need to enforce retention rules. Tools such as EMC's Centera Compliance Edition or Documentum's software treat each piece of information you store as an object, and keep its location independent from your applications. This approach allows retained data to be treated as permanent - and the disk space it uses can't be overwritten. With vast amounts of information flowing through corporate email systems, messages are an important part of any archive. Connected, best known for corporate PC back up software, has just acquired email archiving specialists Archive-it. Mailstore handles email retention for most common email systems, as well as auditing who reads email and when.Disk-based near line storage is an important tool for business. Whether it's just running an email archive or managing terabytes of body scanner images, disk-based archives offer a quick way of accessing critical information, as well as a tool for caching information that can be backed-up and stored off site. It also enables you to get the most value from your data, at the time you need it the most.
Domestic robots that can speak, recognise their owners' faces and understand spoken instructions will soon be bustling around homes all over the world.Manufacturers in Japan are preparing to launch a new generation of robots that go far beyond today's autonomous vacuum cleaners and "mowbots" - self-guided lawn mowers - and closely resemble the sorts of machines predicted in 1950s sci-fi films. Sales of domestic robots are set to explode, with the UN's World Robotics 2003 survey predicting a tenfold increase in the next three years alone.But anyone hoping to hand over the cleaning to a mechanical servant is likely to be disappointed: the domestic robots that will appear shortly are information assistants. Their tasks will be searching databases rather than doing the dishes.The reason? When robots were first envisaged, it was assumed that constructing the moving parts of a robot would be easy, while the hard part would be building an artificial "brain". But the computers used to control today's robots are cheap,commodity items - building actuators, such as sensitive robotic fingers, is what is expensive. "Robots have to be able to do something useful if they are to be of any value to society, and it's turned out to be much cheaper to get robots to collect or send information than it is to get them to manipulate their environment," says Professor Huosheng Hu, a robotics expert at the University of Essex.But Hu says robots that can speak and understand spoken commands will still be built to resemble people, even if they can't use their limbs. "If you want a robot to be accepted by society, it must look intelligent. If it's just a lump of metal, people will feel silly talking to it," he says.The first of these new domestic robots is Mitsubishi Heavy Industries' Wakamaru, which will cost about &#163;5,000 when launched next year. It is recognisably human in form, although it uses wheels hidden by a skirt for motion, and its arms and hands are only used for gesticulating to aid communication.Wakamaru is designed to be permanently hooked into the internet using a wireless connection, and while it won't be able to fetch you a cup of tea, it will be able to read you the headlines and weather forecast and any emails you've received while you   make tea yourself, according to Junji Suzuki, a Mitsubishi heavy industries manager working on Wakamaru.The robot uses a camera in the top of its head pointed at the ceiling to establish its location in a house (the layout of the ceiling never changes) and uses forward-looking cameras to avoid collisions. It finds owners using sound, movement and heat sensors   and facial recognition software. Wakamaru also acts as a housekeeper or concierge, Suzuki says, ordering food and other items online for home delivery and telephoning or emailing an alert if a person it doesn't recognise enters the house when it is empty.Because it is connected to the internet, Wakamaru will be able to use remote computers to carry out complex   processing tasks it cannot tackle, according to Bill Weinberg, a director at the California-based software house MontaVista, which supplies the Linux operating system controlling Wakamaru. "Voice recognition is computationally intensive but compressing and sending out voice is not, so robots such as Wakamaru will be able to farm out complicated functions to other computers using their internet connection," he says.There are some problems that the internet can't help with: steps, for example, still present the same insurmountable obstacle to wheeled robots as they did to Dr Who's daleks 30 years ago. But another Japanese company, Honda, has unveiled Asimo, the first bipedal robot capable of walking up and down staircases. Asimo can also walk along sloping floors and change direction without stopping - easy for a human, but no mean feat for a robot. Sony has also shown off Qrio, a walking robot that can pick itself up off the floor if it trips or is pushed over. Neither Asimo nor Qrio are commercial products, but it's likely that in the next few years, many domestic robots will walk rather than roll.But if you've set your heart on a robot that will keep your house tidy, start saving for an android-like Valerie, an attractive female-shaped robot offered by Texas-based Android World, Inc. for $59,000 (&#163;34,630). Android World president Chris Willis expects the robot to be able to do all its owner's cleaning and ironing, but it's unlikely Valerie will be built in the foreseeable future.We may all soon have domestic robots, but it looks like it's the humans that will be doing the tedious household chores for some time to come.
It's interesting to seethat buying a laptop in Palo Alto, the epicentre of the tech world, is just as demoralising as it is in the UK. Like Scoble, I wonder why no-one has started selling a broad range of geek stuff in a much more savvy way, a bit like Apple sells its kit in the US in its boutique-style Apple Stores. Any passing retail experts care to comment on why the High Street tech-buying process is so painful?
Forbesmagazine pokes fun at "the Dell Digital Jukebox Music Player, or Dell DJ for short. Coming from the square world of Dell instead of the hip world of Apple, it's bigger, heavier, and clunkier than Apple's sleek, suave, elegant iPod, which arrived on the scene two years ago and quickly became the most popular portable digital music player on our home planet, Earth. Even worse, the Musicmatch-backed Dell Music Store is the clumsy, Bizarro counterpart to Apple's brilliant iTunes Music Store."
"The man responsible for writing software that allowed people to circumvent copyright technology on DVDs has posted software on the Internet that may allow Windows-using customers of Apple Computer Inc.'s iTunes Music Store to break digital rights management (DRM) technology that protects files downloaded from that service," reportsIDG News."A link to the file, called QTFairUse, was posted on a Web log that is maintained by Jon Lech Johansen, also known as "DVD Jon." When compiled and run, the program allows iTunes users to make raw copies of songs that use Apple's MPEG-4 Advanced Audio Coding (AAC) standard."Comment: yes, it should say "the AAC standard Apple uses." However, this is the second circumvention, following MyTunes, which allows users to download files from other iTunes users -- butnotsteal them if they are copy-protected iTunes downloads, asCNetexplains.
Tens of thousands of single parents are facing chronic delays in support payments because of the latest problems to hit a new government computer system.Official figures show that only 4% of the 150,000 people applying for payment to the Child Support Agency (CSA) have received any cash since the new £300m system was launched in April.The figures, released in response to a parliamentary question from the Liberal Democrats, also showed that only a third of the applications to the agency had been processed. Of these 17% of assessments were incorrect.The Liberal Democrat's work and pensions spokesman, Steve Webb, blamed the problems on a new computer system that he said had "failed spectacularly".The system was purchased from the American firm EDS. The government is withholding 15% of the monthly payments to EDS because of the problems.Mr Webb claimed that the failure of the system meant that staff were having to work out assessment's manually."It is scandalous that this multimillion pound computer system is so completely unreliable that CSA staff are having get pocket calculators out simple to keep the backlog down."He added: "Children are the real losers because of the CSA failure to collect and enforce maintenance payments. They are missing out on the cash entitled to them because of government bungling."A spokesman for the department for work and pensions acknowledged there were problems but accused Mr Webb of misusing the figures. He pointed out that no payments were made in 40% of cases usually because applications were withdrawn.
Never have two weeks off looked so terrifying.Matt Wellsreports today that the BBC is "relying upon the British love of karaoke to push ahead of ITV in the Christmas TV ratings this year". The beeb, presumably assuming we'll all be too addled to care, and correctly calculating that ITV will be even worse, intends to feed us a diet of EastEnders cast members singing in a variety show from Albert Square, which will also feature Liberty X and Lulu. Meanwhile, "traditional family movies such as A Sound of Music and the Wizard of Oz have been dressed up with singalong lyrics to run along the bottom of the screen."There's only one thing for it: we're going to have to ask Santa for broadband multi-player kits for our PlayStations and XBoxes, and lock ourselves away for the duration. And the result will be, in the New Year, UK versions of the US's recent, slightly baffled, "where have all the young 'uns gone" pieces in the media pages. In the words ofWhy Don't You, maybe we're all going to "switch off our TVs and go and do something more interesting instead".
The UK's first Wi-Fi train departed from Aberdeen this morning at 7.55am, bound for London. I caught the train at York where it arrived only a couple of minutes late at 12.51pm.A Wi-Fi train means that passengers and crew alike can enjoy wireless internet access while on board. Though it's already possible to send email and access the web via a mobile phone while on the move, a Wi-Fi network should make it much easier (and quicker) to do these things.Inside one of the first-class carriages, a few tables were littered with laptops and tiny handheld computers, serious-looking men in grey suits and stripy ties huddling over them.  A gaggle of journalists, publicists and a film crew from Anglia TV joined them. The cameraman aside, the carriage had the atmosphere of a cybercaf&#233;, albeit one hurtling down rail tracks at over 100mph.Interested passengers will need to provide their own computers, fitted with the special wireless cards that allow them to access the part of the radio spectrum needed for wireless access. Theoretically, it was a case of switch-on-and-go after that. But my Mac had some initial difficulties connecting and we were at Doncaster before I was properly online.The train is fitted with a satellite dish on top of its restaurant carriage. This connects to the internet through a range of different networks (including satellite and GPRS) and then distributes the bandwidth throughout the train. Connecting in this way means that if one connection goes down, another automatically replaces it, which allows for a constant connection even at speeds in excess of 100mph.The service, which is in its early stages, is variable. Some areas provide faster net access than others, but simple tasks, like accessing web pages and sending email, worked quite well throughout my two and a half hour journey. It was also possible to stream audio and download software while on the train. Even when the net access slowed, the connection wasn't broken, allowing me to pick up where I left off - something you may find more difficult if you are trying to connect via a mobile phone.Thankfully no one was shouting down their mobile phone telling the carriage that they were on the train, but there was considerable excitement when someone managed to stream the Radio 1 site and the nearby passengers complained. And unlike your mobile phone, the Wi-Fi connection doesn't disappear when you enter a tunnel, although it does slow down.The service will be open to the public from December 1 and will be available, free of charge, to first-class passengers on three daily services on the east coast mainline operated by GNER. A proper service will be available in the New Year. But expect to pay for it: GNER has not yet revealed prices or whether standard-class passengers will also be able to enjoy internet connectivity.GNER Wi-Fi is supplied by Icomera, a Swedish company who introduced a similar service in Scandinavia earlier this year. The service, which runs between major cities through out the Nordic region, has proved popular with commuters who have been willing to pay the typical £6 supplement on top of normal ticket prices.There were still some small things to get used to. Managing desk space with laptops, power cables, mobile phones and cups of tea was tricky, especially when the train pitched around at high speed. And the other thing was the disruption to the idle pleasures I'd always associated with train travel: reading my book and looking out of the window felt like things of the past. But crucially, I was able to file this copy before the train pulled into King's Cross, on time and online at 14.54.
"The porn gods were  definitely smiling on  us the day we  launched," says Jonno  d'Addario, the editor  of Fleshbot, a new  venture which brands itself as a  showcase of "all the porn that digital  technology and distribution has  made possible".He's referring to the infamous sex  tape of New York socialite Paris  Hilton, which broke on the internet  the very day that Fleshbot hit the web.  On the back of the buzz surrounding  the Hilton video, Fleshbot soared to  more than 1m hits in its first week  when it launched a fortnight ago.The site, a magazine-style weblog  funded through advertising, is the  latest addition to the stable of  Gawker Media, the brainchild of  Nick Denton, the former FT journalist  turned dotcom guru. But one of  the most surprising things about  Fleshbot's launch was that, despite  the lurid subject matter, there was a  distinct lack of criticism from inside  the web community.In the real world, a well-known,  mainstream brand launching a porn based  title would expect to draw fire  - just consider the flak that the  Express owner Richard Desmond's  top-shelf sidelines have received. But  Fleshbot has been more likely to  draw positive feedback than murmurs  of discontent."Intelligent writing about porn will  always find an audience - but I think  we've been helped along by certain  factors," says d'Addario - including  "the increasing acceptance of porn as  a topic of mainstream conversation".Even the conventional press is in  agreement. "Fleshbot might best be  described as an erudite pornography  site," wrote the New York Times,  "with the same kind of catty writing  and timely links that have made  Gawker a must-read for New York's  gossip crowd."Despite the hype, Gawker's sites  only bring in enough cash to cover  costs. But it's not only the small fry  who draw respect rather than reprimands.  Bigger fish in the internet  pond have started shifting their position  on adult content. Yahoo!, which  banned adult products and adverts  from its American portal two years  ago, is carrying advertising for candid  materials again - including ads  for hardcore-sex sites. The move,  which came as a result of the company's  £1.8bn takeover of search engine  group Overture in October,  currently affects a minority of  smaller sites recently brought under  the Yahoo! umbrella.The company remains steadfast in  defence of its decision. "Our intention  is to ensure that consumer interests  are best served and that consumers,  advertisers and partners  benefit from the highest quality  online experience," says a Yahoo!  spokesperson. "We evaluate our  practices on an ongoing basis."While this volte-face might strike  puritan campaigners as a betrayal, it  also shows that even the largest web  companies can sometimes be prepared  to put profits before prurience  - especially when the sums involved  are often substantial.But it is not just the balance sheet  which has influenced this increasingly  liberal attitude towards online  pornography - it is also reflective of  the current mood of the US media.  Usually, the cliché goes, America is  10 years ahead of Britain. But this  time we're talking about sex, not obesity. In a post-political correctness  backlash that might make British  readers recall the early 90s, it is only  now that unashamed sexualisation -  across all media - is feeling the  trickle-down effect of America's own  Loaded revolution.Top-shelf material has been  brought into more fashionable territory,  given edge, wit and sarcasm.  Denton has even gone so far as to say  he comes from "the Felix Dennis  school of publishing" - a reference to  the latter's success with raunchy-but mainstream  titles such as Maxim.As well as having to cope with  society's tacit acceptance of titillation,  many anti-pornography campaigners  are finding it hard to keep  up their struggle in the face of the  seemingly awesome and unstoppable  power of the web. Issues such  as child pornography apart, many  champions of censorship seem to  have capitulated. One high-profile  activist even admitted that she "does  not keep up with it any more".Some remain convinced that they  can change opinion, however. Bel  Mooney, the author and journalist,  who once worked for Penthouse  svengali Bob Guccione, is among  those who continue to advocate  online censorship."Nowadays the internet is, in  effect, an endless gallery of pornographic  images and acts, accessed in  the comfort of your own home," she  said earlier this year. "To speak of  regulation may appear to be wishful  thinking, in the face of the reality of  the internet. But I believe it is important  for each of us to know what is  going on, to be aware that pornography  is not just natural, harmless fun."But despite such protestations, the  undeniable fact that sex has always  been seen as a major driver in the  online market remains. And now the  same level of impetus is being put  across other new media - such as  palmtops, picture MMS, and particularly  video messaging."We believe the consumer market  for subscribed wireless adult media  has enormous potential," says Charles  Prast, the president and CEO of Private  Media Group, a huge adult entertainment  organisation which has  joined up with a number of telecoms  firms to provide adult content for  mobile phones and palmtops.This shift is eroding the dividing  line between the "clean" internet -  colonised by respectable dotcoms  and telecommunications providers -  and the longstanding reputation of  the web as a haven for pornography.Another reason behind changing  attitudes could be down to the transformation  of the online population.  The web used to be peopled by computing  professionals. But now the  average broadband web user has  become less technically literate and  more classically liberal - typical of a  post-60s generation brought up on  sex, drugs and freedom of choice.New York's Village Voice magazine  calls Fleshbot "the perfect way to  conceal your animal urges beneath a  veneer of geek intellectualism". This  approach, of sex as pop-culture pursuit,  is reflective of a cultural elite  more likely to look to Eminem than  Andrea Dworkin."That's bound to continue," says  d'Addario. "Although I'd hate it if it  became too mainstream. Nothing  would be more dreary... porn  should always be dirty - that's what  makes it fun."Ultimately, the aphorism that sex  sells is perhaps beginning to hold  true for the big hitters as well as those  looking to make a quick profit. Of  course, the divide between established,  mainstream internet companies  and adult-content providers  remains. But thanks to a relaxation  in public attitudes, the web's bluechip  firms are slowly inching towards  a corporate realism, in which adult  content exists not as a moral quagmire,  but as a way of strengthening  the bottom line.
The Rover 75 Tourer is the car that should have broken the bank. Three years ago, when the British carmaker was in German hands, the group was losing £2m a day.So when BMW sold the ailing manufacturer to the consortium MGRover for £10 (I wonder if they paid cash?), the City's fat cats were on hand to give the last rites.O ye of little faith! MGRover has taken the once proud marque from strength to strength and Rovers are once again rubbing their powerful shoulders with everything from Mazdas to Maseratis on our crowded byways. To be fair to the City, the turnaround has been the kind of return to form which would leave Lazarus gasping for air.All sorts of factors, from fortunate market forces to cunning management, have accounted for Rover's escape from the great automotive scrapyard in the sky, but key among them is that the recent clutch of cars it has put on the road have enough zip and pizzazz to see off the opposition. From the high-caffeine, high-performance MGZ range all the way to the super-deluxe Tourer 75, which, ahem, I've managed, rather belatedly, to get my grubby hands on for the past week.The fact that it's called a Tourer is a semantic nudge to its former owner's grand tourer, the BMW Touring. But the comparison isn't as far-fetched as you might think. Rover's 75 is a beautifully conceived and truly handsome beast. Long, smooth lines, elegant curves and enough chrome to brighten any magpie's day, the Tourer feels and handles like I imagine a motor launch feels and handles. The nautical theme continues inside with a replica walnut dash and white instrument panels. It's all very Grace Kelly, but this highly specified car is very much a 21st-century boy.For a start, it has an on-board television. For safety reasons, you obviously can't watch it while you're driving, but as soon as the car is stationary the little screen flickers into life. It also has all the whizz-bangery that you'd expect from such a pedigree pooch, from automatic windscreen wipers to climate control. There's also a trip computer and satellite guidance system. I'm convinced they install these devices to give women more reasons to despise men. Try as I might, I couldn't help keeping my wife posted with interesting facts... 'Only another 3,189 miles until the next oil change, dear' and, 'We've done an average of 34.6mph on this journey, pet'. Within a few miles she was nodding her head at me with that far-off look that all nerdy men know so well. In the end I turned the screen off to protect me from myself, as much as anything. But I did note that by the end of the week I'd done almost 500 miles and consumed £80 worth of petrol, which seemed like fairly thirsty work to me. Oh, and I did enjoy watching the mileometer tick round to 12,345 miles... now come on, that is interesting.The automatic navigation system is bound to become an essential marital aide. I've grown used to a woman's voice telling me: 'You've missed the turn. Why did you do that when I told you it was next on the left?' So it was nice to be told in measured and reassuring tones, 'Take the next left, you have reached your destination.'The Tourer is lovingly and lavishly finished. The doors close with a reassuring clunk, the leather seats are deep and heated (which always makes me feel slightly as if I've wet myself), the carpet's thick and there are pockets and storage areas everywhere. The pièce de résistance is its cup holder - a hinged, rotating semi-circle which demands to be popped in and out half a dozen times every time you sit in the car. When I was a spotty teenager, the only sure test of whether a stereo was any good was the smoothness with which the cassette would be ejected, and I have a theory that the same is true now of cars. 'Ooh, nice smooth cupholder action, must be a great V6 under the bonnet.'The window sills are unusually high, which gives the driver a sense of safety, but it also made me feel that my visibility was slightly compromised. The car has a reversing sensor, which beeps when the rear bumper approaches anything too solid, but what are those headlights all about? Stunted, deformed lenses which look like they've had their tops chopped off. The front, or face, of a car animates it and gives it a personality. In the Rover 75's case, I imagine the headlights are supposed to look purposeful and business-like, but they just make it look cross and grumpy. The lights are a feature across all the Rovers, giving the range a cohesive look, but if I'm spending a lot of money on a 75 Tourer (they start from £17,445), I don't want it to look from the front like a poxy Rover 25.As a nice final touch, the car has a metallic Union Jack fluttering above the rear bumper... and what a relief to at last have a great reason to 'Buy British'.
You probably haven't heard of Nandan Nilekani, yet he's after your job. At least that is the rather simplistic way in which British and American unions describe him, Infosys, the pioneering Indian software company that he heads, and indeed his entire industry.That is because Infosys inspires fear and admiration in equal quantities. The fear is that, having blazed the trail for the Indian software and call-centre bonanza, it is the nucleus of a jobsucking machine, partly responsible for the 'jobless recovery' in the US and mounting employment insecurity in the British IT sector.'This is globalisation,' says Nilekani, Infosys's Chief Executive Officer. 'People in rich countries have been exhorting India and China to become part of the world economy, to open up markets, adopt the free market, to allow imports. So having done that, as countries discover exactly what they're good at and start using what they're good at as instruments of trade in the global economy, this reaction is a bit ironic.'Yet there are increasing signs of trade tensions around the world. One US state, New Jersey, has passed a law banning outsourcing to Indian IT firms. 'Certainly an emerging tide of protectionism could have an impact in a number of ways,' Nilekani says. 'It could raise the cost of doing business or could have some kind of impact on the regulatory environment, or on the visas too.'But he acknowledges that there may have to be a serious effort to publicise the benefits of outsourcing: 'We think that what we do is good for world business. It is helping our customers become more efficient, more effective and making them more successful - and in turn creating more jobs.'Infosys was formed in 1981 with a &#163;200 investment by seven software engineers, including Nilekani, and run from their homes. Its big break came after it developed an automated distribution package for Reebok France, which referred on its clients. By 1991 revenues had reached about $1.6m, by 1999 they were $100m. In the current financial year Infosys expects global revenues of $1 billion and a client list including Sainsbury and Airbus.'Infosys and our business model has now become mainstream - that's the big   change over the past few years. It's gone from a niche activity which people were curious about to a very mainstream activity which most big companies are thinking of adopting,' says Nilekani.Infosys was the first Indian company to list on a US stock market - more of a slick marketing move than a grand fundraiser. And it adopted US accounting standards and obscure quality kitemarks with the zeal of the converted. Throw in its own telecoms infrastructure to bypass the notoriously uncertain local grids, the onsite Domino's Pizza, and one could be forgiven for thinking that the Infosys campus was on the outskirts of Baltimore, not Bangalore.There is, of course, method in this mimicry. At least half of software services exports from Indian companies go to the US. For Infosys, the figure is around 70 per cent. Nilekani puts this down to two things: 'The US spends 8 per cent of its $10 trillion GDP on IT. Also, Indian companies have had a beachhead there for over 20 years, so it's a well-established model.'So 'Infy', the company's stock-market ticker symbol and its diminutive name in India, is well placed to detect any coming boom in the US economy.'On the ground we are not seeing that much of an IT spend increase, but people are looking at outsourcing, and offshoring in particular in a very serious manner,' says Nilekani.There have also been subtle shifts in the type of work being done. 'After the &#91;dotcom&#93; bubble burst, our customers went back to basics, looking for projects that reduced costs or simplified systems. Now our work is increasingly sophisticated, running the guts of their businesses. And we are seeing some projects which are not only bringing cost reduction but will enhance revenues,' he says.He quibbles with the description of Indian IT workers as legions of 'slave coders': 'We've had a sea-change. No longer do our customers tell us what to do; they look to us to bring our global expertise to the table.'Infosys and the Indian industry offer immense scale. The company received 600,000 applications for 7,000 jobs last year: 'The number of engineering graduates is up to around 350,000 a year. And   remember, the engineering people are only on the IT side - you've got millions more articulate, English-speaking graduates available for call-centre and "business process outsourcing" sectors.'But the success of the Indian software industry is not just a matter of being able to recruit programmers by the shedload. The overarching cultural trait of the English-speaking Indian middle   class - that 'education is the route to their children's economic and social mobility' - plays a crucial role in pushing up educational standards.'Until recently, there had been no global industry that could put this brainpower to use. But because of the great increase in telecommunications technology, suddenly all the educated middle class and their youngsters are finding   avenues for jobs and mobility,' he says.This huge change has the potential to revolutionise the entire subcontinent, and bring India the status of a developed nation. Nilekani points to the creation of up to three million white-collar jobs and the knock-on effects from that. Economic growth is second only to China. In 1991 currency reserves were dwindling, but now stand at $93 billion. 'And very subliminally it's given confidence that our people can compete in the global marketplace and succeed,' says Nilekani.But is he saying that a country with a population approaching a billion people can really develop on the basis of a few hundred thousand nerds in Bangalore?'You can't have a scenario where you have a very small part of a nation's population entering an advanced league while everyone else stays behind. It's not equitable, but it's also not going to work. If you have an island of affluence in a sea of poverty, it's not sustainable.'He believes that, as successful as it is, the IT sector has very narrow foundations, maybe at best two to three million people over the next five years. That's a lot - but only 0.3 per cent of India's population. So what about the rest of the billion people, who still have a high level of illiteracy, who don't have access to healthcare water and sanitation - the bulk of the population living off agriculture?'He says his country needs to use the wealth creation of the IT successes as leeway to solve the more fundamental problems. He says that, as a mature company, Infosys is happy to pay taxes after years of special government provisions to encourage the sector.It has also created a rural internet, where doctors from the big cities can talk to patients in the villages through low-cost video-conferencing. 'IT is not a panacea, but it can help.'Yet amid the concern for India, the company is undergoing a concerted effort to position itself as multinational and multicultural. Development centres have opened in the UK, Australia, Mauritius, Canada, the Czech Republic and - most spectacularly of all - China. Last month Infosys announced a $5m investment in a centre in Shanghai.But Indian IT workers aren't on the streets complaining about 'their' jobs being lost just yet - and Nilekani thinks there is no prospect of that.ProfileNameNandan NilekaniAge47FamilyMarried, two teenage childrenJob titleChief executive, Infosys TechnologiesEducationIndian Institute of Technology, Mumbai (Bombay)PastimesBadminton, exerciseOther activitiesChairs 'Future of Bangalore' taskforce, co-founder of the Bangalore chapter of The Indus Entrepreneurs
Ten years ago, when lastminute.com was just an idea, Martha Lane Fox took a seat in the business class lounge at Wellington airport and waited to board an Air New Zealand flight to London. Sitting next to her was her boss, Kip Meek. 'Drop and do 50 press ups,' the 20-year-old told the 45-year-old management consultant in the Savile Row pin-stripes. Meek shook his head but Lane Fox teased and cajoled. Eventually, without quite knowing why, Meek wheezed his way to 50 push-ups.Last week when Meek heard the news that Martha Lane Fox was stepping down from the internet business she co-founded, he turned to his wife and said: 'I wonder which bunch of men in grey suits she's going to push around next?'Britain's youngest female multi-millionaire entrepreneur has the pick of the Savile Row brigade. The 30-year-old has been f&#234;ted as the richest self-made entrepreneur in business history. She has founded and floated a &#163;700 million company with 1,400 employees, negotiated the dotcom boom and bust and has come out the other side with &#163;30m in her Prada handbag.Everybody wants her, everybody wants to talk to her, but she's biding her time. 'I've only really worked on one business and that's amazing and fantastic but I've always wanted to do something else,' she says. 'I don't know what it will be but I want to see if I can.'For Lane Fox, just being able to say those words must feel like a bigger achievement than walking off with a million quid for every year of her life. Her career has yo-yoed as it has followed the ups and downs of the dotcom sector.She started out 'in a broom cupboard' in London cold-calling airlines with her business partner, Brent Hoberman, begging for meetings. When the tech sector boomed she became the pin-up girl of the digital generation - loved as much by cyber-geeks as the men in suits whom she used to persuade to invest in an online travel service flogging spare airline seats and hotel beds.She worked 18-hour days, seven days a week to create the net's best-known business. But when the tech sector crashed, the net's dazzling darling became 'that stupid young blonde'. Now, with lastminute.com in the black, she has made it back into Tatler magazine's little black book of Britain's most eligible singles published this month.Lane Fox has crammed more into a decade's work than most of us will manage in a lifetime. How did she get here? And when other stars of the internet boom found the going too tough, how did she survive?Lane Fox has made no secret that she had a head start because she is, to use an unfashionable word, posh. Her father, Robin, is an Oxford professor as well as the Financial Times gardening correspondent. Her mother, Louisa, is the niece of the sixth Marquess of Anglesey who runs her own business organising lunchtime academic lectures. Her late grandfather, Jimmy, founded the upmarket estate agents Lane Fox.She went to Oxford High and Westminster, the well-to-do public school, where she exhibited an early entrepreneurial streak by setting up a dating agency which earned her the nickname 'Fast Lane Foxy'. She read ancient history at Magdalen College, Oxford, where she tried her hand at acting. After graduating, she flirted with becoming a prison governor before opting to join Spectrum management consultants, where she met Hoberman. She was developing pay TV at Carlton Television when she agreed to set up lastminute.com with him. 'My parents gave me the luxury of thinking I can do anything. So I did.'Her background has helped make her super-confident and, ultimately, super-successful. 'She has more self-belief than most entrepreneurs twice her age,' says George Coelho, former head of international investment at US computer giant, Intel, who sank millions into lastminute.com. He recalls how she raised funds by giving senior bankers 'public bollockings'. At one tech seminar in London 'she stood up in front of an audience of venture capitalists and said: "Call yourself financial entrepreneurs?" The bankers had never heard anything like it. I loved it because it was passionate.'Talk to anyone about Lane Fox for more than a few minutes and the word passion comes up. While Hoberman crunched numbers at lastminute.com's office near Buckingham Palace, Lane Fox used her enthusiasm and charm to persuade everyone from middle-aged men to junior technicians to believe in her and her business. 'She is great at getting people with her and getting teams motivated and excited. That's what attracted me and others to invest,' former ICI chairman and TV troubleshooter, Sir John Harvey-Jones, says. For others, her lust for lastminute was a problem. She almost fired one hapless PR agency for suggesting she 'tone down the passion' and 'stress the technological breakthrough by saying lastminute.com is the new Concorde'. 'That was a very short meeting,' one former colleague remembers.Her looks and enthusiasm have made Lane Fox the natural front woman for a new-economy business and the dotcom sector. As her media profile has risen, Hoberman's has fallen, prompting claims that she is just a pretty face - the smiling pin-up girl for a business run by her gifted 'entreprenerd' partner. The sniping is hardly surprising. Those bright twenty-somethings who have got lucky and made a killing on the internet while most of us still struggle to open email attachments are, to put it mildly, irritating.Lane Fox has done little to dispel the 'webutante' image by talking about her fondness for pink clothes, big bangles and messy hair and by describing her on-going struggle to find a boyfriend.But those who have worked with her say the blonde moments conceal a ruthless streak. 'Just because she is a good manager of people and she's charming in interviews does not mean that she is not a good business brain,' says Allan Leighton, the company's straight-talking chairman and today's modern management troubleshooter. 'All the really hard stuff we've had to do, Martha's done. As we've bought businesses, we've had to lay people off, and where we've got fat we've had to lay people off, and somebody has to tell them. That's Martha.'Coelho agrees: 'People tried to build her up and when things got bad to knock her down. That can be terribly distressing but she did not hiccup once. Even when the shares crashed she carried on buying new firms, improving the site. She stuck at it. She's gritty. She built the brand the hard way.'And now it's over. The industry has lost it cheerleader, the woman who made technology sexy and convinced us that the internet wasn't just for geeks eating cold pizza. The picture editors on the City pages hate it. Investors hate it. Even the stock market is in mourning, knocking nearly &#163;155m off the company's market value last week after Lane Fox announced she was off.What will she do next? She will go on holiday - 'booked in the morning, and departing in the evening' in the spirit lastminute.com - but has no plans to spend her millions. She says she will continue to live in the Notting Hill flat she bought six years ago, and to drive her five-year-old VW Beetle 'that cost &#163;10,000 if you must know'.She says she wants a boyfriend and 'a football team of babies'. A new job could be 'more techie stuff' or 'doing something directly good'. She is a trustee of penal reform charity Reprieve and earlier this year she saved the life of a young American called Ryan Matthews, who was facing the death penalty in Louisiana, by paying nearly &#163;10,000 for a DNA test that proved his innocence.If all that fails her last remaining ambition, she has told friends, is to follow in the footsteps of her 'role model', the empress Theodora, who according to myth once lay in a Roman amphitheatre covered in honey and waited for swans to lick it off. Don't bank on her not achieving it some day. As the men in grey suits in the business class lounge at Wellington airport discovered a decade ago, what Martha Lane Fox wants - however ridiculous - Martha Lane Fox usually gets.Martha Lane FoxAge:30Education:Oxford High; Westminster; Magdalen College, Oxford (ancient history)Job:Co-founder of lastminute.comWorth:&#163;30 millionFavourite colour:PinkWhat next:A last-minute holidayAmbitions:Find a boyfriend, have a football team of babies
'She leaned across me and touched my knee,' confided a colleague last week recounting the occasion on which he met Martha Lane Fox. One former workmate fancied the former managing director of Lastminute.com something chronic. Out to dinner with his business editor, Lane Fox and her business partner Brent Hoberman, at the height of the dotcom boom, this rottweiler hack had all the aggression of a nodding dog. He was not alone.One lesson of this story is that male hacks are suckers for a posh twentysomething. 'I'm a sociable, flirty woman,' admitted Lane Fox this weekend. 'Everyone knows that, but if you suggest that this company was built on this, and that there is no substance, I will throttle you.'Substance the company has. It still survives and is going from strength to strength, having posted its first full-year profits last Thursday, the day the dotcom pin-up quit her day-to-day role.But the attention Lane Fox receives proves just one thing - sex sells. Last Friday even the  Times devoted a leader to her. Maybe her frothy manner is an antidote to bleak times and a not very sexy business. All Lastminute does is sell holidays and theatre tickets. Not the most exciting business in the world. And the market voted with its feet on news that   she was going, with the firm's shares down 21 per cent since Thursday - though this was also because the results were not as good as expected.Without doubt, Fast Lane Foxy, as she was dubbed at school, courted attention. She admits pictures of her in papers helped build the Lastminute brand with a momentum her PR minders could only dream of. But things have got out of kilter. At the press briefing after her departure, she fielded questions on her sex life and other personal matters. 'No one would dream of asking this of anyone else,' said a company insider.For the firm that set out to make a business based on tapping into flights of consumers' fancy, the ultimate accolade is that it still exists - remarkable, given the dotcom wreckage that destroyed hundreds of tech businesses. And it was Lane Fox who often assumed the role of hatchet woman, firing staff in bad times, along with her partner, the strong, silent Hoberman. Between them they saw the business move from permanent loss to profit. 'They lucked out because they survived,' said Budd Margolis, an e-commerce and interactive shopping expert. 'You have to hand it to a company that started five years ago that's still doing something.'And things are looking up. E-com merce is growing at 40 per cent a year in this country, says Lane Fox. She argues that so long as the company protects its market share it is sure to grow.Margolis argreed: 'The future of e-commerce is looking much brighter. We're dealing with reality not fairyland. Today there's real accounting and real professionalism.'That may be the case now, but the sector has taken two years to shake off a decadent, corrupt image. The industry coined the phrase 'burn rate' when it came to investors' cash. It made a few bankers very rich on fees. A select group   made a fortune by having access to shares at flotation. One of those was Mary Meeker of Morgan Stanley, which helped Lastminute.com become the last company that successfully tapped the City before the crash. In March 2000, one month before the tide turned, Lastminute raised &#163;113.5m. Its shares leapt 28 per cent higher on the first day. At its peak the shares hit 487p, valuing the company at &#163;760m. They promptly sank without trace to just under 18p. But last year Lastminute.com was the best performing stock in the UK. A combination of strong revenue uplift, combined with a savvy use of flotation cash, explained the rise. Lastminute mopped up undervalued e-commerce leisure businesses to give the group a broader appeal.However, growth has come at a price. There are persistent mutterings of shoddy service and last week the firm was the subject of a BBC  Watchdog investigation. Lane Fox hit back by saying that, out of two million customers, just 1 per cent complain at the service.The future could see a Lastminute television channel. The brand is already on the SkyActive digital platform. Mobile phone technology is expected to fuel further growth.One thing is certain. If Lastminute started now, it would never get off the   ground. It wouldn't attract the funding.Lane Fox's departure has given her the chance to go on holiday. There are no plans, as yet, to cash in her shares, which could net her &#163;20m. There is talk that the firm will eventually be gobbled up by the American owner of Expedia, Barry Diller. This would reward Lane Fox for five years of round-the-clock toil.Schooled at Westminster, the almost all boys' public school, she read history at Magdalen College, Oxford. Then it was straight into a job at Spectrum, a management consultancy. Hoberman also worked there, and a year after Lane Fox had left he rang her to say that he had an idea for an internet venture.Martha was born into money. Her late grandfather, Jimmy, started the Lane Fox estate agency firm (the family no longer owns it) and her mother has aristocratic blood. Her father, Robin, is a fellow of New College, Oxford, and writes a gardening column for the  FT .Lane Fox can't envisage what she will be doing this time next year. She won't get involved in another internet start-up venture, though. She once poured scorn on being motivated by the pursuit of wealth. So what made her stick it out? 'Because I love the service, the people I work with, and I wanted to make it work.' It does now. It's time to log off.
"The first global index to rank Information and Communication Technology (ICT) access has turned up some surprises. Slovenia ties France; and the Republic of Korea, usually not among the top ten in international ICT rankings, comes in fourth. Apart from Canada, ranked 10th, the top ten economies are exclusively Asian and European. The Digital Access Index (DAI) distinguishes itself from other indices by including a number of new variables, such as education and affordability. It also covers a total of 178 economies, which makes it the first truly global ICT ranking," according to the International Telecommunication Union,here. The top countries are Sweden, Denmark, Iceland and Korea.
For several years now journalists have been writing off the pop single.  Yet a new device released this week by mobile phone network 02 in the UK could make those obituaries seem a tad premature.O2's Digital Music Player, or DMP, enables its owners to download music via a mobile phone. Unashamedly targeted at the youth market record companies hope that the player, and future phones that will incorporate the technology, might once again revive the fortunes of the single, albeit in a digital file format.As befitting a device aimed at the young, the DMP is remarkably simple to use. It connects wirelessly to a phone via infrared (although users have to keep the two devices in line of sight of each other) and then offers the owner thousands of tracks to choose from including almost all of the current top ten singles. These are downloaded via GPRS and then stored on the phone. The music is fairly cheap too, with the latest chart hits offered for £1.50 a song  and older material retailing for £1.Ironically, that's cheaper than many poor quality versions of the tracks currently being sold as ringtones. Payment for tracks is via a user's phone bill.The idea for the product is nothing new. Countless music downloading and playing devices were paraded by manufacturers several years ago when they first  unveiled 3G prototypes. Yet actually getting the product to market is a different matter."It's mini miracle," says Dan Wiley, director of business development at  Universal eLabs "To not only to have resolved the technical issue but also get  the music industry on side takes some going."Technologically the DMP plays some fairly neat tricks. It uses a new  CODEC that's a variant of the AAC as used in the US by the Apple iTunes download  service. With increased compression O2 has shrunk the average size of a music  file from 3MB (as is common for MP3s) to just 1MB.Not only does this enable a  faster download - it takes around three minutes - but also enables users to squeeze more songs on the player's  storage card.Even more impressive is the way in which an industry notoriously wary of new technology has embraced the system. "It is a testament to how highly the industry view the digital rights management system (the software that prevents private copies being made of the tracks) that so many companies have come on board," adds Wiley. Even EMI, the only one of the big five companies yet to sign up to the service, is enthusiastic about the potential of music download via phone.To ensure copies of the tracks aren't pirated, users can store their track on a PC, but not actually play them. This shouldn't worry the youth market, though, believes O2's head of music Leslie Golding of O2. "The DMP is a product that brings music downloads to a completely new audience - those without a PC.  It's a potentially massive one too. Besides if a person fills up a card they can simply go about and buy another one - they are not expensive."Although the DMP device is clearly an impressive one -sound quality is roughly the same as standard quality MP3s and it is very simple to use - for  O2 its key role is as a showcase for the downloading technology. Not  surprisingly the network is considering licensing out the system to other  networks too.Universal's Dan Wiley is very excited about how the market will develop.  "As we get even better CODECs and more bandwidth the quality of the service is  sure to improve. We'll be able to offer faster downloads, better quality music  and even video."The key though will be when the system is integrated into  phones. "Music playing phones have barely moved on at all in the last few years,"  adds O2's Leslie Gooding. "With this technology they really can become a  compelling proposition."One company that would be perfectly placed to harness the technology is 3G network Three. Almost all its handsets boast large amounts of storage and tracks could be downloaded in a fraction of the time using 3G than they are using O2's GPRS network.Three's spokesperson Ed Brewster said that the network had plans for music via mobiles, but not a service like O2's. "Other networks talk of offering music video by phone. We've had it via our MTV deal for several months.  Users pay £2.50 to download some excellent videos."No matter how successful the DMP is O2 has pulled off something of a coup in becoming the first network in the world to offer a music download via mobile service. If the record companies continue to back the concept it is very likely that services like this will be massive. The pop charts in 2007 could be much more about the tunes stored on a mobile than on sales of CDs singles.
A dotcom analyst who was earning &#163;1m at the age of 30 was ordered yesterday to repay a &#163;250,000 bonus - plus &#163;10,000 in interest - he received by mistake.The court of appeal overturned a lower court's ruling that allowed Gareth Price-Jones to keep the bonus paid to him by German-owned Commerzbank.Mr Price-Jones, now 33, was hired by Commerzbank from Schroders in April 2000 to head its internet research team at the height of the dotcom boom but was made redundant in November 2001.The court of appeal judges overruled a decision a year ago by a deputy high court judge that Mr Price-Jones was entitled to keep the bonus.The confusion arose over a promise by Commerzbank to give Mr Price-Jones a guaranteed bonus of &#163;250,000 a year. In June 2000, he received a letter putting his bonus at &#163;265,000. He believed this to be in addition to the guaranteed bonus, but Commerzbank had argued that it meant to give only an additional &#163;15,000.The deputy judge in the lower court ruled that, even though Commerzbank had meant to pay him only an extra &#163;15,000, Mr Price-Jones was entitled to the total of &#163;515,000 because of contracts he had signed.The court of appeal judges ruled yesterday that if the bank had intended to increase the guaranteed bonus to &#163;515,000 it would have made it plain in the letter it sent to Mr Price-Jones.In the court of appeal yesterday, Lord Justice Mummery said Mr Price-Jones had been "unjustly enriched" as a result of the payment."A just man would recognise that it was unjust to keep it and that he ought to repay it," said Lord Justice Mummery, who presided over the case with Lord Justice Sedley and Mr Justice Munby."The payment was a mistake. He has still got the money. There is no obstacle to repaying it," Lord Justice Mummery said.Mr Price-Jones was not immediately available for comment yesterday. Commerzbank said it was "very pleased" with the result of the appeal.The case is one of the few that helps lift the veil of secrecy on pay levels in the City, particularly during the dotcom boom when investment banks raced to hire individuals with expertise in the emerging market.Since the end of the boom, guaranteed bonuses have been less common, according to City insiders, and many of the individuals hired to specialise in the internet have lost their jobs.
Martha Lane Fox, the co-founder of Lastminute.com who became a symbol of the glamour and excitement of the dotcom boom, yesterday quit her job at the age of 30. She made only one promise about her next move: she will not start another business.Her shares in the company are worth &#163;25m and she announced her resignation as managing director on the day Lastminute reported its first full year of profits, ignoring one-off items and goodwill write-offs.The figure was below City expectations - just &#163;200,000 compared to forecasts of more than &#163;7m - and contributed to a 17% slump in the share price. The Istanbul bombings, which hit the values of all travel-related companies, was another factor behind the fall.Ms Lane Fox, who will continue as a non-executive director, said the move into profitability was an ideal moment to give up executive duties at the firm she launched with Brent Hoberman, who will remain chief executive."Anybody who knows me would know that I've always said I had finite time in the business," she said. "Lastminute was Brent's idea and when we started the business I said there would be a time when I would leave. I feel immensely lucky to be involved, but I need to know whether I can do something on my own."I don't know what it is yet, but I do know it doesn't involve starting another business. I don't think it would be possible to replicate the excitement of Lastminute."Ms Lane Fox originally dismissed Mr Hoberman's business plan for Lastminute as "far too complicated" but quickly changed her mind. The pair quit their jobs in early 1998 and floated the company in March 2000, only days before the peak of the stock market and the beginning of the end of the dotcom bubble. Later that year the company received another boost when Allan Leighton agreed to become chairman.The personal publicity surrounding Ms Lane Fox ensured that both she and Lastminute became household names. She was named by Tatler as one of the 10 most eligible women in Britain and appeared on Question Time.She has often complained about the attention, but admitted yesterday that it has helped the business. "Do I think it's good that you guys helped build our brand for us? Of course. I'm cynical enough to know that being young and blonde, and not middle-aged and in a suit, helps. But we've really worked hard to get this business not about one individual in particular."Lastminute's shares fell sharply after flotation, as with other dotcom stocks, but its recovery has been strong. In 2002 it was the best performing share of the year, though it has yet to recover to its float price of 380p.Even after yesterday's 51.5p fall to 248.5p, Lastminute is still valued at &#163;738m. That is   about half the market capitalisation of EMI, the world's fourth largest music company.Some 85% of Lastminute's transactions, which last year more than doubled to &#163;552m, come from sales of airline tickets, despite its attempts to promote other products. It blamed exceptional spending on new computer systems for the difference between reported profits and City forecasts.Ms Lane Fox, who has recently helped Reprieve, the charity that helps prisoners on death row, will give up executive duties at the end of the year and can afford to take her time choosing what to do next."I might become a newspaper sub-editor and write the headlines," she said. And what would she choose as a headline for yesterday's news? "Lastminute moves into profit."
Search hereGoogle has now gone beyond the toolbar on to the Windows taskbar, so you can search the web without opening a browser. For example, if you highlight a word in a Microsoft Word document or other application, then you can Google for it by pressing Ctrl-Alt-G. However, why be "a captive to Google", asks Dave Bau. Dave's Quick Search Deskbar does the same thing, but it also lets you search Yahoo, get Merriam-Webster definitions and Bloomberg stock quotes, and look up Switchboard phone numbers. (All of these are US-oriented.) The Google Deskbar does offer some non-Google searches, and you can add your own sites, but it is still a Google Labs experiment. Dave's Deskbar is open source software, released under the GPL, and is up to version 3.1.6.http://toolbar.google.com/deskbarhttp://toolbar.google.com/deskbarhttp://notesbydave.com/toolbar/doc.htmFinal frontierThe Voyager 1 spacecraft, launched in September 1977, is reaching the edge of the solar system and entering interstellar space. Nasa and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory are helping people to follow the Voyager missions on the web, with The Golden Record, a 25-year history. You can also download the GrandTour program for DOS and Windows, which "simulates space as seen from the Voyager and Giotto spacecraft" in wireframe graphics.www.nasa.gov/missions/deepspace/voyager.htmlhttp://voyager.jpl.nasa.govwww.jpl.nasa.gov/flash/voyager_recordwww.bykeyword.com/pages/detail5/download-5882.htmlBlog onCan you think of more than 50 places where you could start a blog? Peter Scott's Weblog Compendium has a   list of almost 80, complete with links and very brief descriptions. Other resources include lists of blogging tools, news sources, text ad sites, RSS (syndicated news) readers and other things the would-be blogger might need. You can stay up to date with new developments by reading the Compendium's blog. Scott, a university librarian, also runs a library blog for the Xrefer search site, and has been tracking internet resources since launching Hytelnet in 1991.www.lights.com/weblogswww.lights.com/weblogs/weblog.htmlhttp://blog.xrefer.comEarth artAmerica's Library of Congress has mounted an exhibition of Landsat 7 satellite imagery with the colours chosen for dramatic effect, rather than naturalistic or scientific purposes. Many of the pictures look oddly like photomicrographs, and there are no prizes for spotting things that look decidedly fractal. The 35 images include the West Fjords in north-western Iceland, Garden City, Kansas and Mount Kilimanjaro.www.loc.gov/exhibits/earthasartWorld musicThe Sound of the City, for music buffs, is the title of Charlie Gillett's history of popular music from 1945 to 1972. Last year, it led to the production of five double-CD compilations under the collective title The Sound of the City, covering music from five musically distinctive American cities: Chicago, Los Angeles, Memphis, New Orleans and New York. The website, however, has now turned into a comprehensive record of Gillett's weekly BBC London radio programme, with details of all the records played over the past couple of years, pictures of all the guests and a search engine. Recent guest have included Rodrigo y Gabriela, Fernanda Porto, Eugenio Bennato and Taranta Power. A few programmes are still available as RealAudio streams.www.charliegillett.comVideo mailTiscali has launched a free video mail service, VMail, which lets Windows users send each other video clips or enjoy live videoconferencing and/or instant messaging. Of course, Windows users could already do this using Microsoft's NetMeeting and its successors, or one of the instant messaging programs. VMail is unusual because it uses Macromedia Flash 6 to compress and send the video, and is claimed to be easy to use. Don't have a webcam? VMail customers can buy two Creative NX WebCams plus two microphones for &#163;39.99, which Tiscali says is half the suggested retail price.http://webcam.tiscali.co.ukSix of the bestWorld CupsRugbywww.rugbyworldcup.comFootballfifaworldcup.yahoo.comParaglidingwww.pwca.orgBoomerangswbc.boomerangs.netRobocupwww.robocup.orgQuidditchharrypotter.ea.com/quidditch/usa/home.html
O2 is hoping to transform the way people buy and listen to music with the launch of a digital music player that downloads chart hits via a mobile phone. The O2 Digital Music Player (DMP) connects to many handsets (including most recent Nokia and Siemens phones) by infrared. Users browse a selection of up to 100,000 songs, choose the music they want to buy and then use the phone to download the track and transfer it to the device. Most songs take around three minutes to reach the player.Chart hits cost &#163;1.50, with older tracks retailing for &#163;1. Although the player is compatible with MP3s, for the downloaded music it uses a new format called AAC Plus. This delivers tracks that are on average 1MB, as opposed to 3MB for the standard MP3 track, enabling users to store more than 60 tracks on the player's removable 64MB Secure Digital (SD) card. Sound quality is good - certainly comparable to MP3. The player is available from O2's website for &#163;100.www.o2.co.uk
I am perched on the steps underneath the statue of Eros in London's Piccadilly. In my hands is a laptop, which has just fired up Internet Explorer. Yet I have no wired connection and my mobile phone ran out of battery juice hours ago.I am one of the first consumers to log on to the new Wi-Fi zone that encompasses much of Piccadilly. Developed by Broadreach Systems, it is now possible for anyone with a Wi-Fi (802.11b or 802.11g)-equipped laptop or personal digital assistant to get on to the network and check email or surf the web in the open space around Piccadilly or, indeed, in any of its buildings. The service, which will take in Leicester Square next month, is free until Christmas. Thereafter, it will cost in the region of &#163;1 for 20 minutes' access."So many companies have talked up Wi-Fi zones but not followed through," says Broadreach's chief executive Magnus McEwen King. "We just wanted to show everyone it could be done."Technically, setting up a Wi-Fi zone isn't that difficult. In its most basic form, it is about daisy chaining a series of wireless access points across an area. "Piccadilly was fairly easy for us," explains McEwen King. "We already have Wi-Fi hot spots in buildings like Tower Records and so it was just a matter of connecting them to offer seamless coverage."McEwen King hopes the Piccadilly experiment will inspire others to consider applications that can be developed for Wi-Fi zones. "The service in Piccadilly is a vanilla one. For business users, we can offer more bandwidth and extra functionality. We imagine Wi-Fi could appeal to local authorities who can use it to monitor the activities of its mobile workforce."Although it is the biggest of its kind in London, Piccadilly is not the first Wi-Fi zone in the capital. A few weeks back, an internet cafe group called Reload delivered its Wi-Fi zone, which has a reach from Paddington's railway station to the northern fringes of Hyde Park.Last year, the Paris business district of La Defense was swathed in a Wi-Fi zone that runs over three square miles, while the town of Zamora, in Spain, is one large Wi-Fi zone.Yet of all European cities, it is London that is best placed to develop Wi-Fi zones. "I believe Wi-Fi zones could be established across all the major business areas of the capital in around three or four years," says Andrew Greenhalgh, Intel's director of marketing mobile solutions for Europe, Middle East, Africa. "The growth of Wi-Fi hot spots in the city   (there are now more than 200) has been astonishing and there is potential for companies to build Wi-Fi zones from the ground up.""The opportunities for these type of zones exist because the 2.4Ghz radio frequency Wi-Fi operates in is unlicensed and at the moment we are following EU regulations which are very light," says Trevor Brignall, director of business development at Cap Gemini, Ernst and Young.With that radio space up for grabs, several innovative companies have already begun developing Wi-Fi zones in British towns and cities. Some are in unlikely places, too. MyZones has developed a private zone in the Yorkshire community of Hebden Bridge, while HP Labs has been experimenting with a zone that takes in much of Bristol's city centre.Clive Mayhew Begg, chief executive of MyZones, also has plans for another big conurbation. "We are looking at setting up a Wi-Fi zone in central Manchester. The key to this will be the licensing of a new antenna developed by a company called Vivato. When this gets the go-ahead, it will give us a reach of four square miles across the centre of the city."One of the most ambitious is the zone created in the Berkshire town of Newbury by two local companies, FDM Broadband and Twangnet. "The zone, which is free at the moment, encompasses the conference centre, business park and high street," explains FDM's chief executive Karl Crossman.Coming next year are key technologies that will make setting up Wi-Fi zones much simpler."Companies are getting very ex cited about mesh technologies like WiMax," adds Trevor Brignall. WiMax is an industry coalition whose members advance IEEE 802.16 standards for broadband wireless access networks. "WiMax has a range of around 30 miles. It allows Wi-Fi signals to hop across various access points until it hits the network, which makes it ideal for large Wi-Fi areas," he says.In particular, it could help bring broadband internet access to rural areas where it is not economically feasible to create a wired network.There are also schemes in the UK that use elements of mesh technology to distribute Wi-Fi signals across large areas. Among these is an area of around 40 square miles surrounding the town of Galashiels in the Scottish borders where MMT Wireless is rolling out Wi-Fi coverage. Similar   schemes are also in progress in the southernmost tip of Cornwall and in parts of Wales and Ireland.Mohammad Shakouri, vice-president of WiMax, sees real opportunities for the technology in the developing world. "In areas of the world with no broadband, setting up WiMax systems is an obvious move. The reach of WiMax is large and the equipment inexpensive."WiMax might also do much more than enable web-related businesses to spring up in rural, locations. "In rural areas of India there have already been cases where being able to access a person's medical records or accessing specialist information over the internet has saved lives," adds Pankaj Patel a director in Convergys' (customer care solutions provider) office of technology.There are issues surrounding Wi-Fi zones that have yet to be resolved. "Security is a big one," says Brignall. "People will inevitably be using Wi-Fi to access company intranets, so companies are now looking at random security codes that change frequently to offer more security."Another key issue is the impact Wi-Fi might have on the fortunes of 3G phone networks, for in certain sectors they are offering the same service - speedy access to data. Many commentators now feel that mobile phone networks see Wi-Fi hot spots and zones as an opportunity rather than a threat. Brian Marshall, European telecommunications business development director of telecoms consultancy AMS, argues: "Wi-Fi will never have the same widespread coverage of 3G, and people aren't going to wait to arrive in a zone before they read email or access the internet. There might be some degree of convergence with 3G/Wi-Fi handsets, but for data applications, 3G will establish itself as the key source."A more pertinent issue is the limited number of people who have used Wi-Fi hot spots. Tony Crabtree, a senior analyst at Juniper Research, remains optimistic. "In the UK we now have a growing number of hot spots. There will also be more and more devices with integrated Wi-Fi. What we need to see is companies sorting out roaming agreements and marketing the services."LinksBroadreachwww.readytosurf.comReloadwww.reload.comMy Zoneswww.myzones.co.ukTwangnetwww.twangnet.comFDM Broadbandwww.fdmbroadband.comMMT Wirelesswww.mmt.co.ukIntel hotspot guideintel.jiwire.com
Martha Lane Fox, one of the few surviving entrepreneurial stars of the dotcom boom, has quit as managing director of Lastminute.com, as the online retailer posted its first ever full-year profit.Ms Lane Fox, who founded Lastminute.com with Brent Hoberman five years ago, will stay on as a non-executive director of the company and remains a major shareholder.She will be replaced as group managing director by Ian McCaig, who joined Lastminute.com as chief operating officer in August. Mr McCaig will also join the company's executive board.Ms Lane Fox's announcement came as Lastminute.com unveiled a pre tax profit of £200,000 for the 12 months to the end of September, compared with a £16.2m loss in the previous financial year.However, Lastminute.com's first profit was less than the City had expected and shares in the company fell by 9% in early trading today."It has always been my ambition to see the group deliver a full year of profitability," Ms Lane Fox said."Now this has been achieved, it is the right time for the business and the right time for me to explore other challenges."I am delighted to be continuing to help grow this exciting business from my new role as a non-executive director."Mr Hoberman, the chief executive of Lastminute.com, said: "Martha and I have worked together for six amazing years and her contribution has been tremendous. I am now looking forward to continuing my work with Ian, who has made a strong impact since he joined in August 2003."Lastminute.com more than doubled revenues in the last financial year, hitting £552.4m, compared with £246m in the previous 12 months.&#183;To contact the  MediaGuardian newsdesk emaileditor@mediaguardian.co.ukor phone 020 7239 9857&#183;If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
There have been more reports that Microsoft plans to offer a music download service next year or, to be more accurate, that MSN will offer one. (The two are not synonymous.) It still remains far from clear whether it will be a Microsoft service or whether Microsoft will simply rebadge and link to someone else's service, which is what MSN UK does with On Demand Distribution (OD2).Assuming the UK trial of OD2 is not a disaster, there shouldn't be any doubt about MSN extending the idea to other geographies: this was already part of the plan. It involves little work and no financial risk for Microsoft, and could make it a small profit.But for Microsoft and/or MSN to negotiate deals with music publishers, set up some server farms, sell music downloads and collect and account for the payments is a completely different kettle of fish. It is possible, but it would be a lot of work, it would involve financial risk, and Microsoft would be hard pushed to make a profit on it. This approach would also put Microsoft in direct competition with its current partner, OD2, unless it simply bought the company.Either way, there's only one obvious reason why Microsoft would launch its own service, and that would be because it felt the need to support its proprietary audio format, WMA (Windows Media Audio). Since almost every music download service already offers WMA downloads -- including BuyMusic, MusicMatch, MusicNow, OD2 and Napster 2.0 -- it's hard to see why Microsoft should feel that need, unless those services are failing. Or unless Microsoft expects them to fail, a few years down the line.Of course, if the European Union tries to force Microsoft to remove the Windows Media Player from Windows, then WMA music downloads will become more significant. Because every Windows user who downloads WMA files will obviously need a player. A music download service that offered one free song along with a Windows Media Player could be a simple way to plug the hole.
Hewlett-Packard boss Carly Fiorina has had to eat humble pie in front of Comdex audiences when her company reported lacklustre results. This year she didn't show, but clearly it was not because she had anything to hide. HP has just reported sales up 10% to $19.9 billion for the quarter, with profits more than doubling to $862 million. The PC division made a very small profit of $21 million on revenues that rose 19% to $6 billion."CNetreports: "HP shipped 35 percent more PCs compared with the year-earlier quarter, the company said. Specifically, laptop PC shipments increased 53 percent and desktop PC shipments increased 23 percent." HP's announcement ishere.For the 2003 financial year, H-P made a profit of $2.5 billion on revenues of $73.1 billion.
The Blogger support people -- or others with time on their hands -- have finally responded to theMichael Hanscomcase with a piece onHow Not to Get Fired Because of Your Blog.
CD rot?How soon do CD-R/RW discs start to degrade after being etched?Ted ConstableJack Schofield replies:Almost everything starts to degrade as soon as it is created, so I suppose the real question is how long before the degradation makes the discs unreadable. Unfortunately, nobody knows. There are too many variables when the CD is made, including the quality of the blank disc, the power and wavelength of the laser used to write the data, the speed used and the ambient temperature. There are many more variables in the way the CD is stored, including light, temperature and humidity, the amount of handling, and any corrosive pollution in the atmosphere. Finally, discs that would happily play back on the system used to make them may prove unplayable on different equipment.The industry consensus seems to be that CD-R discs should last for at least five to 10 years, and good quality discs stored in optimum conditions should last for 20 or 30 years, perhaps longer. Some manufacturers have produced discs that, based on accelerated ageing tests, they reckon will last for more than200 years. On the other hand, a recent article (written in Dutch) inPC Activemagazine found that some data had become unreadable after only 20 months. The conclusion seems to be that there is a lot of rubbish on the market. This is not the firstsuch scare, but seeGordon Woolf'sarticle for a good summary of the situation.I've made a habit of buying the cheapest CD-R blanks available, most of them silver on both sides, but some of them Jungle-branded Monkey Media. They have been stored, unlabelled, in Case Logic loose-leaf folders that hold about 200 discs. I've checked samples and, so far, they are all readable. However, nothing of any value would be lost if they weren't. Someone more concerned about longevity might be better advised to use tested, branded media, and check samples regularly. Organisations that really need to archive lots of data should probably be using magneto-optical discs, which should last at least 100 years.Not 3xI have just signed up for a broadband connection with Tiscali. I could not get the heavily advertised &#163;15.99 per month 3x faster connection on my line, but I could have the 5x faster at &#163;19.99 per month or a 10x faster one at &#163;26.99. Why can my telephone line take the faster, more expensive packages but not the slower, cheaper one?Eddie PillingJS:Most consumer ISPs repackage BT's ADSL broadband service, with speeds that start at 512Kbps. BT usually handles the routing all the way from your house to the exchange to the ISP. Tiscali has its own network of DataStream lines, which enables it to reduce its use of the BT network, and thus offer lower speeds at lower prices. Tiscali says: "Our DataStream network is growing but lags slightly behind the BT exchange roll out. Currently we can reach approximately 70% of enabled exchanges, but expect to be close to 90% by the new year. It looks like Mr Pilling is in the 30% not yet reached by DataStream." To sum up: the technology connecting your house to the exchange is the same in all cases. However, you can only have the 3x connection if your exchange is both ADSL-enabled andTiscali-enabled.Just a PCI usually replace my PC every three years. But I am sure the obsolescence affecting the PC is not a serious issue for peripherals such as the monitor, keyboard, mouse and speakers. It would surely be eco-friendly, not to mention cheaper, simply to replace the system box, but this is not possible from most companies selling PCs.Allister ForrestJS:I have an IBM 101-key clicky keyboard, IIyama monitor and other peripherals that are on their third PC, and so far I have had no problems getting direct suppliers to leave things out and add minus sums to their bills. However, I do this because I am fussy about what I use. It would make more economic sense to buy the package and sell on unwanted items. Otherwise, you can get fewer unwanted peripherals by buying a business PC instead of a home PC.Backchat&#183;Kathryn Hampson asked for advice on how to store photos from a CompactFlash card while on a long trip, and I suggest the Archos Jukebox Multimedia 20 with CompactFlash adaptor. David Prime, Howard Baker and others pointed out that an Apple iPod could also be used, if you added the &#163;89Belkin Media Reader.&#183;Ian Cook says he had a similar problem to David France - his PC was trying to dial out - and traced it to McAfee VirusScan. "I'd configured my Update menu to Disable automatic updating, but this doesn't seem to stop the computer from attempting to connect to your ISP. During the course of my email exchange with McAfee, I got the impression that either they didn't understand the problem or were ignoring it."
The HobbitPS2 (also on XBox, GC and PC), &#163;39.99 VU Games/ Inevitable Entertainment,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;JRR Tolkien's the Hobbit was originally written for children, but its enthralling tale has captured the imagination of many adults, too. In the same way, Inevitable Entertainment's version of the game is going to be one that gets fought over by granny and your nine-year-old nephew this Christmas.Things have moved on a lot since the ZX Spectrum Hobbit game. This latest version is a Zelda-style adventure game with a colourful, slightly Disney feel. The game's levels are inspired by sections of the book and Bilbo himself is depicted as more like Frodo Baggins than the book's reluctant hero. He's also more adventurous, sneaking, fighting and jumping his way through the game.The action hots up when Bilbo acquires the magical One ring which allows you to turn invisible, a skill required for later puzzles. Despite being aimed at a young audience, The Hobbit is well crafted, with plenty of gameplay variety and atmosphere for all ages.Rhianna PratchettGrabbed by the GhouliesXbox, &#163;39.99 Rare/Microsoft,&#42;&#42;&#42;When Microsoft splashed out $375m (&#163;222m) for respected UK developers Rare, it's hard to imagine that Grabbed by the Ghoulies was the main reason. But the critically ac claimed adult action of Goldeneye and Perfect Dark - surely the most appealing element for Microsoft - has always been a small part of Rare.From Atic-Atac on the Spectrum to Banjo Kazooie on the N64, Rare has always mined a rich vein of cutesy character games, infused with a typically British sense of humour. And Grabbed is no different. From the titular pun to the in-game storyboards, this is a cartoon game with character.Set in a Luigi's Mansion-style haunted house, your aim is to solve each room's puzzle and eventually free your girlfriend. These puzzles range from kill 'em all to more sophisticated challenges, but begin to get repetitive towards the end. The unusual control system - using the right analogue stick rather than a button to attack - works well, although the camera can make it hard to line up attacks.Dropkicking spiders or smashing skeletons with pool cues is enjoyable and most of the environment - cushions, crates, vases - can be vandalised. The character models may (intentionally) lack definition but the backdrops are impressive. A comedy grim reaper tops off what is a mildly enjoyable romp. But Microsoft will want more for its money next year.Greg HowsonTony Hawk's UndergroundXbox, GameCube, PlayStation 2, &#163;39.99 Neversoft/Activision,&#42;&#42;&#42;&#42;Underground is the fifth version of the game and yet Activision has substantially rethought its prize title. For the first time, you play as yourself - initially, a cocky skate-punk based in a Jersey City neighbourhood - and must work your way up to pro status.By allowing you to get off your board and climb and drive vehicles, the game has acquired a narrative coherence: vast numbers of goals see you progress in a manner that makes sense. The self-seeking antics of your childhood "friend" and fellow pro Eric Sparrow invest the storyline with emotional depth.The gravity-defying gameplay is better than ever. In the Hawaii stage, for example, you must pull off a technically challenging McTwist over a hovering police helicopter from the roof of a hotel. Get it wrong and you will be cut to ribbons. A sequencer-style trick editor lets you create physics-defying tricks; you can get your own face into the game and, of course, it is the first Tony Hawk game that can be played online.Steve Boxer
A recent television advertisement for the Apple PowerMac G5 claimed it was "the world's fastest, most powerful personal computer". However, if you missed it, you may not see it again. Following complaints from viewers, the Independent Television Commission has ruled that the ad was misleading and that "it should not be re-shown in its current form". Apple isn't required to show equivalent ads to correct the misleading impression it has spent vast sums creating, but it is better than nothing.I just hope the sight of a watchdog taking action doesn't make you think you can believe what is said in other computer advertisements, or editorials. There are lots of "factual" statements that could   be considered misleading.Most of us are familiar with this sort of thing from computer monitors. If you buy a 17-inch model, that's probably the size of the cathode ray tube, measured diagonally. You'll be lucky if the viewable picture area is 16in. Sometimes, there isn't much practical difference between a 17in CRT and a 15in LCD.Hard drive manufacturers are worse. They almost always quote their storage as a multiple of 10, whereas computers store data in multiples of two. It's the difference between decimal units - where k stands for 10 cubed or 1,000 - and binary computer units, where K stands for 2 to the power of 10, or 1,024.A hard drive that claims to store 40GB of data actually stores 37.35GB, and a "160GB drive"   probably stores about 149GB.It is true to say that such a drive stores 160 billion bytes of data. To say the same drive stores 160GB of data is just a lie, but everybody does it.Mobile phone suppliers also seem to lack a clue about the difference between decimal and binary numbers. A mobile phone screen, for example, may display 64K of colours, which is 65,536 colours, or roughly 65k. To refer to this as 65K colour is not just wrong, it's nonsense. If they described it as 16-bit colour, it would at least help the PC users who often have the choice of setting their monitors to use 8-bits (256 colours), 16-bits, and 24- or 32-bits to get 16.7 million colours.(In case you didn't know, 32-bit colour only uses 24-bits, but it is   handier to have the three bytes of data lined up in four-byte format.)Networking and communications are also awash with misleading numbers. Ethernet networks nominally run at 10 megabits per second: the real-world speed is more like 4.5mbps. This is also true of Wi-Fi wireless Ethernet links. Indeed, users are now being sold 802.11g wireless with a claimed speed of 54Mbps, but given the usual problems of obstructions (such as walls), the fall-off with distance and losses to encryption, they'll be lucky to get 15Mbps.Of course, if you are using Wi-Fi to talk to a 512K ADSL internet connection, it really doesn't matter whether your wireless card can send data at 4.5Mbps, 54Mbps or 100Gbps. Only 0.5Mbps is going anywhere.Apple rulingwww.itc.org.uk
You never win. Your customers never stop complaining. The most you can hope for is that, one day, the complaints switch from "Why are you imposing this system on me" to "Why can't this system do X?".This is one US managing director's measure of success for government IT projects. Management consultants would coin a term for it: the grumble paradigm-shift, perhaps.By this measure, Britain's e-government programme is doing well. Sure, there are grumbles about the quality or accessibility of e-services. But they should not drown a fundamental shift in attitudes: staff, citizens and political leaders now accept that public services could and should be available online.In a reflective address last week to a London conference on cus tomer-centric e-government, Andrew Pinder, the e-envoy, looked back on how far we have come in the three years he's been in the post. The change shows in everything from ministers' language to the quality of government web sites.Even take-up rates, usually cited as the weakness of e-government, are moving in the right direction, Pinder said. When people are asked the right question, 19% say they are using online government services, well ahead of the 11% normally quoted.More good news came last week in another area generally regarded as weak - small local authorities. A report by Socitim Consulting, an arm of the IT managers' professional body, commends smaller councils for their progress at putting services online.In short, we seem to be getting   there. But so what? Simply meeting targets for providing online services, or even for getting people to use them, is a meaningless achievement in the real world.Hence the interest in "public value", a buzz phrase for measuring public services in more sophisticated ways than targets or cost comparisons with the private sector.Nowadays, everyone's talking public value. Management consultancy Accenture, for example, has created a model which it says compensates for governments' failings to measure what they do. It claims to have cracked the problem by designing a model that values a public service in a similar way to a commercial company, but from the point of view of the "primary stakeholder" - the citizen. At its simplest, there are two levers: a basket of outcomes and cost-effectiveness.   When both outcomes and cost-effectiveness improve, public value increases. Luckily, these are exactly the goals of most e-government projects.Whether the model works is beside the point. What it and similar efforts seek to do is to establish a criterion of success that goes beyond meaningless targets and dogmatic bean counting. Tony Blair hinted this week at the government's frustration with such measures when he ridiculed "bizarre" statistics used to assess progress in education and the NHS.Expect to hear a lot more about public value in the next few months, especially as departments draw up their bids for slices in the next spending round. But however much public value accumulates, don't expect the public to stop complaining.
Voice of the futureYour article on the imminent rise of voice over IP (Operator calls time, November 13) gives a valuable introduction to exciting new developments in telecommunications. However, as author of a recent study on convergence of communications technologies for the European Commission, I feel that some points need clarification.First, the article talks about Enum in the present tense. User Enum has not been rolled out commercially anywhere - although there are some interesting and innovative trials taking place in several countries, including the UK. It is therefore a future technology, untried on a widespread commercial scale.Enum requires every user to register their telephone number as an internet domain name and publish whatever contact details they wish to use within Enum on the internet - raising serious privacy concerns. Using phone numbers, rather than internet addresses, also pushes the balance back towards traditional phone companies, which raises serious competition concerns. As Microsoft, AOL, Yahoo and others have proven with their feature-rich instant messaging services, Enum is also not essential for VoIP, even if potentially, it could be valuable.The introduction is also misleading when it says that "anyone with a PC" can avail of the new opportunities. In fact, the Vonage service you mention just requires an IP phone and a broadband connection.These are indeed exciting times in the communications sector and your article does show that, after numer ous false dawns, some fascinating and revolutionary technologies are finally just beyond the horizon.Joe McNameeBrusselsComic originsI am amused to see your game reviewer of XIII, Steve Boxer, (November 13) patronising comic books, a medium about which he seems to know next to nothing. XIII has not "merely appropriated their visual metaphors for its own ends": it is a bestselling comic book to start with. It has also been going for 19 years, which helps explain why, to his astonishment, "that plot would translate into a more than usually intelligent Hollywood action movie". His idea that the ultra-classic Belgian artwork of XIII owes anything to Roy Lichtenstein's pastiches is also bizarre. There is more to comics than Marvel, as there is more to computer games than Pac-Man.Matthew RandallLondonTaxing suggestionIn Inside IT (November 13), Michael Cross reports that Bracknell Forest council leader Paul Bettison has suggested scrapping council tax by selling mailing lists of residents.I don't think Bettison has thought the suggestion through. Here in Sheffield, council tax Band A is nearly &#163;800 a year. I have no idea what the mean payment is country-wide, but &#163;1,000 is probably an extremely conservative estimate. That's &#163;1,000 per address to be raised every year. That's a massive amount of money and would require an enormous number of companies to sign up - certainly more than just a few luxury car manufacturers.To recoup all that outlay, said companies would need a significant response, resulting in a tonnage of junk mail landing on every resident's doormat. The more junk mail received, the more likely each item is to be binned unopened; it then has to be disposed of, either in landfill or by   recycling - at the councils' expense. Therefore, the likelihood is, councils' costs (and therefore the selling price of the mailing lists) would rise, while companies' returns would diminish.Apart from the impending environmental disaster, it doesn't sound like a very promising business case. For it to be worthwhile for the companies, each resident would have to spend more on the advertised products (to allow for a profit margin) than they saved by not paying council tax, in addition to whatever they would otherwise have spent on purchases.Antony HawkinsUniversity of SheffieldIn a fog on the TyneYou're kidding, right? Newcastle - third in the UK in providing Wi-Fi access? Ok, I'll grant that Newcastle has a lot of pubs and clubs per population and, it appears, according to a quick search, that most of them (perhaps because many of them are owned by one company) are listed as having Wi-Fi spots supported by Inspired Broadcast Networks.What is being provided to the public is nearly impossible to ascertain in the dense fog here on the Tyne. There is not a single BT Openzone Wi-Fi spot in Newcastle. There are only two spots not serviced by IBN. Can I really walk down the street from my flat to the Bodega with my laptop and pay as I go from my mobile phone to use The Cloud? Can you shed some light on this, please?Sarah CookNewcastleBroadband for XmasWe work in a fair-size village 10 miles from Oxford but not only do we not have broadband, BT still refuses to put a date on it. Yesterday, BT's biz division made a sales call, and as I told them yet again, all I want from BT is broadband. They rang off amid apologies, but no action.David JefferisOxfordshire
In the dinner queue at Ranelagh Church of England comprehensive school, Bracknell, tomorrow's citizens are already well used to ID cards.At the till, children pay for their food with smart cards charged with cash credits. The system allows a maximum spend of &#163;5 a day; parents know the money is being spent on food rather than other temptations. Children who get free school meals go through exactly the same process, avoiding any stigma.The same smart card, called Edge, issued by Bracknell Forest borough council, registers each child's attendance at school. It also identifies them at public libraries.Bracknell Forest sees schoolchildren and library users as the vanguard of its ambition for each one of the Thames Valley's 110,000 residents to hold an Edge card. So far, it has issued nearly 18,000, in a project costing &#163;5.6 million. The council claims that Edge is the most advanced multi-function smart card in the UK. How the card will fit in with the national scheme, however, remains uncertain.Bracknell Forest began to consider smart cards in 1998. The idea came from the leader of an incoming Conservative administration, Paul Bettison, who was taking a lot of flak for cutting a bus pass scheme."People were saying: 'It's the only thing the council has ever done for me, and you're taking it away'. I thought we ought to be giving something back," he says. Bettison's original idea was a loyalty card giving   local discounts at the council's swimming pools and leisure centres.After spending two years investigating multi-function technology, the council went ahead with a pilot. Originally, the card was to have seven functions: school meals, school registration, the Connexions youth reward scheme, youth club membership, library membership, car parking and an all-purpose "e-purse".Six of these are going ahead. Parking was dropped because of the cost of fitting hardware at every car park. "Retro-fitting really wasn't worth it," says Vincent Paliczka, the council's director of leisure services.The pilot showed that the technology worked. For the next phase, the council issued a 16k card with a dual interface, contact and contactless (which works by simply laying the card on a pad).Each card has two e-purses: a closed purse which works only in schools and an open purse for other council services. The council set an arbitrary limit of &#163;50 on the open purse, though in theory it could carry any sum.All 13,000 members of the council's public libraries have received Edge cards in replacement for their membership cards. Not everyone was happy: a handful of people resisted having their photographs on the new cards. The compromise was to photograph the bar code on   their old cardboard library card.For holders under the age of 21, the card carries a date of birth. (Twenty one was chosen to allow Edge to work as a proof of age card for young-looking 18 to 21-year-olds.)The next big leap will be to integrate the card in more sensitive council services. Home helps, for example, could carry hand-held card readers to create an electronic record of their visits from their clients' cards. Another plan is to issue a card compatible with London's Oyster transport card.Bettison bubbles with ideas for the card as a behaviour-influencing instrument, starting with rewards for children who choose healthy lunches. He also sees no reason why the card has to be carried in a wallet. "Why not a council SIM card for mobile phones? We'd have the ability to know where the citizen is, as well as who they are."Card security, so far, has been elementary. Children receive a card when they enroll at a school; adults by presenting two forms of identification at a library. Each card holder has a 16-digit unique number (issued to the council in a block by Apacs, the organisation that issues credit card numbers). For more sensitive applications, the council is considering biometrics.However, much will depend on national decisions about multi-purpose cards. Bracknell Forest is trying to influence this work (and to ensure that it does not end up developing the Macintosh of smart cards while everyone else settles on Windows) by leading two projects funded by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister. One is a collaboration between authorities in the Thames Valley, the other is coordinating work across England.The big question is how these schemes will fit with the national scheme.Phil Hope, minister for local   e-government at the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, cheerfully admitted this week that no one yet knows. "I think we will be looking at lots of different technologies. Some of Bracknell Forest's experience may well have lessons for the national project."Whatever happens, Bettison says he has no regrets about taking the risk - despite receiving some political scars. "It's been a wonderful target for the opposition, who can   always say 'shouldn't you be spending the money on social services?'."But I bet they would have said the same thing about the electric light," says Bettison. "The real question is, how much would it cost us not to do it?"www.bracknell-forest.gov.uk
