A just-completed pilot project, begun in May last year before the general election, followed 100 websites and archived their contents approximately every three weeks.The project started by looking at the election, but quickly moved on to art, music, philosophy, and current events such as the September 11 attacks and the war in Afghanistan.The library fears that as national debate and culture takes place increasingly online, large parts of our collective heritage are being lost to the ephemeral nature of the internet.According to the Digital Preservation Coalition, the average life of a web page is six to seven weeks, making it difficult for people to go back to information found online.Stephen Bury, the head of European and American collections at the library, said there is a need for an objective, trusted archive that will still be around in 200 years.Mr Bury said that without the archive, important aspects of British culture will disappear as websites change. He sited an art project in which a London taxi became a roving canvas. The taxi has ceased to do its rounds, but the project is preserved - for now - at cabgallery.com. However future generations would lose access to the project if it is not archived."Increasingly the internet is being used by scholars, and an average PhD today will have 20 to 30 references to websites as they appeared on a particular day, and there is not future proof of that. There is no way to know if that paper is telling the truth," he said.Mr Bury and his team are now asking for £600,000 from the Department for Culture, Media and Sport to fund an archive of 10,000 UK sites, including facilities for public access to the information. The pilot project, with its 100 site search, collected approximately 20,000 pages, so the full project will require substantially more time and money.The British Library wanted to move quickly, before even more of the country's heritage disappeared from the internet. Mr Bury envisaged that in the next election every candidate could have a website, creating between 4,000 and 5,000 sites that should be preserved.He also wanted to see a legal compulsion upon sites to allow snapshots of their information to be archived, the way publishers must deposit all books published in the UK with the library. Without that change, the library had to contact each site to seek permission to archive their material.
UK readers: try not to gettoogreen with envy when you readthis pieceabout how the Irish government plans to encircle 123 towns and cities with high-capacity fibre optic lines, all in a state-funded drive to encourage cheap broadband. It all makes the UK government's efforts (a £30m scheme wasreannouncedtoday, a year after it was first unveiled) seem... well, exactly what they are: paltry.
Casablanca could become theultimate film website(possibly depending on legal and other issues. The film is owned by AOL CNN Time Warner).
The end of free (a long-running series):NASCAR races and CNN video clipsare now things you have to pay for on the web.
Don't try this at home:What happens when you drop a $800 digital camera into water? After five days of drying out his gadget, Farrell Eaves stuck the batteries back in - and started getting the most amazing results. (viaVixgirl)
Rupert Murdoch has called in his most senior legal adviser to fight a $1bn (&#163;700m) court claim that a subsidiary of his News Corporation helped hackers spread across the internet secrets about the technology used by his pay TV rivals, including ITV Digital.Arthur Siskind, News Corp's group general counsel and one of Mr Murdoch's closest business confidantes, has been assigned to help NDS, a UK based technology firm 80% owned by News Corp, defend the claim by French firm Canal Plus Technologies.In a move that underlines how seriously both sides are taking the dispute, the French secret service's industrial espionage team has launched its own investigation into the allegations.In a suit filed in California last Monday, Canal Plus alleges that NDS employed a "sophisticated and well funded" team of scientists to crack the codes on the smart cards that protect the French company's pay TV systems.Smart cards ensure that viewers can only watch programmes they have paid for. Canal Plus alleges that following the publication of its smart card codes on the web pirates were able to watch movie and sport pay channels free, depriving it of millions of pounds of revenue.The struggling ITV Digital, a user of Canal Plus smart cards, said it had lost &#163;100m due to widespread piracy in Britain. ITV Digital is considering launching a legal action of its own, either directly against NDS or indirectly against Canal Plus, over the security of its smart cards.NDS, which has Mr Murdoch's sons James and Lachlan as directors, has said it plans to vigorously defend the case and is planning a counter claim. Chief executive Abe Peled has described Canal Plus's allegations as "outrageous and baseless". He says Canal Plus has fallen victim to pirates because of the "inferior" nature of its technology.Mr Siskind and a team of News Corp lawyers in New York are drawing up the defence.Sources close to Canal Plus suggest the French secret service interest was prompted by the financial and reputational damage the hacking has caused Canal Plus, which is a large French employer. It is a subsidiary of French media giant Vivendi Universal.Evidence in the hands of the Guardian suggests that a former Scotland Yard commander employed by NDS helped finance a UK hacker who actively distributed ITV Digital smart card codes across the internet.Ray Adams, head of security for NDS UK, was in regular contact with Lee Gibling, a hacker who published ITV Digital codes through his   House of Ill Compute website. NDS also paid several thousand pounds into Mr Gibling's personal bank account.Mr Adams, who retired from the Met in 1993 with back trouble, was investigated following his handling of two of the most significant crime stories of the past two decades: the first involving Ken Noye, the underworld boss convicted of handling gold from the 1983 Brink's-Mat bullion raid, and the second the racist stabbing of Stephen Lawrence.In the first case, the 1987 investigation centred on claims that Mr Adams - by then head of the force's intelligence gathering arm, SO11 - and other officers had taken bribes and had improper relations with criminal informants. Three years after the internal inquiry began the director of public prosecutions announced there was no evidence to justify charges against Mr Adams.In the second case the Lawrence family claimed Mr Adams may have had links to Clifford Norris, the criminal father of Dave Norris, one of the chief murder suspects. Mr Adams gave evidence to the Lawrence inquiry for two days. Sir William Macpherson, in the report on the case, concluded that while there were "strange features" to Mr Adams' account, the accusations against him were unfounded.Mr Adams has insisted that he was unaware the website was publishing the codes. Mr Gibling has now disappeared.
MIT is developing army sinforms usingnanotechnology.
CERT (formerly the Computer Emergency Response Team) has warned ofalmost 20 vulnerabilities in Oracle software, including several buffer overflows. This ought to (but probably won't) attract attention because last year Oracle boss Larry Ellison launched a campaign claiming Oracle's software was"unbreakable". Being a multi-billionaire clearly doesn't preclude someone from being stupid.
Underdog seems an inappropriate tag for software giant Microsoft. In 1980 IBM was the Goliath to Microsoft's David, as Bill Gates' 40-strong team of upstarts took advantage of Big Blue's lack of foresight.Last Thursday saw the Seattle-based behemoth begin an unlikely reprise of that long-forgotten role, as it began worldwide sales of its Xbox video game console. The Xbox is now involved in a billion-dollar sales, marketing and branding battle with market leader Sony and its PlayStation 2 in an industry that now outsells films.'There is a revolution going on in entertainment right now - digital technology is changing everything,' says Robbie Bach, Microsoft's chief Xbox officer. 'Think about Shrek, the best selling US movie of the past year. I know Eddie Murphy is there, Cameron Diaz too, but it's an all-digital experience, and you forget it's an animated movie the minute it starts.'Think about music: 20 years ago the quality of your voice used to matter. Now it's the quality of your producer and how well you can dance.'And Halo &#91;an Xbox game&#93; for me is a symbol of what could happen in video games. It has a plot, a story, a plot twist - it's like a movie. There's already a book, a prequel to Halo. So the Halo franchise develops as a world.'Bach dropped into Microsoft's campus at Reading in Berkshire to meet City analysts, the UK's world-beating games developers and motivate his sales team ahead of last Thursday's launch. Not surprisingly he was confident that the huge sums invested in the project would reap rewards.'The finances are tricky, it's billions of dollars of investment, and ultimately what Bill &#91;Gates&#93;and Steve &#91;Ballmer, Microsoft CEO&#93; have decided is that we're not doing this just because we want to be in the video games business. We're doing this because Microsoft wants to be a leader in the consumer marketplace,' says Bach.He is proud that his team took just 18 months to turn the Xbox from an idea at a brainstorming session to a tangible global reality. 'The video games industry is unique so I've learnt a lot over the past two years, as has Microsoft. We went from 20 people working on the project to 2,000 people in a little less than two years, which is phenomenal,' he says.Bach is a marketing expert rather than a technician. But in early 1999, he noticed that some staff at Microsoft headquarters in Redmond, near Seattle, were doing what he calls 'garageshop skunkwork' in their own time, toying with whether the PC software company could take on Sony at games.At an executive retreat that March, Bach and his colleague Rick Thompson, who then ran the hardware business, suggested the topic: 'Should Microsoft build a games console?' A dozen other ideas were pinned on a wall. The executives had to stand under the one they wanted to discuss, and then the groups went off to talk.'Bill had proposed his own topic - some gobbledegook I couldn't follow - but he decided not to do this and he   came to our group,' says Bach. After a three-hour discussion, everyone was convinced in principle.'The financial decisions were hard and involve a lot of money but the strategy around building what I call a "core pillar" in the consumer space and in the home was clear,' says Bach.So what's in it for Microsoft? The newcomers have flattered Sony by adopting its model for setting and collecting royalties. The Xbox's cut of the price of every game sold is believed to be around 30 per cent. Then there is the large stable of Microsoft games. Halo has already sold 1 million copies in the US.The Xbox has a strategic value, too. It gives Microsoft a presence in the world's living room. With a hard disk, a broadband connection, and four USB ports, functions beyond gaming can be added.That is not the strategy now, however. The Xbox needs to establish its credibility with gamers, and there is a conscious effort to separate it from its parent.'People know it's from Microsoft, but Sony didn't go out and doesn't make a big deal that PlayStation comes from Sony,' he says.'Look at our launch advertising. Three years ago would you have ever thought we would have brand advertising of a baby being fired through a window, travelling through space and crash-landing in a graveyard? I would have said, "You're crazy" then, but this market is an entertainment space, so the group has a little bit more of that entertainment culture,' says Bach.Consumers' wish to stay at home after the 11 September attacks has helped the Xbox to do phenomenally well in the US. 'We could have sold a lot more.' he says. The firm couldn't produce enough, and nearly four games are being sold with every new Xbox, suggesting a surge of wealthy, older buyers.But it is outside the US that the Xbox faces its most serious challenges. Japanese sales have been slow, though Bach says the company has met 'appropriately lower' targets. Success in Japan is vital to retain strong support from the innovative Japanese games developers.In Britain the fight between the Xbox and the Playstation 2 will be more interesting. Sony's machine already has 2 million users.Bach says the Xbox's superior graphics and sounds - in a racing game you can hear an opposing car creeping up behind you - will sell it. The ability to connect to broadband will offer a new world of competitions and 'episodic gaming', where you receive a portion of a game every week. PlayStation 2 will have this from the summer in the US.The relative merits of these services could decide whether Microsoft becomes a serious contender for Sony's crown, or remains an underdog competing for third spot with Nintendo's GameCube.
The knock-down brawl between the heirs of Hewlett-Packard and the company's management over H-P's $25 billion merger with Compaq comes to a head on Tuesday, when shareholders vote on the proposal.The results will not be known for several days while the votes are counted and recounted - and possibly undergo Florida-style legal challenges. Since the deal was announced last September, and cleared by Federal Telecommunications Com mission and EU regulators, the battle over H-P's 1.9 billion shares has grown more personal by the day. It has, pitted Silicon Valley's two first families against Carly Fiorina, a business celebrity often described as the most powerful female executive in America. Neither side is used to losing, and analysts of the deal say it will go to the wire.H-P founding families hold 18 per cent of its stock. Publicly declared backers of the pro-merger management at present amount to only 8 per cent, including many funds that follow the advice of the powerful pro-merger advisory firm Institutional Shareholder Services.The heirs of the company's founders, William Hewlett and David Packard, are upset at the personal tone H-P chief executive Fiorina has taken in painting Hewlett's son Walter as a musician and academic who flip-flops over board decisions and has never worked at the company for long enough to understand it.'I cannot explain or justify our opposition's behaviour,' Fiorina said in a recent interview. 'Our opposition...has been misleading and irresponsible.'Fiorina believes that the computer industry is ripe for consolidation and that H-P needs to move fast. 'The technology industry is widely viewed as not mature,' she said recently. 'But I think it is maturing.' And therefore ready for a cycle of mergers.Walter Hewlett, a lone dissenter on H-P's board, explained in a recent letter to shareholders that although he chose not to go into the family business full-time, his father had trained him for just this kind of situation. 'I really understand H-P and the businesses it's in,' he wrote. 'And I believe that qualifies me to take the stand I have.'The family have long disliked Fiorina's combative, lead-from-the-top style of management, which included expanding the company's fleet of jets. They believe a merger, a long-odds manoeuvre to improve H-P's chances of becoming an all-round supplier on the lines of IBM, would be a reversal of H-P's famed homegrown style, the 'H-P Way', which values trust, openness and consensus.Critics say the acquisition would make H-P more vulnerable to the low-profit personal computer market. They argue that merger could dissipate its crown jewels - the printer and digital imaging businesses - and serve only to exacerbate HP's strategic weakness in high-end servers and services.Last week, Hewlett said Fiorina had failed to demonstrate much understanding of the company's values and history of innovation. Echoing his father's fabled business philosophy, one of Hewlett's banner headlines in letters and advertisements reads: 'A $25 billion mistake is not the H-P Way.'Hewlett recently told analysts and investors: 'H-P's goal of becoming an end-to-end solutions company will lead to a lack of focus and has lead many conglomerates to their downfall. H-P can't out-Dell Dell and out-IBM IBM at the same time.'He has also accused H-P's management of failing to disclose that Fiorina and Compaq chief executive Michael D Capellas stand to gain $115 million in salary, bonuses and stock options from the proposed merger. 'If the merger goes through, it will be a triumph of spin over substance,' says Amir Farman-Farma, a relative by marriage of the Hewlett family. 'They are risking Hewlett-Packard's high-margin, high-growth printer business for Compaq's low-margin, low-growth commodity PC business.'Fiorina has staked her career on the outcome. In pushing for the deal, she is attempting to overturn a poor track record for technology mergers. She maintains that H-P and Compaq have several complementary businesses that could be harnessed together.Given the families' opposition, Fiorina needs the votes of a large majority of institutional investors. But she has lost credibility on Wall Street by missing profit forecasts, by embarking on a complex internal reshuffling, and by trying to acquire consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers for $18bn.So Wall Street is split. ISS, which advises 500 institutional clients, has come out in favour, as have three of H-P's top institutional investors: Putnam Investment, Barclays Global Advisers and Alliance Capital. Combined they hold almost 8 per cent of H-P shares.But Banc of America Capital Management, Wells Fargo, and the nation's largest pension fund, the California Public Employees' Retirement System, plus the Ohio Public Employee Retirement System, have all recently stated their opposition to the deal.The split could leave the outcome in the hands of some 900,000 individual investors, who hold around 25 per cent of the company's shares.In the PR battle to win over individual shareholders, the two sides have embarked on an unprecedented campaign of full-page newspaper advertisements, direct mailings and telephone canvassing.Hewlett says he is spending up to $32m to defeat the deal, while H-P appears to be spending at least double that in a campaign that includes two billboards in New York's Times Square. However, H-P denies spending the $70m Hewlett estimates.In any case, H-P spokeswoman Rebeca Robboy said, the battle was his fault: 'We could have avoided this whole contest, which we certainly didn't anticipate.' On top of that, H-P is paying $33.5m to Goldman Sachs, its financial adviser for the deal, and could face a $700m break-up charge if the merger fails.In the suspicious post-Enron business environment, the mythology of H-P's familial style of business has helped to persuade some individual investors to oppose the deal and given them a sense that they still matter.William Urban, an investor who manages 2,200 H-P shares, told reporters he had received more than 40 ballots, as well as many phone calls, from both sides. Urban said he believed it could be a good thing if individual investors derailed the merger.'I want to see this merger fail, because a merger this big has not been shut down by the shareholders in a long time,' he said. 'It would be sort of inspiring.'Should the deal fail, a shake-up of H-P's management is certain to follow. Although Hewlett says the shareholder vote is not about Fiorina, he acknowledges that it would be in H-P's interest if she departed.But if the deal goes through Hewlett expects to remain on the board. His value, he suggests, would come if the company goes off the rails - 'as I expect they would'.
•Technology Irelandis now online. •ECTS, the UK's annual games trade show, is planning to admitthe public. •FrenchGNU/Linux distributor MandrakeSoft has made aplea for cash. •David Courseyhas noticed that those terrible people at Microsoft are doing it again -- tipping the market their way by makingVisual Studio.Netcool, powerful, easy to get, and easy to use to create Web services. Competing on merit is justsounfair on companies like Sun....
AOL has more than 34 million subscribers -- it is by far the largest ISP on the planet -- buthow many are payiing? (World domination buffs may be interested to hear that AOL also ownsRoadrunner, which on WebSideStory's StatMarket usage figures is the second largest ISP on the planet.)
Microsoft has signed a huge .Net deal with Deutsche Telekom.ReutersandAPcarried the story, but it got surprisingly little coverage.
Logitech has announced a Palm wraparound case that works as afabric keyboard.
How to write aLinux virus.
The CeBIT trade fair has been afflicted withharsh reality, butpenswere big, apparently.....
Japanese worm on Net rampage. Not exactlyGodzilla
The"BT patents hyperlinks"case continues.
A computer games firm has been accused of pushing back the frontiers of bad taste after it announced that it was seeking to advertise its latest title on gravestones.Acclaim Entertainment said yesterday that it would pay relatives of the recently bereaved in return for placing small billboards on headstones, and that the offer might "particularly interest poorer families".The Church of England said that there was no way it would allow any of its graveyards to be used in such a fashion. A spokesman said: "There was enough fuss with plastic flowers in churchyards."A spokeswoman for the company, which bills the game as a "journey to the Deathside", said: "It's a dark, gory type of game and we thought it was appropriate to raise advertising to a new level."The firm insisted that it was a genuine offer and claimed that the marketing ideas for its new PlayStation 2 game, ShadowMan 2, were valid.Acclaim Entertainment went on to claim that "advertising on gravestones falls outside of codes of conduct and regulations of any formal advertising bodies".However, Matthew Carrington, chairman of the Outdoor Advertising Association, said that any attempt to advertise on headstones would require planning permission from local authorities whether the land was public or private.Mr Carrington said: "It is illegal to put any advertising up outdoors without planning permission ... and of course there could be issues of desecration."He said the concept of advertising in graveyards was "clearly objectionable" but said he was not surprised as advertising firms were continually "upping the ante to shock". He added that he thought it unlikely that the firm would get approval for its plan.Sony, which makes the PlayStation 2 consoles, said it would not comment on the advertising tactics of third parties who produce games for them under licence. A spokeswoman rejected suggestions that Sony was responsible for creating an "edgy" advertising culture around its console which may have galvanised Acclaim Entertainment's marketing tactics.On the ShadowMan 2 website, the game is described as incorporating "fierce and gruesome" fighting. It involves users playing a New York policeman who has a "living dead" alter ago who is seeking a confrontation with the devil. He has magic and voodoo weapons to help him.A London spokesman for Acclaim Entertainment, which is based in New York, said that was appreciated that people may find its advertising offer offensive but that others might see it as a good way of procuring "a subsidy to burial costs to give their loved one a good send-off". He rejected the suggestion it was a cynical media stunt.No one has yet to volunteer and the firm said payments would be calculated with regard to the exposure potential of any particular headstone.
1.TheXboxhas arrived.2.It isMicrosoft'smost wanted newgamesconsole.3. Although set to be hugely popular with people who like nothing more than mindlessly staring at strange images on their TV screens, it has nothing to do with theX-Files4. Or theX-Men5. The Xbox was launched in the UK at midnight yesterday. There is concern that offices across the country will be hit by a mass outbreak of "skivitis", a mystery illness that often strikes after the release of a new games console.6. One of these imaginary ailments may in fact be quite valid. It is known ascomputer addiction. It is highly contagious and can result in long periods of inactivity. And very sore thumbs.7. Xbox has its own unofficialmagazinefor true devotees. You can find tips, cheats and games reviews for your new best friend.8. And you mustn't worry about all that stuff about Xbox having afaultthat damages your CD and DVD games. Microsoft claims to have set the record straight.9. According toDixons, sales of the new Xbox have been brisk. Microsoft is expecting to sell 1.5m Xboxes in the UK in the first three months.10. Some argue that the arrival of the Xbox heralds the end of anera. Theconsoleis dead. Long live the console.
Nokia, the world's biggest mobile phone maker, surprised industry watchers this week when it unveiled a new range of   phones - including one with a colour screen.There had been rumours that the company would not follow its rivals by introducing colour when it announced its new range on Tuesday at the CeBIT fair in Hanover.But one of the new phones - the Nokia 7210 - will sport a colour display, an FM stereo radio and multimedia messaging capabilities. It is due to go on sale in the third quarter of this year.Colour screens are seen as vital in persuading consumers to use their phones   for more than phone calls and text messages. MMS interactive services and gaming are all seen as important selling points for the next two generations of mobile technology - GPRS and 3G.The 7210 will have triband capability, so it will work around the world, including the US, and will support the download of Java applications. This will be key in getting consumers used to more sophisticated mobile phones, allowing users to download games, virtual   pets and animations. Before the colour screen phone appears, a further four new devices will go on sale in the spring from Nokia.One of the highlights will be the new Nokia 3410, which will also feature the Java technology and 3D screensavers available for download - that look set to offer a new revenue stream for suppliers of ring tones and personalised graphics.Another consumer phone, the 3510, will offer GPRS for faster Wap service and polyphonic sounds, which spells   doom for tinny mobile phone ring tones.But professionals might be more interested in the 6310i, another triband phone which also has faster Wap access via GPRS, and built-in Bluetooth that will allow it to communicate with other devices such as headsets and PC cards without wires.There is also a new version of its Communicator personal digital assistant. The latest model sports more memory and a web browser that can handle Javascripts, Flash, and streaming audio   and video via a player from Real Networks.Matti Alahuhta, president of Nokia Mobile Phones, said the new devices represented the arrival of some of the "technology promises" made to consumers in recent years."With the new terminals supporting multimedia messaging and Java technology, the user experience is greatly enhanced," he said. "New customers will be able to grasp what the mobile world is all about."
Notebook PC buyers could be making a big mistake if they choose the wrong type of processor. "Consumers are being deceived, and that's a bad thing," says Andy Brown, research manager for mobile computing at International Data Corporation (IDC). The problem revolves around two Intel Pentium chips, the P4 and the P4-M. The P4, launched in 2000, is intended for desktop PCs; the P4-M, which has only just been launched, has been designed for notebooks.However, some suppliers have been using the P4 in notebooks instead. "The differences don't mean much to the average retailer," says Brown, "and they sell to consumers who are unaware of the problems." These include crashes and shutdowns caused by overheating.  Intel's Gordon Graylish says: "The point is a valid one. We see some people doing this, but it's very difficult for us to put a ban on it. With mobiles you have a tiny enclosure that's very unfriendly towards the idea of multiple cooling fans, and we don't test &#91;desktop P4 chips&#93; for this environment. You could have problems if they are not designed with exquisite cooling, so you have to make sure the manufacturer is going to stand behind it."The desktop P4 is a large chip that has an even larger heat sink, and it requires powerful cooling fans. It shuts itself down when it starts to overheat. The mobile P4-M is smaller, designed to withstand rougher treatment, uses less power, and has SpeedStep technology, which reduces the speed of the processor as required. All this makes it run cooler, and also extends the notebook PC's battery life. Many P4-based notebooks    are sold by "white box" manufacturers who may not build their own machines, but buy "generic" models from China or Taiwan.However, some are from "top tier" suppliers such as Toshiba, which offer systems with both types of P4. Steve Crawley, Toshiba's marketing manager, says: "I agree with Andy Brown, to an extent. You run the risk of overheating and thermal shutdown in a bad design. But you can design around the fact that you are using a desktop processor and keep the chip within Intel's guidelines."Where a P4-M notebook could be 3cm thick, Crawley says, you would expect a P4-based design to be 4-5cm thick, to have a bigger battery, and to be heavier. "It could also be &#163;500 cheaper: there's a trade off between size, weight and price." Although users lose many of the mobility benefits of their notebook PC, Crawley says "most people don't worry about the fact that they can't use it on the tube for five hours. They just want the ability to unplug it and move it." He says consumers who want mobility are more likely to buy a system with a PIII-M processor or the slightly slower Celeron version."Because Celerons are so aggressively priced, they are the mainstays of the retail world," Crawley adds. The arrival of the P4-M has not made the PIII-M obsolete, and Graylish says "it will continue to be on our roadmap for a significant amount of time". It is needed for the mini- and micro-notebook markets, where portability is more important than raw performance.  Some might think there isn't much difference in the performance of the Pentium III and P4 processors, especially since software needs to be recompiled to take advantage of the new design.  "Windows XP is optimised for the P4, and some people use old benchmarks and extrapolate to get meaningless results," Graylish replies.He argues that the Pentium 4 has not been designed to make Microsoft Office run faster but for things like multimedia, gaming and the internet, which will be become more important over the P4's projected life. The P4 design will also enable Intel to crank up the processor's clock speed. At its recent developers' conference in San Francisco, Intel demonstrated a P4 running at 4GHz, and Graylish says the company will have processors "at or above 3GHz" on sale by the end of the year. "And we know how to continue to accelerate over the next 10 years."The problem with faster chips is that they produce more heat, so the cooling problem is not going to go away. Indeed, according to Computer Weekly (February 26), Hitachi thinks the solution is to adopt the sort of liquid cooling system used in mainframes and supercomputers. It has developed a prototype with a pump in the case and a water tank behind the display screen. Eric Doyle reports that Hitachi "expects its water-cooling system to become a de facto standard throughout the industry and is currently in licensing talks with several component manufacturers."
HaloXbox 	&#163;44.99 Bungie/Microsoft 	****Nintendo has Mario, Sony has Final Fantasy, and now Microsoft has Halo. Every games console needs a killer app - a unique title that drives sales. Halo is a first-person shooter (FPS) that mixes some visceral combat with a cliched sci-fi storyline.  The first level - essentially a training course - is disappointing. Yes, the group dynamic, with your soldier buddies shouting and cursing, is atmospheric (though not as good as Allied Assault on PC), but the graphics are underwhelming. Then you land on the planet and the   real improvements over PS2 become apparent.A peek at the ground or trees reveals breathtaking textures that show blades of grass and the grooves in the bark.  But it is the tweaks to the familiar FPS template that impress most. Halo allows you only two weapons at once. Not only is this more realistic but it offers more freedom, with levels approached differently depending on the weapons held.A number of vehicles are also included, although the control system makes the jeep a pig to drive. Then there is the artificial intelligence (AI), which feels anything but, as an increasingly devious alien foe ducks for cover, exposes your flank and keeps you on your toes. Finally, a plethora of multiplayer options are available, although any online battles remain some way off. Unfortunately, the relentless action lacks variety. And the joypad is simply not as fluid as a mouse and keyboard. But if you have bought an Xbox today, it is almost certain you'll have bought Halo as well. With the Xbox retailing for &#163;300 (&#163;100 more than PlayStation 2), Microsoft knew it needed something special. Luckily, they've got it.  (GH)Project Gotham RacingXbox £44.99 Bizarre Creations/Microsoft ****Metropolis Street Racing, released nearly two
   years ago, was one of the few race games to rival the mighty Gran Turismo. Sadly undiscovered by many because it was
   exclusive to the Sega Dreamcast, Xbox owners now get to cherish a semi-sequel in the form of Project Gotham Racing.Let us hope it gets the recognition it deserves this time. What sets these games apart from other racers is an ingenious
   system known as Kudos. Instead of awarding points only for speed, Kudos encourages you to improve your driving
   technique, from speed to power sliding to keeping a dent-free bumper. It also allows you to gamble on your own ability,
   playing jokers according to your strongest levels and lowering time-limits for extra points.The more confident you feel,
   the more you score - although failure is equally severely penalised. With more than 200 levels to complete, you won't
   finish quickly. Special mention must also go to the tracks themselves. Focusing on four city centres (London, Tokyo, San
   Francisco and New York), developers Bizarre Creations have once again done their research. The London circuit, for
   example, is stunningly rendered, right down to individual restaurant names in Leicester Square. Racing these familiar
   curves at night is like the joyride of your darkest dreams - all the more impressive when accompanied by a stream of top
   quality tunes from the likes of the Chemical Brothers.Sadly, some of the old niggles have made a reappearance. Almost
   all of the cars oversteer chronically, which is exaggerated by the Xbox controller's aggressive analogue feedback, and
   you still unfairly lose Kudos for other drivers' suicidal tendencies. Overall, however, these are minor quibbles. Microsoft
   must be mightily chuffed with all this. Most new consoles struggle to find a killer application within their first six months
   - indeed, only Nintendo has ever managed to include one in a launch line-up. Xbox arguably has three already - establishing
   a stunning momentum we can only hope they maintain in the coming months. (MA)Oddworld: Munch's OddyseeXbox £44.99 Oddworld/ Microsoft *****Microsoft may have the hardcore gamers all a-quiver
   with Xbox efforts such as Halo, but traditional console gamers will need much more convincing that Xbox offers them as
   much as the PS2 or GameCube. A task that falls to Munch's Oddysee. You may have encountered the odd world of
   Oddworld via the PlayStation games Abe's Oddysee and Abe's Exoddus: both cute but conventional platform games.Munch's Oddysee is a different proposition. Beneath its superb graphics, deliciously off-beat plot and wonderfully
   engaging characters lurks innovative and varied gameplay. Munch is the last Gabbit on Oddworld. You must help him
   escape from the evil Vykker scientists and team up with Abe, the only lizard-like Mudokon on Oddworld with a speck of
   initiative, on a quest to find the last can of Gabbiar, with which Munch can restore his species. Munch and Abe have very
   different attributes: the monoped Munch cannot move well on land unless he is in a squeaky wheelchair, but he swims
   well.Abe cannot swim, but can possess enemies as long as he has eaten enough Spooce shrubs. The gameplay lies in
   working out how to dispose of the usually armed enemies using their combined talents, plus the assistance of the Fuzzles
   and lazy Mudokons you must teleport to safety along the way. That process involves plenty of head-scratching and
   lateral thinking, liberal use of power-ups bringing attributes such as invisibility and, for Munch, the ability to zap the
   baddies with his infrared transmitter, plus some occasionally tricky platform-style running and jumping.The never-ending
   cute, and often hilarious, touches in Munch's Oddysee, and great plot and video sequences that are genuinely rewarding,
   are enough to bring it a formidable army of admirers across both genders. But it's the satisfying and imaginative
   gameplay that elevates it towards the ranks of greatness. (SB)
Hundreds of computer games fans queued for hours last night to become the first in Europe to own Microsoft's first games console offering, Xbox.The £299 system went on sale in the UK at midnight, five months after its launch in the US.At a midnight launch event at the Virgin Megastore on London's Oxford Street -  attended by Virgin boss Sir Richard Branson and television presenter Jonathan Ross - Scott Rawlins, a 22-year-old computer company supervisor, was first in the queue after waiting for six and a half hours.He said: "I came down here at 5.30pm with a friend and just became interested in what was going on. I spoke to some of the staff and asked them who the first person in the queue was and they said, 'You are', so I stayed. But I didn't really plan it."For his trouble, Mr Rawlins was whisked home in a limousine accompanied by six motorbikes as an escort.He added: "The Xbox games are very impressive. This console is in a league of its own and all the other machines have a lot to do to catch up."Sir Richard said: "It's an honour to be here selling the game. We believe the Xbox is in the forefront of games machines at the moment. It has overtaken Nintendo and Sega."Microsoft's chairman, Bill Gates, hopes Xbox will capture a slice of the profitable games sector and the computer giant is understood to have committed £351m to marketing Xbox worldwide.The Xbox has been on sale in the United States since November, but its launch in Japan two weeks ago was overshadowed by reports that some machines scratched the CD games. Microsoft insisted it related to less than 1% of machines sold and pushed ahead with the European launch in London.Microsoft is marketing the Xbox as the world's most powerful console and estimate it will sell between 4.5m and 6m units worldwide by the end of June.One of its biggest threats comes in the form of the new GameCube from rival Nintendo, which goes on sale in the UK on May 3 priced at around £150 - half the price of the Xbox.Both will be trying to steal some of the market from Sony's Playstation 2, which was launched in November 2000 and has sold 18m consoles worldwide.
From today, the Xbox ison sale in Europe. It offers much better performance than the PlayStation 2, has better launch games, much better TV advertising than the rubbish Sony put out (though the Dreamcast ads were even worse), and a more advanced specification (eg built in hard drive) for the same launch price. Does any of that mean it will sell? Of course not.... (But on a personal note, my son has just gone off to Games Exchange for a copy of Halo.)
It's a Thursday, so Online isonline.
Bookshops are not places you would normally associate with the cut and thrust of technology innovation, but in their own quiet way they will become just that over the next five years, as digital technology enhances the way books are manufactured, sold and consumed.Of course, paper-based books are a technology that works. They are lightweight, portable, cheap, renewable and recyclable - and free from the bugs, viruses and system crashes that plague your PC.Small wonder, then, that   the "paperback in your jeans pocket", as Penguin promoted its novels to post-war teenagers, has never been bettered, despite attempts by software and hardware companies to do so for today's e-generations.Over the next five years, many publishing houses will sell information securely over the internet via "e-book" reader hardware, which you could use to download and interact with selected chapters, for example, or store hundreds of titles.But whatever the pitfalls of replacing a simple, efficient technology with a complex and expensive one,   the distribution and manufacturing process behind paper-based books can be wasteful and inefficient, which is where publishing on demand (POD) comes in.Although people have been talking about it for years, companies have only now put the building blocks in to place for a viable business model. Europe, Scandinavia and the far east are experimenting with it, while the US, typically, is kicking off large-scale projects in bookstores-cum-publishers, such as Barnes &amp; Noble. The most visible sign here may be your high street shop compiling and printing you a personalised book, while you put your feet up and have a coffee. But there are other benefits.The key to POD is recognising that publishing has been digital for as long as there have been word processors and desktop publishing. In other words, once publishers have digitised and laid out a text, it exists for as long as the disks it is stored on exist, regardless of whether that text is ever made into a book. It can be reproduced in any form, and distributed online and worldwide for next to nothing.POD at its simplest means using digital library technologies, such as those associated with IBM's DB2 database, together with digital print-and-bind technologies to make a physical book only when customers order it. IBM's digital library facility within DB2 works like a cashpoint, only you withdraw fully licensed and secure content from it, rather than cash.But for paper-based books specifically, POD opens up a world of possibilities and solutions to age-old problems for those publishers who see it as a licence to print money. One of paper's unique strengths is also its greatest weakness - it decays. While a Harry Potter or a Delia Smith can be piled high and sold cheaply and quickly, a first novel in paperback, or a promotional tie-in with this year's boy band, may lie in tomorrow's warehouse full of unsold books.Nicholas Clee, a former Booker Prize judge and editor of The Bookseller magazine, agrees there is a problem. "Many large booksellers are concentrating more and more on pulling people into shops with big titles. They feel they can no longer afford to carry a huge range of stock."So, like the music industry before it, book publishing is on the verge of a sea change, even if it happens more quietly than when the music giants faced Napster, not to mention artists fighting to become their own publishers and online distributors.The simplest publish-on-demand project was estab lished in some international airports three years ago, so travellers could download and print out their favourite newspaper, without the publisher covering the expense of worldwide distribution, or having unsold copies returned and pulped.Since then, a handful of major publishing houses and US distributors have introduced publish-on-demand facilities. Xlibris.com, Random House's new internet-based venture, allows unpublished authors to submit texts for publication through its web portal. For their cash they get publicised online - and through traditional distribution channels - then Xlibris prints, binds and dispatches books whenever an order is received via the web or from a bookshop. In this way Xlibris can hothouse new talent for nothing (the author pays!) and   promote it through bookshops worldwide.However, David Lane, chief executive of The House of Stratus, a UK and New York-based POD publisher, is dismissive of the idea. "Vanity publishing gives false hopes to writers who'll never make it mainstream," he says.Lane doesn't just share his surname with the "father of the paperback" Allen Lane of Penguin Books; he is hoping POD will have as big an impact as the paperback did on the book market, or the Walkman and MP3 did on the music industry - all of which allow content to be resold cheaply to a mass market.Founded two years ago, Stratus is the first UK publisher to   recognise that intellectual property rights are the real stock in trade of book publishers. "Traditionally, the publishing world is set up to go after new books, but 80% of publishers' advances are not earned back. Meanwhile, there are tens of thousands of books out of print, because publishers don't market 'backlist' titles."Three years ago, he set about buying the rights to dozens of authors' works, including Nevil Shute, Desmond Bagley and Brian Aldiss. "Publishing is in the same position as Hollywood was 20 years ago, before it realised it could make money out of its library," he says. There the catalyst was video: here it is publish on demand."As far as I am aware, there has never been a publishing house set up along these lines," Lane continues. "We do everything a traditional publisher would do until the pre-press stage, then we finish the job by writing the books to file, artwork included. We don't use conventional printing at all. The publisher is becoming someone who prepares a book as a disk image."Stratus has been working with IBM, whose databases   and digital imaging and printing facilities Lane uses to run out and print books whenever orders are received - although he does print enough to have a retail presence in bookshops and through Amazon."It's inevitable that all publishing will move in this direction," says Lane. In three years, he predicts, 25% of all publishing will be done digitally, with books distributed worldwide with a click, then printed and bound locally - or within bookshops themselves. Barnes &amp; Noble in New York is already planning such a facility. "Inventory and warehousing costs will fall to nothing," he explains. "It'll be a retailers' paradise."With books digitised and printed on demand, followed by "just in time" delivery, POD is the obvious model for the Amazon route to market. Amazon.com has only just returned a profit, after shouldering the burden of building new warehousing and distribution facilities.And from there it's a small step to the way music is already marketed and distributed. "We are moving towards compilation publishing, and personalising books in the printing process," says Lane.So, prepare yourself for   books printed to order in your local shop, and "select it yourself" compilations (useful for students) that can be personalised to your needs. Eventually POD companies can move towards paid-for secure downloads off the internet, where the rights of both author and publisher are automatically covered using digital rights management software.The Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the US, meanwhile, is even experimenting with electronic paper and intelligent ink technologies - creating the bizarre possibility of plugging yesterday's newspaper into your phone line, and watching it turn into today's freshly minted copy before your eyes. But as with so many future technology ideas, its usefulness in the real world is debatable.Publishing on demand, on the other hand, addresses many of the logistical problems of the publishing industry, some of which work against the author and, ultimately, the buyer. It is clear, though, that many of its benefits will remain invisible to the reader, who doesn't care about the economics of distribution as long as a book is well written and well made.   Most people would also need convincing that personalised books and compilations were something more than a gift idea or gimmick.But just as Napster brought "backlist" and deleted music to its millions of users - music unavailable in local shops who shift chart music, DVDs, games and videos to keep their franchises alive - so POD companies can keep authors' books alive; works that might otherwise be lost because of the expense of republishing them.Nicholas Clee agrees: "The book trade as a whole is concerned with a decline in backlist sales. It may be that publishing on demand and the internet can compensate. But there are problems: nothing ages faster than popular fiction, and any in-store facility would have to be easy to understand, search and use."Of course, publishing on demand will fail if it remains an in-store gimmick, or an internet venture without the benefits of real-world marketing and distribution. But once publishers and booksellers have taken the first step to capitalising on their digital assets, the publishing industry can truly become an open book.
How has the IT industry changed?The most significant change is the degree to which companies and individuals use IT compared to when I joined IBM in 1971. With the advent of the web and web browsers, we now have people not only working on the web but playing on it, too. There will come a time when not just everyone but everything will be connected. The confidence people have in using this "connective fabric" will be determined by how fast it is and how much they can trust the experience.What was your earliest encounter with computers?In summer break from college I worked with Pratt &amp; Whitney Aircraft and they had an IBM 1130, which used simple Fortran programming  to do mathematical models or engine simulations. I did get to do some interesting things.Are "warez" sites and pirate software still a major problem?We recently heard about a large cache of pirated Symantec products seized in southern California. Symantec, Microsoft and a few others are among the hardest hit because we have the broadest distribution infrastructure in the industry. The new problem is the use of the web as a distribution mechanism for electronic software that isn't authorised by the manufacturers. The end result of that is loss of tax revenues, jobs and the loss of motivation, in some countries, to invest in building an IT industry!How is the USA embracing 3G?The US is substantially behind Europe in its deployment of wireless technology. There's been an awful amount of money spent in Europe on 3G, so there's a lot being bet on that technology being able to deliver value. The US could learn a great deal from Europe. We seem to have a more laissez faire environment with the Federal Communications Commission.How is Symantec adapting products for the PDA and wireless markets?We see the wireless world as an extension of the wired world. Symantec is committed to providing customers with world-class internet security products regardless of how that user connects to the net. We have an antivirus solution for the Palm operating system  and we're looking seriously at the Pocket PC and Symbian operating systems.Favourite gadgets?I have a new Motorola i90c cell phone, which has some nifty capabilities. I love audio equipment and we're expanding my home system - much to my wife's chagrin! My wife bought me an iPod  but we're going to have to buy an Apple computer to use it!Favourite sites?I like Yahoo  as a portal to access a variety of things and I use Mapquest.com  for directions.
Evidence in the hands of the Guardian suggests that a former Scotland Yard commander who represents two of Rupert Murdoch's companies provided funds to a website that enabled counterfeiters to produce forged smart cards used to defraud ITV Digital, a principal rival in the pay TV market.Ray Adams, who is the head of security at NDS, a company controlled by Mr Murdoch's News Corporation, had a working relationship with the website, which has now been closed down and whose founder, Lee Gibling, has gone missing.According to emails in the possession of the Guardian, Mr Gibling was in contact with Mr Adams and received several thousand pounds from NDS paid directly into his personal bank account.As a representative of NDS and BSkyB, News Corporation's British TV business, Mr Adams is a board member of AEPOC, a European industry action group set up to combat piracy.Questions about Mr Adams's role have emerged following a legal action begun in California on Monday. Canal Plus, the French media company, is claiming $1bn (&#163;700m) in damages from NDS, alleging it used a laboratory in Israel to crack the secret codes on Canal Plus's own pay TV smart cards. The information was then made available to counterfeiters around the world through favoured websites.ITV Digital, in fierce competition with BSkyB, uses the Canal Plus access system and claims that piracy in the business has cost it at least &#163;100m.Last night, Labour MP Martin O'Neill, chairman of the Commons trade and industry select committee, urged the office of fair trading to investigate allegations that ITV Digital's pay TV codes were deliberately cracked and distributed to counterfeiters. He said the broadcaster's "fragile finances" meant it could be driven out of business.The website, Thoic.com, also known as the House of Ill Compute, was routinely distributing the secret codes used to make counterfeit cards for accessing ITV Digital before its sudden closure last year.NDS has admitted a financial link with the website, but is adamant that this was part of a legitimate intelligence gathering exercise aimed at keeping a close eye on hackers who might breach its own pay-TV security. The company says it was effectively purchasing intelligence about the hackers who were attracted to the site.ITV Digital says neither Sky nor NDS should have had any dealings with such a website and believes the Murdoch companies should have stopped any financial support as soon as they realised the internet service was being used to undermine a rival such as itself.The emails suggest NDS was paying the website's expenses, and even providing them with a second computer "server" when the high level of interest through the internet began to strain their facilities.One email, from Mr Gibling to Mr Adams reads: "I hope you don't mind me spending so much time on aus and nz activities because I know you cover my work out of your budget."Another from another NDS employee, Mike Warren, to Mr Gibling says: "Lee - your expenses were signed by R.A and have been taken by hand to finance and received by them last Wednesday I asked that they were dealt with asap."Mr Adams denies ever having been aware the website published ITV Digital's codes. "We never saw any of those codes," he said. Asked why he had supported the website financially, and what the content of his encrypted messages had been, he said: "I am not allowed to discuss operational matters".
The government should take seriously the extraordinary allegations by Vivendi that an associated company of Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation tried to destroy competitors such as ITV Digital by helping hackers to crack codes giving them free access to digital terrestial television. Ministers are currently reviewing the legislation on cross-media ownership. One of the issues is whether Mr Murdoch's already extensive media interests should be allowed to expand even further to include a stake in Channel 5 or in the financially troubled ITV Digital.Some media watchers yesterday wondered why a Murdoch company should want to get involved in such underhand activities when they were doing such a spectacularly successful job in clobbering ITV Digital by legitimate means. BSkyB's digital satellite operation has 5.5 million subscribers compared with ITV Digital's (heavily lossmaking) 1.2 million. The practice of decoding competitors' codes is a common enough practice and not itself illegal any more than re-engineering a competitor's car is. But the allegation that the company was involved with putting the codes on a website, where hackers can get the data to make counterfeit cards, is much more serious.It is not yet clear how widespread this practice was because purchasers of counterfeit cards would still need a set top box to make use of it. In theory, ITV Digital repossesses the boxes of lapsed subscribers, though there are still lots in circulation since before subscriptions started. NDS, the News Corporation associated company, intends to counter sue Canal Plus (owned by Vivendi) on the grounds that this is a blatant attempt by the French company to shift blame for their inability to deal with piracy.Some of the outcomes of this complicated dispute could bode ill for News Corporation. If the company has resorted to such tactics when its competitor is on its knees, what would it get up to if it had no competition? The truth is that BSkyB needs ITV Digital more than it knows. Not only as a platform for Sky Sports but as a competitor to keep the office of fair trading at bay. But where Mr Murdoch has a vested interest in weak ITV Digital coverage, the public interest lies in building digital terrestial into a strong counterweight. One way would be to work with manufacturers to get much cheaper digital television sets so that the analogue switch-off could be made painlessly.
User bewareI have seen many scare articles about hackers taking control of your PC while you are connected to the internet. How can this be done? How do you know if a hacker has control of your PC? And why don't you regain control by unplugging the phone line?Keith SchrodJack Schofield replies:The attack usually involves getting you to run a Trojan (or Trojan horse) program such as SubSeven. Someone could send it to you as an email attachment, or you could download it from the net under the impression that it was a game etc. Some common email viruses, such as Badtrans, also include a Trojan program. Once installed, the Trojan opens a back door to the net, which a hacker can exploit. Pulling the plug offers only temporary relief because the Trojan will still be working when you next go online. There are several ways to detect a Trojan. It may be spotted by a firewall such asZone Alarmwhen it tries to connect to the net. It may be found by an anti-virus program such as McAfee or an anti-Trojan program such asTrojan Trap. Or you may find it by looking for it. If you know what you are doing, the quickest way is sometimes to open a DOS window and type netstat -a . For a list ofTrojans and detection rates. If you don't have up-to-date anti-virus or anti-Trojan software, go to Trend Micro'sHousecallpage for a free online check.Sad SagaUsing Microsoft Windows 98, I occasionally come upon web pages such as Saga.co.uk, which were apparently designed for a 17in screen. None of the normal navigational tools work for my 15in monitor.Margaret MooreCambridgeJS:The problem may be your resolution setting, rather than the size of the screen.The Sagasite is designed for a screen with 800 by 600 pixels, so try to set this. Right-click somewhere on the desktop and select Properties, then click the tab marked Settings. You should be able to drag the slider for the screen area from 640 by 480 (which I guess is what you have) to    800 by 600. Displaying more pixels on the same size screen will make everything look smaller. A 17in screen should be able to display 1024 by 768 pixels at a comfortable size. This is more than enough for Saga and similar sites.Off autoWhen I'm typing text in the address bar in Windows, a menu appears below it with options for me to choose from. It's very irritating.Matt ReeseJS:What you are seeing is Microsoft's AutoComplete in action, and many people find it helpful. To get rid of it in Internet Explorer, go to Tools|Options, click the tab for Content, then click the button marked AutoComplete. There you can select the features you want.ErrorsI run Windows 98, and until recently have had no problems. But now, every time I start the computer, a message appears: "MS ISDN Configuration Wizard. No    ISDN devices were found. Please install an ISDN device and run the configuration wizard again." Why is this message appearing? The Rev'd Ralph MallinsonJS:This spurious error message can be produced if your PC is infected with the W32/Magistr-A virus. Seethe-it-mercenary.comorsymantec.comfor discussions and links. If your PC has this virus, you can useTrend'stool to remove it.Finish it offAfter starting Windows, there are two DOS files on the Taskbar, both called Finished Wininit. When maximised, both read: "WININIT.EXE cannot be run from within Windows". Why does this happen?Debs WilsonJS:Wininit.exe runs initialisation files when you start Windows. That is what is happening when, for example, it says your settings are    being updated. The instructions are held in a file called Wininit.ini, which usually you would not have. But if a virus writer wants to run a program every time your PC starts, he can do it using this file, so search for Wininit.ini and see what it contains. You may find your PC has a virus such as W95.MTX.Backchat&#183;More on the type fonts installed in Windows. Adrian Greeman from Tooting says you can see what you have using a free program,akFont.&#183;One more book on computer maintenance: Sylvia Taylor says: "Try The Which? Computer Troubleshooter, by Will Garside - a survival guide in plain English."
1.TheXboxhas arrived.2.It isMicrosoft'smost wanted newgamesconsole.3. Although set to be hugely popular with people who like nothing more than mindlessly staring at strange images on their TV screens, it has nothing to do with theX-Files4. Or theX-Men5. The Xbox was launched in the UK at midnight yesterday. There is concern that offices across the country will be hit by a mass outbreak of "skivitis", a mystery illness that often strikes after the release of a new games console.6. One of these imaginary ailments may in fact be quite valid. It is known ascomputer addiction. It is highly contagious and can result in long periods of inactivity. And very sore thumbs.7. Xbox has its own unofficialmagazinefor true devotees. You can find tips, cheats and games reviews for your new best friend.8. And you mustn't worry about all that stuff about Xbox having afaultthat damages your CD and DVD games. Microsoft claims to have set the record straight.9. According toDixons, sales of the new Xbox have been brisk. Microsoft is expecting to sell 1.5m Xboxes in the UK in the first three months.10. Some argue that the arrival of the Xbox heralds the end of anera. TheTARGET="_NEW">consoleis dead. Long live the console.
"Thou shalt not plagiarise sermons" may have to be added to the ten commandments in the wake of the suspension of a Michigan clergyman for lifting his remarks from the internet.The 90-day suspension of the Rev Edward Mullins, of Christ Church Cranbrook near Detroit, has surprised many churchgoers who had not thought that using other people's words was unacceptable.Mr Mullins, 55, made no secret of subscribing to a   service that provided sermons for payment. But earlier this year, a group of his parishioners sent a letter to the Episcopal Diocese of Michigan, saying: "The plagiarism of his spiritual messages causes us seriously to doubt his fitness for the ordained ministry."The diocese has told Mr Mullins to vacate his pulpit while an investigation is carried out, overseen by the local bishop.In the meantime, he may find comfort in Colossians 4.6: "Let your speech be always with grace, seasoned with salt."
Back in the 70s, if you wanted to watch psychedelic graphics swirling in time to music, you had two options. One was to slip on a long-player and drop some high-grade hallucinogens. The other was to visit the Laserium in the Planetarium in London, where, with your head at a wholly unnatural angle, you could wow at coloured beams dancing across the domed ceiling - usually to the strains of Pink Floyd or Hawkwind.Fortunately, you no longer need to suffer an acid comedown, a stiff neck or prog rock to experience the same, synaesthetic sensations. Music visualisation (vis) software comes with most PC and Mac audio players (Winamp, iTunes, MusicMatch, Windows Media Player et al). It is even beginning to appear in living-room appliances, where it could seriously challenge the anodyne pop promos of MTV.Whether your preferred eye candy is a kaleidoscopic pattern picking out every nuance of a Bach symphony, or a scantily clad brunette bobbing up and down to Britney, there's a visualiser to suit. Most of the better versions are third-party plug-ins for existing players, Winamp being the most commonly supported. All are either free or low-cost shareware.Although the concept of matching music to abstract images can be traced back to    experimental animation of the 30s, culminating in the 1940 Disney classic Fantasia, many vis developers were inspired by the hypnotic, computer-generated displays popular at rave and techno events in the late 80s and early 90s. Pioneering graphics programmers synchronised images to music by analysing elements of the sound such as beat, volume and frequency.But in the past 18 months, the increased power of home computers and the explosion of music on MP3 files have made visualisers ubiquitous. The scene even has its celebrities, such as Andy O'Meara, author of abstract visualiser G-Force. His code was licensed by Apple for its iTunes player and featured in last year's TV campaign. O'Meara, a born-again Christian, claims God - not drugs - inspired him to create the program, which owes its success largely to pot-smoking students.He must have thought God was really testing him last year: G-Force became a hit after he'd signed up for five years as a submariner with the US Navy, forcing the college-leaver to turn down the chance to tour as a visual co-ordinator with musician Seal. Another vis star is Ryan Geiss, who created the eponymous visualiser, Geiss, which predated and influenced G-Force. He sees music visualisation as the perfect synthesis of art and mathematics."When computers generated the first images of fractals, people were awestruck by the beauty that could come from the simplest equations. Now, computing power is sufficient to animate visuals in real time, what better medium to synchronise them to, or to seed your equations, than audio?" says Geiss.A Canadian programmer, Chris Egerter, has created several Winamp visualisers including ToonAmp, which animates 3D cartoon shapes in time to music. "There is   virtually no limit to what can be done visually. As graphics-rendering capabilities improve and are integrated with other devices, we should see some interesting applications," he says. WildTangent's dancing-girl visualisers are among the most graphically stunning. CaveGirl and Valentine Dancer may make Lara Croft look flat-chested, but they manage some pretty nimble moves, thanks to the work of computer graphics artist Paul Steed.He says: "I've convinced girls I've met in nightclubs to boogie for me. Their movements are caught on camera, then I add some of my own animation mojo."Steed believes visualisers are set to take off on all sorts of appliances. Microsoft's Xbox already has one and VM Labs has provided Nuon technology for DVD players from the likes of Samsung and Toshiba. The first models featuring the Nuon Virtual Light Machine - descended from the Atari ST and Amiga programs Jeff Minter created in the 1980s - go on sale here in April.Those who still hark back to the Laserium may be interested to know its US parent company, Laser Images, is planning a new interactive music visualisation experience called the Laserium Cyberdome. It is due to open in Los Angeles this year.  President Ivan Dryer says: "Interactive devices in the floor translate motion into video images, lighting, laser displays and even music."  Who knows, it may not even sound like prog rock.
The story about music and computers has revolved around MP3: the rise and fall of Napster and the record companies' attempts to come to terms with online distribution. But computers and the net have revolutionised music in far more creative ways.The computer has done for music what it did to word-processing, graphic art and film editing but, strangely, it is little talked about outside professional musical circles.  The computer revolution in music began with the musical instrument digital interface (Midi) in the early 1980s.Music on computer is still of two basic kinds: audio and Midi. Audio is the stuff you record with a conventional analogue microphone and tape recorder. Computers handle it by sampling it (nothing to do with "sampling" in dance music, hip hop, etc) 65,536 times a second and converting it into very large digital data files. To understand the difference between midi and audio, think of Midi as a glorified electronic pianola (indeed a feature of all midi programs is called the piano roll - it's used for punching in percussion patterns).A pianola works off a reel of punched tape that has instructions to depress particular keys at particular times. Pianola versions of great Romantic piano sonatas may sound crude but the device did have one enormous advantage, now taken over into Midi - pieces could be written and programmed for piano roll that were beyond the capability of a human performer. The great exponent of this (and the man who should be the patron saint of computer music) was the American composer Conlon Nancarrow (1912-1997).In Midi, the instructions to play a particular note at a particular time are electronic and the notes are dropped into an electronic bar structure, with time signature, metronome speed, etc all programmed electronically. The actual notes are a pre-recorded bank of sounds held in the computer's soundcard and they are triggered as dictated by the score. Midi takes up very little space: a three-minute audio file will take up 30MB but the equivalent Midi will be about 20K, less than one thousandth the size.It can sound remarkably good with a good soundcard and "sound fonts" - digitised versions of real instruments. It is thus possible for a composer to try out his piece on an electronic orchestra before it ever gets near a real one. You can even create sound fonts from a particular orchestra so that the electronic version is a sort of phantom of the real thing.As Midi plays, the score unreels in front of you and if you don't like a bit you can edit it by clicking on the notes. Midi is a great aid to composition and to jazz soloing because if you try out a new melody or solo, it is recorded in editable score form. For instance, if you're soloing over an unfamiliar set of chord changes, you can play a rhythm solo, ie the notes fall in the right place across the rhythm but they make no harmonic or melodic sense.You can then check the notes against the underlying harmony and create melodic    phrases that fit in every way. People who thought they couldn't improvise in jazz have discovered through Midi that they can.The other remarkable trick that Midi makes possible is playing music simply by scanning the score via a conventional graphics scanner. Programs such as Smart Score then convert the score into standard editable Midi files. The system makes mistakes, as do optical character recognition programs used for scanning documents into word processing programs, but they are easily corrected. To be able to scan in classical music and, within minutes, to be able to play it and manipulate the score is the best musical education for a beginner.At a more advanced level, the modern-day composer treading in Nancarrow's shoes finds Midi a paradise. The best example is Frank Zappa. Zappa could never get his bands to play his complex music the way he wanted. So when in the early 1980s he was introduced to the Synclavier, he practically had to be prised from the machine even to eat.In 1986 he said: "I'm so involved with the Synclavier and what it can do and being able to hear compositions played exactly, that I'm not interested in any other kind of music."  For those who scorn all this and insist on the values of real acoustic music, I sympathise, but the truth is that computer music is the best aid to playing better acoustic music ever invented. When Frank Zappa made his great recording of his orchestral pieces, The Yellow Shark, with the Ensemble Modern in 1992, the musicians insisted on playing one of his computer pieces, G Spot Tornado, and did so brilliantly.Until very recently, the    relationship between audio and Midi was one way. You can play audio instruments over a Midi backing track and be your own one-man band. But you can't turn an audio track into a Midi. Musicians would love to do this, of course - put a CD in the computer, turn it into Midi and have the editable score come up on their screen.Imagine doing this for a 20-minute John Coltrane solo. But we're getting closer.The Transcribe program doesn't quite do that but it does enable you to analyse the chords at any point. It takes an audio file (and you can easily turn your audio CDs into computer audio files, with CD ripping software) and analyses the harmony at any chosen point.It doesn't turn it into Midi, but if you're the kind of musician who is reasonably adept at playing by ear and deciphering jazz solos, you'll find Transcribe a great help Seventhstring.demon.co.uk) .  A computer equipped with a sequencing programs such as Cakewalk or Cubase, scanning software, and Transcribe is a powerful music tool, but it doesn't stop there because the web has a part to play way beyond distributing MP3 There is a huge database of classical music at www. classicalarchives.com and every jazz standard is available: just type the title followed by Midi into Google. Most musicians will have pieces of music they'd give their eye teeth to get hold of but resigned themselves years ago to the fact they never will. Now, instead, thanks to the computer, you grow giddy with the realisation that all your wildest dreams will certainly come true.
Orwells?Privacy International has just presented its fourth annual Big Brother Awards to those who have done most to invade personal privacy in the UK. The Internet Watch Foundation only got a runner-up prize. The site also has links to Big Brother Awards held this year in Denmark, France, and the Netherlands.Forget itDivX has become hugely popular with people who swap video and TV programmes online, and although it is produced by counterculture heroes, the company has become increasingly hard to love. At launch, DivX 4 lumbered users with a horrible video player called The Playa, and the free version of DivX 5, launched last week, still forces you to download an    unwanted copy of The Player 2. Worse, the free version of the new DivX 5 Pro installs Gator, which is known as "spyware": it reports back on the sites you visit so that you can be targeted with advertising. Some people are using Lavasoft's Adaware to remove Gator, while others are circulating cracked copies of the paid-for version. However, if you don't want to shell out $30, just don't use it.NumbersNot many people in the UK use Google to search for phone numbers, because they don't know about it and because it only covers the US. However, if you need to call the Westin in San Francisco, searching for phonebook: westin, san francisco does the job. Limit the search to business or residential users by typing in bphonebook or rphonebook instead. This tip was discovered by Reg Aubry and published in the ResearchBuzz newsletter. Incidentally, Google also works in reverse, so the command phonebook: (415) 397-7000 will get you the name and address, plus links to Yahoo or MapQuest maps.Serious simsReaders of the Journal of Artificial Societies and Social Simulation are not, alas, to be found on every street corner, or council planning department. The idea is, briefly, to learn about social processes by simulating them on computers. But the field could reach as much of a mass market as is represented by the readers of Atlantic Monthly, which is publishing an article by Jonathan Rauch in its April issue. Even if you aren't interested in the topic, the QuickTime animations are worth a look.Enter hereIf your company has a brilliant intranet, you can enter it for the Nielson Norman Group's annual intranets competition - but entries close on March 20. Jakob Nielsen and Don Norman are usability gurus, the latter being best known for a wonderful book called The Design of Everyday Things.Chill windSome Americans are worried about the "chilling effect" of threats of legal action against websites (Webwatch, March 7). However, for people in more repressive countries, such as the UK, US web hosts offer the most practical if not the only way of airing a story. Nursesarebullied.org is, perhaps, a boring story for those not personally involved, but it shows ordinary people can get their stories on to the net, even if everyone else wants to sweep them under the carpet.AmbridgeArchers fans need no longer be slaves to their radios, and some will even be able to go out on Friday nights. Addicts can catch up by listening to the latest episodes on the BBC's website. The main drawback is that the audio, like other BBC streams, is only available in RealMedia format.Tabloid funBetter late than never: a warm welcome to The Framley Examiner, a local paper with more than 30 authentic    looking pages online. And there's more than one good laugh on every page.
Spring is a stressful time for couples. Not just because your Valentine's Day argument is still simmering, but because so many holiday brochures are composting on your doormat that one of you thinks the other is having a fling with the postie.But if the joy of booking a romantic trip is marred by the ridiculous snaps of your last holiday - "my index finger enjoying a cocktail at the Casa Romantica", "my index finger paragliding", or, most Hammer House of all, "extreme close up of left eye" - it is time to go online and brush up your photography skills.If, like me, you don't know your ISO from your f-stop, visit the all-singing, all-dancing Photo.net. It has an excellent, unpatronising tutorial that takes the beginner in a natural progression toward understanding the intermeshing of light, lens and exposure. And it caters for the anorak. There is also a useful tutorial the Kodak. The how-to section at Photography.about.com may also clear up a few questions.Of course, what camera you buy will depend on why you want it. The simple point-and-shoots are fine for holidays, but if your thirst for snapping becomes more than just shooting granny on her birthday, then inspire yourself with the galleries Zonezero.com.As with all art forms, photography lets you be as pretentious as you like. "The family at Corfe" may be more suitable to show at dinner parties than "Calf-liver on Breeze Block" but not as much fun to arrange. Look at pictures and collages by Joel-Peter Witkin on the site and you realise that nothing you can possibly do will be in poor taste.So, you've got the knowledge and the desire, now you need the equipment. Should you go digital? Don't be put off by the fact that the subjects of all digital portraits you have seen appear to suffer from rosacea. This is not normal, and www.shortcourses.com will show you how to minimise this. And there is a useful downloadable digital dictionary at www.steves-digicams.comIf you swing the other way,  you may be caught in the crossfire of "my SLR is bigger/faster/better than yours" in the Usenet groups' battles. Canon v Nikon will run and run, although everybody knows that Nikons smell nicer. For any sort of camera, try the advice at Photographyreview.com.   Photographyreview.comShould you specialise? People or wildlife? It is easier to force a smile from your baby than glue an otter to a log. But even portraits have their sticky moments. Avoid these by reading the tips at STNphotography.com, which gives creative advice on how to take flattering pictures of your friends' multi-storey chins, walloping ears and/or unfortunate noses.For some, photography has much to do about people with no clothes on, whether it is the lurid shot of a bird on a motorbike on the cover of a photography magazine, or the glamour (read porn) of page three girls, or the questionable nudes of a Mapplethorpe.Now, I am not a prude. Bodies are great, and useful to have. But a nice picture of a bare person is hard to find. If you like a challenge, and can    bribe your wife/neighbour to pose in the buff, adapt the advice at Bernardofhollywood.com. To a woman, the photography culture can sometimes feel overbloked. Escape the testosterone by visiting Womeninphotography.org.If your attempt at people photography flopped, perhaps you should turn your attention to animals. Practise on Tiddles or Mopsy using the advice www.PhotographyTips.com. For the more adventurous, try bagging a shot of a lioness on the Serengeti by booking a holiday through www.wildlifeworldwide.com. You may improve your chances of winning the BG Photographer of the Year   if you check out Andy Rouse's site at www.andyrouse.co.uk.Of course, you may be a person who prefers process over product. Sometimes there is nothing better than contracting dermatitis in the privacy of your own darkroom. But a darkroom is more than just your downstairs lavvy with the lights off and a strong lock. Check out the hints in the darkroom category at Photostart.net.Despite all this swotting, there will be some of us who still turn out utter rubbish. Don't despair: cheat. Sell your camera and wait for blue cross day at www.theartgallery.com.au or www.photospaceimages.com. We are all talented at something. David Bailey may be a better photographer than me, but I bet his muffins flop.
Broad horizonThe discussion about broadband (Feedback, March 7) misses one crucial point - it is likely to be of more use to businesses than to domestic consumers. Businesses require fast, continuous and reliable access to the internet all day and every day; average domestic consumers are likely to use their computer only at evenings and weekends. Their machines are likely to spend more time switched off than on. The question of whether Britain has broadband or not won't make the slightest difference.Joseph Nicholasjosephn@globalnet.co.ukBand plays onTwo years ago it took BT over six months to install ISDN lines and a network in my office, and to get it working. Now, because ISDN is insufficient for our needs and our offices are "in the sticks" and in a "broadband    dry" area, I have embarked on satellite broadband installation. Again, despite not using BT, we are in month four and still waiting for the system to work properly. Just like so much software, hardware is rolled out before it is ready, and companies like BT learn "on the hoof". The people who pay for this inefficiency are mainly businesses who lose time and money on trying to keep up with technology. Everyone suffers because we end up with inferior products or, like the high-speed tilting train in the UK, we give up trying.Paul Byattpaul@be-basicskills.co.ukLaugh a mbpsI would like broadband but am being frustrated at every turn. I live in Liverpool and have cable TV and telephone connections from Telewest (Blueyonder).  Apparently because I had cable quite early on (1991), the system in my area cannot be upgraded but must be replaced from analogue to digital and hence broadband.  I checked for availability of ADSL using www.bt.com/broadband to find out if my local exchange was ready and found that, surprise surprise, it is not. Broadband is a joke in the UK.John Millsm.mills8@blueyonder.co.ukRadio wavesKevin Hilton's article on digital radio (Digital radio makes waves, March 7) includes the statement: "According to BBC figures, DAB covers 65% of the UK population." In fact,  commercial radio's DAB coverage is already more than 85%. New BBC stations may stimulate DAB, but will create frustration if there is no reception in many areas of Britain. Considering how long the BBC has been broadcasting in digital, 85% by 2004 isn't good enough.Tim BullSaga Radiotim.bull@saga.co.ukEuro wrongDavid Lewin (Feedback, March 7) would be wrong to assume Apple is responsible for the seemingly high prices of iMacs in Britain: the culprit is VAT. A new iMac costs $1,299 in the US (about &#163;915), and &#163;978 excluding VAT in the UK. If you add VAT, you get &#163;1,149, which is probably the figure he was comparing. As for the euro, a new iMac costs 1599 euros without VAT in Eire, which is around &#163;985 at the time of writing.  Looks like "rip-off Britain" is the government's fault after all...Finlay Dobbiefinlay.dobbie@ btinternet.comAn Apple a dayI use an Apple Mac and have been banking with Smile since November 1999 (Feedback, March 7). In the early days I had to use Virtual PC but I can now do all I want with IE on the Mac.David GreenhalghDavid.Greenhalgh@btinternet.comDigital decayMark Tran's article (Electronic trail goes cold, March 7) is one of many illustrating the problems of digital decay. This argument really applies to archival material from the 1970s and 1980s. Now most businesses and institutions use better data formats such as XML, which describe the data they are representing, eliminating the need for cryptic shorthand codes. It alarms me that many organisations don't have comprehensive data management strategies - that's what technical directors and information officers are there for.Andrew Fisherandrewf@redhouselane.comBBC4 squaredWell, hello to BBC4. Yet another BBC digital channel that I can't receive, despite the fact that I have a satellite receiver, a large dish, a TV licence, and a BBC viewing card. Will the government    face up to Murdoch and allow satellite receivers to take UK viewing cards?Tom Corcorantomcorcoran@compuserve.com
European mobile phones are catching up with Japan. The latest trends announced before, and at, this week's trade show in Hanover centre on the growing use of colour screens.Toshiba entered the market with a phone designed in the UK but along Japanese principles: its TS21i is an i-mode phone. This works on the KPN networks in Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands using the Japanese i-mode protocol, which is closer to the web pages than Wap, but over European technology of GSM with the general packet radio service (GPRS) for data. The phone weighs 98g and measures 120 x 51 x 21 mm, but the important thing is the 128 x 121 pixel, 256 colour screen,Japan's NEC will join in with the N21i, which is 117g but more pocket friendly because it can be folded.There are only two colour phones in the shops at the moment: the Trium Eclipse and the Ericsson T68m. Ericsson, reborn as part of SonyEricsson, has unveiled its key phones for 2002. Central to the new range is what the manufacturers/networks hope will be this year's must-have phone feature - MMS or Multimedia Messaging. MMS allows users to send images, animations, sound clips and text to a second MMS phone or to a PC.SonyEricsson's first MMS model, T68i, is a revamp of the T68 launched last year and reaches stores in May priced at &#163;150. When connected to a SonyEricsson Communicam MCA-20 digital camera (&#163;120) users can take images, save them as Jpegs and store them on the phone or send them as an MMS. It also has GPRS and Bluetooth facilities.SonyEricsson also displayed the P800, a high-end smartphone. It features web browsing and personal organiser facilities and will be pitched against the Nokia 9210 Communicator and Handspring Treo. Due in late summer, the P800 features a large colour touch screen (activated by the UIQ pen-based interface), runs the Symbian v7 operating system and features Java for downloaded applications such as games. A built-in digital camera and MMS facilities enable users to send images to other MMS phones/PCs, while the phone's browser can access HTML, xHTML and Wap content. The model works with both GPRS and GSM networks and has triple band and Bluetooth facilities.The P800 has the biggest colour screen of the new batch at 320 x 208, it will come with a game licensed from Sony, and already there are rumours of top arcade games and   Doom being converted to run on it. Other new products from SonyEricsson include the Z700, a phone targeted at games fans.Another trend in smartphones is Microsoft's aim to make them as mass-produced as laptop computers. Microsoft has signed Compal, a Taiwanese company that makes a lot of the computers that bear the names of top UK suppliers, to make the Smartphone 2002 (n&#233;e Stinger) phone. The spec dictates a 176 x 220 screen and 4096 colours.Perhaps the most interesting of the new phones are the Panasonic   GD67 and GD87. The GD67 is a medium-priced colour phone with a 256 colour screen, EMS messaging (which lets you send pictures and cartoons), a high-quality 16 voice ringer, and a back cover that doubles as a picture frame. But it is the GD87 fold phone that steals the limelight with a 65,000-colour screen display on the inside and a camera on the outside. There is also a small LCD on the lid so you can see who is calling. You can take pictures and then send them using MMS.Motorola's new colour offering is the   T720, a phone with a 120 x 160 pixel screen in 4,096 colours and Java for downloadable games. Samsung has the T100 and Q200, which offer colour, and Sagem and Alcatel also have colour phones pending, although details remain sketchy.Philips did very well for itself with budget phones, making the Savvy one of the best-selling phones in the UK, but leaving the company unprepared when the market changed to be dominated by more expensive phones. The Colour Fisio 820 strikes back: it   has lots of ring tones, animated icons and downloadable games.The question that comes with the new colour phones is: what are people going to do with them? The smart phones - the Nokia 7650, SonyEricsson P800 and Stinger - have applications such as web browsing and sending photos of your mates. With the standard handsets, it will be colour Wap browsing - Wap 2.0 has some colour features - but the revenue-hungry networks are looking to mobile multimedia and downloadable games.Sendo has announced a phone where you can play chess by text message. At 10p a move that's an expensive game. Just what the networks want. If they can't charge you per move, at least they can charge you to download a game, which translates into mobile e-commerce and extra call revenue. Some mobile phone networks have found that this adds around 10% to gamers' monthly bills on current phones.The market may be saturated, because everyone who wants a mobile already has one. But the market for colour phones is only just starting.
The recent media coverage of the UK banks' decision to switch all credit and debit cards from the traditional magnetic stripe and signature to smart chip and PIN by 2005 has tended to focus on fraud reduction, missing other implications.While using a PIN will undoubtedly be the first major change in payment cards that consumers have seen for a generation, the decision to switch has wider ramifications. By the end of 2004 or early 2005 (ie,    tomorrow, in banking terms), all of the credit and debit cards in Britain (and most of Europe ) will have been converted to smartcards: cards with a small computer chip on them.These cards (known as "EMV cards" because they comply with a worldwide standard originally developed by Europay, MasterCard and Visa) should cut fraud in two ways: first, because they are harder to counterfeit than existing cards and, second, because they will need customers to input a PIN: thus, if you steal a card, you can't buy anything with it unless you can get the PIN as well. All French payment cards have been smartcards with a PIN for more than a decade and have enjoyed considerable success in reducing fraud.There have been no obvious signs that consumer acceptance of PIN with these payment card transactions has been a problem, and because the PIN check is quicker than a signature, it is cheaper for retailers. What's more, the French are going to abandon their proprietary scheme for the new global EMV standard.So who cares? Well, banks do for a start. For them, moving from putting cards into peoples' wallets into putting tiny computers into    peoples' pockets is a big step and it's going to cost them a lot of money. The principal reason for spending this money is to cut down on card fraud, because the computers are much harder to counterfeit than magnetic stripes and because the cards are useless to thieves without the PIN.  Retailers and consumers, however, will notice some big changes, that will, in the short term, affect some retailers more than others.When you pay for something in a supermarket, not much will change: instead of handing your card to an assistant and signing a receipt, you will put your card into a small terminal with a keypad and punch in your PIN. There won't be much difference.  At restaraunts, for example, instead of giving the waiter your card and letting him wander off with it (to, potentially, make a few spare copies!), the waiter will bring a handheld terminal to your    table so you can insert the card and punch in the PIN where you sit.You will also find many more kiosks and vending machines accepting cards because the risk of fraud is lowered, so buying train tickets and the like will continue to shift from people at counters toward machines. This is a good thing: staff freed from taking cards and handing back paper for signature will be able to concentrate on real customer service.You will only go to an attended ticket window at Waterloo when you need some advice, not just to buy a return to Portsmouth. While the use of the cards and PINs at point-of-sale to reduce fraud and improve service is interesting, it is away from physical retailers   that the changes will be most significant. Buying things in shops will change a little: buying things online will change a lot. If consumers can pay without handing their card to someone and without signing pieces of paper, then they can buy things in new ways - at home, for example.It may be a hassle to go out and buy a smartcard interface for your PC (although with tens of millions of cards in circulation you can certainly expect to see more of these around), but there are already more than 6m households in the UK with a smartcard interface installed: in their set-top box.There are also tens of millions of digital mobile phones in use, all of which have a smartcard (SIM) inside, which could be used to carry the EMV software.  This is why the decision to replace a hundred million or so "dumb" cards with "smartcards" should be of interest to plenty of people apart from banks and traditional retailers. You may have yawned when you heard about the coming switch to "chip with PIN", but it really is more important than you may have thought at the time.Comments tofeedback@online.guardian.co.uk
Email has outpaced the traditional letter for residential use, perhaps a timely development as mail carrier Consignia considers dropping the second post.Internet measurement company NetValue found that 550 million emails were sent and received in British homes over the month of January, compared to 258 million letters handled by the Royal Mail in the same period."This is a real milestone for email," said NetValue's managing director, Alki Manias, noting that email had surpassed centuries of Royal Mail service in just seven years.NetValue found that nearly 13 million people regularly used email in their homes, sending about 12.3 emails and receiving 39.1 during the month. The discrepancy between the number received and those sent suggested that people were being spammed by advertisers in much the same way as leaflets are pushed through the letterbox, Mr Manias said.
 
The study focused only on home usage, but Mr Manias postulated that the ratio of email versus post at work would be much greater. However he did not think this made traditional post obsolete."It's just like theatre or cinema when television took off. We didn't lose cinema, it just became a special occasion," Mr Manias said.He pointed to rocketing sales of digital cameras, which allowed people to share photos of friends, family and holidays instantly across large distances. Emailed greeting cards and digital photos may be more acceptable now, but are not a substitute for the post on every occasion."People will still want to pour their heart out in letter or want that special photo of a grandchild. It's horses for courses," he said.A spokeswoman for the Royal Mail said email and the traditional post were used for different reasons, and pointed out that the letters market was still growing by up to 3% a year."We fully recognise that email is used extensively but used for very different things than the post. Emails are often used for things like sending messages or jokes round the offices - things that the post would never be used for, so to compare raw figures is not comparing like with like," she said.Consignia, which is losing £1.5m a day and may lay off up to 35,000 workers, said last month it would trial a single post delivery for residential customers as a cost saving measure.
1971:Ray Tomlinson, a computer engineer working for Bolt Beranek and Newman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, developed a system for sending messages between computers that used the @ symbol to identify addresses. He now can't remember the first message he sent, or the exact date he sent it.Tomlinson's system gained popularity by linking up users on Arpanet, the US department of defence system that became the basis for the internet.1972:Larry Roberts - also at work on Arpanet - writes the first email management program that develops the ability to list, select, forward, and respond to messages.1976:Queen Elizabeth II sends an email message on Arpanet, becoming the first head of state to do so.1988:Steve Dorner invents Eudora, an application that gave a popular face to email by providing a graphical user interface for email management.1989:The first release of Lotus Notes email software. 35,000 copies are sold in the first year.1996:Microsoft releases Internet Mail and News 1.0, a feature of its third release of Internet Explorer. This is later renamed Outlook.1996:A few companies - including the fledgling Hotmail - begin to offer free, use-anywhere, internet email.1997:About 10 million users world wide have free web mail accounts.1998:Microsoft buys Hotmail for $400m (£283m).2001:Email celebrates its 30th anniversary with virtually every business in the developed world signed on.
Live in Scotland? Desperate for a broadband connection, but fearing there's a snowball's chance in hell that BT will get round to upgrading your local telephone exchange?This sitemight give you a little hope. They're asking people to band together to demand ADSL in their locale... if enough people ask, BT might - just might - pull its corporate finger out.
YesterdayI asked whatthismight end up as (it was a big, mysterious splash screen then). Today we find out it's a sale. Like much of Yahoo! these days, how disappointing...
In an astonishing break with recent tradition, Sun Microsystems plans to compete with Microsoft by trying to sell a better product, instead of just slagging off the company or launching yet another lawsuit. Sun has just announced aPlatform for Network Identitythat will compete with Microsoft's Passport system. And if you have $1 million, you can not only afford the Internet Edition, you get five bucks change.
Compuware saysIBM stole its code, and has filed suit "charging IBM with using its monopoly power in the mainframe hardware business to compete unfairly in the software tools market". IBM is still much bigger and more important than Microsoft and has fought even more anti-trust cases against the US government. However, no one cares any more because IBM equipment is only used for trivial purposes -- running banks, delivering food to supermarkets, keeping planes in the air, maintaining Western civilization etc -- not for really important stuff like accessing Audiogalaxy's Web site..
AOL is looking tocopy-protect CDs. No, the problem isn't the hundreds of "100 hours free" coasters you already have. The problerm is the MP3 rips of CDs published by Warner Music (owned by AOL) that you download using ICQ or AIM or even Netscape (all owned by AOL) and play with Winamp (owned by AOL) without paying AOL.
The basicsIt is so difficult keeping up with computer technology these days that techies have coined a name for it - Grove's law. Named after Andy Grove, the head of microchip manufacturer Intel, it is used to describe how computer components, such as Intel chips, are deemed virtually obsolete after just a year or so of use. Throw in the fact that computer prices fluctuate more wildly than dotcom share prices and the consumer could soon feel intimidated by the mere sight of a computer shop.The best response is to concentrate on getting a machine tailored to your needs. The first question to answer is: what do you need a computer for? Are you after a machine that will let you type the odd letter, keep tabs on monthly out-goings and occasionally log on to a website? Or do you want a powerful multimedia machine that will let you play the latest games, record music and create complex images?The typical response is something in between - a computer that will suit the needs of any family member. Therefore, to   find a happy medium you should concentrate on making sure that you buy adequate memory, a fast-enough processor and a big-enough hard drive. These should be your principal concerns, but as recommended specifications change so frequently, at present, look for at least a 1 gigahertz (GHz) processor, 128 megabytes (MB) of RAM (memory) and a 20 gigabyte hard drive.Your next major decision is whether you want an Apple Macintosh (Mac) or a personal computer (PC). Both systems have their detractors and loyal fans, but for the average home user, the PC is still probably the best option. Macs look great and operate a more intuitive user interface, but they tend to be about 30% more expensive than an   equivalent PC and offer less in the way of software compatibility, especially when it comes to games. What is more, the internet tends to be a slightly friendlier place for PC users and now that Microsoft has finally delivered a stable operating system, Windows XP, PCs have (almost) lost their irritating reputation for crashing more than Macs.When it comes to recommending the best manufacturers, impartial advice from retailers is hard to come by. However, when the Consumer Association last assessed the leading brands (November 2001), it concluded, after a wide range of member surveys, that the "most recommended" included, in no particular order, Dan, Apple, Dell, IBM, Evesham, Viglen, and Sony. It added that popular direct sellers such as Time and Tiny regularly seemed not to score highly in its member surveys.Desktop or laptop?Once you have grappled with the    Mac v PC debate, the next task is to decide whether you want a laptop or desktop. These days the market is flooded with laptops that are hailed as genuine desktop alternatives. But even though they now pack an equal punch in terms of computer power, the desktop isn't defeated yet. Desktops are still much cheaper than a like-for-like laptop and, just as important, are easier to upgrade. There is no   worrying about batteries running down, the bigger monitor actually lets you see what you are doing and there is no fiddling around with a laptop's infuriating mousepads. Laptops also tend to get hot (all those tightly packed electrical components are kept cool only by a little fan), and you can't automatically include laptops on household insurance, unlike desktops. Laptops do deliver, though, when it comes to convenience, space consumption and, well, looks. After all, can you really imagine Sex and the City's Carrie using a desktop to write her column?Before you buySo, you've seen a machine you like the look of, now   you need to get some prices - at least three quotes. It is important to make sure that quotes are for the same manufacturer and model if you want to establish an exact price comparison between retailers (always double check against some price comparison websites - see What else do I need to know?) but if, as is most likely, you are comparing different manufacturers, examine the whole package on offer.Retailers seem to rejoice in enticing us with as many "freebies" as possible - a "generous" software bundle worth hundreds of pounds, the "free" printer, scanner or digital camera - but don't get distracted by these offers. You still want the engine of the computer (the memory, processor speed and hard-drive size) to be your principle concern. These are the things you should really be comparing.And watch out for headline prices in advertisements. They invariably do not include VAT and delivery charges.Once you have settled on a computer you like the look of, the next task is to quiz the retailer (and the manufacturer in some cases) about terms of sale. Ensure that you get satisfactory answers to all the following questions:&#183;Do I have everything I need to get the product up and running when I get it home?&#183;What is the total price of getting the computer to my home?&#183;How can I pay? (Does the shop have a better rate for cash? Or an interest-free payment scheme? What are the financing terms and rates?)&#183;How long will delivery take?&#183;Is the product in stock today?&#183;What precisely is your returns policy?&#183;Do you have a technical helpline? (How are calls charged? Does it offer 24-hour support?)&#183;Do you have support personnel in my area?&#183;If the computer does need a repair, do I have to pay for it to be returned to the shop, or will a technician come to my home? (Known respectively as return-to-base and onsite repairs.)1:  Buying from the high streetEven though you will get much better advice from local, small-scale computer specialists, you are still likely to get the best deals from the big nationwide stores such as PC World and Tiny. In addition, while the nationwide electrical goods retailers on the high street, such as Dixons, Currys and Comet, offer much less choice, they have the advantage of being strong, well-known retail brands, still an important factor for the first-time computer shopper.Where the giant retailers fail is in lack of choice, lack of expertise among sales staff and expensive, often-criticised, extended-warranty schemes. The best advice is to use the big computer retailers for price comparisons, but to use a trusted internet site or mail order retailer to make your purchase.The exception, however, is London's Tottenham Court    Road, known as the country's electrical and electronic goods centre. It has a reputation as a bazaar of fast-talking, quick-witted pros who let the colour of your money do the talking, and who are not familiar with the concept of the fixed price. In reality, it does offer great value, particularly for   laptops but, as ever, shop around, do plenty of research, talk finance and bounce quotes off rival stores. Cash does still talk, but you are more likely to get good deals buying a few products at once and asking for their best price.2: OnlineIf value for money is what you crave, then buying online is, without doubt, the best option. As long as you follow a few golden rules, buying a computer online is safe, convenient and cheaper than via any high street retailer.Begin by comparing prices. This can mean consulting any website in the world, but for tax and delivery reasons you are best sticking to sites based in the UK, Europe and the US.When you know what model you want to buy, type it into a search engine to get information such as reviews, and into a price comparison site to get a broad range of quotes. When you have a shortlist of about three, visit the sites in question and find the following information:&#183;Does it provide a secure shopping environment? (Look for the little padlock symbol in the bottom left-hand corner of the browser.)&#183;Does it offer the same terms of delivery, quality, warranties etc that a bricks and mortar retailer is prepared to offer?&#183;Does the deal sound too good to be   true when compared against other equivalent offerings? It probably is.You will soon discover that foreign sites usually offer better deals than the UK ones, but you have to remember the extra costs of importing something like a computer.If you buy from a UK site, you don't have to worry about currency conversions. In addition, the VAT will be added at source and delivery will be easier to organise.If you buy from an EU-based site, you don't have to pay customs and excise duty, but you will have to pay whatever the local VAT rate is. Germany's rate, for example, is 16% compared to the UK's 17.5%. (VAT-registered businesses will be able to avoid paying VAT if they buy within the EU).Things are more complicated when buying from a website based outside the EU. Local taxation will vary greatly (in the US taxes vary from state to state) and delivery costs will be much higher. Customs and Excise will now want a slice of the action, too. Goods   that costs less than &#163;18 (&#163;36 if they are a gift) are exempt, but anything over that will be liable for duty and VAT.Luckily, IT hardware is currently exempt from the 3.5% duty charges, but VAT will still apply. When the goods arrive, the delivery company or Post Office will expect you to pay the VAT (and a processing fee of up to about &#163;5) on delivery, so make sure you have worked out all the costs. For extra information ring HM Customs and Excise's National Advice Service on 0845 010 9000. Try to buy your computer with a credit card, too, for added protection, particularly if buying from a UK-based site.3:  DirectSome manufacturers, such as Dell Outlet, offer computers that have been returned by customers at a much-reduced price. Often, the computers haven't even been used (by bankrupt firms, for example), but they cannot be sold as new for legal reasons. Dell fully retest the machines and all normal guarantees remain. Contact Dell Outlet on 0870 905 0150 orwww.euro.dell.com/countries/uk/enu/dfofor details.Other popular manufacturers that offer similar schemes are IBM (go towww.ibm.com/ukand type in "buy refurbished equipment online" into the site's search facility) and Compaq (www.compaqworks.comis Compaq's US-based outlet shop, so be aware that the warranties may not be valid if bought for a UK delivery).What else do I need to know?WarrantiesWarranties demand special attention. Most retailers will offer some kind of extended warranty, typically for an annual fee. But you need to ask if it is worth the cost. Only two or three warranties out of 10 sold are ever used and the retailers are usually making a hefty profit. You are usually better off employing a local computer repair specialist. Don't forget that most manufacturers include a one-year guarantee as standard. And watch out for "five-year warranties" that switch from covering parts and labour to just labour after a year or two. Even if you don't intend buying an extended warranty, it is often worth quizzing the retailer about them as they are a good indicator of their quality of service.Only for the braveYou could consider buying parts, hardware or software from a computer fair offering rock-bottom prices. Not for the nervous novice. Seewww.computer-fairs.co.uk.www.afm96.co.ukExpert view&#183;By Paul Sanders, editor of Computer Buyer magazine:&#183;To get the right home PC you need to consider what you will use it for. List on paper what you will be doing and tell every salesperson you talk to - then if they sell you something inappropriate you'll qualify for a refund under the Sales of Goods Act. Basic desktop internet PCs shouldn't cost more than &#163;600; games PCs need more power, starting from &#163;800.&#183;Even if you become an expert there are some things you simply cannot tell from specifications. For instance, the monitor and the system speed call for hands-on laboratory testing. Consult the reviews in computer magazines.&#183;Remember to ask about battery life when buying a laptop, and halve it for a more realistic estimate.&#183;Big PC cases may be an eyesore, but small ones may use lower quality "integrated" components and will certainly be harder to upgrade.&#183;Printers, scanners and cameras "thrown in" with PC systems are often of the lowest quality. If planning to buy Microsoft Office, however, a bundled version will do just as well.Ethics watchWhen Ethical Consumer magazine looked at the computer industry in June 2000, it was concerned about the number of obsolete machines entering the environment. Levels of waste electrical equipment in the UK are increasing at six times the rate of other domestic and industrial waste, and computers make up almost half of the total. The report also   detailed how most major PC manufacturers had been involved in lobbying against EU environmental legislation, over half of the top 20 UK brands had involvement in the arms trade and no major manufacturer operated a code of conduct for working conditions at supplier companies. Three European Eco-labelling schemes exist for equipment, the most stringent of which is the Swedish TCO scheme (TCO95 or TCO99 were especially recommended). Ethical Consumer's best buys were Dan, Dell, Sun Microsystems, Time, and Tiny. But look at second-hand options first. Seewww.ethicalconsumer.orgor call 0161 226 2929.Software: a quick tipBefore spending hundreds of pounds on expensive software (quality software is rarely included in the price of computers), such as the ever-popular Microsoft Office suite of software, consider Microsoft's student licence scheme. If you are a student, a parent with children in education or a teacher, you can register for savings of up to 80%. MS Office XP Standard is usually £400 or so. With the Student Licence deal, it will cost about £100. For more information telephone 0870 607 0800 or visitwww.microsoft.com/uk/education/studentlicenceConsumer magazinesComputer Buyer(Tel: 01454 642503,www.computerbuyer.co.uk)Computer Shopper(Tel: 020-7907 6298,www.computershopper.co.uk)MacUser(Tel: 020-7631 1433,www.macuser.co.uk)PC Pro(Tel: 020-7907 6149,www.pcpro.co.uk)PC Magazine(Tel: 020-7316 9000www.pcmag.co.uk)Maximum PC(Tel: 01458 271152,www.maximumpc.co.uk)PC Plus(Tel: 020-7903 6800,www.pcplus.co.uk)PC Format(Tel: 020-7903 6800,www.pcformat.co.uk)What PC?(Tel: 020-7316 9471,www.whatpc.co.uk)Personal Computer World(Tel: 020-7316 9471,www.pcw.co.uk)ManufacturersAdventAvailable from PC World, Dixons and CurrysAcer(Tel: 01753 699200,www.acer.co.uk)AJP(Tel: 020-8208 9755,www.ajp.co.uk)Apple(Tel: 0800 783 4846,www.apple.com)Armari(Tel: 020-8993 4111,www.armari.com)Axon(Tel: 01279 306868,www.axon.ltd.uk)Compaq(Tel: 0845 270 4000,www.compaq.co.uk)Dabs Direct(Tel: 0870 429 3220,www.dabs.com)Dan(Tel: 020-8830 1100,www.dan.co.uk)Dell(Tel: 0870 907 3366,www.dell.co.uk)Elonex(Tel: 0800 0374462,www.elonex.co.uk)Evesham(Tel: 0800 038 0800,www.evesham.com)Fujitsu-Siemens(Tel: 0870 5353325,www.fujitsu-siemens.com)Hewlett Packard(Tel: 08700 115115,www.hp.com/uk)Hi-Grade Computers(Tel: 0800 0740402,www.higrade.com)IBM(Tel: 0800 169 1458,www.ibm.com/uk/)Mesh(Tel: 020 8208 4744,www.meshcomputers.com)Packard Bell(Tel: 01628 512400,www.packardbell.co.uk)Panrix(Tel: 0113 2444 958,www.panrix.com)Sony(Tel: 08705 424424,www.sony.co.uk)Time(Tel: 08708303116,www.timecomputers.com)Tiny(Tel:0870 030 3164,www.tiny.com)Toshiba(Tel: 0870 444 8944,www.toshiba.co.uk)Viglen(Tel: 0208 758 7010,www.viglen.com)Online retailersAction(Tel: 0800 333 333,www.action.com)Buy.com(Tel: 0800 376 5959,www.buy.com)Currys(Tel: 0500 304304,www.currys.co.uk)Dixons(Tel: 08000 682868,www.dixons.co.uk)Javelin(Tel: 01254 505505,www.javelincomputers.com)Jigsaw24(Tel: 0115 916 5599,www.jigsaw24.com)John Lewis(Tel: 08456 049049,www.johnlewis.com)Jungle.com(Tel: 0800 0355 3555,www.jungle.com)Lapland(Tel: 01256 867 700,www.lapland.co.uk)Lowcost Computers(Tel: 0870 7870500,www.lowcost-computers.co.uk)Mac Warehouse(Tel: 08705 168740,www.macwarehouse.co.uk)Micro Anvika(Tel: 020-7467 6050,www.microanvika.co.uk)Microwarehouse(Tel: 08705 168 671,www.microwarehouse.co.uk)PC World(Tel: 08000565732,www.pcworld.co.uk)Simply Computers(Tel: 0870 7274020,www.simply.co.uk)Special Reserve(Tel: 0870 725 9999,www.specialreserve.net)Watford Electronics(Tel: 0870 220 0704,www.watford.co.uk)Price comparison websiteswww.computerprices.co.ukwww.pcindex.co.ukuk.shopping.yahoo.com/computerswww.mysimon.comwww.2020shops.comwww.checkaprice.comwww.dealtime.co.ukwww.easyvalue.comuk.kelkoo.comuk.shopsmart.com&#183;The next in the How to buy series, on mobile phones, will be published on March 27. A collection of these guides will be published in a Guardian book this summer.
Microsoft's Internet Explorer is expected to suffer a massive drop in market share asAOL Tests Netscape Internet Browser. Not unexpectedly, AOL is planning to switch more than 34 million users of its proprietary online service to the browser it owns as a result of taking over Netscape. Not unexpectedly, Microsoft spokesman Jim Cullinan said. "The real losers will be AOL users who will now be using inferior technology."
What is a smart card?A credit card-sized device that protects digital television signals from unauthorised viewing.When plugged into a set-top box, it determines which programmes subscribers have paid to see.The cards contain tiny but sophisticated computers that decrypt television signals as they pass through the air and turn them into television pictures. Without a smart card, ITV Digital viewers can only watch free-to-air channels like the BBC, ITV and Channels 4 and 5.Users of pirate cards have been gaining access to pay TV channels like sports and movies without paying.Where did the pirated cards come from?Hackers posted on the internet details of the codes needed to create illegal smart cards that gave free access to pay TV services. Criminals used the information to make fake cards and then sold them through pubs, clubs and market stalls for &#163;5-&#163;20. About 100,000 pirated ITV Digital cards are thought to be in circulation.What is Vivendi Universal?A former French water group that is now one of the biggest entertainment companies in the world. The chief executive, Jean-Marie Messier (right), has become one of the world's most powerful media moguls after buying a range of businesses including the Universal film studios and music labels, Canal Plus television in France, the Cegetel mobile phone company, directory businesses and internet firms.What is Canal Plus?The European film and television distribution arm of Vivendi Universal. The division that makes the smart cards is called Canal Plus Technologies. It supplies cards and software to 12.5m set-top boxes worldwide.What is NDS Group?Based in Staines, Middlesex, NDS specialises in building the smart cards and interactive software for pay TV systems that allows paid-for television programmes to be securely beamed to customers' homes.Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation is an 80% shareholder. NDS technology is used in almost 28m pay TV set-top boxes worldwide and supports 40% of all satellite receivers. Most of the group's research is carried out in Israel.
