Friday's edition of Chatterbox
USS Annapolis breaking through three feet of ice. Photo byAN HONORABLE GERMANon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAerial warfare and the iPhone 4 &gt;&gt; ZDNet UKRupert Goodwins gives quite a good explanation of why mobile phones usually bury their antennae (not "antennas" - ugh) inside the phone. It involves submarines.Value Propositions &gt;&gt; Alex KauffmannExploring the ideas of paywalls, and their implementation, but you basically get to try them out..XXX to get ICANN nod &gt;&gt; The RegisterPrediction: won't make domain registrars anything like the money they hoped, and will be pretty much forgotten within five years. Why? Porn wants to be on .com, because it's harder to block than .xxx - which will be on blocklists everywhere instantly.Open-Source Making Significant Traction in the Enterprise &gt;&gt; ReadWriteWebSurveying both the US and UK, Red Hat (an open source company) found that the private sector is ahead of the public sector in open source adoption.Exercising Our Remote Application Removal Feature &gt;&gt; Android Developers' Blog"The remote application removal feature is one of many security controls Android possesses to help protect users from malicious applications. In case of an emergency, a dangerous application could be removed from active circulation in a rapid and scalable manner to prevent further exposure to users. While we hope to not have to use it, we know that we have the capability to take swift action on behalf of users' safety when needed."Google Can Remotely Remove Apps From Your Phone &gt;&gt; Android Phone FansEven so, some people are unhappy: "It's a bit scary, if you think about it. Even if Google's only planning to use the feature in the case of an emergency or extreme security risks, it's kind of unsettling to know that they have that kind of power."Cheaper tablet does not measure up to iPad &gt;&gt; The Boston GlobeHiawatha Bray tries the Archos 7 and doesn't like it. "Still, what do you expect for $200? You can buy two and a half Archos 7s for the cost of the least-expensive iPad. But that's only fair.&#10;&#10;"The iPad is at least two and a half times better."HTML5 Vuvuzela (with a bit of CSS3) &gt;&gt; Daniel @ OperaThis is a bit like Apple's Safari-only HTML5/CSS3 showcase: it only seems happy if you try it in Opera. Tried in Firefox 3.6.x, Safari 5.0, Chrome.. no dice. Or it's silent. But that's not the vuvuzela we're looking for.Twitter Settles Charges that it Failed to Protect Consumers' Personal Information &gt;&gt; FTCLetting people hack into your systems isn't good if you say you'll keep personal information secure.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Twitter's having a bad day. First it gottold off by the US Federal Trade Commissionfor incidents in January and May last yearwhen 33 accounts, including Barack Obama's, were hackedusing the company's own internal support tools.And then it's having to scale back on its API in order to get the site in order, according to itsstatus page.The FTC settlement is "the agency's first such case against a social networking site" over flawed data security.According to the FTC's complaint, between January and May 2009, hackers who gained administrative control of Twitter were able to view nonpublic user information, gain access to direct messages and protected tweets, and reset any user's password and send authorized tweets from any user account.The January case was interesting: "a hacker used an automated password-guessing tool to gain administrative control of Twitter, after submitting thousands of guesses into Twitter's login webpage. The administrative password was a weak, lower case, common dictionary word. Using the password, the hacker reset numerous user passwords and posted some of them on a website, where other people could access them. Using these fraudulently reset passwords, other intruders sent phony tweets from approximately nine user accounts. One tweet was sent from the account of then-President-elect Barack Obama, offering his more than 150,000 followers a chance to win $500 in free gasoline. At least one other phony tweet was sent from the account of Fox News."The key there being "weak, lower case, common dictionary word". Weak passwords are likely to be the Achilles heel of startups, because nobody thought they'd get big, so they used easy passwords. Then when things get big, everyone's forgotten that there's a weak link in the system from those early passwords.Similarly in May 2009: "During a second security breach, in April 2009, a hacker compromised a Twitter employee's personal e-mail account where two passwords similar to the employee's Twitter administrative password were stored, in plain text. Using this information, the hacker was able to guess the employee's Twitter administrative password. The hacker reset at least one Twitter user's password, and could access private user information and tweets for any Twitter users."Guessable passwords: also not good.However the action taken against Twitter could be called wrist-slapping: "Under the terms of the settlement, Twitter will be barred for 20 years from misleading consumers about the extent to which it maintains and protects the security, privacy, and confidentiality of nonpublic consumer information, including the measures it takes to prevent authorized access to information and honor [sic] the privacy choices made by consumers. The company also must establish and maintain a comprehensive information security program, which will be assessed by a third party every other year for 10 years."Could be a lot worse, to be honest. Could have involved money.Meanwhile, Twitter is having "issues" with its site, and hastemporarily disabled RSS and Atom feeds, and has lowered the number of queries that can be made through its API per hour as it makes "adjustments to some site features".
It was difficult to find, slotted away in a recess of Microsoft's gargantuan stand, but the latest Xbox Live Arcade title from indie studioTwisted Pixel(Splosion Man,The Maw) looks to be another brilliantly stylish, witty and addictive homage to the sideways scrolling genre. Comic Jumper follows hopeless hero Captain Smiley who, faced with spiralling sales of his own comic book, invades a series of four more successful works, including a manga named Cutie Cutie Kid Cupids (filled with buxom teenage girls of course), and a Silver Age classic entitled The Improbable Paper Pals.Each book is represented as a series of scrolling levels, which the Captain has to run, jump and shoot his way through, borrowing elements of Contra, Gunstar Heroes, Bionic Commando and Streets of Rage en route. His enemies consist of portly bearded men, Conan-style warriors and shapely female assassins, while the environments throw up a range of obstacles including pipes to shimmy along and animated dinosaur skeletons.The action is crisp and satisfying with fast melee blows that send baddies flying into scenic objects or out toward the screen. And the visuals are lovely, skilfully recreating the individual flavours of the four comic book genres; the environments are rendered in 3D, using shaders and current gen lighting techniques to add depth to the essentially 2D gameplay. Also, between each stage the lead character flies through a series of comic panels, in a gorgeous transition animation.And, like 'Splosion Man before it, the game is funny. There's some great argumentative dialogue between Captain Smiley and his assistant, a star-shaped chest symbol who forms an unwilling element of the lead character's costume. He'd much rather be working with Brad, Smiley's muscle-bound arch nemesis who occasionally turns up in his Bradcopter to shout abuse as the player progresses. The boss characters are all absurd caricatures, the plot skates along comic book cliché at breakneck speed – on the E3 showfloor, it was a refreshing change to be given daft dialogue and silly in-jokes, rather than ear-bleeding rawk and crunching sound effects.So yes, I loved it and can't wait to play more. It is Twisted Pixel's labour of love, taking a ten-man team one year to develop (so far), which has been ruinously difficult for such a small company. They've also brought in comic book writers and professional composers to aid in the authenticity and presentation. There's no release date yet, but Comic Jumper should be joining your collection of retro-tinged XBLA favourites by the end of the year.
Early reports from the US by users of Apple's new iPhone 4 suggest that a design fault means its reception worsens when held with the hand wrapped around the phone.Dozens of videos posted to YouTube, along with comments from people whose phones were delivered early yesterday - ahead of today's official launch - show that reception appears to wane if people hold it with their hand touching the metal rim around the phone that forms its two wireless antennae.The effect only appears to happen if the left side of the phone is connected by the user's hand to the bottom edge. That would create a weak circuit of the two antennae, one for mobile reception and one for Wi-Fi, which lie on a stainless steel band on the outside of the phone.The principal effect seems to be on mobile data connectivity when the phone is held so that the screen faces the user, with the thumb wrapped around one side – but, notably, with the hand touching the bottom of the phone. One American user who made a video of his problems, testing the phone against a data speed test site, said: "It won't even start the test if I'm holding the phone." The video shows the phone running perfectly when he releases his thumb from the side.Other videos suggest that the problem lies with holding the phone in a way that connects the two antennae.That could be due to interference effects as the hand forms a circuit which could cause attenuation of the signal: the size of the antennae will be tuned to specific frequency ranges, and when the hand connects them, it makes the antennae effectively larger - but thus less well-tuned to the correct frequencies.Normally the presence of the body nearby helps to improve mobile reception on phones which have the antennae inside the casing - as is the case with almost every mobile made in the past 10 years. Apple may have taken a significant risk by putting the antennae on the outside where it can be damaged or cause attenuation as has been seen. Apple is offering "bumpers" to protect it - but they cost extra.Steve Jobs, Apple's chief executive, made much of the iPhone 4's new design when introducing it earlier this month. Rather than being inside the phone, as is customary for mobile phones now, the antenna for the iPhone 4 is a stainless steel band around its side, which is split into two parts to provide Wi-Fi and mobile reception.After the launch, the design was praised by Dermot O'Shea, director for Taoglas, an Irish provider of antenna solutions, who told websiteWireless Weekthat there might be problems with AT&amp;T's network - which is the only one on which the iPhone is available in the US: "In fairness, the cellular antenna – it looks like it goes all the way around the phone, so it looks like they're getting a lot space out of the antena,"he told Wireless Week. "I think the reception challenge they would have is on the lower 850 MHz frequency that AT&amp;T uses," he says, noting that the thinness of the antenna could still lead to dropped calls on that frequency."Apple's tablet computer, the iPad, was hit by similar woes after its launch in May: users found it difficult to get connected to Wi-Fi computer networks, apparently due to a problem with the software, for which it later released an update.
People used to queue like this to make a call from a red telephone box. Now there were 600, mostly under 30, taking pictures on their mobiles of other people queueing for a mobile to replace the mobile they had just taken a picture with.Some had been in line for nearly two days waiting to fork out on yet another must-have product from a company that at present can only offer its UK customers its new product in black just like Henry Ford once did for the first in line for his new car.And, however cool its new iPhone 4 may be, Apple's first-day pizzazz chimes into a much older British tradition. We queue for the first day of sales, we queue for shop openings, we queue for Wimbledon. Here there were some people who had pre-ordered their new phone online but felt they needed to queue to pick it up.It is 7am at the company's store in Regent Street, London, one of 27 in the UK, one of the favoured five countries – the others being Japan, Germany, France and the US – for the launch of a phone described by Stephen Fry in today's Guardian as"an object of rare beauty".The doors open and the first customers are ushered in to be greeted by a whooping, clapping and a hollering gaggle of store staff, all dressed in company blue T-shirts. The honoured vanguard, enter as in an airport arrivals hall, with smiles and waves of varying gusto, rucksacks on their backs and pulling suitcases on trolleys. The England football team can only dream of such greetings when they return to Heathrow from the World Cup.The early nerds go upstairs to the sales floor for one-to-one advice before making their purchases, which cost £599 for the 32GB handset, £499 for the 16GB but much, much less up-front if tied in to long-term contracts with service providers.Later, they return down the steps like minor royalty, waving their newest prize possessions and giving the thumbs up to another whooping and hollering. First in the queue, although not apparently first to buy, was Alex Lee, 27, a Canadian business consultant, who had flown in from Dubai with his sister, Priscilla, for four 32GB handsets. That was a cool £2,400, so by the time hotel accommodation, before his near two days on a pavement, is taken into account, his trip will have cost £4,000.One will go to his sister, at least one will be put up for auction for a charity in his home city of Edmonton – with the proceeds probably going to a lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender group. "Canada doesn't have it yet and I am sure I can get a pretty penny for it," he said."I am no stranger to the launch of Apple products. It's fairly standards. It's standing in line … But you get to meet lots of great people," he added more enthusiastically, as befitted a man who had been waiting since 11.45am on Tuesday to buy four phones. And what about the phone? "It is what it is", he said, in only a way true aficionados can. "I love it."Perhaps he hadn't got over the disappointment of some pre-ordering customers getting first go, a glitch in this stage-managed event. Asked why he was not first to enter the store, Lee said: "I don't have an answer because I've been queuing here for a lot longer than everybody else. I can't do anything about it."Ben Paton, who has just graduated from Robert Gordon University, Aberdeen with a 2:1 in computer network management and design, was more expansive. "It is easy to hold, the screen is incredible. It IS an incredible phone." The 23-year-old is paying £219 plus £35 a month for two years with provider O2. Paton already has an iPhone 3G. "I am giving that to my 80-year-old aunt," he said. He had queued for 16 hours to be 17th or 18th in line for the new product."It is a once in a lifetime experience. How often do you get the chance to sleep in Regent Street with like-minded people. It was incredible. I was sitting next to someone from Poland, someone from Australia, someone from Italy. I would describe myself as a geek. I like technology. I get enthusiastic about it. If people call me a geek, why not embrace it?"Suman Roy, from Perivale, London, a software engineer, had waited about 20 hours. At 40, his was a rare middle-aged presence. "It was more like camping out at Glastonbury," he said. "There was a lot of camaraderie. I am going to treat myself, I don't need it. I just wanted it. I think it is going to be a fun device. I am looking forward to playing with it over the next couple of days and I really hope it lives up to the hype."And Apple has good news for those who prefer their products white. The new iPhone will be available in that colour at the end of next month.
Was there a sporting fixture on yesterday? Why, yes, there was - but apart from thetitanic struggle of John Isner and Nicolas Mahut(the longest-ever professional tennis match in the history of the solar system, which is 6bn years, so not bad) there also seems to have been some sort of football game going on in a distant land. It didn't last very long, but football doesn't compared to tennis.But because the England v someone else match happened during office hours, many people were, well, in the office when it happened. Which meant that they had to take sneaky advantage of the streaming capabilities of modern networks to watch it.Early figures from the BBCsuggest the total number of 'concurrent streams' peaked at 800,000 although the total number of viewers will be many times higher. The BBC said this was a viewing record.That, according to Demon Internet, which provided the graph above (click for a larger version), saw internet use increase by 55% solely during the game compared to an ordinary working Wednesday afternoon, compared with a 38% increase during the first World Cup game between Mexico and South Africa on 11 June.But EasyNet Connect, a business ISP, says things got even heftier: it saw a 226% surge (that would be a more than threefold increase) in web traffic compared to the average day.After kick-off, traffic more than doubled (up 114%) compared with the pre-match levels (from 0900 to 1400).Chris Stening, the managing director of EasyNet Connect, said: "As the first England game to take place during work hours, this afternoon's match between England and Slovenia was the biggest test for businesses' internet connections so far. The data from our own network shows that streaming the game at work was a popular choice this afternoon, pushing many business connections to their limits."Matt Cantwell, the head of Demon, states: "Customers see the internet as a utility and yet, their networks might not be able to cope with the demands like electricity can. The surge in internet traffic could cause problems for SME businesses, who are the lifeblood the UK's economy. If they can't run their business normally during a World Cup match and ban their workers from keeping an eye on games during working hours, then inevitably, the business will lose out both on productivity and customer satisfaction. Whatever happens, it's a lose-lose situation for those without the right network infrastructure and support."And another business ISP, KC, says that the game triggered a 31% jump in web traffic, as users watched the game via the BBC's live online stream.Not mentioned – because it worked so well – is the fact that the BBC's streaming has held up so well, whileITV's has been roundly criticisedfor failing to manage the load, notably duringEngland'sthe tournament's first game, which also happened during office hours, but for which the demand was probably impossible to estimate. The BBC may have been better warned – but even so, it can pat itself on the back for its success here.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox
Following my "where are the hardcore games" Kinect pricing post the other day a Microsoft exec has said that core games are on the horizon. Xbox 360 marketing exec Albert Penellotold IndustryGamersthat Kinect is not about alienating or abandoning the core 360 gamer audience.We started our briefing off by ripping a guy's arm off and beating him to death with it. I don't think we have any interest in sort of getting away from controllers and getting away from the core games that got us here. This box was a response, you know, from us to the people that have followed us along and really asked for features for the console. Kinect is about getting other people in the house.Penello then talks about how Kinect will appeal to non-gamers, alhough he fails to mention the potentially high cost of the hardware..Core gamers will say to me, 'What is Kinect going to do for me?' Well, you probably have a girlfriend, or you have a sister, or a brother, or a niece, or a nephew, or a wife, or a mom, or an aunt who you've probably wanted to have experience, you know, the kind of stuff that you enjoy. And oh, by the way, we're doing some really cool stuff with dash navigation and the people who experience it really get a kick out of the sort of virtual reality/Minority Report style. And oh by the way, we just launched the thing. At no point have we ever said, 'I don't have any interest in having core games come out on Kinect.' We wanted to come out and make a statement that said, 'We want to try and do something different than the Wii, different than wands and hands, something that's magical, that takes away the abstraction, and I want a bunch of new types of games created.'The obvious question then is what types of "core games" can we expect to see using Kinect? Halo fans needn't get too excited...I don't want to see Halo band-aided into Kinect, because Halo is a controller game, and I think that would be not what we're trying to achieve. I want to see what a new type of experience would be.Rumours suggestPC owners may get Kinectin 2011 but for now the focus is on the 360. Does this - frankly sensible - aim to get core games using Kinect make you more likely to buy? Or is the pricing key?
You recommended a Samsung NC10 netbook for a friend of mine a while back, which she was pleased with. Now it's my turn: is there a better one to get now? My budget is £300 tops, but obviously the better value the better!David FiskThe Samsung NC10 was solidly made and the best all round value of the previous generation of netbooks, and it's still a good machine. However, while Samsung has continued to do well with more recent models such as the N130, N140, N210 and N220, other manufacturers are now more competitive. Depending on price, my first choice would be the silver Toshiba NB305 (the black model has a different keyboard), and there are some good buys in the Asus Seashell range, such as the Asus Eee PC 1005PE. Both are worth comparing against the Samsung N210 if you can find a local stockist, such as PC World or John Lewis.The Toshiba NB305 feels well made, and I find its isolated keyboard is better for touch-typing. While it was expensive to begin with, you can now find it at a good discount. Dell netbooks are also worth considering, especially if you prefer a more traditional keyboard.This year's netbooks are based on Intel's Pine Trail platform, such as the Atom N450 with GMA 3150 integrated graphics. This provides only a slight increase in performance over the old N270 (Diamondville) platform, but much better battery life. The latest Atom N470 processor also increases the clock speed from 1.66GHz to 1.83GHz, and in the future, we might see greatly improved netbook performance from dual-core Atoms such as the D510. The question is the price.We've also seen a change from Microsoft Windows XP on last year's models to Windows 7 Starter Edition, which is more reliable, more secure, and has a better user interface. Windows 7 Home Premium is obviously a better choice if it comes pre-installed at a reasonable price, but there are plenty of people still happy to snap up the older, cheaper XP-based models.Unfortunately, netbooks still have only 1GB of memory, and probably 128MB of that is taken away for use by the graphics processor. It's enough for a netbook, but if you want to take the in-place upgrade to Windows Home Premium (with Aero graphics) and run Microsoft Office and similar software, it's better to have 2GB. Check that the system you buy can be upgraded. If you buy from Amazon.co.uk, you'll find that 2GB of memory and a case will be offered as a bundle as "Frequently Bought Together".Either way, shop around as prices can vary. In fact, while I was writing this answer, the price of Amazon.co.uk's silver Toshiba NB305 "Frequently Bought Together" bundle jumped from around £300 to £370. This is too much. You can buy a better -- albeit bigger -- laptop for less.For example, you can get an ultra-thin Asus UL30 with an Intel Celeron Dual Core processor, 3GB of memory, Windows 7 Home Premium, a 13.3-inch screen with much better resolution (1366 x 768 pixels) and 12-hours of battery life for only£349 from Carphone Warehouse. Not only do I think this is a better buy, I bought one.
Welcome to Taunton! Photo byxelciseon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamiPhone 4 UK O2/Orange/Vodafone comparison &gt;&gt; jmedwardsThe most comprehensive iPhone price comparison around.How many iPhones at the Taunton phone shop?Josh Peart knows.Google and Motorola Unveil the New Droid &gt;&gt; Mashable liveblog10.45am: "Flash is the web's most pervasive software," says Adobe CEO Shantanu Narayen. This is probably true. But is it good?HTML5Rocks &gt;&gt; GoogleIt's been *days* since we pointed you to an HTML demonstrator site. This one doesn't require you to use Apple's Safari.Net Usage Index : Music &gt;&gt; Akamai.comSee where people are tuning in to streamed music. Streamed football not shown..England match triggers net surge &gt;&gt; BBC NewsA rise of 31% in web traffic during the match you say? Probably just people pressing "refresh" ... no?Google 'activating 160,000 Android phones a day' &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukThat's a lot of phones: 58m annually if it stays at that level. Interesting timing to announce it.Longest tennis match records &gt;&gt; WikipediaSurprisingly - well, no, not really - accurate. Have a look at the history to see how fast it was updated.YouTube wins case against Viacom &gt;&gt; YouTube BlogAnother win for America. Or something. That's a lot of money that Google isn't going to have to pay out.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Thousands of British gadget fans are likely to be left empty handed  today as stocks of the newest version of the iPhone appear likely to run out within hours of the device going on sale.Apple aficionados  are queuing  overnight to bag the Californian tech giant's latest creation, the iPhone 4 – the second major product launch from the company in as many months.The new iPhone starts at around £200 for customers willing to sign up to a long-term contract, costing upwards of £25 a month, while the iPad, which launched in May, costs at least £429.But Apple devotees are willing to find the cash. More than 600,000 orders were placed in a single day following its 7 June unveiling, the largest number ever.In the UK the company's mobile phone partners have held off allowing customers to pay for the phone in advance because of fears over low stock levels. Devices will be sold on a first-come, first-served basis, although some operators such as Vodafone are putting some devices aside for customers who registered their interest online ahead of the launch.O2 restricted sales of the iPhone 4 to existing customers. On its website  the company warned "iPhone stock will be extremely limited in the UK at launch and not everybody who wants one will be able to get one straight away".Unlike previous versions of the handset, the new iPhone will be sold by all five of the UK's mobile phone networks as well as Tesco and retailer Carphone Warehouse. It is also being launched simultaneously in the US, UK, France, Germany and Japan, which explains the limited stocks. One retailer reported yesterday that one of its flagship stores in London has just six copies of the new phone.Apple is a notorious micro-manager when it comes to the release of its products and some of the UK's mobile phone companies, who have received many fewer handsets than they had hoped, believe the company is holding back stock to increase  hype around the product, and that it has more devices in storage for release in the coming weeks. When the iPad launched last month there were similar fears of product shortages, but  this week the technology giant announced that it has sold 3m iPads in the US after just 80 days.Well over 50m iPhones have been sold worldwide since the original device was launched in June 2007, and it has had a dramatic effect on the mobile phone industry, forcing rivals to create their own touchscreen devices in order to compete. But the extensive market lead which it gave Apple is increasingly being eroded by devices using  rival Google software. Just a few months after the iPhone's appearance, Google teamed up with a number of other mobile phone networks and manufacturers to create new software platform called Android; devices using it are increasingly challenging iPhone's domination.Google's chief executive Eric Schmidt said  yesterdaythat it is now activating 160,000 mobile phones using Android software every day (4.8m per month). The number is accelerating fast, having been put at 100,000 per day in the third week of May during Google's annual conference, Schmidt said."We have seen a tremendous increase in adoption," Schmidt  told the Guardian. "We've also seen a growth in the number of apps available for Android – there are now approximately 65,000 compared to only 50,000 a month ago."
So much for an emergency hotline. Next time Russian president Dmitry Medvedev wants to get in touch with his American counterpart, he has a new way to do it - if he can keep to 140 characters.Medvedev, 44, has become the latest world leader to begin tweeting, after a tour of Twitter's San Francisco headquarters. His visit was also the first time the microblogging site had been visited by a head of state."Hello everyone, I'm at Twitter and sending my first message," Medvedev said in his inaugural tweet.The Russian president, who met Ev Williams and Biz Stone, the site's co-founders, on his whistlestop tour, has registered two official Twitter accounts for the Kremlin -@kremlinrussiain Russian, and@kremlinrussia_ein English.It was a busy day for the Russian president. He also found time to try out video conferencing at Cisco Systems as part of a fact-finding visit to US technology hub Silicon Valley.Medvedev was clearly impressed with the technology. "This is amazing," he said in English, surrounded by Cisco executives. Medvedev has said Silicon Valley could be used as a possible model for Russia to follow."This experience is not definitive, but it is quite interesting," he said before he left Russia. The president has said he wants to build a high-tech hub outside Moscow, with tax breaks and special rules for investors."He [Medvedev] is remarkably open. I mean, business leaders go back and forth with him," said Cisco chief executive John Chambers. "It took me almost off guard."Medvedev's whirlwind itinerary also includes visits to meet Steve Jobs, the Apple chief executive, and Russian web search firm Yandex.And if the White House and 10 Downing Street are not sufficient to fulfil Medvedev's political Twitter-related desires, he will also be able to follow Israeli prime minister Binyamin Netanyahu and Hugo Chávez, the Venezuelan president.But Medvedev probably needs to widen his net if he's to make the most of the Twitter experience: so far, he's only following Barack Obama and the White House.
The other day, I felt like booting up an old game, one of the Myst series. The heyday of Myst wasn't so long ago;Myst III: Exile, was released in 2002. That makes it the same vintage as  Minority Report, The Bourne Identity and the first series of Spooks: if you wanted to watch any of those, you'd have no trouble getting hold of, or playing, a DVD.But in game terms, eight years is a lifetime. Although my copy of Exile is Mac-compatible, it wouldn't run on my new MacBook. I had to dig out an old Windows machine and fiddle with the graphics card settings to make it work. I've had even more trouble trying to play older games on new machines: some won't run at all, some run without sound or video, one wouldn't work because the website to verify that I own a legitimate copy no longer exists.This is a real problem. It's not just that I can't play my old favourites, it's that the development of any artform is based on being able to be inspired by other people's work – creations that are more than two or three years old. TheNational Videogame Archiveis trying to preserve games and game equipment for posterity, and various emulators of older machines are available to download, but this is an issue that ought to be addressed comprehensively.If the British Library collects copies of everyISBNed book, why can't a  British games library collect every game – and make sure it's easily available to play? Otherwise gaming is in danger of becoming an art form without a memory: and those who cannot remember the past are doomed to repeat that level again and again.
YouTube has fended off a $1bn lawsuit from the entertainment company Viacom, after a US judge ruled that the video site was protected from being sued for copyright infringement under US law.The summary judgment by the court followed a suit that had gone on for more than three years and which was seen as potentially ruinous for YouTube if it had lost it.But the judge determined that YouTube's efforts to remove content meant that it was protected against the lawsuit under "safe harbor" provision of the US's Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA).Viacom filed suit in March 2007 against the site, which Google bought for $1.6bn in 2006, alleging widespread copyright infringement of its content on the site, having filed more than 100,000 "takedown" orders against the video-sharing site the month before. The company complained that about 160,000 unauthorised clips from Viacom programs had been posted on YouTube, and viewed about 1.5bn times.But YouTube appealed for a summary judgment in the case, on the basis that it cooperated with copyright holders to remove content from the site when they complained.Viacom Inc. had alleged that YouTube built itself into the world's largest video-sharing site by promoting the unlicensed use of video taken from Viacom cable channels such as MTV, Comedy Central and Nickelodeon.But Facebook, eBay and Yahoo were among the internet powerhouses that had rallied on Google's behalf, saying that the company should not be liable because the 1998 law offers immunity when service providers promptly remove illegal materials submitted by users once they are notified of a violation.In his 30-page ruling, U.S. District Judge Louis Stanton in New York said massive volumes of evidence submitted in the case had convinced him that YouTube did what it needed to do to fall under the "safe harbor" provisions of the copyright law.In dismissing the lawsuit before a trial, Stanton noted that Viacom had spent several months accumulating about 100,000 videos violating its copyright and then sent a mass takedown notice on Feb. 2, 2007. By the next business day, Stanton said, YouTube had removed virtually all of them.Stanton said there's no dispute that "when YouTube was given the (takedown) notices, it removed the material."Viacom said it will appeal, calling the ruling "fundamentally flawed."Most embarrassingly for Viacom, court documents revealed in in March that at the same time that it was suing Google and YouTube, Viacom was itself uploading its content in secret and trying to make it look stolen - so that people would be more interested in it.One excerpt from the documents filed by YouTube was particularly notable for the embarrassment caused: "Viacom's efforts to disguise its promotional use of YouTube worked so well that even its own employees could not keep track of everything it was posting or leaving up on the site. As a result, on countless occasions Viacom demanded the removal of clips that it had uploaded to YouTube, only to return later to sheepishly ask for their reinstatement. In fact, some of the very clips that Viacom is suing us over were actually uploaded by Viacom itself."
Announced at E3, Playstation Plus - Sony's new paid-for online gaming service - is offering European owners a free copy of Little Big Planet if they sign up to a full year's subscription within the next month or so.  The service, which launches on June 29th, offers subscribers 4 games a month (as long as they remain subscribed) and discounts, avatars etc. Sony have justclarified some more detailsabout the service too.The Sony blogpost is keen to stress that Plus is not an Xbox Live-style service. Although given the generally excellent quality of the paid-for Xbox Live you could argue that it would be better if it was. Anyway here is the info:Launching on the 29th JuneUK Price - GBP 39.99 (1 year) 11.99 (90 days)The current PSN features will remain free.Features included at launch will be: Games, Discounts, Exclusive items on PlayStation Store, Full Game TrialAutomatic Downloads (Members will be able to set their PS3 to wake up from standby at any time of the day or night, download and install any game updates for the games you have been playing and we will also send you new game demos that will be ready and waiting for you to play when you next use your PS3. System software updates will also download automatically (manual install still required) and then the PS3 will turn itself off again)If you sign up between the 29th June and 3rd Aug for the 1 year subscription then you receive a downloadable (to keep, regardless of subscription) copy of the original LittleBigPlanet game for PS3.So what do you think then? Given that you can play online for free - unlike Xbox Live - is the service worth 40 quid a year? Any PS3 owners here going to sign up?
Google is now activating 160,000 mobile phones using its Android software a day, equivalent to 4.8m a month, according to the company's chief executive, Eric Schmidt.The number is also accelerating, having been put at 100,000 a day in the third week of May during Google's annual I/O conference, Schmidt said – indicating sales growth of 60% per month."We have seen a tremendous increase in adoption," Schmidt said in an interview exclusive to the Guardian in the UK. "We've also seen a growth in the number of apps available for Android – there are now approximately 65,000 compared to only 50,000 a month ago." He believes that that means Android could have reached the volume necessary to become an essential mobile operating system – and perhaps the equivalent of Windows on PCs.At those numbers, roughly 15m Android smartphones would be sold every quarter, compared with a worldwide total of 54m sold in the first quarter of 2010, according to the research company Gartner.Though Schmidt's announcement was clearly timed to steal some of the thunder of Apple's launch in five countries of the iPhone 4 on Thursday, Schmidt declined to compare the Android platform's market position against its better-known rival. Apple has said that it had orders of 600,000 in a single day for the iPhone 4 last week, and was unable to keep up with demand.Google is notified whenever a smartphone using the Android operating system is activated by a mobile network. In the US, a number of different models are sold on different networks from different manufacturers, including Motorola, which on Wednesday unveiled its latest Droid X phone on the Verizon network. "It's the best phone ever made on the fastest network," Schmidt said – which could be seen as a dig at AT&amp;T, which has the exclusive contract to sell the iPhone in the US but has struggled to satisfy users' demands for mobile data bandwidth.Asked whether he saw Apple or Nokia – which has the largest market share of smartphones – as Android's biggest competitor, Schmidt said: "I try to spend my time not focusing on those questions."Android is a free mobile operating system which any handset maker can use and alter to produce a new version, while developers are able to write apps which will work on any specific version of the system.However, while Apple has maintained a tight focus on its App Store, which has roughly 250,000 free and paid-for apps available, Google offers them via a "Marketplace", and allows any app to run on Android "as long as it does not harm the network," Schmidt said.But calculations by a company called Larva Labs, which develops for Android, suggest that iPhone developers may be faring better financially than those on the Android Marketplace. Steve Jobs said earlier this month that Apple has paid out $1bn to developers through a revenue split (which has earned Apple roughly $420m).By contrast, Larva Labs reckons that Android developers have only earned $20m in total from the Marketplace. Schmidt said he had not seen the figures, but added: "Developers go where the volume is. That's the most important lesson of platform economics: it's all about scale and volume. It's very important that developers get to a scale where they can see the ability to get to a very large audience. We believe we have done so."Asked whether Android could become the equivalent of Windows for PCs – the dominant operating system – Schmidt said: "The advantage with Android is that anybody can use it. In many ways it is better than Windows because it's free, rather than Windows which had an ever-increasing price point."He declined to say whether Google has been talking to Nokia about the possibility of an Android-driven Nokia phone, or whether Google would release its own tablet computer similar to Apple's iPad, which has sold 3m units in 90 days.
You may have seen Microsoft's new adverts for Bing, which are currently beaming out from walls all over London's Underground: Bing, say the ads, is a "decision engine". It's about helping you decide what to do.That's part of a big upgrade rolled out by the company today, in which the iPhone app has been upgraded (you can connect your Facebook and Twitter accounts to it, and see friends' updates), and a number of new features - particularly a new search (um, decision?) category of "Bing Entertainment" has been added with "better ways" to search for music, movies, TV and games."We did travel, health, shopping and local last year," senior VP Yusuf Mehdi said - who says that now about 10% of all searches are "entertainment-related". (We wonder a little how he's defining "entertainment", but let that pass.), and that 90% of people do at least one entertainment search per month. Certainly you can see how the new way of watching TV - with a connected device such as a smartphone or tablet or laptop to hand - would play a big part there ("Who is the woman who plays Sue Sylvester? What else has she been in?")Says Mehdi:  "We are trying to remove all of those hurdles that block you from enjoying [entertainment]. You should be able to watch a show, listen to online music, or play a game with a few clicks."Music searches will also return lyrics (an interesting one from the intellectual property standpoint: many lyric sites are, strictly speaking, using material without permission, though it's barely ever enforced), and will also - in the US (the UK position has to be clarified) - return playable streams from 5m songs licensed through Microsoft's Zune service. You can play a full stream once, and thereafter for 30 seconds. That's quite like Google's music search (launched last October), which was powered by MySpace and the music streaming service Lala; the latter though has now stopped streaming, having been bought by Apple for reasons as yet undisclosed.Looking back at the iPhone app, there is the question of what the use of linking it to social networks is. Justin Jed, Bing for Mobile product manager,blogs about the benefits he perceives:you might search for a film, get screening times and then look to see what your friends on those networks have said about it. (Our reaction: is that really how people search for a film? Easier surely to find out what's on near you and see what people think about it - or to hear from your network about a film that people like andthenfind out when it's on.)The key question will still remain on the advertising side, of course, in getting advertisers to buy ads with searches; but if this marketing and advertising campaign is successful, then more people come to Bing - which makes it more saleable to advertisers.So the "decision engine" rebranding is an interesting piece of positioning vis-a-vis Google: clearly Microsoft and its marketers have decided that if they try to call Bing a "search engine", people will just say "Oh, you mean like Google?" Which is death, marketing-wise: you never want to be trying to take over the turf of the long-established brand.And rather than going for the "Avis" formula (Avis always trailed Hertz in the US car market, but made a virtue of its second-place postiion by using the slogan "We try harder!" - playing on peoples' liking for the scrappy underdog), presumably because it's difficult for a company thought of as completely dominant in one market to be a pleasing underdog in another, it's gone for the other route: fight on different ground altogether.
This week, Guardian games contributor Keith Stuart joins Aleks Krotoski and Charles Arthur to dissect the big announcements from the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) – the biggest computer games event in the English-speaking world. Keith weighs in on the Nintendo 3DS, Microsoft's Kinect and how the indies fare in a console world.Also in this week's programme, Charles breaks down what the sale of social networking site Bebo for a huge loss to owners AOL means for the networking scene, and gives the heads up on a new scam directed at British computer users that could cost victims up to £200.
Imagine being able to learn a martial art, with the help of your games console, from the comfort of your living room. No need for expensive lessons or equipment, no awkward banter with overly aggressive classmates – the first developer to nail this relatively simple idea will surely be on to a winner.Sadly, All Star Karate, which I would guess was intended to cater for such a market at its inception, is instead an insipid casual game, satisfying neither karate students nor regular gamers. You control either a male or female American surfer-type who manages to involve themselves in a series of incidents that can only be resolved by punching and kicking. I use "control" here in the loosest sense of the word – your character's movement is entirely arbitrary and attacking is the sole purpose of your input.The action here works something like a Guitar Hero-esque rhythm-action game, where swinging the Wiimote or nunchuck in the right direction when prompted will result in a successful hit. The timing here is initially quite tricky, and once the game steps up the difficulty there is certainly some fun to be found in flailing your arms around in the right direction at the right time.Sadly, this fun is critically undermined by the accuracy of the controls themselves. The nunchuck's movements fail to register half the time, and while the option is there to use a Wiimote in each hand, this still proved somewhat hit-and-miss. The frustration of failing a stage simply because the Wii didn't recognise your correct movement only increases as you progress through the game.Also, much like Just Dance – which I had the pleasure of reviewing last winter – there's something dissatisfying about being able to trigger onscreen actions with Wiimote moves that bear no relation to them. You're far better off flicking your wrist to pull off an uppercut than actually punching, and while games like Wii Sports have matched the capabilities of the remote perfectly, you can't help but feel All Star Karate is trying to stretch things a bit too far.It's probably only once Kinect arrives that a title like this can truly realise its potential. And it's a shame that All Star Karate is so fundamentally flawed, because I actually found the retro presentation and cheesy plot rather charming. Costumes to unlock, a "Create your own Kata" function and the replayability of stages mean there is a decent amount of depth here for those who choose to persevere past the game's obvious problems. I just wonder how many people will.
Last week, hidden away in a small cubicle at the back of E3's cavernous West Hall, British developerBlitz Games Studioswas showing perhaps the most amusing implementation of Microsoft's Kinect system yet seen.Yoostar 2is a movie karaoke game, the sequel to a PC-only release from last year. When the creator of that title – also called Yoostar – realised there was potential to move its franchise to Xbox Kinect and PlayStation Move, it brought in Blitz to handle the update. Although best known for firing out TV and movie licenses for a range of publishers, the company boasts a strong tech team – it does, after all, have at its helm the Oliver twins, Philip and Andrew – the legendary bedroom coders behind the much-loved Dizzy titles. These guys have retained their 'have a go' approach to the computer industry, and are obsessed with cutting edge technologies. Over the last couple of years, their studio has been at the forefront of 3D game development, creating its own engine capable of rendering 3D effects on the Xbox 360 before most people knew it was technically possible. They no doubt understood the Yoostar proposition immediately.The game works like this. Players are challenged to re-enact a collection of classic scenes drawn from Hollywood history. Blitz has signed up deals with most of the major studios and is shipping the game with 60 sequences. These include the 'I'll be back' bit from Terminator and the bench scene in Forrest Gump, as well as favourite moments from Ferris Bueller's Day Off, The Matrix, Jaws and Beverly Hills Cop – all pretty well-known and relatively easy to deliver.The action goes like this. Players simply select the sequence they want to have a bash at and then observe an the onscreen guide, which shows how your body should be positioned in front of the camera so that you can be seamlessly integrated into the footage.The scene then plays with the character you're portraying blanked out, and your performance put in his/her place. Your lines are shown at the top of the screen, with the standard karaoke-style bouncing ball running over the words and guiding the speed of your delivery. Once you're done, the game reconfigures the scene, using post-processing effects to get the video footage of you to match the stock used in the original screen – even if it's black and white. Then the game plays the resulting footage, usually to mass hilarity.The technology is actually surprisingly effective – I thought the clip would resemble one of those wooden cut-outs at seaside resorts where you stick your head through the hole and then pose unconvincingly as a body builder or beauty queen. But despite some slight issues where the game has to angle the footage slightly to get your position to match the onscreen action, it's really quite natural. I was given a demo of the game by Blitz co-founder Andrew Oliver, whose performance of Humphrey Bogart's 'here's looking at you kid' speech, though rendered impressively well on screen, has ensured I'll never be able to watch Casablanca with a straight face again.The system is able to judge performances on criteria such as the timing and delivery of the dialogue as well as physical positioning, and of course you can save these clips for 'prosperity' (or, more likely, blackmail material). Indeed, the best part is the fact that the game is compatible with the key social networking sites. After each performance, players are given the option to share the footage with their Facebook or Twitter friends - a proprietary widget then embeds the video on the either service. There's also a dedicatedYoostar  websitewhere players can upload their best (or worst) efforts. And for added amusement, Blitz has included a freestyle mode, which lets users perform their own content over a series of famous scenic backgrounds. These have yet to be finalised, but we can expect stuff like the bridge of the Starship Enterprise or the cockpit of a Top Gun fighter plane.Apparently, publisher Yoostar has cleared the use of over 400 extra scenes, and is working through dozens more. These will be made available as DLC, either in themed packs or as individual downloads. However this works, Yoostar 2 is an enormously amusing application of the Kinect and Move technologies. But personally, I'm hoping for Joe Pesci's 'funny how?' speech from Goodfellas, or maybe Samuel L Jackson's Ezekiel 25:17 monologue from Pulp Fiction. Not sure how either would go down amid a family party though...Yoostar 2 will be available on Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3. Release is expected to be winter 2010.
This is getting predictable. Travellers Tales comes along, take a successful movie franchise, turns it into a Lego-themed video game, I giggle my way through it like a six-year old, get obsessive about completing both the game and the vast array of side challenges and bonus content, finally get some sleep, persuade my wife not to divorce me, and then slap it with a five-star review.The thing is though, the developers at Travellers Tales really know what they're doing. The Lego-based nostalgia – oh the lovely, plasticky rumble when a character gets reduced to bricks! – still packs considerable charm and the games are an interactive joy.They're also tough as puzzlers go: expect a good few head-scratching moments (or searches for online walkthroughs) when, ahem, trying to get into the girls' toilet at Hogwarts (no, it's not like that, you've got a troll to defeat) and other similar challenges.As the name suggests, the game covers Harry's first four years at Hogwarts, so you're guiding your scarred juvenile wizard (and an assortment of supporting players, from Ron to Hermione, and even Scabbers the rat) through the first four books. Rowling's work in these – Philosopher's Stone, Chamber of Secrets, Prisoner of Azkaban and Goblet of Fire – actually lends itself quite well to the video game format. Harry et al have a mystery on their hands which needs solving. Hogwarts has a vast number of rooms that need exploring. And then up pops He Who Must Not Be Named in a variety of forms for the final showdown. This translates brilliantly to Lego's lovely format and gives a proper Boss-based finale to each year.In the Star Wars and Indiana Jones games, different characters possessed different abilities and weaponry in order to complete the main game and its myriad puzzles and challenges. Once those characters and their skills are unlocked, you can then return to earlier levels, get into the areas you couldn't access before and complete all the extra challenges and bonus content.The format is much the same here but, instead of just being able to play as the characters with the skills you need to complete the level – Hagrid's strength, for example, or Madam Pomfrey's more powerful witchcraft – over the course of the four years, Harry, Ron and Hermione will learn new spells, enabling deeper exploration of earlier levels. It's a neat touch, and rather like being back at school: you're that bit older, so you're now allowed in this room.The learning curve, it almost goes without saying, is perfectly judged, the throwaway gags often sublime, and the adherence to the tales and spirit of Rowling's work is possibly even more faithful than the films. It might say 7+ on the box, but please tell me I'm not the only 40-something who thinks this is an utter joy?
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
BT engineer struggles to get a signal with a Vodafone SIM and a router. Photo bydavid_terraron Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamVodafone 'home mobile' will still count against voice and data tariffs &gt;&gt; guardian.co.ukYou buy a femtocell, and it sends voice and mobile data over your home broadband. But the mobile data still counts against your mobile allowance - even though Vodafone saves on building its network.&#10;&#10;Ripe for undercutting by rivals. (Although, let's note, at least one of the commenters is happy with their femtocell.)Music Biz Set To "3 Strike" Two-Thirds of Irish Broadband &gt;&gt; TorrentFreakThe Irish Recorded Music Association is leaning on Ireland's second-largest ISP, Vodafone: apparently 800 customers there have had "first strike" notices.Android Market Payouts Total 2% of App Store's $1B &gt;&gt; Larva LabsAndroid is getting the market share, but for the moment Apple developers (and Apple) are definitely getting the money.An iPhone 4 Review Roundup &gt;&gt; AllThingsDUntil we get our own review roundup/review. They all hate it. No, really. Well, something like that. And definitely nobody should buy one. Ever.Why I'm skeptical of iAds &gt;&gt; Wil ShipleyThe indie Apple developer of Delicious Library makes a pithy point about in-mobile advertising run by Apple for the iPhone.Firefox 3.6.4 Release Notes &gt;&gt; Mozilla" Firefox 3.6.4 provides uninterrupted browsing for Windows and Linux users when there is a crash in the Adobe Flash, Apple Quicktime or Microsoft Silverlight plugins.&#10;&#10;"If a plugin crashes or freezes, it will not affect the rest of Firefox. You will be able to reload the page to restart the plugin and try again."&#10;&#10;We couldn't do anything about, um, the plugins? No?The UK: The West Ham of broadband &gt;&gt; dot.RoryEarlier this month the BBC's technology correspondent warned that games developers wouldn't like the Budget. He was right.iPad: the blog killer &gt;&gt; John NaughtonThe Observer columnist and Open University professor on what happens to your blogging if you use an iPad all the time, with the reasons why.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Google's gathering of data from open Wi-Fi access points in the UK as it collected its StreetView data now has a crime reference number: 2318672/10.That doesn't mean it's definitely a crime, though; that's the investigation number issued on Tuesday by London's Metropolitan Police at the request of the pressure group Privacy International, which alleges that the search company carried out "criminal interception of wireless communications content" and that that constitutes an offence under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act and the Wireless Telegraphy Act.Google has insisted all along that the collection of the data was an accident caused when code left in a production system kept the content being broadcast over the Wi-Fi networks as the Google StreetView car drove past.Itadmitted to the collection in May.Google was mapping the networks' location, names and MAC (Media Access Control) address, which is unique to each network and is broadcast by it and can be picked up by any passer-by equipped with a Wi-Fi receiver. It is not an offence to capture the latter details - but Google also captured content from messages being broadcast over the open networks, which French authorities say includes passwords from emails. Google did not try and would not have been able to access content on password-protected networks.According to Privacy International, which has been briefed by police on the likely path the investigation will take, the next step will be initial inquiries into the essential facts of the case before deciding which (if any) law may have been breached. The police will need to seek advice on which legislation to focus on, as each involves a different prosecution process. The police estimate that this initial investigation will take eight to ten days, after which the case will be escalated to a specialist team working at the national level. No estimate has been given regarding the likely period of the main investigation.Google has offered to delete the data relating to the UK. The UK's Information Commissioner acceded to the request, but Privacy International demanded that it be kept so that the police could carry out the investigation.A number of different countries are investigating whether Google has broken any laws, because it used the same mapping/recording system when it carried out its StreetView sampling in other countries. The company has offered to delete the content data (though not the data about network locations)unread for every country, but only a handful, including Ireland, have agreed.In some countries local laws have stymied further investigation. In Germany, its equivalent of the information commissioner, an arm of the government, has demanded to see the content - but there are strict rules against government agencies viewing private citizens' data without their permission.In the UK, the police will need to interview Google staff to find out who the "responsible person" is for this matter.Simon Davies, PI's Director said "We are pleased that the police have taken up this complaint for investigation. An evidence based approach to this complex matter is sorely needed now. We have already told police that we will cooperate fully with any inquiries. I know Google will want to do the same".He added: "We hope that this difficult process will give Google pause for thought about how it conducts itself. Perhaps in future the company will rely less on PR spin and more on good governance and reliable product oversight".
Vodafone has a nasty shock in store for would-be users of its "femtocell", which boosts patchy mobile signals indoors by sending the voice and data signal over the customer's home broadband. Any mobile data sent over the home broadband connection will still be charged against customers' monthly usage, the company has told the Guardian.Outlining plans for future deployment, Vodafone senior marketing manager Lee McDougall said Vodafone is confident that consumer uptake of femtocells will be high. However he declined to give figures for sales since the launch in July 2009, or to say what increase in mobile use had been seen by femtocell users.Femtocells – whose name comes from the prefix "femto", meaning one millionth of a billionth – are designed to improve mobile network coverage by plugging into a home broadband network and providing a 3G connection to attached phones.Vodafone remains the only UK mobile operator in the UK to offer femtocells, through two different price plans. The current range – dubbed Sure Signal boxes – are retailing at £50 for existing customers on contracts over £25 per month, or £120 – £5 per month for two years – for those on smaller contracts or pay-as-you-go contracts.But though femtocells effectively relieve load on the mobile network, and send them via the broadband paid for by the customer, any minutes used calling via the femtocell will be taken from a customers monthly allowance, despite having already paid for the bandwidth in the original package. And mobile data sent via Sure Signal – and through the customer's broadband – will count against the data tariff for the contract as though the customer were outside using a mobile mast.In Japan, mobile corporation SoftBank offers free femtocell packages to existing customers. Asked why Vodafone would not be following its lead, McDougall said: "Different markets have different drivers. We know we've got a competitive product."At a time when data traffic is doubling every four months,according to O2, femtocells are an inexpensive solution to rapidly growing demand. Data transfers over femtocell are also far less expensive to the network operator than other means, as Dave Nowicki of mobile technology firm Airvana confirmed. "The marginal cost of delivery per gigabyte is much lower," he said. "Femtocells are complementary to Wi-Fi."The Advertising Standards Authority last weekupheld four complaintsfrom rival mobile operators who said that advertising for the product was "misleading".Vodafone's poster campaign pictured a man leaning out of his apartment window, apparently struggling to get a mobile signal, headed: "Only Vodafone can guarantee mobile signal in your home."The most pointed complaint came from rival mobile operator O2 which said  Vodafone did not make clear users would have to pay additional costs for a femtocell device. On this, the ASA said it was reasonable for people to infer that a guaranteed signal was part of the original mobile package – but because this was not the case, the advertisement was likely to mislead.McDougall told the Guardian the campaign would be modified to take into account the ASA ruling, maintaining that Vodafone Sure Start boxes would not be a hard sell to would-be customers."Customers have told us the product is lifechanging for them," McDougall told the Guardian. "They said it had made a significant difference to their life. The more they hear about them the more they're interested."Although he said he couldn't put a figure on it, internal reports showed a higher-than-predicted uplift in data usage for customers trialling the Sure Signal boxes."Feedback from an 8m-leaflet door drop indicated that 90% of potential customers were willing to pay up front; unsurprisingly the desire to boost mobile signal was the biggest driver," he said.In the US, AT&amp;T is taking the same approach to mobile data sent through femtocells as Vodafone, and counting it against the customer's bill. AT&amp;T argues that it is costly to install the systems at ISPs which will collect the voice and mobile data being sent by broadband and route it through its own network.
If you haven't already spotted it from yesterday's Newsbucket, you can now see a fascinating animated Google Map (requires Javascript)showing where London Underground trains are - live. Built by Matthew Somerville of MySociety at Science Hack Day over the weekend, it uses the newTransport for London API(via the London Datastore) - combining the train predictions service plus "a bit of maths and magic.. As Somerville says on the page, "It's surprisingly okay given this was done in only a few hours at Science Hackday and the many naming/location issues encountered, some unresolved. A small number of stations are misplaced or missing; occasional trains behave oddly due to duplicate IDs; some H&amp;C stations are missing in the TfL feed..."Given that the API has only been available for just over a week, you've got to applaud Somerville and his (very) small array of helpers. It is fascinating (not least for the occasional "ghost train" which whizzes across the map at supersonic speeds, reckoned to be a software reset). Since its launch on Sunday, it's also got colour-coded lines and Underground symbols.Live National Rail trains map: choose any major terminusSomerville has also built a similar live-updating map fornetwork trains from all the major termini(it defaults to Birmingham New Street, but there's a menu offering all the choices). Again, splendid stuff, using data pulled -scraped, actually - from the National Rail website. (National Rail doesn't offer an API.)Then again, if you were going to be difficult, you might ask: why is it that we've had live feeds foraircraft positions all over Europe(created in November 2009, but launched in Sweden in 2007) for longer than we've had live feeds of the Underground? (The simple answer: aircraft have transponders which detail their location to the world. Then again, buses now have GPS units which indicate their positions to bus stops.) One (outside) developer I've spoken to says that for years TfL has been "a black box that the Greater London Authority pours money into which generates outputs, but nobody can see inside".It looks like that is changing, though, and one has to say that the efforts of Emer Coleman, head of London's Data Store have been instrumental in getting TfL to open up its data in this way.Live traffic data via the TfL APIFor example, you can find out abouttraffic on your commute to work.Or you can see thelocations of traffic cameras on an OpenStreetMapIn fact they're so good that thepage of inspirational uses of London Datastore datais already getting rather long.She can also take pride that theGreater London Authorityis one of only four local authorities across the whole of the UK which is judged "truly open"according to Openly Local(the others areLichfield District Council,Salford City CouncilandWarwickshire County Council.However, OpenlyLocal points to another 7 authorities which are "semi-open". So that's 11 which are open or semi-open - out of a total of 434 across the country.That's an enormous amount of work to be done by those 423 authorities - which have only until January before they should have all sort of extra data made available for free.Yet look at the possibilities: if opening up just the first tranche of TfL data can mean this, then there could be enormous potential for other local government data applications. What would you do if you could get your hands on that data?
Apple has released the latest iPhone operating system upgrade, called iOS4, which offers multitasking and more.Multitasking is, of course, the most long-awaited of new features, but they will be available only to owners of the iPhone 3GS, 4 and new-generation iPod Touch. Owners of the 3G model and iPod Touches sold in 2008 will get some of the new features (but not multitasking), but processing power limits the scale of further upgrades. If you have an original (2007-8 ) iPhone or iPod Touch, then sorry - it's not going to happen.Engadget hasa comprehensive breakdownof what youcan'tdo with your 3G – presuming you evenmanaged to update.Here's what you can now do:Multitasking:With a double-click of the home button, you'll be taken to a screen showing all running applications. This enables background audio – a big win for those who like listening to the radio on the move but don't like being locked in to one application. Multitasking is expected to bring a boost for Skype, as new VOIP (voice over IP) technology enables calls to be made while the application is closed. (Charles Arthur adds: arguably, this is cooperative "multitasking" like in the classic MacOS days: the foremost app gets pretty much everything.)Folders:Drag your apps into a named folder and save it on your dock or, alternatively, clump all the useless (read: default) ones into a folder and drop it on your last homepage.Enhanced mail:For too long mail has been clunky to use – now you can have a merged the viewing of multiple inboxes, open attachments in a third-party app, and your emails will be threaded. However, there's still no "Mark all as read" button – leaving sometime-constrained Twitter users fuming.iBooks:Read and purchase ebooks direct from your handset with this app launched alongside the iPad.5x camera zoom:Zoom comes free with the iPhone 4's 5-megapixel camera, but now those with a 3GS (3.2-megapixel) camera can also get a close up. Those with older models will have to move towards the photo subject.Enhanced video:This is cool. Tapping the screen whilst shooting video will focus the recording on a chosen subject. Simple and smart. Great for those with iPhone 4 HD recording.Other iOS4 features:Spell check. You'll still have autocomplete (to turn 'new hand on deck' to 'new Han on deck') but now there's no excuses for misspelt emails.Photo sorting. Sort photo albums by events, dates, holidays and faces.Wallpaper customisation. Again, only available to owners of later Apple mobile models, but you can now modify your background, like on the iPad.Gift apps. Yep, buy apps and send to loved ones/friends. A day too late for Father's Day (in the UK) but a nice idea.Here'svideo of Steve Jobsunveiling iOS4 in April.So does iPhone OS 4.0 offer enough for you? And if you've updated already, how are you finding it?
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
Microsoft's Kinect may have received mixed – albeit generally positive - write ups but the one thing everyone can agree on is that the pricing is crucial. With Sony's Playstation Move setting a benchmark and coming in at under 100 euros there is undoubted pricing pressure on Microsoft's new piece of kit. Analysts are predicting the motion control gear will cost anything between $99 and $149. The latter – if translated into pounds directly – puts Kinect not far off the cost of a Wii. But what about Microsoft?Develop Online are suggestingthe hardware will cost them around $150 to manufacture.Develop spoke to analyst Ed Barton about the potential cost to Microsoft.In pure console peripheral terms, $150 costs are expensive but the question is how much Microsoft is wiling to cut to raise market share. The further above manufacturing costs it is, the tougher it becomes. Especially since Microsoft is targeting Kinect to a more casual market. Presumably, a big portion of Microsoft's target market for Kinect won't have a console already, so adding in the console costs along with the camera costs, the result is starting to look a bit pricey.Clearly this is the issue. An Xbox plus the Kinect starts becoming a lot more expensive than a Wii-style impulse buy, even if the tech is sexier.  In that case then you have to wonder why there weren't more "core" style Kinect games shown at E3 to attract the early adopters likely to be the initial purchasers and family opinion formers.Anyway, what do you think? Are you much more likely to buy if it is 99 quid rather than 149? Or is it all just too much of a distraction from the next Call of Duty?
iPhone gyroscope (not to scale). Photo byThrasherDaveon Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamA closer look at iPhone 4's coolest tech &gt;&gt; CNET NewsYou'd forgotten about the iPhone 4's gyroscope? Shame on you. Roll, pitch and yaw your way over.Top Referrers &gt;&gt; Matt MullenwegWhich sites sent the most traffic to the Wordpress Development blog?Warmongers &gt;&gt; The Joy of Tech comicOn Google v Apple.. and all the other technology "wars".Turning Off My National Rail Twitter Bot &gt;&gt; Chris RoosSo sometimes you find that organisations don't want to make use of new facilities: "The premise was simple: you follow natrailenq on twitter, send a direct message in a certain format and you'd get a list of train departure and arrival times.&#10;&#10;"Unfortunately, I received an email towards the end of Feb 2008 asking me to turn the service off because it contravened the terms and conditions on the national rail website."API Beta &gt;&gt; London DataStoreIn case you're wondering how those live Underground Google maps were generated: just use these outputs and draw them on a map. Simples!iOS 4 walkthrough &gt;&gt; TiPbHave you bricked your iPhone/iPod Touch yet?Telemarketer in a murder investigation &gt;&gt; s-anand.netWhat if a telemarketer rang a crime scene? Or just someone with an active imagination?HM Treasury's Photostream &gt;&gt; FlickrIt's Budget Day! Interesting set of graphs that have been uploaded there: what do you think they're trying to prepare us for? We also note - with slight irritation - that the photos are CC-NC (Creative Commons Non-Commercial) licensed, meaning that The Guardian can't frame them, only link to them. Perhaps the CC-BY license (as in the photo as the top of this post) will be one of the changes that George Osborne will introduce...Replay it: Google search across the Twitter archive &gt;&gt; Official Google Blog"Starting today, you can zoom to any point in time and "replay" what people were saying publicly about a topic on Twitter. To try it out, click "Show options" on the search results page, then select "Updates.""OpenOffice at the crossroads &gt;&gt; The H Open Source: News and Features"The most vocal critic of the process has been Novell employee and long time GNOME and OO.o developer, Michael Meeks. Meeks argues that copyright assignment discourages external contributions, and that over zealous control of the project inhibits developer initiative.&#10;&#10;Meeks has long contended that OpenOffice.org has failed to attract and keep individual and corporate developers due to "a half-hearted open-source strategy that is not truly 'Open'" and lacks transparency. This has inhibited the potential of OO.o to be "even greater" than it already is."&#10;&#10;Part of the problem may be that third-party contributions are assigned to Oracle/Sun, which dictates the rate of progress for the project. Is it time perhaps for OfficeZilla and OpenFox?&#10;&#10;(Disclosure: The Guardian uses OpenOffice.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
Age:Five.Appearance:A bottomless pit. A great, big sucking vacuum. A place of wailing and gnashing of teeth.One of those internet thingies, isn't it? Like Spacebook and Ends Reunited?  A social networking site?Got it in one. To quote Rachel from Scarborough, "Bebo is amazing, i love it! you can contact freinds, look at pictures, join groups, comment polls, do peoples blogss... i love bebo, im addictted!"Spelling is so 20th century. But who's Rachel from Scarborough?One of the many young users on Bebo's testimonials page. Like ARi from Nyuu Jiirando ("If Bebo was a girl, she'd be hot") or Paigee from Southampton ("omg im  in lovee with bebo x").So who's doing the wailing and gnashing?Wall Street.Beboused to be an internet success story: set up by two bright young things who met in a pub, blah. Tens of millions of users, blah blah. Web 2.0, blah blah blah. Then Michael and Xochi Birch sold up and it all went pear-shaped.That might be good enough for the FT, but could you be more specific?AOL, one of the oldest and stuffiest internet companies, paid $850m for Bebo in 2008. It hasjust offloaded itfor an undisclosed amount.Undisclosed as in embarrassing?As in less than $10m, according to experts. The BBC calls the original purchase "one of the worst deals ever made in the dotcom era".What's the competition?News Corp paid $580m for MySpace in 2005,  and recorded a $450m "impairment charge" in 2009. ITV bought Friends Reunited for £175m and sold it for  just £25m.Who owns Bebo now?An investment firm, Criterion Capital Partners.Did they get much for their money?Depends how you look at it. Bebo had more than 12 million visitors in April, but Facebook had almost 520 million. Still, as Bebo told its users: "They are really cool people and what's more they are brilliant at taking companies like Bebo and making them even better!"Do say:"omg i lovee capitalism!"Don't say:"wtf?! MORE old fartz  in suitsss?"
Personalisation of the web is creating a new wave of opportunity for developers and content companies, said Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg on Monday, as the social networking site signalled an aggressive phase of expansion across Europe.Speaking at Facebook's first officially organised European hack day at London's Barbican Centre, Zuckerberg said the growth of social gaming and his own experience using the new version of Spotify illustrated the potential of "products built around people"."Every industry will go through this wave where there are new versions of apps for those industries built from ground up around people," he said. "There's the opportunity for new wave of developers to be a part of building new software, websites and mobile apps."We will look back in a few years when the web is a lot more personalised and wonder how it was ever not that way."The 26-year-old Zuckerberg, who co-founded Facebook in 2004 and has since seen it grow to have more than 450 million users, pointed to US gaming firm Zynga and its European rival, Playfish, as two early pioneers of social gaming, and to theversion of Spotify released in April, which has a swathe of recommendation and sharing features, as examples of services with more engagement because they encourage social connections."The new version of Spotify is really pretty amazing – it shifted the experience so now you connect with your Facebook account to see what all your friends are listening to and all the different music they like and subscribe to. It adds a new element on top of the experience and almost makes it a completely different experience. I'm using it so much more," Zuckerberg said.He said Facebook's success is built in the way it engages people, and pointed to internal research that found users typically navigate the site by the faces of their friends and family: "A huge part of our brain is hard wired to process what is going on around us and how to stay connected to people."A million developers are now using Facebook's developer tools which add elements of Facebook's functionality,such as the "Like" button, to external sites. Rather than trying to build tools internally to expand the site, Zuckerberg said Facebook's focus is on building out the platform to support external developers.Christian Hernandez, Facebook's head of international business development, said that 350,000 sites are now using Facebook's social plugins, and that some have reported up to fivefold traffic increases.Hernandez said: "I would like to see every single website in Europe have integration with Open Graph," adding that "localising" the experience is essential. Open Graph is the hook into Facebook's database which allows more user activity to be integrated onto outside sites."We try to find partnerships with brands and concepts relevant to local users," he said. "How do you make it easy for the user to share that content on the site? It creates a very local language and a very local experience, so how do we help media companies or locals gaming companies develop those experiences?"He acknowledged that Facebook is in the early days of establishing these relationships, but said Europe already accounts for 50% of all "Like" clicks, indicating the plugins are highly popular in Europe compared to other markets. More than 100m "Likes" have been generated on third-party sites since the feature was introduced.Hernandez also said there are no plans to begin charging for the API, and that Facebook monetises the development platform with advertising around the content it generates.
The ever-unmissableGameCityfestival is running another of itsGCNights events on Fridayand its an absolute must if you're in the area. Taking place at the Antenna venue in Nottingham from 7.30pm, the evening features Keita Takahashi, the creator of the Katamari Damacy games, who will be talking about his games (especially the iPhone conversion of Noby Noby Boy) as well as the playground he is helping to design at Woodthorpe Park.Better yet, attendees will get the chance to enter a 'design a playground' competition, using plasticine. Takahashi-san will be one of the judges and the winner may well see their ideas being incorporated into his real-life design. Add in the usual video game pub quiz and you've got another great night out courtesy of the GameCity collective.On that subject, get ready to clear your diary for the main GameCity festival this October. The official dates haven't been announced yet, but Gamesblog will be there, running a series of special events. Stay tuned for more info!Antenna will be serving food from 6pm, with the night kicking off at 7pm. Admittance is £3 and for over 18s only so take some I.D.
What's your favourite piece of technology, and how has it improved your life?There's a lot. I'm Japanese, I'm a gadget freak – I like anything with buttons. I want to say my computer, but if I had to choose one, I'd say my mobile phone. This is almost sacrilegious, because I'm a complete Macophile, but I actually still have a BlackBerry – I just prefer the buttons. I'm still on the fence with the iPhone because of the buttons and the texting.When was the last time you used it, and what for?Eight minutes ago, checking emails.What additional features would you add if you could?I travel so much – I'm in the US a lot, and in Japan – that I currently have three phones. So what I would really like to see is a phone that holds three Sim cards, so you have different numbers in different territories. So what it can do is choose the best network, depending on what country you're in.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?I don't think so, I hope not. I think it will just be newer and better.What always frustrates you about technology in general?When it breaks down, or runs out of juice. It's just that dread that it can go wrong, and it often does.Is there any particular piece of technology that you have owned and hated?I've had a rotten time with shredders.If you had one tip about getting the best out of new technology, what would it be?I believe you should always buy the best that you can afford at the time. Also, be clear about what you need, and read the instructions. I know everyone hates to do it, but I think that to get the best out of whatever you buy, you have to. It's a bit boring, but it's worth it.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?Both. I'm Japanese, so it's in our blood to be geeks. But for certain things I'm old-skool – I love technology, and I love what it does, but I think it should enhance and not take over your life. Emails are great, texting is great, but for the right purposes. Also, I miss peoples' handwriting – we never write letters any more.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I guess it would be my laptop, my Macbook Pro.Mac or PC, and why?Definitely Mac. Everything about it, it just feels right. For me it's like the difference between coffee and tea – I'm a coffee person. But I'm not sure about the iPhone yet.Do you still buy physical media such as CDs and DVDs, or do you download? What was your last purchase?CDs not so much, but DVDs definitely. I recently re-bought The King of Comedy, because I lost my old one – I love that film. I like having the physical thing – not just DVDs, but even books. I like the smell and the feel of the paper. I'd much rather read a newspaper – something like a Kindle wouldn't be a big pull for me.Robot butlers – a good idea or not?I don't need a butler – what I do want a robot. But I don't want one of those human-looking robots, I want like an old-skool one with the square head – almost like a companion, or a pet.What piece of technology would you most like to own?If it was something not real, I would like a time machine/transporter. With the amount of travelling I do, that would be a lot quicker and greener. In real terms, a helicopter or a massage chair.•Naoko Moristars as Yoko Ono inLennon Naked, screening on Wednesday 23 June at 9.30pm, on BBC4
The blogging and/or content management system (CMS) Wordpress, used by millions of blogs, has reached 3.0 - marking a significant point in its evolution as a platform for all sorts of content online.Or as theblogposton the Wordpress site puts it:"Arm your vuvuzelas: WordPress 3.0, the thirteenth major release of WordPress and the culmination of half a year of work by 218 contributors, isnow available for download(orupgrade within your dashboard). Major new features in this release include a sexynew default theme called Twenty Ten. Theme developers have new APIs that allow them to easily implement custom backgrounds, headers, shortlinks,menus(no more file editing),post types, andtaxonomies. (Twenty Ten theme shows all of that off.) Developers and network admins will appreciate the long-awaitedmerge of MU and WordPress, creating the new multi-site functionality which makes it possible to run one blog or ten million from the same installation."There's ahuge list of changes and improvements.The release is named "Thelonius", after thejazz pianist Thelonius Monk; previous versions have been called Mingus, Strayhorn, Duke, Ella, Getz, Dexter, Brecker, Tyner, Coltrane, Baker and Carmen - so you can see that there's a sort of jazz thing going on.But what will matter for many Wordpress users is the question of security. While Wordpress does a terrific job in the main of providing good security, the fact that there are so many blogs out there using it means that vulnerabilities and exploits abound. As it's open source software, you have to take that as you find it - and there are plenty of things that can be done to harden it.The WPSecurityLock blog, one of a number which focusses on reports of security weaknesses or exploits against Wordpress, hasexamined the claims made for 3.0- of which the most notable immediately is that you don't have to have an admin called "admin" any more; you can change the username to something else. On its own, that might be one of the biggest steps. From personal experience, I'd say that the other step which makes the biggest security difference is not to allow external user registration (not just turn it off, but also change the hooks in the code): that prevents all manner of cookie- and injection-based attacks.There's alsoBlogSecurity, which has already discovered a "thrashing" attack based on the ability to retrieve posts that have been trashed (only in version 2.9 upwards). BlogSecurity hasn't yet got its teeth into 3.0, but if you're a Wordpress user it is well worth keeping an eye on both of those.The other big problem will be what 3.0 does to the enormous number of plugins written for Wordpress, which add functionality of one sort or another (my personal favourite for killing spam is stillSpam Karma 2, but it's unlikely this will be updated for version 3; however the code is now available for upgrade and improvement at aGoogle Code repository- though thatdoes seem active.Meanwhile, here's the introductory video for Wordpress 3.0. (Note that it needs PHP 4.3+ and MySQL 4.1.2+.)There's also Mullenweg's 74-minute speech at WordCamp in San Francisco which he says is "jam-packed with information on the growth of WordPress, 3.0, what we're planning for the future, and the philosophy of WordPress." (We'll admit to not having listened to all of it.)
UK top 10 video games, week ending 19 June 2020PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Red Dead Redemption(18+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (44)52 (2)Super Mario Galaxy 2(3+)Wii (100)23 (3)2010 Fifa World Cup South Africa(3+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (41)PSP (8)Wii (7)84 (5)Just Dance(3+)Wii (100)285 (4)Rooms: The Main Building (3+)DS (100)36 (7)Call Of Duty: Modern Warfare 2(18+)Xbox 360 (64)PS3 (28)PC (7)327 (12)Prince Of Persia: The Forgotten Sands(16+)PS3 (47)Xbox 360 (39)Wii (6)PSP (3)58 (6)Wii Fit Plus(3+)Wii (100)349 (11)Blur(7+)Xbox 360 (54)PS3 (46)PC (0)410 (10)Wii Sports Resort(3+)Wii (100)48Leisure software charts compiled by GfK Chart Track© 2009ELSPA(UK) Ltd
We have a new hand on the media and technology deck from today, Monday, in the form ofJosh Halliday(dead link at the time of writing, but will get populated soon enough). He'll be helping us cover our normal patch but with a focus on new trends, technologies and key developments the media industry really needs to take note of. Some of you particularly interested in the media/tech crossover may know him already. (If you don't, you canfollow him on Twitterwhere he's already launching a bid to be become the Foursquare mayor of The Guardian.As this post was written on an iPhone, Apple just tried to correct 'a new hand on deck' to 'a new Han on deck'. While we can't promise Josh will be our Han Solo in leading our rebel alliance (against, well, what have you got to rebel against?), that's not a bad place to aim for. This most definitely *was* the tech reporter we were looking for...
I was on holiday last week so spent a lot of the weekend catching up on the E3 news. In particular Keith - who surely deserves a big drink and week by the pool -  managed to get me far moreexcited by Nintendo's 3DSthan I ever expected.  For me on holiday though the last week has been dominated by another big player in the handheld market - Apple's iPad and iPhone.Plants vs Zombieswas the real hit of the week on both phone and pad - the beautifully designed and very addictive "flower defence" game is easily the best thing I've played so far on iPad. Away from Apple I'm planning to spend some time with space-simDarkstar Oneon the 360 over the next few days.What about you though? How was your weekend gaming?
Sadly I managed to miss Alex Evans, co-founder ofMedia Molecule, introducing a demo of this intriguing sequel at E3, but I did get a quick play on the show floor. The core ofLBP2is set to be its extension of the Create feature, allowing players to build whole new games, rather than just 2D platforming levels. Providing AI creatures and vehicles, as well as a massive roster of new materials (smoke! Neon!) and toolsets, players will be able to create everything from RPGs to shooters.But there's also a substantial new ready-made game, featuring 40 story levels, set across six themes – each based on great historical moments. The level I played was set inside a skyscraping wooden cabinet loaded with trampoline platforms, and rope swing challenges. It's typically demanding stuff, especially with three other players tagging along and getting stuck on lower levels. The visuals have a greater sheen to them than in the original title, thanks to an overhauled graphics engine, and there's a more substantial feeling of scenic depth. As usual there is also masses of handicraft detail, with electrical circuit boards stuffed into the sides of the level construction and cute little flourishes everywhere.The interesting part, though, was playing the three mini-games created by Media Molecule using the extended user-generated content package. In the E3 demo, we got a fun bumper car challenge in which up to four players had to try to bash their opponents' buggies into the electrified walls. There was also a simple button sequence game, in which players had to tap the right buttons at the right time as combinations flowed down the screen. The best of the lot though, was a one-screen, platform-based shooter in which each player controlled a Sackboy with a rotating gun on its head. While the right analogue stick controlled movement, the left angled the gun, providing a Robotron -style interface, and lots of hectic blasting fun.This was a good, practical indication of what will be possible, and there were lovely little glimpses at the way users will be able to add visual style to simple game mechanics. In the shooter for example, whenever a player character jumps across the screen, panels of neon light up in the background as he passes – it's really subtle, but a pleasing effect, nevertheless.Buckets of charm, staggering depth and lovely visuals – LittleBigPlanet is back in considerable style. I'll be hassling Sony for a proper look at this title in the coming weeks.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox
E3 is a savage assault on the senses that defies categorisation. Or is it? Despite the fact that hundreds of new games were shown or announced during three insane days in LA last week, the industry remains a close-knit community, where development trends circulate like clothing fashions.Here are Gamesblog's five over-riding themes from the show floor. Let us know in the comments section if you spotted any others...The jury's out on motion control and 3DIn the run up to the exhibition, it seemed that this E3 would all be about these two competing evolutionary prospects  – in the absence of a next-generation console war, it was as close as we were going to get to a technological face-off. But the specialist press remained largely undecided. With Kinect there were concerns about lag (though Nick Burton at Rareinsisted to Eurogamerthat this won't be a problem on release) and about a lack of variety in the launch software. If you're a fan of fitness games and multi-sport sims, you're fine, but apart from Ubisoft's Child of Eden there was little to catch the imagination of hardened E3 veterans. But then, it's really all about getting this tech into the hands of the mainstream consumers, who will be the real judges of its merits.PlayStation Move fared better in some quarters, though usually with the disclaimer that the technology only moves things on slightly from the Wii. What itdidhave was a wide range of games including SOCOM 4, EyePet, Tiger Woods and the bizarre office chair stunt sim,Kung Fu Rider, plus the revelation that Heavy Rain will now support the device via a patch. Also, Sony Europe announced a competitive pricing model for its hardware: £34.99 for the main controller, £24.99 for the sub controller, £24.99 for the camera, and £49.99 for a bundle pack that includes the main motion controller, camera and demo disc.With the 3D games, most of us who got a chance to play the likes of Gran Turismo 5 and Killzone 3 were very impressed. However, there were worries that we'll begin to see game features that can only be appreciated by those with brand new 3D-compatibile TVs. Several news sites mentioned the flying jet packs in Killzone 3, and how much easier they are to pilot in 3D – but where does that leave those of us who can't afford to upgrade our home entertainment set up?But then of course, there was the Nintendo 3DS, the most compelling, mass market implementation of the concept that 3D evangelists could have hoped for… Once again, Nintendo could well dominate a market by opting for cheap off-the-shelf technology, and providing solid gaming experiences to go with it...It's all about community and retentionThere were several new initiatives and cross-media deals this year, all designed to get gamers talking to each other, sharing experiences and committing to products. EA'sGunclubis effectively a supermarket loyalty scheme for shooter fans, rewarding players for buying and playing titles like Medal of Honor and Bulletstorm, with exclusive access to the latest demos and betas.The publisher also introduced itsEA Sports Live Broadcastfeature, which seeks to turn prize-winning online game tournaments into spectator events. Similarly, there was a community element in Microsoft'sdeal with ESPNto bring the sports channel's coverage to Xbox Live; using the online communication service, gamers will be able to discuss matches as they watch the action, competing in trivia quizzes during half-time. Again, it's all about gaining ownership of our entertainment time, keeping us locked in to the Xbox world.There's also the evolution of DLC, a key weapon in the publisher's fight to keep gamers 'engaged' with their products. This year we saw some interesting variations, including Dead Rising 2, which will get a piece of pre-release DLC in the form of Case Zero. Now, this Xbox 360 exclusive isn't merely a demo, it provides a self-contained quest set in a small town environment that doesn't appear in the main game. It almost works like a prologue, and fans who download and play it willapparentlyget some sort of reward when they go on to purchase Dead Rising 2. On a smaller scale, indie developerTwisted Pixelis offering purchasers of its forthcoming Xbox Live Arcade platformer Comic Jumper the chance to download DLC content for its previous XBLA hit 'Splosion Man; a canny little cross-marketing initiative.The return of (very) old friendsOf course, the video game industry has always relied on successful brands, but this year's E3 saw several publishers digging deeper than ever into their back catalogues for marketable franchise heroes. Nintendo practically brought back its whole arsenal of recognisable icons, including longtime exile Kirby and N64 fave, Donkey Kong Country. Ubisoft announced that Rayman would be returning, showing a promisingly funny and stylish demo at its press conference – there's a trailerhere. It's also exhuming Driver after years in the wilderness.Then there was EA with NBA Jam (which drew huge crowds of sports fans), 2K Games with Xcom, and Hudson with Bomberman. In a way, it's exactly what the movie industry is doing with all those seventies and eighties remakes. Movies like Friday the 13th, A-Team and Karate Kid cash in on the listless nostalgia of twenty- and thirty-somethings happy to pay out for a few hours of reminiscence. Similarly, the video game industry needs more of this generation to buy consoles, because young professionals are the only ones with any disposable income anymore. One sure way to bring them in is to chuck out brands they recall from their childhoods.The missing mega-gamesFor some, E3 2010 was defined almost as much by whatwasn'tthere. Sony's reasonable conference provided no news on The Last Guardian, and the disappointment amongst game journos was audible. Warner Bros quickly made it clear that there would be no footage of Batman: Arkham Asylum 2 on the show floor, and Valve managed to bluff and double bluff its way into announcing neither Half Life 2: Episode 3 or Half Life 3, instead concentrating on Portal 2 – even after cancelling its press conference. Mind boggling stuff.A pre-E3 hoax also led many to expect an announcement from Respawn Entertainment, founded by ex-Infinity Ward heads Jason West and Vince Zampella. Instead, the duo made a brief appearance in the front row at the EA conference; mere guests of their new publishing partner. Finally, my hopes for an XBLA remake of Shenmue were dashed, though I did get to play Yakuza 4…The shooter is kingGenres tend to be cyclical in this industry, with game types often rising to prominence, enjoying a few years of domination and then quietly shuffling away as new technologies bring fresh design trends. We saw it with flight sims back in the eighties, then fighting games and driving games during the 16- and 32bit console eras, and with real-time strategy games on the PC. But somehow, the shoot-'em-up has remained at the forefront, and this year it dominated the show floor. We had Rage, Bulletstorm, Medal of Honor, Call of Duty: Black Ops, Gears of War 3, Halo: Reach, Ghost Recon: Future Soldier, Bodycount and Vanquish among many others – all of the above are Triple A releases, all competing in micro niches of the shooter domain. But why so many? Why now?The easy answer is Modern Warfare 2. When a title makes over a billion dollars in revenue, the rest of the industry takes note and gets commissioning. Following the massively successful arrival of Metal Gear Solid in 1998, we couldn't move for stealth-based tactical adventures. And two years after the release of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City, the market was flooded with free-roaming gangster romps.But this is just one explanation. There are also a lot of smaller, emerging dev teams, filled with hardcore gamers who've grown up with the Call of Duty, Halo and Gears series' – they want to prove themselves against these genre icons.There's also the sense of testing the current generation consoles and high-end PCs. Shooters tend to be where a lot of technical breakthroughs happen, because they're demanding on the core technology – they need to be fast, they need lots of accurate physics and animation calculations, and they need robust multiplayer components. These are all scintillating challenges for young development staff who've possibly just spent several years on university games programming courses mastering advanced texture mapping and deferred lighting techniques.Whatever the case, next year, following the critical success of Uncharted 2, Just Cause 2 and Batman Arkham Asylum, we can probably expect another influx of open world action adventures…
The third major title in Ubisoft's historical assassination series was on most peoples' must see list before E3, andBrotherhooddidn't disappoint, with a breathtaking demo of an epic single-player mission and a glimpse at the much-anticipated multiplayer mode.First, we're shown a sequence that takes place in Monteriggioni at the very beginning of the campaign. Ezio is lounging in bed with beautiful girlfriend Catalina (previously seen in the Assassin's Creed II DLC), when a cannonball blasts through the wall of his villa. Outside, Cesare Borgia and his army are attacking the town, desperate to retrieve the Apple of Eden. Ezio rushes from the room and leaps on to his horse before galloping through the dusty streets. Clambering up a wall and on to the battlements, he looks out over the substantial invasion force – it's an impressive mass of soldiers and looming siege towers, all of them drawing in as cannonballs streak through the air.At first, the player can take control of a cannon and attempt to take out as many enemies as possible, but eventually, the defences are compromised. As soldiers pour out onto the fortified walkways, we get the first taste of the game's new combo-driven combat system. If Ezio gets one kill, then turns to another enemy, he will automatically go in to kill them too, and so on in quick succession. "This would make it a little too easier if we hadn't made the AI more aggressive." Says technical director Mathieu Gagnon. "So they're going to try to interrupt those combos. But if the player lands his counter kills while they're trying to intercept, he can continue the combo."Sounds a lot like a fighting game chaining system and it looks impressive on screen as Ezio dances between soldiers, thrusting his sword into bodies and kicking one guy in the balls before stealing his weapon for a brutal death blow. It's also possible to use the sword and gun at the same time, bringing a deadly pace to the fights. This one ends with Ezio pulling an axe out of a felled foe and lobbing it across the pathway into the chest of an incoming knight. Nice.Sadly, the battle is in vain. Cesare's troops gain access to the city and he slaughters Ezio's Uncle Mario. Now the assassin must form a new brotherhood to take on his enemy once again.At this point, Gagnon shows me the new brotherhood system. Throughout the game players are able to recruit new assassins into their clan. These are then trained, sent on missions throughout the country, and assigned skills and abilities. They're then able to use all the same weapons as Ezio as well as items such as smoke bombs. From here, the brotherhood members provide support in moments of need. For example, if you're massively outnumbered or surrounded by enemies, hit the 'Brotherhood Assistance Move' option, and your crew turn up, perhaps using the 'arrow shower' skill to send in a volley of projectiles.Gagnon also plays through another more subtle section where a Borgia guard is standing alone on a rooftop, watching the plaza. He's too far away for us to get to, but when Gagnon selects the BAM option, a female assassin ("Ezio is an equal opportunities employer," he jokes) sneaks up behind and takes the poor chap down. There will be limits placed on where, and how often, you can use this renaissance answer to the smart bomb, but Ubisoft is not explaining it all just yet. I also asked about how the recruitment process works; all Gagnon would tell me is that the Borgia clan has influence across the whole of Rome, but as the Brotherhood regains each district, more new recruits come forward.There are a few other tweaks and additions to the gameplay. In horseback fights, for example, the control system has been changed, allowing much more direct control over the rider, which means the player can concentrate fully on battle rather than navigation. To aid in the free running element, there's a new feature the designers are calling 'The Elevator' – against some walls and buildings you'll find a rope and pulley system that lets Ezio zoom up four floors in a matter of seconds, accelerating the transition between play areas. Gagnon also mentioned that, for the first time in the series, players will be able to go back and re-try any mission at any time – a nice chance to explore favourite areas whenever we like.I also got to try out one of those fascinating new multiplayer modes. In Wanted, you and five other players are let lose as assassins in the streets of Rome. Each participant must choose a character from a diverse line-up including a priest, banker and courtesan (the selection is purely cosmetic and has no baring on gameplay), then select from a range of special abilities, including disguise, poison and hidden gun.At the start of the level you're shown a photo of the character you have to hunt down and kill. A radar at the base of the screen gives you the location of your target, but you can't just run after them: legging it about town draws attention, and this will alert the player who's been assigned to murder you. If you are spotted, you get an onscreen warning and can either run away or attempt to hide, perhaps by leaping into a hay cart. Once you reach your victim, you just hit one button to perform a contextual assassination, then you're assigned a new target.The result is a tense and engrossing game of cat and mouse as competitors sneak through the crowds of NPCs, scoping the scene for potential aggressors or scurrying prey. The fact that you need to look as inconspicuous as possible while traversing the busy streets, adds a whole new pace and feel to the multiplayer dynamic. You a trailer video of the modehere.So then, Brotherhood looks to be another visually impressive addition to the Assassin's Creed series, with a range of fresh features and a vast new city to explore. Of course, we know little of the wider story, or where else the narrative will take Ezio, but this was certainly a solid E3 teaser. Alongside Ghost Recon: Future Soldier, Your Shape and Child of Eden it points to a vintage year for the veteran French publisher.Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood is out this winter on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360.
Your tube train has arrived! Photo byTimitriuson Flickr.Some rights reservedA quick burst of links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamApple's rejection of Flash delays iView app &gt;&gt; The Australian"ABC TV multi-platform executive producer Arul Baskaran said he didn't have a date for when iView might be ready for mobile tablets. "Something is in the works, though," he said.&#10;&#10;He added the Flash debate "is not a huge issue for us" given the ubiquity and utility of the iView format on PC devices.&#10;&#10;"If they take plain web-browsing share on the iPad from the PC, then it becomes a big issue though," he said."What to do if you get a phone call offering to 'fix' your computer &gt;&gt; F1 Computing Systems LtdA scam going around has calls claiming to be any of various companies which have "heard" your computer has a "problem". Do not trust.Vaguely live map of Underground trains in London &gt;&gt; Traintimes.org.uk"How does it work?&#10;&#10;Live departure data is fetched from the TfL API, and then it does a bit of maths and magic. It's surprisingly okay given this was done in a few hours and the many naming/location issues, some unresolved." Fabulous.Have you ever configured your Adobe Flash Player? &gt;&gt; F-SecureAs Flash Player is much in the news over its vulnerability, here's a helpful page to find out which version you're running, and how to get it to check for updates. And to look at the history it keeps.Strategies - A Coding Error Spells Problems at AXA Rosenberg &gt;&gt; NYTimes.comCoding error as in computer code. "Some clients have been told more about the coding error. It was an "inadvertent mistake" entered into one of AXA Rosenberg's main "risk models" by a computer programmer in April 2007, according to information provided to the Vanguard Group.&#10;&#10;"The effect on three Vanguard mutual fund portfolios run by AXA Rosenberg isn't clear, but the glitch appears to have been "mitigated" by other software, according to Daniel Newhall, head of manager oversight and selection in Vanguard's portfolio and review group. He said that on May 31, AXA Rosenberg handled $1.1 billion of Vanguard's $8.9 billion Explorer fund, $334 million of the $489 million U.S. Value fund and $31 million of the $66 million Market Neutral fund.&#10;&#10;"We are concerned, of course," he said. "A quantitatively managed strategy does depend on correct coding." Um, yeah.Web inventor discusses importance of open data &gt;&gt; Federal News Radio 1500 AMAnd explaining the difference between linked data and open data.How a (white hat) hacker found a cross-site scripting flaw on F-Secure &gt;&gt; F-SecureThe security company discovers itself to be insecure.Wikipedia unlocks divisive pages for editing &gt;&gt; BBC NewsGeorge W Bush's page comes up for editing. BP's may get attention first though.Apple secretly updates Mac malware protection &gt;&gt; Graham Cluley's blogIf you downloaded a dodgy copy of iPhoto, you might (probably do) have malware; now Apple has updated to protect against it.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on delicious
A funny thing happened to us on the way to the future. The internet went from being something exotic to being boring utility, like mains electricity or running water – and we never really noticed. So we wound up being totally dependent on a system about which we are terminally incurious. You think I exaggerate about the dependence? Well, just ask Estonia, one of the most internet-dependent countries on the planet, which in 2007 was more or less shut down for two weeks by asustained attackon its network infrastructure. Or imagine what it would be like if, one day, you suddenly found yourself unable to book flights, transfer funds from your bank account, check bus timetables, send email, search Google, call your family using Skype, buy music from Apple or books from Amazon, buy or sell stuff on eBay, watch clips on YouTube or BBC programmes on the iPlayer – or do the 1,001 other things that have become as natural as breathing.The internet has quietly infiltrated our lives, and yet we seem to be remarkably unreflective about it. That's not because we're short of information about the network; on the contrary, we're awash with the stuff. It's just that we don't know what it all means. We're in the state once described by that great scholar of cyberspace,Manuel Castells, as "informed bewilderment".Mainstream media don't exactly help here, because much – if not most – media coverage of the net is negative. It may be essential for our kids' education, they concede, but it's riddled with online predators, seeking children to "groom" for abuse. Google is supposedly "making us stupid" and shattering our concentration into the bargain. It's also allegedly leading to an epidemic of plagiarism. File sharing is destroying music, online news is killing newspapers, and Amazon is killing bookshops. The network is making a mockery of legal injunctions and the web is full of lies, distortions and half-truths. Social networking fuels the growth of vindictive "flash mobs" which ambush innocent columnists such asJan Moir. And so on.All of which might lead a detached observer to ask: if the internet is such a disaster, how come 27% of the world's population (or about 1.8 billion people) use it happily every day, while billions more are desperate to get access to it?So how might we go about getting a more balanced view of the net ? What would you really need to know to understand the internet phenomenon? Having thought about it for a while, my conclusion is that all you need is a smallish number of big ideas, which, taken together, sharply reduce the bewilderment of which Castells writes so eloquently.But how many ideas? In 1956, the psychologist George Miller published afamous paperin the journalPsychological Review. Its title was "The Magical Number Seven, Plus or Minus Two: Some Limits on our Capacity for Processing Information" and in it Miller set out to summarise some earlier experiments which attempted to measure the limits of people's short-term memory. In each case he reported that the effective "channel capacity" lay between five and nine choices. Miller did not draw any firm conclusions from this, however, and contented himself by merely conjecturing that "the recurring sevens might represent something deep and profound or be just coincidence". And that, he probably thought, was that.But Miller had underestimated the appetite of popular culture for anything with the word "magical' in the title. Instead of being known as a mere aggregator of research results, Miller found himself identified as a kind of sage — a discoverer of a profound truth about human nature. "My problem," he wrote, "is that I have been persecuted by an integer. For seven years this number has followed me around, has intruded in my most private data, and has assaulted me from the pages of our most public journals… Either there really is something unusual about the number or else I am suffering from delusions of persecution."But in fact, the basic idea that emerges from Miller's 1956 paper seems to have stood the test of time. The idea is that our short-term memory can only hold between five and nine "chunks" of information at any given moment (here a chunk is defined as a "meaningful unit"). So, when trying to decide how many big ideas about the internet would be meaningful for most readers, it seemed sensible to settle for a magical total of nine. So here they are.1TAKE THELONG VIEWThe strange thing about living through a revolution is that it's very difficult to see what's going on. Imagine what it must have been like being a resident of St Petersburg in 1917, in the months before Lenin and the Bolsheviks finally seized power. It's clear that momentous events are afoot; there are all kinds of conflicting rumours and theories, but nobody knows how things will pan out. Only with the benefit of hindsight will we get a clear idea of what was going on. But the clarity that hindsight bestows is also misleading, because it understates how confusing things appeared to people at the time.So it is with us now. We're living through a radical transformation of our communications environment. Since we don't have the benefit of hindsight, we don't really know where it's taking us. And one thing we've learned from the history of communications technology is that people tend to overestimate the short-term impact of new technologies — and to underestimate their long-term implications.We see this all around us at the moment, as would-be savants, commentators, writers, consultants and visionaries tout their personal interpretations of what the internet means for business, publishing, retailing, education, politics and the future of civilisation as we know it. Often, these interpretations are compressed into vivid slogans, memes or aphorisms: information "wants to be free"; the "long tail" is the future of retailing; "Facebook just seized control of the internet", and so on. These kinds of slogans are really just short-term extrapolations from yesterday's or today's experience. They tell us little about where the revolution we're currently living through is heading. The question is: can we do any better — without falling into the trap of feigning omniscience?Here's a radical idea: why not see if there's anything to be learned from history? Because mankind has lived through an earlier transformation in its communications environment, brought about by the invention of printing by movable type. This technology changed the world — indeed, it shaped the cultural environment in which most of us grew up. And the great thing about it, from the point of view of this essay, is that we can view it with the benefit of hindsight. We know what happened.A thought experimentSo let's conduct what the Germans call aGedankenexperiment— a thought experiment. Imagine that the net represents a similar kind of transformation in our communications environment to that wrought by printing. What would we learn from such an experiment?The first printed bibles emerged in 1455 from the press created by Johannes Gutenberg in the German city of Mainz. Now, imagine that the year is 1472 — ie 17 years after 1455. Imagine, further, that you're the medieval equivalent of a Mori pollster, standing on the bridge in Mainz with a clipboard in your hand and asking pedestrians a few questions. Here's question four: On a scale of one to five, where one indicates "Not at all likely" and five indicates "Very likely", how likely do you think it is that Herr Gutenberg's invention will:(a) Undermine the authority of the Catholic church?(b) Power the Reformation?(c) Enable the rise of modern science?(d) Create entirely new social classes and professions?(e) Change our conceptions of "childhood" as a protected early period in a person's life?On a scale of one to five! You have only to ask the questions to realise the fatuity of the idea. Printing did indeed have all of these effects, but there was no way that anyone in 1472, in Mainz (or anywhere else for that matter) could have known how profound its impact would be.I'm writing this in 2010, which is 17 years since the web went mainstream. If I'm right about the net effecting a transformation in our communications environment comparable to that wrought by Gutenberg, then it's patently absurd for me (or anyone else) to pretend to know what its long-term impact will be. The honest answer is that we simply don't know.The trouble is, though, that everybody affected by the net is demanding an answer right now. Print journalists and their employers want to know what's going to happen to their industry. Likewise the music business, publishers, television networks, radio stations, government departments, travel agents, universities, telcos, airlines, libraries and lots of others. The sad truth is that they will all have to learn to be patient. And, for some of them, by the time we know the answers to their questions, it will be too late.2 THE WEB ISN'T  THE NETThe most common — and still surprisingly widespread — misconception is that the internet and the web are the same thing. They're not. A good way to understand this is via a railway analogy. Think of the internet as the tracks and signalling, the infrastructure on which everything runs. In a railway network, different kinds of traffic run on the infrastructure — high-speed express trains, slow stopping trains, commuter trains, freight trains and (sometimes) specialist maintenance and repair trains.On the internet, web pages are only one of the many kinds of traffic that run on its virtual tracks. Other types of traffic include music files being exchanged via peer-to-peer networking, or from the iTunes store; movie files travelling viaBitTorrent; software updates; email; instant messages; phone conversations via Skype and otherVoIP(internet telephony) services; streaming video and audio; and other stuff too arcane to mention.And (here's the important bit) there will undoubtedly be other kinds of traffic, stuff we can't possibly have dreamed of yet, running on the internet in 10 years' time.So the thing to remember is this: the web is huge and very important, but it's just one of the many things that run on the internet. The net is much bigger and far more important than anything that travels on it.Understand this simple distinction and you're halfway to wisdom.3 DISRUPTION IS A FEATURE, NOT A BUGOne of the things that most baffles (and troubles) people about the net is its capacity for disruption. One moment you've got a stable, profitable business – say, as the CEO of a music label; the next minute your industry is struggling for survival, and you're paying a king's ransom to intellectual property lawyers in a losing struggle to stem the tide. Or you're a newspaper group, wondering how a solid revenue stream from classified ads could suddenly have vaporised; or a university librarian wondering why students use only Google nowadays. How can this stuff happen? And how does it happen so fast?The answer lies deep in the network's architecture. When it was being created in the 1970s, Vint Cerf and Robert Kahn, the lead designers, were faced with two difficult tasks: how to design a system that seamlessly links lots of other networks, and how to design a network that is future-proof. The answer they came up with was breathtakingly simple. It was based on two axioms. Firstly, there should be no central ownership or control – no institution which would decide who could join or what the network could be used for. Secondly, the network should not be optimised for any particular application. This led to the idea of a "simple" network that did only one thing – take in data packets at one end and do its best to deliver them to their destinations. The network would be neutral as to the content of those packets – they could be fragments of email, porn videos, phone conversations, images… The network didn't care, and would treat them all equally.By implementing these twin protocols, Vint Cerf and Robert Kahn created what was essentiallya global machine for springing surprises. The implication of their design was that if you had an idea that could be implemented using data packets, then the internet would do it for you, no questions asked. And you didn't have to ask anyone's permission.The explosion of creativity – in the form of disruptive applications – that the world has seen since the network emerged in the 1980s may have taken a lot of institutions and industries by surprise, but it was predictable, given the architecture. There are a lot of smart programmers in the world, and the net provided them with a perfect launch pad for springing surprises. What kinds of surprises? Well, the web itself. It was largely the creation of a single individual –Tim Berners-Lee, who in 1991 put the code on an internet server without having to ask anyone's permission.Ten years after Berners-Lee started work, a disaffected, music-loving teenager namedShawn Fanningspent six months writing software for sharing music files and, in 1999, put his little surprise on an internet server. He called it Napster and it acquired over 60 million delighted users before the music industry managed to shut it down. But by that time the file-sharing genie was out of the bottle.While all this was going on, plenty of equally smart programmers were incubating more sinister surprises, in the shape of a plague of spam, viruses, worms and other security "exploits" which they have been able to unleash over a network which doesn't care what's in your data packets. The potential dangers of this "malware" explosion are alarming. For example, mysterious groups have assembled "botnets" (made up of millions of covertly compromised, networked PCs) which could be used to launch massive, co-ordinated attacks that could conceivably bring down the network infrastructure of entire industries, or perhaps even countries. So far, with the exception of Estonia in 2007, we haven't seen such an attack, but the fear is that it will eventually come, and it will be the net's own version of 9/11.The internet's disruptiveness is a consequence of its technical DNA. In programmers' parlance, it's a feature, not a bug – ie an intentional facility, not a mistake. And it's difficult to see how we could disable the network's facility for generating unpleasant surprises without also disabling the other forms of creativity it engenders.4 THINK ECOLOGY,  NOT ECONOMICSAs an analytical framework, economics can come unstuck when dealing with the net. Because while economics is the study of the allocation of scarce resources, the online world is distinguished by abundance. Similarly, ecology (the study of natural systems) specialises in abundance, and it can be useful to look at what's happening in the media through the eyes of an ecologist.Since the web went mainstream in 1993, our media "ecosystem", if you like, has become immeasurably more complex. The old, industrialised, mass-media ecosystem was characterised by declining rates of growth; relatively small numbers of powerful, profitable, slow-moving publishers and broadcasters; mass audiences consisting mainly of passive consumers of centrally produced content; relatively few communication channels, and a slow pace of change. The new ecosystem is expanding rapidly: it has millions of publishers; billions of active, web-savvy, highly informed readers, listeners and viewers; innumerable communication channels, and a dizzying rate of change.To an ecologist, this looks like an ecosystem whose biodiversity has expanded radically. It's as if a world in which large organisms like dinosaurs (think Time Warner, Encyclopaedia Britannica) had trudged slowly across the landscape exchanging information in large, discrete units, but life was now morphing into an ecosystem in which billions of smaller species consume, transform, aggregate or break down and exchange information goods in much smaller units – and in which new gigantic life-forms (think Google, Facebook) are emerging. In the natural world, increased biodiversity is closely correlated with higher whole-system productivity – ie the rate at which energy and material inputs are translated into growth. Could it be that this is also happening in the information sphere? And if it is, who will benefit in the long term?5 COMPLEXITY IS THE  NEW REALITYEven if you don't accept the ecological metaphor, there's no doubt that our emerging information environment is more complex – in terms of numbers of participants, the density of interactions between them, and the pace of change – than anything that has gone before. This complexity is not an aberration or something to be wished away: it's the new reality, and one that we have to address. This is a challenge, for several reasons. First, the behaviour of complex systems is often difficult to understand and even harder to predict. Second, and more importantly, our collective mindsets in industry and government are not well adapted for dealing with complexity. Traditionally, organisations have tried to deal with the problem by reducing complexity – acquiring competitors, locking in customers, producing standardised products and services, etc. These strategies are unlikely to work in our emerging environment, where intelligence, agility, responsiveness and a willingness to experiment (and fail) provide better strategies for dealing with what the networked environment will throw at you.6 THE NETWORK IS NOW  THE COMPUTERFor baby-boomers, a computer was a standalone PC running Microsoft software. Eventually, these devices were networked, first locally (via office networks) and then globally (via the internet). But as broadband connections to the net became commonplace, something strange happened: if you had a fast enough connection to the network, you became less concerned about the precise location of either your stored data or the processor that was performing computational tasks for you. And these tasks became easier to do. First, the companies (Yahoo, Google, Microsoft) who provided search also began to offer "webmail" – email provided via programs that ran not on your PC but on servers in the internet "cloud". Then Google offered word-processing, spreadsheets, slide-making and other "office"-type services over the network. And so on.Here was a transition from a world in which the PC really was the computer, to one in which the network is effectively the computer. It has led to the emergence of "cloud computing" – a technology in which we use simple devices (mobile phones, low-power laptops or tablets) to access computing services that are provided by powerful servers somewhere on the net. This switch to computing as a utility rather than a service that you provide with your own equipment has profound implications for privacy, security and economic development – and public perceptions are lagging way behind the pace of development. What happens to your family's photo collection if it's held in the cloud and your password goes to the grave with you? And what about your documents and emails – all likewise stored in the cloud on someone else's server? Or your "reputation" on eBay? Everywhere one looks, the transition to cloud computing has profound implications, because it makes us more and more dependent on the net. And yet we're sleepwalking into this brave new world.7 THE WEB IS  CHANGINGOnce upon a time, the web was merely a publication medium, in which publishers (professional or amateur) uploaded passive web pages to servers. For many people in the media business, that's still their mental model of the web. But in fact, the web has gone through at least three phases of evolution – from the original web 1.0, to the web 2.0 of "small pieces, loosely joined" (social networking, mashups, webmail, and so on) and is now heading towards some kind of web 3.0 –  a global platform based on Tim Berners-Lee's idea of the 'semantic web' in which web pages will contain enough metadata about their content to enable software to make informed judgements about their relevance and function. If we are to understand the web as it is, rather than as it once was, we need more realistic mental models of it. Above all, we need to remember that it's no longer just a publication medium.8 HUXLEY AND ORWELL ARE THE BOOKENDS  OF OUR FUTUREMany years ago, the cultural criticNeil Postman, one of the 20th century's most perceptive critics of technology, predicted that the insights of two writers would, like a pair of bookends, bracket our future. Aldous Huxley believed that we would be destroyed by the things we love, while George Orwell thought we would be destroyed by the things we fear.Postman was writing before the internet became such a force in our societies, but I believe he got it right. On the one (Huxleyan) hand, the net has been a profoundly liberating influence in our lives – creating endless opportunities for information, entertainment, pleasure, delight, communication, and apparently effortless consumption, to the point where it has acquired quasi-addictive power, especially over younger generations. One can calibrate the extent of the impact by the growing levels of concern among teachers, governments and politicians. "Is Google making us stupid?" was the title of one of the most cited articles inAtlanticmagazine in 2008. It was written by Nicholas Carr, a prominent blogger and author, and raised the question of whether permanent access to networked information (not just Google) is turning us into restless, shallow thinkers with shorter attention spans. (According to Nielsen, a market research firm, the average time spent viewing a web page is 56 seconds.) Other critics are worried that incessant internet use is actually rewiring our brains.On the other (Orwellian) hand, the internet is the nearest thing to a perfect surveillance machine the world has ever seen. Everything you do on the net is logged – every email you send, every website you visit, every file you download, every search you conduct is recorded and filed somewhere, either on the servers of your internet service provider or of the cloud services that you access. As a tool for a totalitarian government interested in the behaviour, social activities and thought-process of its subjects, the internet is just about perfect.9 OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY REGIME IS NO LONGER FIT FOR PURPOSEIn the analogue world, copying was difficult and degenerative (ie copies of copies became progressively worse than the original). In the digital world, copying is effortless and perfect. In fact, copying is to computers as breathing is to living organisms, inasmuch as all computational operations involve it. When you view a web page, for example, a copy of the page is loaded into the video memory of your computer (or phone, or iPad) before the device can display it on the screen. So you can't even look at something on the web without (unknowingly) making a copy of it.Since our current intellectual property regime was conceived in an era when copying was difficult and imperfect, it's not surprising that it seems increasingly out of sync with the networked world. To make matters worse (or better, depending on your point of view), digital technology has provided internet users with software tools which make it trivially easy to copy, edit, remix and publish anything that is available in digital form – which means nearly everything, nowadays. As a result, millions of people have become "publishers" in the sense that their creations are globally published on platforms such as Blogger, Flickr and YouTube. So everywhere one looks, one finds things that infringe copyright in one way or another.This is a disagreeable but inescapable fact – as inescapable in its way as the fact that young adults tend to drink too much alcohol. The only way to stop copying is to shut down the net. There's nothing wrong with intellectual property (or alcohol), per se, but our copyright laws are now so laughably out of touch with reality that they are falling into disrepute. They urgently need reforming to make them relevant to digital circumstances. The problem is that none of our legislators seems to understand this, so it won't happen any time soon.PostscriptIt would be ridiculous to pretend that these nine ideas encapsulate everything that there is to be known about the net. But they do provide a framework for seeing the phenomenon "in the round", as it were, and might even serve as an antidote to the fevered extrapolation that often passes for commentary on developments in cyberspace. The sad fact is that if there is a "truth" about the internet, it's rather prosaic: to almost every big question about the network's long-term implications the only rational answer is the one famously given by Mao Zedong's foreign minister, Zhou Enlai, when asked about the significance of the French Revolution: "It's too early to say." It is.John Naughton is professor of the public understanding of technology at the Open University. He is currently working on a book about the internet phenomenon.
At corners, they pose as much threat as a Hobbit would against a team of Orcs. Their passing and shooting are laughable while their ability to keep the ball from reaching the back of the net is only mariginally better than that of an English goalkeeper. Robot footballers have a long way to go, it would seem.Yet great things are expected of them, it transpires. According to the organisers of RoboCup, the international football competition for humanoid players which kicked off in Singapore yesterday, the skills that are being built up through the design and manufacture of robot players for the tournament are performing a vital role in helping engineers and scientists perfect a team that will have the prowess and the ability to take the official World Cup trophy away from humans.That target has been set by RoboCup's organisers for the year 2050 and was established following the success of the artificial intelligence chess challenge that was fought out in the 90s. That clash was eventually won in 1997 when IBM's Deep Blue computer program beat world chess champion Garry Kasparov.Now RoboCup wants to repeat that success with the beautiful game – though a quick glimpse ata few YouTube videos of robot players in actionwill reveal just how difficult that task is going to be. Metre-high players scuttle crabwise across the pitch. They lash out but miss the ball. Occasionally one falls over for no discernible reason. It sounds like a typical England training session, in other words, and suggests that the designers of robot footballers have a great deal of work ahead of them before they can create players that are able to beat&nbsp;humans.Improvements are constantly being made, however. For example, researchers at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh have developed a program that lets robots predict where the ball will go, rather than merely reacting to its movement. Tests&nbsp;show that such robots outperform rivals, allowing them to bend it, not so much likeBeckham, but like R2-D2. Indeed, Manuela Veloso, a computer science professor at CMU, is convinced this programme will bring success for his team at RoboCup. "I don't see any reason why we won't win," he says.So the day of the robot football player may not be that far off. And in any case, most of them are already blessed with one major advantage over&nbsp;their human counterparts: they look more lifelike than Peter Crouch when they celebrate after scoring a goal.
Last Wednesday, 16 June, was Bloomsday, a day revered by admirers of James Joyce the world over. It's celebrated because 16 June 1904 is the day in which all the action in Joyce's novelUlyssestakes place. Readers follow the perambulations around Dublin of the book's endearing hero, a freelance advertisement-seller named Leopold Bloom, who is tactfully keeping out of the way while his wife is being unfaithful to him in the marital home at No 7 Eccles Street.Bloomsday celebrations take many forms but usually involve readings from the novel, and often the consumption of food and drink (gorgonzola sandwiches and burgundy, for example, in honour of Bloom's lunchtime fare). This year there was an added frisson to the festivities, for it transpired that Apple, a  company not hitherto noted for its interest in modernist literature, had been paying close attention to the content of Joyce's great work. Or rather, to a cartoon remix of it entitled Ulysses "Seen", an iPad app that had been submitted for approval to Apple in the usual way.The app had its origins in an earlier Bloomsday, when a group of Joyce enthusiasts in Philadelphia had the idea of adaptingUlysses– all 700 or so pages of it – as a graphic novel. To this endthey founded a company, and earlier this year, submitted chapter one of  Ulysses "Seen"to Apple. So far, so predictable. Then they had a phone call from Apple."They asked two things of us", recalled Chad Rutkowski, who doubles as business manager and lawyer for the fledgling publisher. "Please remove the image of the bare-chested goddess on page 37 and please rate it NC-17."In aninterview with National Public radio, Rutkowski says he argued "vigorously" to keep the image of the goddess and the drawings of the character Buck Mulligan in the nude, which crop up a few pages later."I asked them if, you know, we could pixelate or if we could put bars over it. And he said no. What he said was that Apple was having a lot of problems with people trying to sidestep their guidelines. And they didn't want to start, you know, a slippery slope."Quite. Reluctantly, the publishers submitted a version of the comic with the naked lady tastefully clothed. It's not clear how they dealt with the issue of Buck Mulligan's genitalia. But it doesn't matter, because rumours of Apple's censorship started to spread through the blogosphere and eventually the company changed its mind.So the first chapter ofUlysses "Seen"is now available as a free iPad app – butonly on the US iPad store. UK readers are denied its pleasures, for some reason – but they can sample it on the company's website.What's interesting about this is not so much that Joyce's novel retains its power to outrage, but that the putative "outragee" is now a commercial company rather than a prudish state.Ulysseshas what the racing fraternity call "form" in this regard. In 1926, for example, four years after its publication, the Cambridge English don FR Leavis decided that he wanted to quote from the book – which was then banned in Britain – in his lectures. He therefore wrote to the Home Office seeking permission to import a copy. For his temerity, he was then summoned by the university's vice-chancellor, who handed him a note from the director of public prosecutions revealing that the Cambridge police had been monitoring Leavis's lectures, and concluding with a recommendation that he "should be suitably and firmly dealt with".The publishers ofUlysses "Seen"are no doubt feeling relaxed and contented, on the grounds that if you can get round Apple's editorial control-freakery then you can get around anything. There is, however, one further possibly fly in their ointment. His name is Stephen Joyce. He is the grandson of the great man and since the 1980s has been in sole control ofhis grandfather's literary estate. More importantly, his desire to control the uses of his literary property makes Steve Jobs look like St Francis of Assisi.Anyone who wants to quote from any of Joyce's works must ask his permission, and he doesn't grant it lightly. To take one example, in 2004, the centenary of Bloomsday, hethreatened the Irish governmentwith a lawsuit if it staged any Bloomsday readings. Bertie Ahern and Co were so scared of him that the scheduled readings were pulled. It will be interesting to see whether Steve Jobs will be such a pushover.
