A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe travel startup fallout is here. Will anyone survive? &gt;&gt; PandodailyHow many companies have become massive by merely inspiring people to travel? As the once-crowded market for travel inspiration apps and sites thins out, the answer may actually be zero.The miracle is that anyone ever believed that a business could be built around something that's pretty much the opposite of a utility.Exclusive: Inside Google Spanner, the Largest Single Database on Earth | Wired Enterprise | Wired.comMuch like the engineering team that created it, Spanner is something that stretches across the globe while behaving as if it's all in one place.Unveiled this fall after years of hints and rumors, it's the first worldwide database worthy of the name -- a database designed to seamlessly operate across hundreds of data centers and millions of machines and trillions of rows of information.Spanner is a creation so large, some have trouble wrapping their heads around it. But the end result is easily explained: With Spanner, Google can offer a web service to a worldwide audience, but still ensure that something happening on the service in one part of the world doesn't contradict what's happening in another.Google's new-age database is already part of the company's online ad system -- the system that makes its millions -- and it could signal where the rest of the web is going.First MapReduce, now this. Enormously impressive.What happens when your pivot goes horribly wrong? &gt;&gt; SkiftRafat Ali:Travel is among the most pivot-friendly categories in the startupland. What happens when a well-liked-but-limited app, focused on a nice but commodity niche, attempts to pivot into a larger company, attempting to "reinvent travel"? It cannot go worse than what's happening right now toGateGuru.Truly ugly indeed, but for what seem like obvious reasons.BT.com blats small privacy bug, ignores GAPING HOLE &gt;&gt; The RegisterBT has squashed a mild website privacy bug reported by a Reg reader - but the telco has refused to address a related issue that allows anyone to add paid-for features to any BT landline.The latter problem, described by the telco as a "customer convenience", can be exploited using just a property's postcode and phone number to cause mischief and inconvenience.However, the other flaw, which revealed the full name of the landline account holder, has been fixed.Ouch.Apple CPU orders raise concerns over TSMC production capacity &gt;&gt; DigitimesDemand from Apple is expected to be huge, said the observers, adding that allocation of TSMC's available advanced process capacity among its major clients will be a critical decision to be made by the foundry.TSMC's advanced process offerings serve the world's major fabless IC firms including Altera, Qualcomm and Nvidia. While being capable of providing sufficient capacity to Apple, TSMC also does not want to upset its existing major clients, the observers noted. Allocating efficiently its production capacity will be a focus for the foundry in 2013, the observers believe.Apple's iPhone and iPad devices collectively demand almost 200 million CPUs every year, the observers estimate.Previously all those were made by Samsung.Apps are dead. Long live experiences &gt;&gt; cek.logEx-Microsoftie Charlie Kindel:I like to get people's attention by asserting "apps are dead". I do this because it causes people to pause and think about what "apps" really are. After Apple started the app explosion in 2008 most apps were primarily client-side code. Today, however, it is almost impossible to find an app that does not rely on at least some Internet based service. In fact the apps most people use most of the time are almost all server-side code. The client-side code is there to project the experience on to one of many devices the user may have.I also believe "apps are dead" because the end-user value proposition is no longer based on some piece of code a user buys in an app store on their device, but an entire experience they choose to use that spans all of their devices.Microsoft investigating random Windows Phone 8 reboots &gt;&gt; SlashGearThe companytold CNETthat it's on the case, saying nothing other than "We are currently investigating reports of these incidents." The problems don't seem limited to just random reboots though, as users are reporting issues with email sync. Obviously, these problems aren't good, and it's probably a major headache for Microsoft to have to deal with these right after the launch of Windows Phone 8 - a mobile OS that needs to make a great first impression if it hopes to eventually rise in popularity and challenge Android and iOS.Some users on the WPCentral forums are saying that uninstalling the Skype for Windows Phone 8 preview helps with random reboots, but at the moment, there doesn't appear to be an on-the-fly fix for the issues with email syncing. It's also worth pointing out that uninstalling the Skype preview might not be a permanent fix for the reboot issue, as there could be any number of reasons Windows Phone 8 devices are suddenly restarting.(Thanks @rquick for the link.)Windows 8 touchscreen laptops see slow atart &gt;&gt; WSJ Digits blog"Demand for Windows 8 is not that good right now," said Asustek Computer's Chief Financial Officer David Chang...Acer declined to give sales figures for its Windows 8 products so far, and executives said last month that they were uncertain how Windows 8 would be received by consumers. Acer's 15.6in Aspire V5 is the top-selling Windows 8 touchscreen laptop on Amazon's website, with the Vivobook close behind. However, neither of them - nor any other touchscreen laptop - breaks into the 20 best selling laptops on Amazon.com.40m licences sold v "not that good" demand. The intrigue continues.Samsung Galaxy Note 2 PC support to silence critics &gt;&gt; ProductReviewsIf you were reluctant to believe that a smartphone can handle PC duties, this video alone should give you the clarity you need. After watching the video ourselves, it's clear to see that it isn't a fabrication any more - the Samsung Galaxy Note 2 can act as a PC replacement for basic duties.Before you all go and say, 'can it run Skyrim then' - obviously it can't just yet. What it can do though is run multiple videos at the same time, browse the internet with flash enabled no problem, edit text with copy and paste features and a lot more. You can even set up a Skype call and have videos and web pages open at the same time with the multi window feature.Very impressive (implementing the idea that the Motorola Atrix tried to in 2011). But either he's a superintelligent being, or the video of the interaction has been speeded up quite a bit - he flicks between windows and responds to dialog boxes faster than you can possibly see them. (Thanks @thead for the link.)Australian Public authorities &gt;&gt; Right To KnowOpening up the Australian government so that people can make freedom of information requests. It's an Aussie version of the UK's "What Do They Know?" site. (Thanks Francis Irving, CEO of ScraperWiki, for the pointer.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Nokia has laid the ground for a ban on sales of BlackBerrys in the US, UK and Canada in a new wave of hostilities in the smartphone patent wars, which have also seen Sweden's Ericsson file a suit against Samsung over alleged patent abuse.The Ericsson suit could have wide-ranging effects if its demand for a sales injunction against Samsung is granted by the US, because it would affect every Samsung device with phone capability. A newly confident Nokia, whose  new handsets have topped Amazon's sales charts, is at loggerheads with the Canadian maker of BlackBerrys, Research In Motion (RIM) over "standards-essential" patents they have licensed to each other since 2003, which let phones connect to Wi-Fi networks.A Nokia spokesperson told the Guardian: "Nokia and RIM agreed a cross-licence for standards-essential cellular patents in 2003, which was amended in 2008. In 2011, RIM sought arbitration, arguing that the licence extended beyond cellular essentials.In November 2012, the arbitration tribunal ruled against RIM. It found that RIM was in breach of contract and is not entitled to manufacture or sell WLAN products without first agreeing royalties with Nokia. In order to enforce the Tribunal's ruling, we have now filed actions in the US, UK and Canada with the aim of ending RIM's breach of contract."Nokia wants a California court to enforce an arbitration award preventing RIM from selling products with the disputed wireless capabilities until the firms can agree on royalties. RIM declined to comment. The company is preparing for the January launch of a new software platform designed to update its phones so that they can handle not just email but make full use of the wider web and the millions of apps produced for today's smartphones."The timing could not be worse for RIM," said Florian Mueller, author of the Foss Patents blog. "The new version of their platform is going to bring them back to life and they would like to focus on their turnaround and not this patent lawsuit."After two years of pain, Nokia's shift to Microsoft's Window's platform appears to be paying dividends. Analysts at broker Liberum Capital have upgraded the Finnish firm's rock bottom shares to a buy, saying sales have "exceeded expectations" after its Lumia 920 phone took first and second positions in the Amazon sales charts in the US earlier this month for phones sold by operator AT&amp;T with a two year plan.Liberum predicts Nokia will sell up to 3.5m Lumia 920 handsets, which use Microsoft's Windows Phone 8 software, in the lead up to Christmas, with up to 1m units snapped up by customers in China alone."Momentum on Windows Phone 8 seems to be building at operators and other device manufacturers," said Liberum analyst Janardan Menon. "While consumer behaviour is unpredictable, we see no reason why initial sales momentum should not continue into 2013.Meanwhile Ericsson, which is one of the biggest patent holders in the mobile industry alongside Nokia and Qualcomm filed suit in the Eastern District of Texas against Samsung, saying that it had tried and failed for two years to reach a licence agreement on a separate set of SEPs. It claims Samsung licensed the patents in 2001, and again in 2007, but had recently declined to relicense them.
In an unusually open move for a US politician, representative Darrell Issa, a Republican from California, has put his newest piece of legislation on the link-sharing site Reddit, opening his bill and congressional record to criticism from the vocal online community.On Tuesday Issa offered to answer questions posted to the site about his Internet American Moratorium Act of 2012 which aims to curb laws, rules and regulation of the internet for two years.Reddit users can comment, upvote or downvote on links posted to the site in an effort to stimulate discussion. Issa's post had received more than 2,000 comments by Wednesday morning.The question most Reddit users upvoted asked why Issa voted in favor of the controversial internet-regulating bill Cispa. The bill faced massive opposition from most of the Reddit community who believed it would endanger the online privacy of individual citizens.Issa responded to the criticism of his support of Cispa by directing users toan earlier Reddit postwhere he said that he thought at the time that the benefits like a possible increase cybersecurity would outweigh the potential costs of the bill.By posting the link to his legislation on Reddit, Issa also opened himself to criticism from users who believed that his decision to put the legislation on Reddit was a stunt and that a bill sponsored by a Cispa supporter was untrustworthy.In response to statements about Issa's support of Cispa,Reddit user iJosjj said: "What a bummer. One second I feel like he might be trying to do a good thing and the next he's just another political hack."Issa responded: "Good morning. I hope this isn't a bummer. I'm trying to create a two-year cooling off period on new internet rules, regulations and laws. Period. I believe that is a good thing right now. And you should be wary of politicians who agree with you all the time."Like the Cispa comment, significant parts of the discussion extended beyond his proposed measure, as a bill banning the passage of other bills, is unlikely to pass.The strange nature of the legislation didincite questions from userswho wanted to know why he thought legislation regulating internet should be blocked for the next two years."We are still in the early stages of the internet era, and Congress is trying to keep up with all aspects of supporting internet users, while protecting their individual rights from potential dangers," Issa said. "What this bill is hoping to do is hold off on rule-making and implementing regulations and new laws on the internet before the federal government is prepared and ready to move forward in a way that works for everyone involved - Internet users, job creators and all Americans.Issa also explainedthat he is not attempting to prevent regulation of the internet indefinitely."I'm not advocating for no rules or laws on the internet ever," Issa wrote. "But it has been made abundantly clear to me and to a lot of other people that both legislators and regulators have gone down the road of trying to take actions that impact the Internet without knowing their full effect.Issa's proposed legislation is also open for online review on hisKeepTheWebOpen.comwhich let's site users add comments and suggestions to bills much like the contents of the discussion on Reddit.
The smartphone patent wars have abruptly broken out again, with Finland's Nokia filing suits in the US, Canada and UK to enforce a ruling against BlackBerry-maker RIM, and Sweden's Ericsson filing suit in the US against Korea's Samsung over what it claims is a long-standing infringement of its essential patents.The Ericsson suit could have wide-ranging effects if its demands for a sales injunction against Samsung is granted by the US, because it would affect every Samsung device with phone capability.Nokia and RIM have come to loggerheads over a set of "standards-essential" patents (SEPs) they have licensed to each other since 2003, which let phones connect to Wi-Fi networks.A Nokia spokesperson told the Guardian: "Nokia and RIM agreed a cross-licence for standards-essential cellular patents in 2003, which was amended in 2008. In 2011, RIM sought arbitration, arguing that the licence extended beyond cellular essentials. In November 2012, the arbitration tribunal ruled against RIM. It found that RIM was in breach of contract and is not entitled to manufacture or sell WLAN products without first agreeing royalties with Nokia. In order to enforce the Tribunal's ruling, we have now filed actions in the US, UK and Canada with the aim of ending RIM's breach of contract."The arbitration and enforcement could cost RIM millions of pounds. Every BlackBerry has Wi-Fi capability, as well as standard mobile connectivity. For RIM, which is struggling with collapsing market share in western markets and among its core corporate customers, any extra expense will be unwelcome ahead of the launch of its BB10 software, which it says will be introduced on 30 January 2013. RIM has made an operating loss and seen falling revenues for three successive quarters, and shows no signs of making a profit in the current one, which runs to the end of November.RIM declined to comment on the Nokia move or the arbitration."If a sales ban was imposed it would be a massive blow for RIM as it manages its transition to the new BlackBerry 10 software platform," Canalys analyst Pete Cunningham told Reuters.But Nokia is highly unlikely to take that path: it has never used the threat of sales injunctions against companies when "standards-essential" patents are involved. That applied even during along-running Nokia dispute with Apple, which was finally settled in June 2011 when Apple made a one-off payment and agreed per-handset royalties on the iPhone.Meanwhile Ericsson, which is one of the biggest patent holders in the mobile industry alongside Nokia and Qualcomm filed suit in the Eastern District of Texas against Samsung, saying that it had tried and failed for two years to reach a licence agreement on a separate set of SEPs. It claims Samsung licensed the patents in 2001, and again in 2007, but had recently declined to relicense them.Florian Müller, a patents blogger who follows litigation around the smartphone business closely and has done work for Microsoft and Oracle, noted that Ericsson is seeking an injunction against Samsung.Müllerarguesthat the case between the two companies could indirectly help Apple, which has similar ongoing suits with Samsung in which the Korean company is asserting a number of SEPs that it claims the iPhone maker should license, but for which Apple claims the price is too high - and so does not fit the "fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory" requirement of SEP licencing.Müller noted: "Ericsson's litigation forces Samsung to argue that FRAND rates should be low, while in the dispute with Apple, it takes the opposite position. Litigation proceeds pretty quickly in the Eastern District of Texas, so there's a good chance that Apple will be able to use in its second California lawsuit (in which several of Samsung's counterclaim patents are wireless SEPs) some of what Samsung has to argue in its defence against Ericsson."Conversely, Ericsson will certainly try to get some mileage out of Samsung's statements made in the Apple litigation."
The treatment of women in and by the video games industry has been a hot topic for most of the year – and for the last couple of days in particular. Hot on the heels of anEdge featurebemoaning and exploring the gender disparity in the video game industry, yesterday, women took to Twitter to talk about precisely why that might be.It started out with game designer and Kickstarter games specialist Luke Crane, who asked a deceptively simple questionon Twitter: why are there so few "lady game creators"? The responses ranged from the obvious to the oblique, and quickly spawned the hashtag #1reasonwhy, as dozens and then hundreds of women and men piled in with their own anecdotes and details.Some themes emerged. Women talked about having their workdismissed and ignored, having designs for non-sexualised female charactersrejected, their clothing and appearance being used todismiss them on gender grounds, and, at the more extreme end,sexual harassment at conferences.There were women speaking up aboutbeing afraid to speak up, and achorus of thanksfor those speaking on and supporting the tag. As it caught on, the discussion broadened to encompass a critique of gender issues in games themselves - expressions of frustration athaving to remind colleaguesthat their players might be female, and at theprevailing focus and topics of AAA games.Much of the focus has been on sharing pain and frustration – and battling the inevitable, eventual slew of dissent. There were familiar themes here too. People explaining that despite the evidence to the contrary there is no problem. Folks telling women who work in games that women just don't want to work in games, without noticing the apparent contradiction. People suggesting to women who make games that they should go and make their own games elsewhere instead of trying to work in the existing industry. And, of course, idiots tweeting things like, "because there's no Xbox in the kitchen". We've been here before, in almost every comments section of almost every article in both the mainstream and niche games press: the backlash is vicious and sometimes vile but not at all surprising.Positive things have also sprung out of the conversation. Early on, the #1reasonmentors hashtag grew into a stream of women already working in games offering their skills and assistance to those struggling. It's spawneda list of mentors. But despite the positive aspects, there were worries that the stories related by women in the industry might have a negative effect and put others off altogether.Rhianna Pratchett, lead writer on the upcoming Tomb Raider game, kicked off a separate hashtag, #1reasontobe, as a way to highlight positive stories. "I'm not looking to dismiss the significance of #1reasonwhy in the least, but I think it's important to remind women (and for them to remind themselves) of what can be great about working in games," she said in an email. "I wouldn't want potential female developers of the future to get complete scared off. We're striving for better balance, after all."I don't think that many young women are aware of the potential job opportunities (be it in design, programming, art, writing etc.) or the routes in. Even as a young gamer I didn't really know anything about what went on behind the scenes. A lot more needs to be done to address this and start inspiring the next generation. This is something that both educational authorities and the games industry needs to address hand-in-hand. For example,thisis a great initiative over in the US."Margaret Robertson, director of development studio Hide&amp;Seek,wrote an article last yearabout self-censoring, and her way of dealing with game industry sexism by avoiding marking herself out as female. In an email, she said: "I think the first thing that #1reasonwhy showed is that there might well be more female game designers than many people think. We're still a very definite minority, but I think one of the things that came through clearly in the Twitter stream was how often women in the game world don't feel comfortable drawing attention to themselves - and especially not drawing attention to themselves as a woman."I think the blocking factors are manifold and cyclical … There's a lack of role models for upcoming female designers, there's a work environment that can fluctuate between actively hostile and predatory, to absent-mindedly patronising and presumptive. There are practical hurdles in terms of child-care and maternity leave. There are deep-rooted issues that go far beyond the gaming world, for example the pressures that result in girls trending away from the more maths- and science-oriented subjects that they excel at in their early teens but more rarely pursue professionally. It's one of the things that makes this problem hard to grapple with - its causes are distributed across all kinds of sectors."But she too said that the positive elements of working in the industry outweigh, for her, the negative – and suggested the reasons for getting into games are not particularly gender-specific. "You get to make games! For a living! Games unite for me, more fully than anything I've found, that left-brain, right-brain thing. They're half art, half science; half reason, half magic. Nothing I've ever done uses all of my brain at the same time as much as making games does. And making games is like baking; it's its own reward. If you bake, you do all this beating and kneading and cleaning and at the end of it there is a CAKE. And in games you do all of this spreadsheeting and testing and balancing and at the end of it there is a GAME."Perhaps the most important element of #1reasonwhy has been the recognition that wanting to work in games is, in fact, normal for people of all genders – and the numbers of men who have joined in, not to denigrate the female participants or deny the issue, but to lend their voices to the outcry. Men in the industry have stepped up as mentors, have tweeted supportively and intelligently about their own experiences, both as allies and – in a few cases – as part of the problem. These sparks of positive, active response speak to the way the conversation around women in games is shifting - and provide hope for genuine change.And there is a general agreement, now, that change matters – that the voices of minorities who currently struggle are important to the games industry. Margaret Robertson: "I do think gaming is missing out if people who might be able to make interesting, valuable contributions to it don't feel welcome to be part of the design community, or who join it but then don't get heard. I think there are a lot of voices that we're not hearing – it's certainly not just women who face discrimination in the game world – and that just seems like an obvious missed opportunity."
If you picked November 2012 in the "When will Gartner publish a report delivering a no-nonsense takedown of gamification mania?" sweepstakes, award yourself some points. Oh no, wait...Flippancy aside, Gartner's report is a reminder for companies to beware of buzzword-spouting experts promising to shake up their businesses, but also that when you separate gamification from the gamification-gurus, there are still some useful lessons to be learned.The report pulls few punches: "Gamification is currently being driven by novelty and hype. Gartner predicts that by 2014, 80 percent of current gamified applications will fail to meet business objectives primarily because of poor design," explains the company in itsannouncement.Research vice president Brian Burke elaborates:"Poor game design is one of the key failings of many gamified applications today. The focus is on the obvious game mechanics, such as points, badges and leader boards, rather than the more subtle and more important game design elements, such as balancing competition and collaboration, or defining a meaningful game economy. As a result, in many cases, organizations are simply counting points, slapping meaningless badges on activities and creating gamified applications that are simply not engaging for the target audience."Gartner isn't writing off gamification entirely, it should be said: the actual report promises to go into depth about how game mechanics should be applied more usefully to other kinds of businesses in the years ahead, as it moves from "leading-edge innovators" (ugh!) to "becoming more broadly adopted by early adopters".That last phrase may require some parsing, but there's a badge for you if you manage to... D'oh!One of the problems with gamification so far is that a lot of people have boiled it down to "turn X, which isn't a game, into a game by using rewards and high-score tables".Sometimes the results are comical – several mobile apps trying to gamify people's sex lives spring, horrifyingly, to mind – but the more serious problem is when these theories that promised so much for enterprises don't deliver.Hence the backlash, which is healthy, because it will hopefully encourage less buzzwords and conference-grandstanding and more substance around the way other kinds of businesses can learn from games and game developers.That said, there may also be a second wave of punditry around this area, along the lines of "Forget all that silly hype around gamification, HERE'S how it can really work for you..."For example, shortly after Gartner launched its report, publisher O'Reilly Media announced a new book by Michael Hugos called Enterprise Games: Using Game Mechanics to Build a Better Business, complete with the promise that "it's not about giving workers a smiley face for producing more widgets".Hugos' claim that "Ideas from gaming that have already been field tested for years in massively mulitplayer online games can be applied to restructure work. They will change our ideas of what a job is and how an economy can operate" may raise plenty of sceptical eyebrows, but if there is substance to his ideas, they'll find an audience.Gamification isn't bad, in itself. Bullshit is bad. And there's been a lot of bullshit around gamification over the past two or three years. As we get beyond the hype, it's time to focus on the genuinely useful ideas and case studies in this area.
It's Wednesday!
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle WebmasterTools in dangerous security flaw &gt;&gt; SEO Blog by Dave Naylor - SEO Tools, Tips &amp; NewsIt has been seen tonight that WebmasterTools has suffered a major security hole and opened up and reverified all old accounts. What does this mean to the SEO community?From initial glance at our WMT's accounts we now have regained access to every old account we have previously been given access to, whether that is a previous client or maybe a site that came to us for some short term consultancy. What is also quite amusing (if you look on the funny side) is that you can see who won the client or who you won the client from.Broadband Factsheet, Q4 2012 &gt;&gt; thinkbroadbandThe broadband factsheet is a document published by thinkbroadband each quarter with a wealth of interesting statistics on the state of broadband services in the UK. It is presented in an easy-to-understand graphical form.The current factsheet for Q4/2012 was published on 26/11/12 and is available for download by clicking below:Apple, LG Electronics face Alcatel-Lucent in patent trial &gt;&gt; BloombergThe jury trial, which began today in federal court in San Diego, stems from a 2010 lawsuit by the Paris-based company's Multimedia Patent Trust accusing Apple and LG Electronics of copying video-compression technology that allows data to be sent more efficiently over communications media, including the Internet and satellites, or stored on DVDs and Blu-Ray disks.BBC iPlayer October performance &gt;&gt; BBC Internet BlogAs we also saw during the Olympics, the way people are watching iPlayer on multiple different platforms and devices is changing.Although PCs are still the most popular platform for watching BBC iPlayer programmes, accounting for around half of requests in October, we saw another significant rise in usage through internet-connected TVs (+25% on September) together with a continuing upward trend for watching BBC iPlayer on mobiles and tablets.In October 43 million programmes were requested via TV platforms (this includes smart TVs, operator platforms and games consoles) - 20% of all requests - while mobile phones and tablets recorded 28 million and 21 million requests, with year-on-year increases of +168% and +236% respectively, and together now delivering 23% of all requests.This shows the extent to which internet-connected devices are really starting to penetrate the market and the fact that BBC iPlayer is available on a large range of mobiles and tablets out there.Windows 8 - 40 million licenses sold &gt;&gt; Microsoft Windows blogTami Reller, head of Windows:"The journey is just beginning, but I am pleased to announce today that we have sold 40 million Windows 8 licenses so far."Careful phrasing. What actually does "sold" mean? Who has bought them?Reboxing: Why I'm returning my Microsoft Surface &gt;&gt; ZDNetJason O'Grady:The Surface is a strong first effort at stealing marketshare from the three "A's" (Apple, Android and Amazon) and with a little time, apps and polish it could pose a formidable threat. But until a few of the intial issues are addressed, mine's going back.Never thought you'd hear "lack of apps" as a reason to return a Windows box. (The article is followed by the usual three-cornered fight in the comments.)iPad mini Review &gt;&gt; AnandtechOne iPad is better to look at and one is better to hold. It's a real problem. The obvious solution would be to give the iPad mini a Retina Display. Once again, in our Podcast on this topic, Brian offered poignant insight: a Retina Display likely won't come to the iPad mini.The reasoning is solid, at least for next year - though Moore's Law suggests that it could get there in a few years. (Thanks @hotsoup for the link.)Almost Nothing to Almost No One &gt;&gt; Justin WattHe's disillusioned:Other than overly dramatic people talking about the non-existant "you have to pick one" battle between Twitter and App.net, it's not a service that proves to be worth paying for. Just because Twitter has become the villain to some people, doesn't make App.net a viable alternative. App.net is mostly just a smaller circle of people I'm already connected to and that isn't valuable. I am happy to pay for a service. I pay a lot for web services each month, but that's because they're worth it. Right now, App.net doesn't seem to be providing that value. They just opened their doors and let you join a smaller, more niche Twitter for a price.Android vs. iOS: Usage &amp; Engagement Patterns &gt;&gt; Tech-ThoughtsSameer Singh:Android seems to be leading all iOS devices (both the iPhone and iPad) in browsing over cellular networks. This means that Android users either have no WiFi access (understandable for lower income users) or prefer to use other devices for browsing when they do. This suggests that this is a "browser engagement" issue and not necessarily a "user engagement issue". Let's attempt to understand the reason for this.(Thanks @hotsoup for the link.)Nexus 10 now receiving Android 4.2.1 update - fixes December Bug &gt;&gt; TalkAndroid.comLook what just appeared on my Nexus 10 around midnight tonight. Yes, that's Android 4.2.1! This is a small 1MB update that fixes the now infamousDecember bug. Other potential changes could include improved battery life and stability, but without an official changelog that's just speculation at the moment.Impressively fast work. (Thanks @lollygagging for the link.)You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Microsoft says it has sold 40 million Windows 8 licences in its first month - a statistic that compares favourably with 60m sold in the first two months of Windows 7 in 2009.Theannouncement by Tami Reller, the new head of the Windows division following thedefenestration of Steven Sinofsky, comes as Microsoft faces increasing challenges from tablets made by Apple and Android manufacturers, from the rapid growth of smartphones, and from a global slowdown in PC sales.The figure for licences sold does not necessarily translate into machines running Windows 8, because corporations which buy Windows enterprise licences also get the right to downgrade to Windows 7. Microsoft hasn't split out what proportion of the sales are to corporate customers, and does not do so. However, as a proportion of buyers, they are likely to be small.The figure for licences sold may also include PCs that have been manufactured, but are not yet in the hands of users.In the first three quarters of 2009, PC shipments ran at about 72m per quarter; for the same period in 2012 they are running at 87m per quarter, a 21% increase. That suggests a proportionally greater number of licences sold so far.Speaking at a Credit Suisse conference, Reller said: "The journey is just beginning, but I am pleased to announce today that we have sold 40 million Windows 8 licenses so far."The figures for licences sold in the first month aren't reflected in statistics collected by Net Applications, whichshowedthat there had been a smaller proportion of machines running Windows 8 a month after its launch than there was for Windows 7 at the same time. Net Applications said that Windows 8 made up just 1.01% of users visiting the sites it monitors; in 2009 the figure for Windows 7 a month after its launch was 3.67%.
Apple has reportedly fired the head of its mapping team following software glitches which annoyed customers and rained mockery on the company.It ousted Richard Williamson, the manager of its troubled mapping division, to regain public trust and draw a line under the fiasco,according to Bloomberg, citing company sources.Senior vice-president Eddy Cue pushed out Williamson as part of a management shake-up and he was now enlisting help from outside mapping-technology experts, Bloomberg reported.Apple, which has reputation for secrecy, did not make any public announcement and did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Cue, a troubleshooter and confidant of the company's late founder, Steve Jobs, is said to be "prodding" digital maps provider TomTom NV (TOM2) to fix the landmark and navigation data it shares with Apple.Apple previously used Google maps on its iPads and iPhones but dropped its rival's maps in iOS 6, software introduced in September, and used its own mapping technology.Glitches dogged the software. It muddled landmarks and directions and led to confusion in several countries, including Ireland where Dublin airport appeared to have moved from the north to the south of the city.Customers took to Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr and other social media to vent anger and scorn, a rare pillorying for Apple just as it tried to recover from Jobs's death. The criticism did not appear to dent sales of the iPhone 5 but Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook apologized to customers."We are extremely sorry for the frustration this has caused our customers and we are doing everything we can to make maps better," he said in the statement.The bungle led to the ousting of mobile-software chief Scott Forstall in October – apparently because he refused to sign the apology for the app. He is is followed, it now seems, by Williamson. His title was vice-president of iOS platform services.
It's typical, you wait years for a Nintendo home console launch and then two come along at once. Not content with rolling out its new Wii U machine this Christmas, it seems the veteran hardware manufacturer has also refreshed the old Wii console. 7 December will see the launch of the Wii Mini, a black and red version of the eight-year-old best-seller, complete with a top-loading disc drive, but free from internet connectivity. Priced at $99 it seems the budget kit will only be launched in Canada this year, with other territories set to follow in 2013. Yes,Canada.Re-designing consoles throughout their life cycle is, of course, common practice, with one final budget model often appearing just before a new generation arrives. Nintendo's is certainly one of the more stylish offerings in this class: in September Sony launched a cheaper version of the PS3 which was highly reminiscent of an eighties radio cassette player.The Wii Mini will ship with a sensor bar, red Wii MotionPlus controller and red nunchuk. The slab-like device is designed to be horizontally, unlike the original Wii which also stands on its side. Rumours of the miniaturised machine first started circulating earlier this week, and then North American retailer Best Buy featured the console on its websitebefore an official confirmation.Meanwhile, Nintendo of America chief Reggie Fils-Aime has reacted strongly to suggestions that the Wii U console is based on under-powered technology. In aninterview with CNEThe raged: "In the end, our competitors need to react to what we're doing in the marketplace and need to figure out what their innovation will be. It's likely that faster processors and pretty pictures won't be enough to motivate consumers. They need to react to what we've done and we need to continue innovating with the Wii U and we will."The Wii U is launching in Europe this Friday.
Microsoft has been given a patent on "augmented reality" (AR) glasses that would enhance sports and other live events with streams of information beamed directly in front of the user – even including action replays and lyrics of songs.The move means that it could soon join Google in offering AR systems for widespread use, after the search giant unveiled its own Google Glass project earlier this year, intended to be used all the time as the user goes about their daily life.And the AR business is expected to be worth a lot very soon: according to the consultancy Mindcommerce, which suggests that AR revenues will exceed $3bn by 2015, that mobile commerce revenues will be doubled by 2015 with AR applications, and that mobile phone AR applications will generate $2.2bn of revenues in the same year.Apple too has gotpatents for an AR system, granted in February 2010, which would work with a "handheld communication device" – though Patently Apple, which follows every patent granted to the Cupertino company, notes that it was granted a patentas far back as 2009 (and filed in 2007) for a head-mounted video player– though expectations then that "we can see that Apple's next bold move in their iPod family could very well be the introduction of an iPod video headset display" turned out to be wide of the mark.Microsoft is clearly aiming at a broad market with its "live event" idea: theUSPTO patent, filed in May 2011, describes:A computer implemented method providing supplemental information to a user with a head mounted display viewing a live event, comprising: receiving an indication that a user is attending a live event, the live event having an event duration; determining a field of view of the user through the head mounted display, and objects within the field of view at the live event; retrieving supplemental information describing at least the objects in the field of view of the user during a portion of the live event; determining elements of said supplemental information to present to the user in the head mounted display; and displaying the supplemental information in one or more display elements in the head mounted display.Microsoft suggests that its AR glasses could add lyrics during a live performanceIn other words, taking in what is in the field of view and adding data to it through the system you're using to view it. The examples given are sports events and singing (apparently opera), but since Microsoft hasrecently demonstrated live language translation to and from Chinese, the phrase "live event" might actually be much wider than just sports. A "live event" is just something you happen to be doing - it doesn'thaveto involve sports or singing.Microsoft says it would be able to offer instant replays directly through its AR glasses, as well as annotating what's happening on the fieldAnd AR is beginning to get into a growing number of devices – principally, for now, smartphones. Nokia's Lumia range with Windows Phone 8 includes "City Lens" which shows the distance and approximate direction of places of interest arranged on the screen when you hold it up.Layarhas been offering AR for Android and the iPhone for years (Ifirst wrote about the field in July 2009).In September, Juniper Research forecast that there will have been 2.5bn downloads of AR apps to smartphones and tablets each year by 2017; for brands looking to push their products, it's a great way to get in front of people (and Google's first video for Glass did suggest that advertising might be quite a common feature of the systems).Google, as is well known, is pushing ahead rapidly with Google Glass – Sergey Brin, the co-founder of Google, showed off the latest version of the system at Google I/O in May, and the company has said that it will start selling prototypes to developers starting in 2013.With Microsoft and Google going head-to-head – or maybe face-to-face – in AR glasses, perhaps it will be inevitable that Apple will join in, to create a fresh platform as the touchscreen smartphone starts to look dated.But that raises further questions straight away: will Google keep a monopoly on Glass, or will Android licencees such as Samsung be allowed to participate – and if they do, will they want to tweak the glasses in their own way? What can Microsoft do with what is essentially a smartphone with attached glasses if it doesn't have any significant smartphone share – or would this help it along? And, ultimately, will AR glasses improve our world or just be another distraction – to add to the one we already have from the screens of our smartphones?
This week on Tech Weekly with Aleks Krotoski, we look at the must-have games for those Xmas stockings. Aleks is joined by the Guardian's games correspondent Keith Stuart and bygames writer and Ginx TV presenter Lucy Jamesto discuss gaming gold in 2012 and look at trends in the games sector.Aleks is also joined by the Guardian Technology editor Charles Arthur to talk about the public spat between Hewlett-Packard and theBritish tech entrepreneur Dr Mike Lynch over the $7bn (£4.4bn) spent on acquiring Lynch's company Autonomy. Charles and Aleks also discuss the latest IBM e-commerce figures around the sales frenzy in the UK commonly known as Black Friday.
And how was your Monday evening?
A quick burst of 8 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamGoogle [doesn't] acquires US national high-traffic broadband Wi-Fi provider ICOA Inc. for $400M [Update: Nope] &gt;&gt; TechCrunchNote that the following is not true:Google todayannouncedthat it has acquired Rhode Island-based ICOA, Inc. in a deal worth $400 million, as it looks to "further diversify it's already impressive portfolio of companies." ICOA provides wireless broadband Internet in high-traffic public areas, which include marinas, restaurants and airports, and offers Wi-Fi hotspot design, installation and maintenance.Techcrunch and others soon had to publish embarrassed retractions. IF you look at the accounts of ICOA, a penny stock, you realise that there's something quite weird going on. This looks like an attempt by persons unknown to ramp the stock - there's no way the company is worth $400m - so an SEC investigation is pretty much certain.Apollo Plus: Microsoft's next Windows Phone update to include Wi-Fi, audio, and other fixes &gt;&gt; The VergeTom Warren:We're told that Microsoft is preparing to include VPN support in Windows Phone, a missing option since the reset of Microsoft's mobile OS efforts, that will allow corporate users to connect to work systems -- this feature may make it into the first Apollo Plus update. A Wi-Fi connection fix is also planned to let connections always remain on, alongside some audio improvements. Apollo Plus will also test Microsoft's ability to deliver Windows Phone 8 updates over-the-air, a change from the previous OS that required users to plug devices into PCs to get similar updates."Apollo Plus" will be the update to Windows Phone 8. But read on below..Windows Phone team: this is no way to treat early adopters &gt;&gt; SuperSite for WindowsPaul Thurrott:Understanding that the Windows Phone team had bought into the same ludicrous wall of secrecy policy that Steven Sinofsky foisted on the Windows team, I didn't bother asking about Windows Phone 7.8 at all between the June announcement and the late October release of Windows Phone 8. I simply assumed that Microsoft would silently ship the WP 7.8 update, over the air, and to all Windows Phone 7.5 users, on or before the day that WP 8 shipped.Nope.So I asked at that time. And--yep, you guessed it--I received the big "no comment." (At least they responded.)Today, almost exactly one month after the Windows Phone 8 release and over 5 months after it was announced, Microsoft has never really publicly discussed Windows Phone 7.8 again nor has it hinted at when it might be released.Microsoft, silence is no way to treat early adopters, the people who are your most loyal customers.Windows 8's early uptake trumps Vista's &gt;&gt; ComputerworldMicrosoft's Windows 8 may be lagging far behind Windows 7 in its usage uptake, but it's easily topping the low bar set by Windows Vista, according to data from Web metric firm Net Applications.Windows 8 accounted for 0.45% of all computers running Windows during October, Net Applications noted earlier this month, five times less than Windows 7's 2.33% for the same month three years ago...Numbers recently unearthed on Net Applications' website, however, now allow a head-to-head comparison for previous months.By the end of January 2007 - Vista debuted Jan. 30 of that year - the then-new OS powered just 0.19% of all Windows systems, or less than half that of Windows 8 after its Oct. 26, 2012 release."Less bad than Vista" isn't really a great marketing line.Don't sue over tweets :: &gt;&gt; Future Of The InternetJonathan Zittrain on why TV stations should get different treatment from individual Twitter users:The answer is that television stations can and should have fact checking and legal departments as part of the cost of responsible business. Individuals cannot be held to a similar practice, and a series of uneven threats that stills the speech of only the most lawyer-sensitive will unduly undermine the huge value of a service such as Twitter. There may be call to go after the most egregious malicious actors -- those who intentionally seek to sow untrue and damaging information about a specific person -- but the very identification of 10,000 uncoordinated tweets and retweets suggests something other than bad faith by all. Traditional media can remain vibrant precisely by upholding a higher standard and helping social media to sift truth from falsehood.What if a tweet reaches more people - because Twitter is a broadcast network - than the original TV programme?The Android engagement paradox &gt;&gt; asymcoHorace Dediu digs into the IBM analytics about Black Friday e-commerce access:This I consider to be a paradox: Why is Android attracting late adopters (or at least late adopter behavior) when the market is still emergent? We've become accustomed to thinking that platforms that look similar are used in a similar fashion. But this is clearly not the case. The shopping data is only one proxy but there are others: developers and publishers have been reporting distinct differences in consumption on iOS vs. Android and, although anecdotal, the examples continue to pile up.And engagement is not a frivolous platform attribute. It is highly causal to success because it correlates with all cash flows associated with ecosystem value creation. Especially when a platform like Android depends more on engagement than "monetizing hardware."I'm not satisfied with the explanation that Android users are demographically different because the Android user pool is now so vast and because the most popular devices are not exactly cheap.Shipments of ultrabooks, ultra-like models to double in 2013, say Taiwan makers &gt;&gt; DigitimesUltrabooks will account for 10% of global notebook shipments in 2013, and ultra-like ones will make up another 10%, the sources estimated.On the basis that notebooks are about 60% of total PC shipments, that would make ultrabooks about 12% of total PC shipments, or 41m over the year (assuming 340m total Windows PC shipments).The secret of a successful programming language? A really great beard &gt;&gt; Wired.comTwo academics at Princeton and the University of California, Berkeley are combing through mountains of data trying to tackle thismystery of the modern world. They think the answer may lie with how well a language is documented. Or with the reality that the average programmer doesn't have the time or the inclination to learn more than a handful of programming tools. Or even with the age-old tendency of academics to build stuff that's gloriously clever but completely impractical.But a man namedTamir Kahsonhas a different answer. He thinks it's all about the beard.Brace yourself for Beardcember.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
It was Cyber Monday deal that wasn't. On Monday morning as people took advantage of the online sales, Google appeared to be doing a little shopping of its own. The search giant had snapped up ICOA, a Wi-Fi firm for $400m, according to a press release and subsequent news stories. Only it hadn't.The flurry of interest in ICOA started with a post on PRWeb.com,an cut-price online news distributor that claims its news is seen by more than 2.75m people a day. Google had made the purchase to "further diversify it's [sic] already impressive portfolio of companies", said the release. It described ICOA's operations, offering Wi-Fi in 40 states in high traffic locations such as airports and restaurants and gave contact information for the company.The story was picked up by the Associated Press – apparently without further checks. But almost as soon it appeared, it was being denied by Google and ICOA executives. News outlets, including the AP, pulled or amended their stories. But not quickly enough to prevent the penny stock shares briefly leaping from 1¢ to 5¢. More than 3.321bn shares traded hands before the stock was frozen. ICOA trades about 926,000 shares on an average day.Sam Hamadeh, chief executive of PrivCo, an analyst which specialises in private companies, said the press release looked like a classic scam. "I've seen similar stunts with biotech firms that are supposed to have made a new breakthrough but never anything so brazen."In similar schemes, Hamadeh said, people buy shares ahead of the scam then sell out on the "news" before they are uncovered. But usually such frauds avoid high profile companies like Google.Given that the size of the company and access to internet records as well as trading accounts, Hamadeh predicted the culprits would soon be identified. But the money may already be gone."I think they'll soon find out who did it, but they may also find that the money is now in a series of bank accounts in Nigeria," he said.PRWeb's owner Vocus said in a statement: "PRWeb transmitted a press release for ICOA that we have since learned was fraudulent. The release was not issued or authorized by ICOA. Vocus reviews all press releases and follows an internal process designed to maintain the integrity of the releases we send out every day."Even with reasonable safeguards identity theft occurs, on occasion, across all of the major wire services. We have removed the fraudulent release and turned the matter over to the proper authorities for further investigation."More established PR distribution networks like Business Wire and PR Newswire make rigorous checks with their clients, talking through the wording of a release in some cases, before issuing a release.PR Newswire had to tighten up its checking procedures in 2010 after a hoax release falsely claimed President Barack Obama had ordered an investigation into General Mills' supply chain.The established players have been undercut by new rivals like PRWeb in recent years. On its website PRWeb claims: "PRWeb 'democratized' news distribution, transforming the 'press release' from an expensive tool used by large corporations to an inexpensive yet highly effective way for organizations of all sizes to distribute their news on the Internet, increase their visibility online and attract customers."The Associated Press said it withdrew its story about the purported deal after being told the news release was a hoax. By the time of publication, it had not responded to a request by the Guardian to disclose whether it had made any attempts to check the press release before posting the original article.
Barclays is ordering roughly 8,500 iPads for front-office staff in its 1,600 branches - an average of five per branch - in one of the largest uses so far of Apple's tablets in an enterprise, and one of its first in a UK high street bank.It also marks a key shift for Apple: the deployment by a giant high street name suggests that it has now become a contender for enterprise contracts in a way that it never could have even a few years ago.The iPad beat a number of other tablet contenders based on "colleague and customer feedback", though Barclays would not specify which rivals were used in testing.The contract wasfirst revealed by The Registeron Friday.It follows pilot testing by senior Barclays staff in 2011, and a limited rollout to "selected groups of staff" earlier this year, asrevealed by Computing in February.At that time Barclays retail chief operating officer Shaygan Kheradpir, who is behind the new contract, said that the plan had begun with "pockets of implementation" supplying different smartphones and tablets. But he said that senior staff had been impressed with the "instant-on" nature of the iPad - then in its second generation - and the rear-mounted cameras: "The camera on the iPad 2 is better than most scanners. It can upload the file directly to the internal cloud. You can secure it and tag it and off it goes. Why have paper and a scanner?"But a key concern was security, as it will always be with banks: "My iPad is fully secure," he told Computing. "I have an internal app store we deployed withMobile Ironand there is heavy mobile device management on it. It knows where it is, and what networks it is allowed to attach to. We also use encryption from Good Technologies, which we deploy as an app."A key use for the devices now being deployed will be by front-office staff, who will be able to use apps including one called "Mortgage Brain" - used to show mortgages to potential mortgagees, or more often customers waiting in line.As Kherapdir pointed out to Computing, "As a consumer, when you go to a bank and you have a meeting with someone you end up talking to the back of their monitor. Wouldn't it be nice to talk to someone just holding a tablet?"However Barclays was unwilling to expand on its reasoning for choosing Apple's device - or on why it chose the iPad over other devices. In a statement, it said: "We are always looking for new ways to improve the service we deliver to our customers and the integration of technology, both in-branch and online, is one of the ways in which we can do this. We needed a solution to assist our branch colleagues to interact with customers, improving the customer experience, so we investigated a number of different tablet options, whilst also listening to colleague and customer feedback,  and in this instance, we concluded that ipads [sic] were the best solution for their specific needs. We are now starting to roll these out across Barclays branches in the UK."However this could be a key move that might see Barclays, and possibly other banks, deploy iPads more widely. Apple's tablet has begun to prove its enterprise capability: when the US National Transportation Safety Board (BTSB) announced last week that it was abandoning RIM's BlackBerry for the iPhone 5, one of the reasons it gave for a non-competitive tender (that is, choosing the iPhone directly) was that "The NTSB currently utilizes Apple iPad devices and operational support is already in place to support Apple's IOS operating system" and that by doing so it "also anticipates the benefit of synching of the iPad devices and the iPhone devices, allowing users to seamlessly transition between the use of multiple platforms while retaining the same applications and capabilities."At ZDNet,Zack Whittaker specuiatesthat this is only the beginning of a wider rollout of the iPad within Barclays - that it wouldn't buy such a comparatively small number (he estimates the hardware cost at around £4m, which sounds reasonable, and points out that training costs might be substantial too) without having broader plans.Certainly that fits with what I've been hearing from sources in banks, who aren't enamoured with Microsoft's approach (which they see as money-grabbing - based on the cost of licences - and slow, based on the fact that Windows 8 is only now arriving).As Whittaker also points out, the iPad is at an advantage here for precisely the reason that so many internet commenters like to complain about it vis-a-vis Android tablets: lack of expansibility (such as memory card slots) and access to the file system. Without those, an employee can't stick a bit of storage into the side of the device and siphon off a ton of data; and with the lockdown offered on iOS devices (including encrypted content), it has all the things that reassure the necessarily paranoid in any bank's IT department.Yes, Android can be hardened - but not, it seems, sufficiently to satisfy the NTSB or Barclays. The Pentagon is looking at deploying Android devices - but has the resources to do its own custom build.The rollout at Barclays could see further use at other banks. Mortgage Brain, the app that will initially be used by the Barclays front office staff, is produced by a company jointly owned by Santander, Lloyds Banking Group (including C&amp;G, Halifax, Bank Of Scotland, Lloyds TSB Scotland, Intelligent Finance and Birmingham Midshires), Nationwide (including The Mortgage Works), Northern Rock, Royal Bank Of Scotland (including NatWest) and Barclays (including Woolwich).They, with their subsidiaries, account for more than 65% of the new business mortgage market within the UK.
The Nokia Lumia 920 is not what you'd call understated. Its size and weight have been remarked on in other reviews, but for the record, it's 130.3mm x 70.8mm and weighs in at 185g, which, Google tells me, is the same as agift box of Beech's Classic Mint Selection. (Or 19.4 £1 coins, using thePocket-Lint measure; the iPhone 5 is 12 coins, Samsung Galaxy S3 at 133g is 14 coins exactly - Tech ed..)I'm fine with that; in fact I quite like its heft in my hand, but then I carry it in my handbag. If you prefer to stash a phone in a pocket rather than a handbag or manbag, this could well be too big.The choice of colours mostly isn't understated, either: the review handset was pillarbox red; other options are a sort of fluorescent custard yellow, or white or the more sober grey or black options.ScreenNokia Lumia 920 home screen. Windows Phone now allows quarter-size tiles (and half-size ones which run across the screen)The screen is very good: at 4.5in and with a resolution of 768 x 1280, it's not quite inphabletterritory, but feels big enough to choose the full version of websites rather than mobile ones. The colours are rich (a previous Windows phone I used, the HTC HD7, always felt a bit washed out), the blacks are deep and text is sharp. If anything, the colours can be a bit too saturated – choose your accent colour (used as the system-wide colouring) carefully.Build and robustnessNokia is keen to stress how sturdy this phone is: at the launch I went to, the Nokia people were enthusiastically talking about how it can withstand being dropped. Lumia 800 users thinking of upgrading will be very glad the flimsy flap that covered the mini-USB port in the Lumia 800 has gone, and the tray for the micro-sim is now properly secured; I dropped my Lumia 800 and neither the flap nor the carrier were ever the same again.The downside of the monobloc body of course is that you can't replace the battery, and the smooth body, broken only by the three hardware buttons (which are standard on all Windows phones – Microsoft controls the design tightly) also means that there's no SD card slot. However, it's got 32GB of storage on board, and there's 7GB of Skydrive space thrown in.Integration with Skydrive – Microsoft's cloud storage offering – is tight. You can save attachments or photos and documents you create on the phone direct to Skydrive, and as part of the setup process, the phone offers to save texts, settings and photos to the cloud.Interface: switching costsWindows Phone 8 'What's New' notification screenI've been a Windows Phone user for a while, so I'm used to the interface, but for someone thinking of switching from another platform, the OS could be something of a learning curve. On the upside, it's the same on every WP handset – Microsoft doesn't allow the custom UIs that manufacturers use to differentiate their Android offerings.Those who like to tweak how their phone looks won't be happy. You can change the colour of the tiles, and choose either a light or a dark background, and you can choose what you pin to the homescreen, and pick one of three sizes for tiles on the home screen. But that's it. There's no wallpaper in WP, nor themes nor mods.Having said that, you can set up the home screen to be both personal and useful – you can pin any app and individual contact cards from the People hub to it. WP uses live tiles rather than icons – the flat design and the emphasis on information being displayed on those tiles is quite different to the home screen of any other platform where dumb icons are the order of the day. (Android's widgets come close.)My home screen includes the Me tile, where I can see at a glance how many social media notifications I've got; my email live tile, which displays the number of unread emails (I know, that's more common across other platforms); live tiles for my most-used contacts, which tell me if there's any contact from any of them, as well as tiles for settings and the apps I use most – Google search (sorry, Microsoft); Addison Lee, Kindle, the People hub and the Photos hub.People, get togetherFriend's photo album in the People Hub on Windows Phone 8ThePeople hubis for me the compelling reason to use Windows Phone. Sign in to your accounts – the choices are an Exchange account, Hotmail, Nokia (does anyone actually have a Nokia account, though?), Nokia Mail, Yahoo Mail, Google, LinkedIn or indeed any other email provider offering POP3 or IMAP, and all your contacts will show up in the People hub. Spend a bit of time going through and linking any duplicates and you'll get one merged contact card for each.You can filter the contacts list to show only contacts from chosen accounts – probably a good idea if you follow a lot of people on Twitter. However, they are more than just contact cards: from an individual's contact, you can call or text them, send an email, write on their Facebook wall, send them a tweet and see their latest social media post – and reply to that. However, sweep through to the next screen and you'll see their most recent online activity too: Facebook posts, posted photos, tweets and retweets; and again, you can interact with those right there without having to fire up the relevant app.Windows Phone 8 shows your "history" with a contact on a single screenSwipe along to the next screen in the People card, and if you're Facebook friends with them, you can see all their albums (subject to the permissions they've set, of course), and like, tag and comment on photos. There's no link to Twitter pictures, though. The final screen shows a recent history of your interactions with them – texts, calls and emails, but not social media. What this means is that you don't need to open dedicated apps for Facebook or Twitter very often – though you will have to if you want to see and reply to private messages, check out or admin brand pages, or indeed see your whole stream. The aggregated What's New screen in the contacts view of the People hub will collect updates from both Facebook and Twitter, but it's not a satisfactory way to keep up with a lot of people.New: Rooms and GroupsBaked in to this version of Windows Phone is the ability to create Rooms and Groups. The separation between the two is a bit confusing, though. In Rooms, you invite participants – family, closest friends, whatever – and then you can share calendars, notes and chats privately between you. Only Windows Phone 7/8 users will get the full functionality though, and iPhone users can be members and use shared calendars, but you can't include them in group chat.You don't need permission to add someone to a group: it's local to the handset. Groups are simply a way to filter updates from smaller numbers of people, and you can also send joint texts and IMs to them.Kid's Corner: hands offWhat is more useful is Kid's Corner: a space where you add content – games, apps, music and video – that you're happy for the anklebiters to use, while your stuff (emails, settings, NSFW content) remains out of reach of their sticky fingers. You have to introduce a lock on the home screen, and then Kid's Corner is a swipe right from there. In effect, it's almost another user account - one that's a subset of the main user's.Camera and softwareGiven the rigid definition of the hardware – OEMs must stick to the design set out by Microsoft – manufacturers face a challenge differentiating Windows Phone handsets. Nokia does so with its camera hardware and software. Its PureView technology in effect stabilises the camera inside the phone by housing it in a cage with a gyroscope so that it moves to compensate for your wobbly hand. This means that you can get decent, non-wobbly, longer exposures, meaning it performs surprisingly well in low light: the pictures are also remarkably not too noisy.The camera is an 8.7 megapixel device with a 16:9 BSI sensor that can also capture full HD video (1920 x 1080). The results are really quite good: this is the first phone I've used where I'd be happy to rely on it as my sole camera for an event rather than taking my DSLR along.It's easy to use: the hardware button (under your right index finger when holding the phone in landscape mode) wakes the phone up and goes straight to the camera. I suggest turning the flash off: it's very harsh, and the phone handles low light well. Zooming is done by pinching the screen and you can share directly from the captured image to Facebook, Twitter, Skydrive, MMS or email.Video is pretty straightforward, too, though bafflingly, there are no video-editing tools on the phone: you'll have to do any tweaking or cutting on a computer.Where it gets fun is with the editing tools Nokia provides. Cinemagraph isn't, as you might expect, a video-editing app: what that does is create animated gifs from a series of pictures. This creates the effect ofpart of an image moving while the rest of the shot is static. However, you can't share those directly from the phone – you need to pluck it off the handset via a computer and send it on from there, which is a bit irritating if you're dedicated to social media.More useful is Smart Shoot, which allows you to combine the best bits of a series of photographs so that your snaps of the family at Christmas won't be spoiled by Dad blinking: you can swap in his face from another image in the sequence. You can also remove unwanted objects from photographs, such as passers-by, or perhaps your ex.There are rudimentary photo-editing tools on board with Creative Studio, and despite the mutterings about the understocked app store, plenty of third-party apps for you to add filters, effects etc to your snaps. And you can create panoramas with the Panorama app, or scan barcodes and QR codes straight from the camera screen using Bing Vision via the Lenses, which also launch Cinemagraph and Smart Shoot.More than a camera lens: City Lens and MapsOutside the house, your phone can become your virtual guide, with its excellent maps and navigation apps, and, if you don't mind looking a bit silly, the augmented reality app, Nokia City Lens, will if you switch on the camera overlay the image with information about local businesses, attractions, eateries and transport. Nokia Transport is also good: it uses your location to find the public transport options: perfect for finding your way home from an unfamiliar part of town.Some of what's included is gimmicky. This phone can charge wirelessly if you treat yourself to either the wireless charging plate or one of thefew (though doubtless there will be more) wireless charging accessoriessuch as speakers I'm not convinced that isn't a bit of a waste of time: you can also charge it the old-fashioned way, via the micro-USB port, and goodness knows, most of us have several of those chargers hanging around the house and don't need another charging device. Especially not in the lurid colour choices.NFCNFC is part of the package – you can tap to exchange contact cards with someone with a similarly equipped phone. But, um, that's it for now, though there is the promise of more functionality in due course. NFC will also – eventually – drive contactless payments, though for now, the Wallet hub, which will drive those, is simply an area to store details such as your PayPal account, library card, and credit and debit cards. At present those can only be used for purchases via the Marketplace, and I'm not sure how comfortable I am about carrying around my card details on my phone. You set a PIN to access the Wallet, but it still feels a leap of trust I'm not ready to make.For those who need a work phone, this comes with full-fat Office on board, and of course syncs seamlessly with an Exchange server, and also connects via an app to a Sharepoint server. However, there's no native remote desktop client, which is infuriating given that there was on previous versions of Windows Mobile (dumped in favour of Windows Phone more than two years ago), and the third-party options in the app store are either limited, lacklustre or a bit pricey.As a phoneAnd finally, what's it like as a phone? It's a 4G handset, though I've been using it on 3G with my 3 sim, and it's been absolutely fine at holding on to the signal, even in my basement flat where other handsets have struggled. Battery life is indifferent: I found it would die towards late suppertime – so definitely charge it up overnight. I don't think it's any better or worse than my Lumia 800, which I'd rely on to last the day but if I were going out for a late night I'd give it a blast of juice before I go. I don't use voice much, though: I email, text etc. And I've turned off NFC, Bluetooth and background tasks; I suspect it would die faster with those on. If you start playing with it – messing about with pictures, or downloading apps from the store – you'll find the juice draining away quite quickly. I haven't had any problems with calls, though I have one tiny quibble with the onscreen keyboard, which is that the space bar is very small – smaller than on its predecessor, the Lumia 800 – which meant I often hit the comma key instead of the space bar.It is, as remarked previously, a big handset, but I haven't found ittoobig, and I've got small hands. On the contrary, the spacious screen has been a boon to my middle-aged eyes: I have trouble focusing close up on small print and images. And for the terminally middle-aged, you can toggle on a setting that means a double tap with two fingers will expand the text on the screen.One piece of very good news is that you don't have to use an app to sync the phone to your Windows desktop: unlike the WP7.x devices, it shows up as a removable drive in Windows and you can simply drag and drop. If you want to sync, the Zune software has been replaced by the clunkily named Windows Phone App for desktop, which does the job adequately.ConclusionsThis is a very nice handset indeed. It feels like a high-quality device, and it feels like a sturdy device that will stand up to being lugged about in a handbag. There are some quibbles – some of the Nokia apps are fun but a bit, well, useless; the wireless charging is a bit of a gimmick; battery life could be better. And yes, the app store has significantly fewer apps than Google Play or the Apple App Store. Having said that, for me, there's nothing missing, although others will miss Instagram and taxi app Hailo.One big WTF is the fact that it's only available in the UK on contract via Everything Everywhere, the 4G operator, or unlocked, which means this very nice phone probably won't get the user base and wider audience it deserves. But if you've got the money to spend, it's a very capable phone at the luxury end of the market.From Nokia:http://www.nokia.com/gb-en/products/phone/lumia920Pros:lovely screen, 4G, sturdy, quality buildCons:Not widely enough available, expensive, gimmicky in places. Some will think it too big.
Samsung Electronicsadmits it has found&nbsp;illegal work practicesin an audit of 105 of its Chinese suppliers – but it has given the companies two more years to eliminate it. The audit of 65,000 employees follows accusations byChina Labor Watch, an independent labour rights group based in New York, which alleged in August that Samsung suppliershired children and used "inhumane" working conditions, and in September that there wasillegal discrimination in hiring policesat&nbsp;some Samsung&nbsp;suppliers.Samsung said it found no evidence of child labourers, having carried out face-to-face checks on all staff aged under 18. The South Korean company – the world's largest maker of mobile phones and smartphones, and one of the biggest suppliers of memory chips and touch screens – said it had found instances of Chinese employees working overtime beyond legal hours and being fined for absence or lateness.The admission followed a four-week audit of the suppliers, though the company did not say how many had been breaching the conditions, saying only that it was "several". Audits are continuing at 144 more of its suppliers in China.The revelation follows a growing focus on the hiring and work practices in China by large electronics companies, including Apple, Microsoft, Motorola and now Samsung.Apple has come under criticism over the past two years after reports of suicides and injuries at Foxconn, the Taiwanese company which owns and operates a number of huge plants making Apple products in China.China Labor Watch says Samsung is also guilty of bad hiring and working practices.Acknowledging the problems found at the suppliers, Samsung said: "We have identified the need for initiatives to reduce employee overtime as a top priority, and we are researching and developing measures that will eliminate hours beyond legal limits by the end of 2014." It said it would develop a longer-term plan to "resolve" the working hours problem by the end of this year.In August, China Labor Watch alleged it had carried out three investigations during June and July and uncovered child and student labour exploitation at Samsung's supplier HEG Electronics (Huizhou), which worked on mobile phones, DVD players, stereos and MP3 players. It claimed in the first case that seven children under 16 were working in the department investigated, which it said suggests that child labour was "a common practice in the factory". It would also break Chinese employment laws."Our research indicates that student workers amount to 80% of the factory workforce," China Labor Watch said, claiming that there could have been between 50 and 100 children, the youngest being 14, at the factory, and paid just 70% of adult wages. "Moreover, these child workers were often required to carry out dangerous tasks that resulted in injury."Samsung said in September that it would investigate the allegations. However, child labour may be a seasonal problem, with hiring increasing during the summer holidays from early July to late August.Samsung said its suppliers must adopt new hiring procedures, and that it will cancel contracts if child labour is found in future.Apple supplier Foxconn admitted in October that it had illegally taken a number of children on to its workforce through a "schools programme".• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".• To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian onTwitterandFacebook.
The modern games industry's trend towards milking successful games by turning them into franchises and churning out new iterations every other year is profoundly depressing. Yet every so often, a game comes along which is so irresistible that it leaves you wondering whether sequelitis might actually be a good thing. Far Cry 3 being a classic example.Ubisoft's two previous takes on Far Cry were pretty widely admired, both being solid, well structured and nice-looking examples of open-world first-person shooters – a tricky genre to nail. But Far Cry 3 makes such a big leap forward from its predecessors that it single-handedly elevates the franchise into the big-league. And it achieves that by marrying what may be the most acutely honed open-world FPS engine with one of the best story components ever to grace a game. A considerable achievement given that, almost by definition, the gameplay craved by fans of open-world shooters is more or less at odds with storytelling.Far Cry 3 starts brilliantly, with a montage of phone and video footage documenting the high holidaying jinks of a bunch of moderately obnoxious American students on Rook Island, an apparently idyllic Pacific paradise. But after a parachute jump, things go unspeakably wrong, with the party captured by Vaas, a gloriously characterised and very believable psychopath, who has an ego the size of a planet and is given to philosophising about the nature of madness and random acts of chilling violence.Playing Jason Brody, you manage to escape with the help of your similarly incarcerated and Army-trained brother, who is gunned down as you flee. You're rescued by Dennis Rogers, a Liberian immigrant trying to mobilise the one village on Rook Island not in thrall to Vaas, and end the latter's reign of terror. A military expert prone to mysticism, Dennis instructs you, as Brody, in the art of becoming a guerrilla warrior.Naturally, Jason sets about rescuing the surviving members of his holiday gang – including his girlfriend, Liza, encountering along the way helpful characters like Dr Earnhardt – a brain-fried psychotropic alchemist – and Citra, the female leader of a tribe resembling the Mayans.Far Cry 3's story is vivid and characterful, yet you can dip into it whenever you want. After all, there's a lush island to explore, and countless side-missions, including a whole set that play out a back-story showing what happened to Rook Island in WWII.Clever open-world processes reinforce the feeling that you're reinventing yourself as a survivalist: if you want to carry more than one gun, for example, you have to craft holsters out of the hides of various animals, so it pays to seek out and slaughter examples of the island's varied wildlife.As you complete missions and kill Vaas's soldiers, you earn XP, which can be spent on a huge number of skills, which become increasingly useful as the game progresses (and, sensibly, few are unlocked in the early stages, so the system never feels overwhelming).Plants can be picked and crafted into health and fire-resistance potions. Derelict radio masts cover the island, and when you climb them and activate them, the surrounding areas show up in great detail on your map. Unlike in many previous open-world shooters, all the subsystems mesh beautifully, in context with the story.Previous versions of Far Cry have required pretty hardcore first-person shooter skills, and that's true of Far Cry 3, although it leads you into its gameplay much more gently in the initial stages. The game's AI is still pretty rigorous, though, so you have to use your brains – going in all guns blazing is rarely an approach that succeeds, so instead you have to even the odds with stealth takedowns, disabling alarms and so on. Which will delight those who prefer their games more cerebral.And the storyline reinforces that impression: entertaining as it may be, there's never anything facile about it. You slowly learn the characters' motivations, and what made them such a bunch of monsters and weirdos, and while Jason is a bit of a cipher, his ever-expanding skillset gives you an emotional engagement with the experience he is undergoing.Not only is the single-player game huge, but it's backed up with pretty tidy co-operative and multiplayer modes. Far Cry 3 may chart the holiday from hell, but for any fan of open-world shooters, it will feel like the best holiday ever from the drudge of daily life.• Far Cry 3 was reviewed on Xbox 360
Every day, when skim-reading press releases in my inbox or scanning RSS feeds of new releases from the major App Stores, I feel tired.Tired of no-hope Instagram homages, bad homescreen fonts, Kim Kardashian live wallpapers, crap Talking Tom Cat rip-offs, APP TITLES IN CAPITALS, endless unauthorised One Direction fan apps, dubstep drum pads, "hot lingerie girls", badly-scraped e-books and Angry Birds clones.The long tail of the apps world certainly isn't lonely, but it is depressing. And the ennui extends to the more professional tier of seen-it-before apps.Like second-screen social TV startups ('Wait, not that many people are using the existing ones'). Or cutesy social freemium games with animals ('$69.99 for some gems? My child will like that!'). Or purely-promotional musician apps ('How have I coped until now without a way to read your tweets on a phone?'). And so on.And all this probably isn't a problem, because the dynamics of the app stores ensure that the vast majority of these apps will sink without trace, with only their developers and journalists foolish enough to immerse themselves in the app release stream ever knowing they existed.Even so: tired. Yet what may be a more worrying sign for the apps industry – note the "may" there, which I'll come back to later – is the suggestion that investors may be tiring of the consumer-focused mobile apps industry.Readthis blog postby Fred Wilson, a partner at VC firm Union Square Ventures who has invested in several startups in this space.He notes three recent trends: the fact that the consumer web has matured – "it is harder than ever to build a large audience from a standing start" – the way consumers are moving from desktop/web to mobile/app use, and the fact that "momentum/late stage investors have moved from consumer to enterprise".Here's what Wilson sees happening as a result:"The combination of these three factors is making it harder for consumer internet companies (web and mobile) to get funding. But the first two factors are also making it harder for consumer internet companies (web and mobile) to breakout which is more and more a prerequisite for funding. As venture portfolios fill up with promising companies with solid products that are struggling to breakout, the VCs will naturally be drawn ever more to the companies that are in fact breaking out. It is a pernicious cycle and we see it playing out very clearly in the consumer internet space these days."He goes on to say that even some of Union Square's best portfolio companies are finding it hard to raise funding in late 2012, warning that " the wind that has been at our back for 7-8 years in consumer internet is no longer there".Wilson's post was widely discussed over the weekend, and has already triggered awell-argued responsefrom Dave McClure, who founded the accelerator/investment fund 500 Startups.He advises caution before assuming that late-stage VCs have switched from consumer to enterprise as their focus for the long-term, suggesting that this has happened in the past before flipping back. "Most VCs switching from consumer to enterprise are clueless about why they're doing so," he adds for good measure."Consumer and small business internet opportunities are FAR from 'over', and any such commentary is foolish, narrow-minded, and simply dead wrong (altho, it may indeed be 'over' for most large funds attempting to do seed-stage investing at any scale similar to YC [Y Combinator] or 500).  In addition, i most certainly take issue with the statement that it's 'harder than ever to build a large audience'… nothing could be further from the truth. Almost every possible internet distribution channel has MORE users than ever before – whether it be search, social, mobile, video, local, SMS, email, chat, etc. And for those of us who invest outside silicon valley and new york, the global consumer opportunity is huge as well in Asia, Latin America, the Middle East, and other fast-growing internet and mobile markets."McClure cites the likes of Pinterest, Instagram, Groupon and Zynga as recent examples of startups who reached hundreds of millions of people in just a few years, as well as his own investments in startups like 9GAG, PicCollage and Cubie who reached tens of millions in less than a year.His key point is that in 2012, startups can build their initial product and reach lots of users cheaper and faster than in the past, which in turn means they're not as desperate for investment from larger VC companies until later on in their development.Neither Wilson nor McClure seems tired of apps, but their views make me optimistic for another reason: the idea that 2013 may see investors zeroing in on startups whose services – apps included – have a genuine shot at becoming popular, building sustainable businesses, and beingmeaningfulfor their users.Or to put it a different way: more caution from investors isn't necessarily a bad thing if it means stepping back, assessing the market and often simply asking "Who would want that app? No, really, who? And why do its creators need $7m anyway?"Investors tiring of funding consumer/mobile startups might be a concern, but investors tiring of fundingrubbishconsumer/mobile startups can only be a good thing, weeding out the me-toos and – perhaps – giving some of the genuinely innovative bootstrapped apps a bigger shot at success.Every day, when skim-reading press releases in my inbox or scanning RSS feeds of new releases from the major App Stores, I feel tired, then. But every day too, there are usually one or two apps whose potential shakes me out of that.There is lots of exciting, innovative and meaningful – the latter word should become a theme of 2013 in this space – stuff being done in the apps market. The biggest challenge for these apps is discovery rather than funding. But that's another article...
PositionGame (age rating)Platform(share%)Weeksin chart1 (1)Call Of Duty: Black Ops Ii(18+)Xbox 360 (59)PS3 (40)PC (1)22 (–)Hitman Absolution(18+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (42)13 (3)Fifa 13(3+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (32)Wii (6)VITA (6)94 (4)Assassin's Creed Iii(18+)Xbox 360 (49)PS3 (38)PC (13)45 (2)Halo 4(16+)Xbox 360 (100)36 (–)Lego The Lord Of The Rings(12+)Xbox 360 (50)PS3 (32)3DS (6)DS (6)17 (7)Just Dance 4(3+)Wii (91)Xbox 360 (8)PS3 (2)88 (5)Skylanders Giants (7+)Wii (43)Xbox 360 (23)PS3 (15)69 (6)Need For Speed Most Wanted(7+)Xbox 360 (44)PS3 (44)VITA (11)PC (1)410 (14)Dishonored(18+)Xbox 360 (55)PS3 (36)PC (9)711 (11)Wwe '13(16+)Xbox 360 (56)PS3 (39)412 (13)Moshi Monsters: Moshlings Theme Park(3+)DS (69)3DS (32)513 (–)Udraw Studio: Instant Artist (3+)Xbox 360 (46)PS3 (28)Wii (26)114 (20)Resident Evil 6(18+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (50)815 (10)Football Manager 2013(3+)PC (100)416 (18)New Super Mario Bros. 2(3+)3DS (100)1417 (12)The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim(15+)Xbox 360 (86)PS3 (10)PC (4)5018 (19)Medal Of Honor: Warfighter(16+)PS3 (47)Xbox 360 (49)519 (–)F1 2012(3+)Xbox 360 (51)PS3 (47)PC (1)920 (–)Book Of Spells(7+)PS3 (100)1UKIE Games Charts © compiled by GfK Chart-Track
Monday, here we go again. How was your weekend, then? I played Dishonored, Minecraft and... Nintendo Land!
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamHow to enable 4G LTE on the Google Nexus 4 &gt;&gt; TechCrunchFair warning: the Nexus 4 only supports LTE on the AWS band (1700 or 2100MHz), which is currently used for LTE networks in Canada, and for some areas served by T-Mobile's fledgling 4G network.Neither of those frequencies is presently used in the UK, though they might be after the January auctions (and by May).Firefox killing 64-bit version on Windows &gt;&gt; Firefox Google Groups* Amazingly, there is still the perception by some Windows Nightly users that the 64-bit MSVC builds are faster than their 32-bit counterparts [8], whereas even before the recent regressions that was not the case[5][6].* Users of 64-bit versions of Windows may be under the impression that 64-bit builds of Nightly are somehow "more correct" for their platform, especially since http://nightly.mozilla.org displays 32-bit and 64-bit Windows Nightly builds with equal prominence and no indication that the 64-bit builds are experimental/effectively untested.* Whilst there was a thorough discussion of the Win64 pros/cons[9], a follow-up summary of facts[10], and internally most of us know that Win64 builds aren't something that we'll be focusing on near-term - there doesn't appear to have been any public newsgroup/blog postings communicating the final decision. So it's not surprising that the average Nightly user is not aware that Win64 builds are pretty much unsuited for public consumption.Upshot: Mozilla is killing 64-bit Firefox on Windows. But the people who've been using it in nightly builds are horrified and outraged.Google wants to take on Apple with an open AirPlay alternative &gt;&gt; GigaOmJanko Roettgers:iPad and iPhone users have been able to beam content to their Apple TV without the need for any configuration for some time. It's arguably one of the reasons why Apple TV sells so well: Apple sold 5.3 million units of the device in its fiscal year 2012, which makes it by far the best-selling video streaming box. One could also argue that AirPlay-like functionality is one of the key features that's been missing from Android to successfully compete with the iPad.Google took a page from Apple's playbook when it rolled out its own AirPlay-like remote control feature for YouTube on Google TV last week. The company has since launched a dedicated micro-site to promote the feature, showing how serious it is taking second screen control. But it is not stopping there. [Google product manager Timbo] Drayson told me that Google is "actively working with other companies" to turn this into an open standard, which could be used on other platforms and for other apps as well.Astonishing if AppleTV is the best-selling video streaming box. But an open standard would benefit everyone - not just Google.Games by platform and genre &gt;&gt; ImgurAwesome collectionby a Redditorof games by topic and by platform since 1975. Gaze upon it in wonder.Sony's PS Vita portable console dying ugly in Japan &gt;&gt; ForbesTero Kuittinen:The inability [to deliver] a strong sales rebound during a major launch is a death knell for a video game console - and this is what Vita has demonstrated all through the autumn. For example, in October, Vita was the launch pad for a relatively big launch of "The Legend of Heroes". The game sold 21,000 units during its debut week - Vita sales bounced to 15,000 units and then dropped back to 6,000 weekly pace in just two weeks later. It looks identical to the impact that Assassin's Creed III is now having on Vita - negligible.PS Vita is going to struggle to hit 700,000 units in Japan during the calendar year 2012. This is far below viability. At the same time, Nintendo 3DS is riding a massive wave of blockbuster games week after week - Animal Crossing will hit 1m units next week, New Super Mario Bros stands at 1.3m, the latest Pokemon at 2.8m.Really not looking good for the Vita.Barclays Bank buys 8,500 Apple iPads in one go &gt;&gt; The RegisterA Barclays spokeswoman said:"We investigated a number of different tablet options and in this instance, we concluded that iPads were the best solution for their specific needs. We are now starting to use these across Barclays branches in the UK," she said.Barclays did not provide any detailed explanation on why it opted for Apple as opposed to one of the also-ran devices, but it is planning to use an app called Mortgage Brain that was specially designed for the iPad.Mortgage Brain is jointly owned by six banks including Barclays Woolwich, RBS, Virgin Money, Santander, Lloyds TSB and Nationwide.Post Apple rant, what have we learned? A visit with a "Genius" ain't enough &gt;&gt; John BattelleI think I've said it before, if you want to attract attention, write about Apple. A rant which had been boiling inside me for some months finally erupted into words last Thursday, and since that post, more than 60,000 people have come to this site, leaving more that 300 comments and sharing the story's link nearly 3000 times across four or so social networks.That may be normal for a site like the Huffington Post, but I think it's a record for Searchblog. Methinks I touched a nerve.What I found most interesting was the tone of the response - I had anticipated the standard Apple defenders to come out with blades sharpened, calling me a dumb old skool punter or worse. There was some of that, but the vast majority of folks who commented, either on Twitter, Facebook or here on the site, were instead supportive of my point of view, adding their own frustrating stories, as well as helpful suggestions.(Thanks @hotsoup for the link.)Fake Apple invoices lead to Blackhole exploit kit that drains your bank account &gt;&gt; Naked SecurityChester Wisniewski:The social engineering isn't exactly perfect. I haven't been known by the Windows variable %email% in at least 10 years. Whoever is behind this has paid a lot of attention to detail, though.The link "View/Download" ends in download.jpg.exe, while the "Cancel" and "Not your order" URLs end in check.php.The smart social engineering bit is that, whether you are simply curious what this is about or furious about this unauthorized charge, you are still likely to click one of the links.If you click any of the links, you are taken to an unrelated page proclaiming to be the IRS and saying you are not using a supported browser.And then installs the Zeus/ZBot Trojan, which logs keystrokes when you use bank accounts. (Zeus is Windows malware.)Understanding USB cables &gt;&gt; Saturday Morning Breakfast CerealRead this and it all becomes clear.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Prototypes of what would be the world's first fully 3D-printable plastic weapon could go into testing before the end of the year, the organization behind the controversial project has claimed."We're ready," said Cody Wilson, a spokesman for Defense Distributed, the company that hopes to manufacture the "Wiki Weapon". "We're sitting on the logistics, time, resources and money. We're just waiting on a little piece of paper."That little piece of paper is afederal firearms license, the permit that is needed to legally make and manufacture firearms in the United States. Barring an unexpected issue, Wilson expects the license will be granted within the next two or three weeks. Initially, the group planned to create prototypes without a license, but after the media discovered the Wiki Weapon, the group has been under increased scrutiny and severalproblemshave threatened to derail the project.In September, the group's account on the crowd-source funding site Indiegogo was frozen and almost $2,000 that had been raised was returned to donors. Defense Distributed then managed to secure the startup capital it needed through a direct-deposit platform, Bitcoin, but in October Stratasys, a company from which Defense Distributed was planning to lease a 3D printer with which to print its first prototypes, repossessed its printer.In response, two Texas companies volunteered their space, to enable the project to do its manufacturing and ballistics testing. Wilson would not provide the names of those companies or the business that is now allowing Defense Distributed to rent its 3D printer.Those hurdles and thelegal grey areain which the project is operating convinced Wilson to take a more conventional approach. In addition to applying for a federal firearms license from the bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms (ATF), the structure of Defense Distributed has been reformed. The group, which began as a loose online collective of individuals, now operates as three distinctive arms, all registered with the federal government.Defense Distributed has applied to the IRS to become a nonprofit 501(c)(3) that will focus on "charitable public interest publishing" – or distributing schematics of the weapons online for free. A new research and development limited liability company called Liberty Laboratories will manufacture and test the guns. A third company, the name of which Wilson would not provide, will manage the finances of the project as a private asset organization."It's our nameless shady Mitt Romney corporation," he quipped.To cover all his bases, Wilson met independently with ATF officials and even applied for another license, orspecial occupation taxpayer, to manufacturer more powerful weapons like machine guns."I have no interest in going to jail," he said. "I'll do it their way if I need to."Once Defense Distributed receives it's federal firearms license, Wilson plans to start manufacturing prototypes immediately, working from four or five blueprints that were submitted to the group from independent designers.Wilson said he had been approached by parties at home and abroad interested in investing in the project. Until the first prototype is printed, however, Defense Distributed will not accept new funding."That's just good manners," Wilson said.
There are not many reasons for going to Dubai in December. In fact, there are not many reasons for going to Dubai full stop, but here's one possible exception. Next month the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) is holding theWorld Conference on International Telecommunications(WCIT-12) in that benighted city. The purpose of the conference is to review the current international telecommunications regulations (ITRs), which "serve as the binding global treaty designed to facilitate international interconnection and interoperability of information and communication services".Riveting stuff, eh? Before deciding whether to book a flight, you click on the link on the ITU site labelled "participation". There is a link labelled "announced list of participants".  So you click on that, and up comes a page that says "administrative document 4" with a 1980s-style image of a key and the words "document restricted to TIES users" – or in other words, "member states, sector members, associates and academia". And suddenly you're back in a 1950s world of UN bureaucrats on tax-free salaries deciding global issues in secret conclaves.Given that WCIT-12 is being seen by some as a conspiracy in which Russia, China, Iran and other repressive regimes use the ITU as a Trojan horse to begin the process ofbringing the internet under adult supervision, you can see why people are becoming agitated about it. Secretive horse-trading between governments is not what created the internet. Cue Google's efforts to launcha global campaigninvolving internet users. "A free and open world depends on a free and open internet" declares the front page of the campaign website. Which is true, and the fact that Google's prosperity likewise depends on that selfsame net doesn't undermine its veracity. "But not all governments support the free and open internet," it continues. And "some of these governments are trying to use a closed-door meeting in December to regulate the internet. Add your voice in support of the free and open internet."Right on! As we ageing hippies say. The basic complaint is that while an outfit like the ITU, whosevotingmembers are all nation states, might be OK for deciding the allocation of international dialling codes, it's completely inappropriate to allow it to regulate the internet. The argument is that entrusting the governance of the network to an organisation in whichRobert Mugabe's vote counts for as much as the UK'swould be like giving a delicate clock to a monkey.And so indeed it would, and to that extent the anxiety of campaigners is understandable. They fear that an internet governed by the ITU would be one in which states could, for example, block any content of which they disapproved and levy toll charges on data that crossed their frontiers. But the prospect of a vote orchestrated by Putin, Mugabe et al giving the ITU that kind of comprehensive grip on the internet seems remote, and the apocalyptic fears of Google and co are therefore probably a bit overblown.Besides, theexistingITU constitution actually gives member nations many of those powers anyway.Article 34, for example, gives states the right "to cut off, in accordance with their national law, any other private telecommunications which may appear dangerous to the security of the state or contrary to its laws, to public order or to decency". What more could Vladimir Putin want?That's not to say that there aren't genuine reasons for concern about the Dubai discussions. As Professor Dwayne Winseck points out in apenetrating analysisof the treaty amendments being proposed by Russia et al, the real devil in WCIT-12 lies in the detail."Several proposals now on the table," he writes, "would cast a devastating blow to the internet by blessing the efforts of individual countries to build their own closed and controlled national web 3.0 internet spaces today." He also sees real dangers in the proposed treaty changes in the areas of identity, privacy and political activity. And he's right.But here's the really interesting bit. The only reason Professor Winseck – or you and I – know about Putin's proposed amendments is because they were leaked and published on theWCITleaks siteby Jerry Brito and Eli Dourado at George Mason University in Virginia. The fact that far-reaching changes to "our" internet are being negotiated and decided in total secrecy is conclusive proof, if proof were needed, that the ITU isn't a fit organisation to govern it.
Sega's second attempt at the kart racer, the follow-up to 2010'sSonic &amp; Sega All-Star Racing, proves to be a sharp, intelligent sequel that adds air- and water-based racing to the mix, with impressive results.Sumo Digital's development team features alumni from such high-end racers asBlurandSplit/Second, so it's no surprise to find a fun, responsive driving model at the core of the game. The standard kart-racing formula – non-stop acceleration, improbable drifting and cartoon weaponry – is so well executed that it's almost disappointing when the road runs out and the boats and aircraft come into play.But Sumo has cleverly ensured that these new air and water sections offer their own unique challenges. In the skies, obstacles can be avoided with barrel-rolls and flips (earning a boost in the process) while the turbulent waters generate large waves and whirlpools to throw the racers off course. Seamless transitions between vehicles mean the action never slows and there's real joy in linking drifts, stunts, pickups and near-collisions to achieve colossal speed boosts.With a variety of split-screen party games and online modes included,Sonic &amp; All Stars Racing Transformedis a wonderfully complete package that really deserves attention amid the month's triple-A releases.
Hot on the sneaky heels ofDishonoredandMark of the Ninjacomes the latest entry in theHitmansaga, one of gaming's more venerable stealth series. It's been five years since Agent 47's last job, and fans were worried that in attempting to bring theHitmanformula up to date,Absolutionmight just dumb it down.Fortunately these fears prove to be (largely) unfounded: while a handy hint system caters to beginners, the game's "purist mode" will satisfy even the most masochistic veteran assassin.More problematic isAbsolution'semphasis on narrative. If the bestHitmanlevels are open-ended playgrounds, many here feel more like pipelines, designed to funnel Agent 47 from set piece to plot-advancing set piece. Having never been more than a slap-headed cipher, the character feels out of place at the centre of a story – especially one this overwrought.There's still a lot of fun to be had here though – particularly in the ingenious contracts mode, which lets players create their own missions and share them online – but you rather hope any sequels drop the melodramatics in favour of the bleak, broad, murder-filled satire that the series does best.
Some gamers might interpretFar Cry 3as a treatise on the precarious nature of our hold on sanity. By stranding the game's protagonist, Jason Brody, on a tropical island and forcing him to adopt brutal tactics to survive, the game, they may argue, is putting to the test the theory that mankind, stripped of pacifying comforts, would soon descend into barbarism. Equally, it might be interpreted as a remarkably competent shooter with expansive survivalist and crafting elements, but either way, this third instalment in the series is a tremendously deep and involving game.Like its predecessors,Far Cry 3offers a vast environment to explore and no real rules as to how you do so. Enemies can be dealt with through stealth, brute force or strategic assaults – if anything, the freedom is almost paralysing at times. Story missions chart Jason's growth from terrified tourist to respected tribal warrior, while plenty of side tasks provide ample reason to explore the gorgeous, yet deadly, locale. Integrating ranked missions into the solo campaign adds a nice competitive streak, alongside dedicated multiplayer and co-op modes.Precariously balancing mature, philosophical content with the cathartic appeal of blowing bad guys' heads off – and buoyed by some fantastic performances, notably Michael Mando's exceptional turn as cruel, psychotic arch-villain Vaas –Far Cry 3immediately marks itself out as the best in the series.
I'm not sure about matt black or grey paint jobs for cars. You see them a bit on Range Rovers, Porsches, the odd Ferrari or Maserati – macho cars. The matt finish adds attitude, gives them an urban, industrial, even military quality. A&nbsp;bitMad Max.On a Hyundai, though? Granted, a Hyundai that drives very well, but perhaps not mean enough to merit the matt finish. A sheep in wolf's clothing, anAirbuspretending to be astealth bomber?There are a few things I'm not sure about with this car, to be honest. The name – Veloster – also suggests speed. This one, with a 184 bhp 1.6‑litre turbo, is more powerful than the standard model, and it handles so crisply it feels sportier than it actually is. But Veloster? Really?How do you even pronounce it? With the stress on the second syllable, I guess: veLOSter. But there seems to be a syllable missing. It should be velociter, no?There's definitely a door missing – in the back there's only one, on the left in this country. You pull over on the left, you get out on that side – it makes sense. There was a TV ad for this car in Holland that highlighted the perils of driving a non-Veloster: a&nbsp;woman got out of another vehicle on the offside (the grim reaper actually opened the door) and she was immediately and tragically mown down by a passing car. The ad was withdrawn, butyou can still see it on YouTube.Yeah, but what if you park on the right, as you might well do, especially on a one-way street? What about in Sainsbury's car park where some tosser in a 4x4 has blocked you in on the left? What about if someone crashes into you on the left? You can't get out on the other side because there isn't a door, there's fuel leaking, here comes the grim reaper again, smoking a fag this time… I'm going off the one-door-in-the-back thing.Otherwise, there's plenty to like. It may not be a serious, high‑performance coupe but it's still a very drivable car, a genuine alternative to aVW Sciroccoor aVauxhall Astra GTC. And it's interestingly designed, inside and out. There are lines and curves that do give it an aeronautical feel, but from some angles it looks more like a motorbike helmet.It's certainly distinctive, whether you like it or not. I find three boys – aged 13 or 14 – have stopped to have a look. They like it – the scoops and the twin pipes and the big alloys. It looks fast. And they like the matt grey paint. Well, that's good enough for me. If teenage boys like it, then I&nbsp;like it, too.Hyundai Veloster TurboPriceFrom £21,995 (the matt paint is&nbsp;an extra £525)Top speed133mphAcceleration0-60mph in 8.4 secondsCombined fuel consumption40.9mpgCO2emissions157g/kmEcorating6/10Cool rating8? 3? Who knows?
A survey of Britons and new web user data suggests that Windows 8 is struggling to make the same progress that its predecessors - and especially Windows 7 - did.A broad online survey of British internet users has found that only 39% are likely to upgrade to Windows 8 - amid other signs that the new operating system from Microsoft is making slower inroads than the previous version launched exactly three years ago.The online survey by Toluna QuickSurveys, carried out in October, got responses from 2,000 UK-based adults (aged 18 and over). Besides the upgrade findings, it found that Windows 7 is a clear favourite among Windows users, with 28% saying it was their preferred choice - double the 14% who chose the newly launched Windows 8.Though the Toluna figures were weighted for age, gender, education and region to reflect their proportions in the online population, it's impossible to know what sampling error there might be - and its self-selecting nature means that it could have broad vagaries in precision.The survey results said that initial consumer reactions indicated that Microsoft has not captured the interest of many potential tablet buyers: the proportion of respondents planning to buy a tablet running Windows 8 is on par with other systems including Apple iOS and Android (13%, 13% and 14% respectively). The tablet-specific Windows RT received only 2% of the votes and was voted the least favourite Windows operating system all round.Toluna suggested that the low interest in Windows 8 may partly be due to the success of Windows 7 in satisfying existing customers - who are very likely to have upgraded from XP or Vista in the past three years and may not see any reason to change.Net Applications showing Windows 8 takeup lagging after launch; at the same point in 2009, Windows 7 had over 3% shareBut other figures from web browsing suggest that Windows 8 is making comparatively slow progress among PC owners. Net Applications, which notes desktop OS use, says that this weekWindows 8 made up just 1.01% of users visiting the sites it monitors- half that for any of the last three versions of Apple's Mac OS X, for which the smallest share is 1.96%, and far behind the 45.56% of Windows 7 and the 39.50% of Windows XP.Nor is the small figure typical of new releases of Windows. The takeup of Windows 7 after its launch in October 2009 was extremely rapid. On 2 November that yearTom's Hardware reportedthat "Windows 7 has officially been a part of the worldwide mass market for more than a week and a half and now makes up more than 3.6% of all PCs tracked by research firm Net Applications."Interest in Windows 7 was already high, the site noted then: "On October 21, the day before the official launch, Windows 7 usage was at 1.89%, according to Channel Register. By launch day, the number hit 1.99%, constantly rising to [the] 3.67% it hit on November 1."Net Applications said in November 2009 that Windows 7reached a 4% share in just three weeks.One key difference between 2009 and 2012 is that there are more PCs worldwide, which could dilute the effect of new PCs - but the PC installed base in North America and Europe has remained roughly constant during that period, which would suggest that regions where Windows 8 might expect to be most quickly bought would have the same available number of buyers.Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, said on 30 October, a week after the Windows 8 launch, that4m upgrade licences had been sold to individuals in the previous three days- specificaly excluding corporate accounts which he said amounted to "tens of millions" of additional licences.By the end of January 2010, three months after its launch,Windows 7 had a 7.5% usage share, Net Applications said - in stark contrast to Windows Vista, which took 11 months to reach the same penetration as existing XP users dug in following its launch in January 2007.But in 2012, PC sales have slowed dramatically, and buyers are looking at tablets as alternative purchases.The introduction of Windows 8 also culminated in thedeparture of Steven Sinofsky, head of the Windows division, who had piloted the product's development - apparently after he clashed with other division heads, leading Ballmer and he to agree they should part ways.The arrival of "Black Friday" - the US retail extravaganza that follows its Thanksgiving celebrations on Thursday - could provide a boost for Windows 8 and PC makers as customers who waited for discounts buy new computers.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new iPhone and iPad apps released in the last seven days, from music, mapping and children's drawing apps through to time management, time-telling and crispy chicken promotions.As ever, games aren't included, because they have their own separate weekly post covering all platforms.This week's roundupincluded iOS games like Endless Road, Heroes of Order &amp; Chaos, Skylanders Battlegrounds and Bladeslinger Ep.1.What about Android apps? They have their own weekly roundup, and you canfind the latest one here. In the meantime, here's this week's selection of new iOS releases:The Rolling Stones Official App (Free)Just in time for their 50th anniversary gigs, the Rolling Stones have launched an official iPhone app. And while it contains the usual band stuff – news, tweets, song clips with iTunes links etc – it's also touting a premium tier where, for 69p, you can access exclusive interviews and video performances.iPhoneHERE Maps (Free)The teeming demand for an excellent native iOS mapping app is creating high expectations for the likes of Nokia and Google. We're still waiting for the latter's Google Maps to get a native release on the App Store, but Nokia's HERE Maps is now available. It promises maps with live traffic data, data on lots of places and points of interest, and voice-guided pedestrian navigation. Oh, and maps that work, which is always a bonus.iPhone / iPadNight Zookeeper Drawing Torch (Free)This children's drawing app has been developed by a startup in the UK which has its roots in running creative workshops for kids. Based around a fictional zoo full of magical animals, it sets children a series of drawing missions designed to stretch their imaginations. It's rather marvellous.iPadMy London Story (Free)This app, based on the website of the same name, is all about non-fiction longform stories about London, with 10 new stories published every couple of months. The app brings them to iOS devices, with each story pinpointed to a specific location in the city.iPhone / iPadLili.fm (Free)Social music apps are ten-a-penny on the App Store in 2012 (and many don't even charge a penny, come to think of it). Lili.fm is an interesting twist on the genre though, with neat design and a focus on one-to-one sharing. The idea: you connect to a friend at a time to build playlists from music on YouTube, SoundCloud, Bandcamp and other sources.iPhoneTodoist (Free)This is the latest sleek list-making app, although "service" would be a better word, since it runs across iOS/Android, web and within Gmail. The free version enables you to add and manage tasks, sort them into projects and save it all to the Todoist cloud, while an in-app purchase upgrades to the premium version for cross-device synchronisation, notification reminders and other features to keep you organised.iPhoneMagic Town Stories (Free)Magic Town launched earlier in 2012 as a reading-focused website for children, before making the jump to an iPad app. Now it's on iPhone too. The idea: parents pay a monthly subscription of £2.49 for unlimited access to more than 80 digital picture-books, although free stories are also available. Children can read at their own pace, or have the books automatically run.iPhoneThis Day in Classic Rock (£1.99)The developers behind the This Day In series of music apps have already done Pink Floyd and Led Zeppelin. Now they're taking on classic rock, or rather Classic Rock, because this app is a partnership with the magazine of the same name. It's a compendium of rock facts for every day of the year, taking in album releases, artist birthdays, festivals and the fact that "guitarist Steve Vai keeps bees as a hobby".iPhone / iPadUsborne Sticker Dolly Princesses (£2.99)Children's book publisher Usborne has a new creative app for any kids who are fond of big dresses and glittery tiaras. Based on the book of the same name, it sees them dragging and dropping cartoon princesses onto scenes including a masked ball, royal carriage and magical forest, before saving, printing or emailing the results.iPadMylo Xyloto Live (£4.99)Not, as such, an app. Instead, this is an enhanced e-book being released through Apple's iBooks store, but with features that make it pretty appy. Based on Coldplay's latest world tour, the e-book includes live videos and behind-the-scenes footage, an interactive tour map with "high-resolution audience panoramas" (i.e. try to spot yourself bellowing along to Yellow), lyrics and audio interviews.iPadBatman: Stickers with Sounds (£0.69)More digital stickering for children here – the benefit for parents being no sticky residues all over the furniture, appliances, pets etc. This time it's Batman, Robin and a parade of supervillains providing the source material, with children again able to construct scenes then save them for sharing. And if Batman isn't to your tastes, developer Night &amp; Day Studios just released similar apps forSupermanandDC Super Friends.iPadRatemizer (Free)Just released in the US, this app wants to help people "stop paying your operator for nothing". It analyses your use of voice minutes, texts and mobile data, and then tells you what tariff you should be on, based on its knowledge of AT&amp;T, Verizon, Sprint and T-Mobile's plans. A great idea – and one that will hopefully come to the UK sooner rather than later.iPhoneHIV Test Finder (Free)A UK-focused app that does one thing, but a very important thing. It's a way to find the nearest clinic, pharmacy, sexual health service or charity that provides HIV testing, with more than 700 listed, and links to pinpoint their locations and call for appointments. It's the work of HIV information charity NAM.iPhoneFourChords HD (Free)Billing itself as "the ultimate guitar karaoke", this has already been a hit in its native Finland, but is now available in the UK too. It breaks famous songs down into four guitar chords at a time, with the aim of making them easier for novice guitarists to play. Meanwhile, the app provides lyrics, backing tracks and the ability to share your recordings on Facebook and YouTube.iPhone / iPadAngel's Great Escape: A Christmas Story (£1.99)This festive-themed book-app for children has a famous voice-narrator in tow: gardening guru Alan Titchmarsh. The App Store listing promises that his narration is "cosy" too. The story itself focuses on a Christmas tree angel and her decoration friends, trying to get to a warm home. Expect music, interactivity and characterful illustrations.iPhone / iPadNARR8 (Free)Here's an intriguing app for comic-book fans, offering a range of graphic novels and motion comics with animation, audio and interactivity thrown in. Several series are currently featured, taking in sci-fi, fantasy and anime among other genres.iPadRyanairTalk (Free)This came out of the blue: a Voice-over-IP app branded as Ryanair, with the aim of helping people save money (as opposed to spending it on extras, etc etc). The idea is that you purchase blocks of minutes from its companion website, then call home when abroad using Wi-Fi rather than roaming charges.iPhoneFido (Free)Fido is the latest app trying to help boozers find, well, boozers. Which is to say drinking venues in the UK (international coverage will apparently follow), based on the user's profile – created by turning dials to indicate preferences for luxury, trendy, price and lively metrics.iPhoneSmize Yourself! (£1.49)It's that kind of slow-releases week when a novelty celebrity photo-sharing app can be one of the most interesting new iOS apps. In this case, the celebrity is supermodel Tyra Banks, who wants to teach people to smize ("smile with your eyes" apparently) and then share the results on Twitter and Facebook.iPhone / iPadNando's – Crackalaka Boom (Free)Yeah, you read that right. Nando's. The popular chicken-nosherie has a brand new app "bringing the fun of cracker pulling to your iPhone, with a PERi-PERi twist". As you do. The idea being a Bluetooth-pulled virtual cracker with additional festive photo-sharing.iPhoneThat's our selection this week, but what about you? What iOS apps have you been using and enjoying, or what do you think of the ones above? Make your recommendations in the comments.
It's time for our weekly roundup of brand new Android apps released in the last seven days. A busy week too, with apps spanning radio, social location, navigation, to-do lists, Twitter clients and tabloid newspapers.As ever, games aren't included in this post, because they have a separate multi-platform roundup. The latestcan be found here, and includes Android games like Heroes of Order &amp; Chaos, Motley Blocks, Dragon Slayer, Transformers and Avengers Initiative.New iOS apps have their own roundup post which will be published later in the day. In the meantime, here's this week's Android selection:Creatorverse (£3.14)Shortly after the release of its iOS version comes the Android edition of Creatorverse, a creative app from Linden Lab – the company behind virtual world Second Life. No flying genitals or furry avatars here though: instead it's an inventive physics toolkit: "Watch your creations bounce, roll, tilt or even accelerate on the screen..."Radioplayer (Free)British not-for-profit firm Radioplayer has a website and iPhone app aggregating BBC and commercial radio stations' streams in the UK. Now it's on Android too, offering a mixture of live streams and on-demand podcasts. Besides the Beeb's roster, you can find various Absolute Radio stations, Heart, Capital, LBC, talkSport, Kiss, Magic and more, right down to community and student broadcasters.Highlight (Free)Social location app Highlight was hugely hyped when it first appeared, as Silicon Valley got overexcited about the prospect of phones pinging their owners when someone interesting wandered past. The hype has died down since, but Highlight is still going, and it's now available on Android as well as iOS. As before, you sign in using Facebook, then it notifies you when friends and "interesting connections" are nearby.David Gilmour in Concert (£5.99)Pink Floyd's David Gilmour has released an app based on an existing live DVD, promising two hours of footage, extra bonus material, links to Gilmour's Facebook Page and website, and – in a glorious reminder of one of the more curious selling points for DVDs in the past – "fully interactive menus".ForeverMap 2 (£0.69)Google Maps may be the dominant mapping and navigation app on Android, but there's competition coming through. ForeverMap 2 is the work of startup Skobbler, offering online and offline maps for the globe, aiming for "a paperback-like map experience" with an emphasis on detail and visuals. The offline maps come as in-app purchases.Echofon PRO for Twitter (£2.99)I've written about the beta version of Twitter client Echofon recently, but this PRO version has also now gone live on the Google Play store. It's a paid app with a focus on design, dashboard widgets and cross-platform syncing ("so you never read a Tweet, @Mention or Direct Message twice"), as well as other power-user features.Todoist (Free)This is the latest sleek list-making app, although "service" would be a better word, since it runs across Android (and iOS), web and within Gmail. The free version enables you to add and manage tasks, sort them into projects and save it all to the Todoist cloud, while an in-app purchase upgrades to the premium version for cross-device synchronisation, notification reminders and other features to keep you organised.The Sun on Android (£0.69)This is bubbling up the Android trending charts, despite not that much of a fuss around its launch. It offers articles from The Sun's website as well as weather, social features and a QR code scanner. The app requires a subscription: 69p for the first month, then £4.99.365Scores (Free)This is an app for uberkeen sports fans, promising real-time alerts with scores, news and videos across mobile and PC, drawn from a host of sports and leagues both in the US and elsewhere in the world. For now, football, tennis, basketball, baseball, American football, ice hockey and handball are covered.Amazon Mobile (Tablet) (Free)Sorry, fellow Brits, this one's for American Android tablet owners only, for now at least. It's a tablet-optimised app to access Amazon's store, just in time for Black Friday. Working in landscape and portrait modes, it provides full browsing, purchasing and reviewing features.Amazon Santa (Free)And here's another US-only Amazon shopping app, this time focused on Christmas. "A fun and easy way for kids and parents to create personalised, holiday wish lists to share with Santa, and your friends and family". Does Santa have an Amazon account?Hoppit (Free)While we're on a mini-run of US-only apps, here's Hoppit, which claims to be "the leading ambience search engine for restaurants and bars". Who knew there were several? So, this is about suggesting restaurants by their atmosphere, to suit different tastes and contexts. So far it works in 14 US cities, with more to come. Lots of interior photos plus browsable menus should make it useful.easyMute (Free)This is a one-use Android app that may come in handy: a way to quickly drop the volume of whatever music / app you're listening to by putting your hand over the phone – it works using the proximity sensor.Victor's Cold! (£0.99)Our first children's app of the week (although Creatorverse has potential on that score too) comes from France and developer Slim Cricket. It's a storybook-app about "a little penguin who's always cold", with puzzles, music and shapes complementing the story for 2-5 year-olds.Trace It! For Kids (£0.62)Here's another children's app though, which is more about learning colours, numbers and letters by tracing the latter two on the screen. 200 numbers, letters and words are included, along with 47 animals to keep kids' attention.MyPhysio (Free)Less a recommendation to download, more a sign of how apps are making their way into the fitness industry. Australian app MyPhysio is designed to be used between physiotherapists and their clients, keeping tabs on their progress in between meetings, providing reminders of specific exercises, and more.Christmas Gifts List Manager (Free)This is something many people are in the market for around now: a way to manage their various Christmas gifts, including who's getting what, whether its been bought and wrapped, and even managing an overall budget to ensure nobody gets the thin end of your wallet.Lockscreen Policy (Free)Look away, Googlers – as soon as you enable Android users to put widgets and camera access on the lockscreen, someone's launched an app to disable these features. Judging by the appreciative reviews on Google Play, there's a certain number of people out there who are quite keen on the idea, though.Rounds Video Chat Hangout (Free)This doesn't work in the UK yet, but it sounds intriguing: a social app blending video calls (3G or Wi-Fi) with YouTube co-viewing, photo-sharing and games, with Facebook tied in to find friends.Apollo+ (£0.62)And finally, the latest Android music-player app, with some nifty features including the ability to pin specific albums, artists, genres and playlists to the home screen of your device. Themes, lockscreen widgets for Android 4.2 devices and social features make it one to watch. Well, listen to.That's our choice, but what have you been using on your Android device? Make your recommendations or give feedback on the picks above by posting a comment.
In 2006, Nintendo announced theWii. Everyone laughed at the name, then everyone laughed at the crazy TV remote-style controllers. Then everyone stopped laughing, and there was an odd silence from industry analysts and pundits, who simply didn't know what to make of it. The public, however, did: the Wii became the best-selling console of its generation, cheerfully trouncing the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, by managing to coax non-gamers of all ages into having a go.The offbeat creative mastermind behind the Wii was Shigeru Miyamoto, who cuts rather an unassuming figure for a living legend. Quietly spoken, neatly dressed and with a barely suppressed mischievous grin, he describes how, on a recent trip to Spain, he'd been due to meet two members of the royal family, but owing to a door lock malfunction, was instead imprisoned in a hotel bathroom. Under increasing pressure to free him, someone eventually hacked down the door with a crowbar before a police escort whisked him, sirens blaring, to his royal appointment. Just another day at work for Miyamoto, who isn't so much the face as the soul of global games giant Nintendo. In 1981, he createdDonkey Kong, whose antagonist Jumpman evolved into Mario. He followed that up withZeldaand Star Fox, among many others, making him arguably the world's most famous designer of video games. Now  60, he doesn't seem to be slowing down.Not that his life entirely consists of splintering hotel doors and chatting to princesses. "Actually, most of my working time is occupied by reading email, making phone calls and returning comments by email... I'm always trying to remind myself that even though something can be done digitally, I need to have face-to-face contact with others."As Nintendo gears up towards the launch of its new console, the Wii U, that face-to-face contact is about to increase considerably. It isn't quite the insane departure that the Wii was six years ago but this is a product with a lot riding on it, and it does its best to shake up the status quo. Recognising that most people now sit in front of the television while simultaneously checking their Facebook, the Wii U controller has a touchscreen that can be used to surf the web, or as a multi-remote for your TV, or, obviously, for games.Miyamoto wants it to be a vehicle for a completely new kind of entertainment, although those accustomed to Wii software may not share his optimism. The only developer to make effective use of the Wii's motion control was Nintendo itself, leaving others to incorporate it poorly or as an afterthought (and frequently both). It doesn't bode well for innovation in the Wii U's games catalogue."It's a matter of how seriously they commit themselves," says Miyamoto, sternly. "Our mission is to approach developers, and if they're willing to commit to experiences only available on Nintendo hardware, we are more willing to help. Each developer has his or her own ideas and we really encourage the differences."While that's undoubtedly true, a look at Wii U's launch titles reveals familiar names – FIFA 13, Mass Effect 3 and Call of Duty: Black Ops II – which are unlikely to make more than passing use of its unique abilities. At launch, the only non-Nintendo game to be inventive with the second screen is the apocalyptic ZombiU, which uses it as your backpack, scanner and lock-pick.Though there are concerns about future development, Wii U's compatibility with current-generation Wii games, remotes and joypads, as well as a strong initial lineup, means that those midnight queues are unlikely to be a thing of the past. It's also the first new console to emerge in six years, lending it the geek appeal of fresh technology arriving in time for Christmas. Its real test will come when PlayStation 4 and Xbox "Durango" finally emerge, and although Sony and Microsoft are remaining tight-lipped about them for now, December 2013 is when we'll really see what the new wave of consoles has to offer.Nintendo Wii UTHE GAMEPADThe Wii U controller boasts a touchscreen, motion sensors and the usual analogue stick and buttons, making it an outstandingly versatile piece of equipment. Let's hope for some games that make full use of it.COMPATIBILITYAll of the original Wii's various joypads and peripherals will work with Wii U. For parents being pestered into a Wii U Christmas, not having to repurchase three extra remotes will ease the burden – a bit.ASYMMETRIC GAMINGMaking use of the new Wii U controller, asymmetric gaming can involve rounds of all against one, or co-operative play where the second screen is used to help fellow players.NINTENDO LANDPlundering its own rich back catalogue, Nintendo will offer both single and multi-player mini-games based on old favourites such as Metroid, Donkey Kong, Zelda and Balloon Flight.
Dizzy, the unlikely egg-shaped eighties gaming hero, is set to return thanks to crowd-funding site Kickstarter. The character's original creators, Philip and Andrew Oliver, will be working on a new instalment in the hugely successful series, together with their team at Blitz Games Studios, the development company they founded in 1990. The twins, who wrote their first Dizzy game in 1987, are asking for £350,000 to fund the project."We've talked about this for 20 years and we feel now is the time to strike," said Andrew Oliver. "This is going to be a brand new game, designed by us. We've got some twists in key areas – it will be very new and fresh, but true to the world of Dizzy".AKickstarter page for Dizzy Returnswas unveiled for the game on Friday morning. The popular crowd-funding service, which lets fans support creative projects by donating directly to the development process, has just launched in the UK. Originally founded in the US in 2009, the site has hosted almost 80,000 projects and over $360m has been successfully raised.Originally appearing on early home computers such as the Spectrum, Commodore and Amstrad, the Dizzy titles were colourful, action adventures set in various fairy tale-inspired kingdoms. The games usually consisted of fiendish puzzles revolving around the collection and implementation of surreal objects.Published by Codemasters, then a specialist in budget titles, the games were hugely successful, selling over three million copies; the second instalment, Treasure Island Dizzy, stayed in the charts for 83 weeks. However, in the early nineties, the Oliver twins set up their own studio, severing their relationship with Codemasters, and the rights to the Dizzy franchise became disputed. Last year, Codemasters released an iPhone update of 1991 hit Dizzy: Prince of the Yolkfolk, with modest success. This spurred the Olivers on to consider their own Dizzy title."That was a retro game," said Oliver. "But gameplay has moved on and people expect to play things in a different way. We want to stay true to the Dizzy brand, but we need to adjust it for the current market. A majority of players will be brand new to it. We've got ideas for new characters, new locations - people remember the old graphics fondly but when you boot up the games now you go, 'oh my God!'. My imagination was so much better than that!"The Olivers are not the first veteran UK developers to seek funding through Kickstarter. Earlier this year, York-based Revolution Software sought to fund its latest adventure title Broken Sword 5 through the site and successfully raised over $770,000. Earlier this month, David Braben, the co-creator of space exploration classic Elitelaunched a projectto develop a new title in the series. He has already raised £550,000.However, there has been some criticism of established developers using Kickstarter to re-ignite retro projects. Some industry pundits feel the site should be used by new studios working on fresh concepts, who wouldn't have alternative means of funding their games."I can see why that it is," said Oliver. "But we've spoken to David Braben and (Revolution founder) Charles Cecil and we've all said, look, individually we're passionate and all believe in our products, we all have faith – but we need to know there's a market. We've all had publishers telling us they'd like to see these games come back, but then when it comes to it, they'll say 'yes well, things have moved on, we're not convinced people want it'. You do have to test if people want it enough.""We've got a lot of responsibilities. Blitz Games is a big studio, we're conscious that we have to pay everyone's wages. We can't just go out on a limb on some sort of folly. If a publisher came to us and offered to commission a new game we'd chew their hand off. But that isn't going to happen. That's why we went to Kickstarter. It's about marketing and justification."This is a very UK-centric thing. There are a lot of fans out there, they're very focal, but is there actually a demand for this to come back? It's so difficult to gauge."If the Kickstarter project is successful, Blitz will develop the game on PC and smartphones. "We've got some unique features that we think will make it highly applicable to touchscreen devices," said Oliver. If these go well, other platforms will be considered, including games consoles.There are a range of perks being offered to fans who contribute to the fund, including the chance to appear in the game, and to take part in closed development forums. What most want, however, is the chance to see one of British gaming's seminal characters returning to befuddle players again.
And here comes Friday! What are your weekend plans?
"I already have the best job in the world at the best company in the world," says a note onPeter Norvig's personal websitewarning recruiters not to bother contacting him. The job: director of research. The company: Google.You don't have to be a Google fan to see why Norvig would be happy there at this point in time. In every generation there is a handful of labs where gangs of smart people cluster. In this generation, for this moment, one of them is Google, which seems to have recruited half the smart people in the known world.Say that to Norvig, and like a flash he'll ask for the names of the other half; but of course even he has limits. "We don't get our pick of everyone because there are some things we can't offer," he says. It's no fit for someone who wants to start their own company or work in a small one, and other than its work on self-driving cars, Google doesn't fund research on hardware, although it does give grants to some university projects."We still have to make choices internally. There's a little more freedom than at a startup: bad choices won't drive you immediately out of business, but you can't say, here's something I want to do and here are 20 spare engineers." Instead, the reality of having to move people around to pursue new ideas forces the setting of priorities, just like anywhere else. Some of these priorities sound just plain weird: besides the much-reported self-driving cars and augmented reality glasses there arerumours of space elevators and robots.In the 1960s and 1970s in the US the famous clusters were at Bell Labs, IBM's Watson Research Lab, and Xerox PARC. All three were famed for developing things that had nothing to do with their company's core business – and also failing to exploit their inventions successfully. PARC in particular became famous for having multiple future industries born right there in its lab and letting them all escape to make other companies rich: graphical interfaces, personal computers, desktop publishing, the ethernet networking standard.Norvig is conscious of this past, and when it's mentioned, he brings up the 1999 book Fumbling the Future: How Xerox Invented, then Ignored, the First Personal Computer, by Douglas K Smith and Robert C Alexander, in order to argue with its interpretation of events."The book says they fumbled the future, but in a way they invented the future," he says. "I think they rented the future." He goes on to outline his idea of the train of thought: "There will be a day in which people can afford PCs, but we're not quite there yet. So take $200,000 and give researchers personal computers so we can see what the future is going to be like. In a sense, we're doing the same thing at Google." That would be the cars  … the glasses … the 16,000 computers thrown together across 1,000 servers and set to examining 10 million 200x200 pixel single-frame images taken fromYouTube videos recognise catto see what they come up with. "Sometimes that's the hard part – imagining what's going to be possible and saying, how might it be done?"But Norvig is also conscious that it was still true that those labs often produced research that their companies could not exploit. Google, he says, doesn't work that way: its research is more closely integrated into the rest of the company."In some ways we're similar to something more like Intel, where it has research groups that try to start new businesses, and if they kickstart something and somebody else makes most of the profit from that new business, they're fine with that as long as the industry buys Intel chips. We're similar – if we invent something new, even if we don't own it, if it brings two new people to use the internet that didn't before, the odds are that at least one of them will become our customer. So it's a success for us if we launch a new industry."This explains the cars and glasses. "We think of them as extending from a strength we already have - cars, from our mapping capability, and glasses similarly, from communications and location services," he says. "We have to make a plausible case that it connects to strengths we have." Acceptance of these technologies, he thinks, will come faster than we may expect: his teenaged kids are frustrated that self-driving cars won't be on the market soon enough to excuse them from the need to learn how to park.A defining moment in terms of Google's mapping services, came with 9/11. For one thing, that was a moment when the shift from TV to the web for breaking news became apparent. Both 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina, which devastated New Orleans in 2005, showed Google something it didn't know about its own services: "We thought we were building an atlas that you buy once a decade and look up stuff, but people were asking us, 'How does New Orleans look today that's different from yesterday?' and we realised there was a time component." Norvig says that third dimension of time will continue to become more important to mapping and the company's coverage of different parts of the world grows. "People will demand more up-to-date coverage."A common theme throughout Norvig's career is work on artificial intelligence. He began as a mathematician, but moved to computers when he found them easier. As early as the mid 1980s, he began moving toward probabilistic reasoning and dealing with uncertainty. The theorems this kind of work is built on, the work of the 18th-century English mathematician and minister Thomas Bayes, are in use everywhere now, but at that time were still regarded with great suspicion, even in the AI community. For one thing, to work effectively, Bayesian systems need a lot of numbers and statistics to draw on, and no one could yet see where these were going to come from. For another, the mode of thinking seemed too different from the way human brains operate: people don't think through problems by using numbers, the argument ran, so programs shouldn't either. Both these objections have been answered in the decades since. The first, because huge amounts of data are available now. As for the second, while people don't do large blocks of arithmetic in their heads, there are analogies that can be drawn between the electrical and chemical processes in our brains to probabilistic reasoning."And," says Norvig, "people built systems and they worked, which is the best way to convince somebody."An example of the kind of system Norvig is talking about here is Google's Translate facility, which was built by researchers who in many cases had no knowledge of the languages (other than English) they were working with. A baby learns languages by hearing and imitation; total immersion. A student wishing to understand a new language learns vocabulary lists. A linguist studies grammar and literature or conversations. Google's computers, on the other hand, did none of these. Instead, Google took advantage of the web, where it's easy to find large numbers of matched pairs of already translated documents. These were statistically analysed to find billions of word pairs that then could be used to learn how to map phrases to phrases like, in Norvig's analogy, solving a jigsaw puzzle. The phrases in turn help disambiguate meanings of words that are commonly used in multiple ways. Eliminate the ones you know, see what's left and what new correspondences you can find.Back to the 16,000 processors, built into a neural network with a billion connections. After three days, it identified cats with an accuracy rate of 74.8%. This is what huge amounts of data will do for you: give a powerful enough computer enough stuff to work on to develop its own concepts it can then use for pattern recognition. Yet the results, which Norvig described at this year's Singularity Summit, haven't made him more of a believer that the steady exponential increase in computing power is leading us to the Singularity, the moment when artificial intelligence matches human intelligence - and then passes it. Norvig is more dubious than you might expect about this prospect, given that he's an adviser at the Singularity University."My biggest concern is people who are too specific about dates," he says. Even Oxford's Stuart Armstrong, who pinned it down at this year's summit to between 10 to 100 years from now, seemed to him too specific."I support the Singularity Institute because I think its message that there is a lot of change happening and accelerating, and it's going to have effects on society and people should be aware of that, is a good message."Even so, he sympathises with the late John McCarthy, who worked on artificial intelligence for more than 50 years and even late in his life (he died in 2011) dismissed the Singularity robustly as "nonsense". In preparing for his talk at the 2007 Summit, Norvig did some research to answer the question, "Are we at a specific point today that's different from the past?"Using keywords and phrases such as "AI" and "unlike past" to pull out likely candidate papers, he read through abstracts and sorted them by decade."Every decade there were a couple of new ones, and then some of the same ideas came back again. I couldn't see anything that said that this decade is distinct from the previous ones. They all seemed like some old ideas, some new ideas, and we think the new ones will help. I didn't see anything about now we've got it. So I guess I'm with John. We're not at a privileged point in time." In sum, "We're inventing new stuff, but it doesn't seem that different today than it did in the past."Certainly, we have systems that help us design complex things, from bridges to new types of computer chips, but it's still a partnership between human and machine. "This idea that intelligence is the one thing that amplifies itself indefinitely, I guess is what I'm resistant to. Intelligence can let you solve harder problems, but some problems are just resistant, and you get to a point that being smarter isn't going to help you at all, and I think a lot of our problems are like that. Like in politics - it's not like we're saying that if only we had a politician who was slightly smarter all our problems would go away."This is the more subtle problem: do smart people overestimate the value of intelligence?"Kevin Kelly [the founding executive editor of Wired] and I talked about this; he calls it 'intelligentism' – this prejudice that intelligence is the only attribute that matters. We think intelligence is important – we call our species after it – but if we were elephants maybe we'd be trying to have super strength, or if we were cheetahs super speed. There are these societal problems that are hard because of the way they are, and it's not just that we're not smart enough to solve them."• This article was amended on 27 November 2012. The original incorrectly described Peter Norvig as a fellow of the Singularity Institute. He is an adviser at a different organisation, the Singularity University.
A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamThe amazing China smart phone market &gt;&gt; LinkedInKai Fu Lee:Broadband wireless is now over 58%, and smart phone prices have dropped to about $100 for an acceptable Android phone, and about $200 for a full-featured Android phone. Smart phones are now spreading like wildfire. About a year ago, there were less than 50M users, basically affluent or tech saavy users who were willing to pay $500 for a phone and $30 a month for 3G. But now, students, young white collar, and even blue collar workers are swarming into the smart phone market!Is there anyone who doubts that smartphones (with Android) are going to utterly transform Chinese society? The question is: what will change? Answers welcomed.NTSB follows TSA lead, drops BlackBerry &gt;&gt; USA TodayRemember how the US National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) is giving up BlackBerrys for iPhones?In addition to NTSB, which has about 400 workers, far larger organizations earlier shifted away from BlackBerry in recent months:o In October, the Defense Department requested a software contract to monitor security for mobile devices from Apple and Android, but not BlackBerry. The Defense Information Systems Agency program will initially support 162,500 devices and could ultimately support 8 million devices.o In September, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which had relied on BlackBerry for eight years, announced it was switching to iPhones for 17,676 users because BlackBerry could "no longer meet the mobile technology needs of the agency."o In May, the Transportation Security Administration, which had relied mainly on Microsoft Windows and BlackBerry devices, announced plans to spend $3m on Apple products to support its counter-terrorism mission.Black Friday to be crucial market test for convertible notebooks, say Taiwan makers &gt;&gt; DigitimesThe Black Friday peak sales period starting from November 23 in the US is seen as a crucial market test for convertible notebooks which combine features of ultrabooks and tablets, according to Taiwan-based supply chain makers.The sources pointed out that the attractiveness of Windows 8 as well as consumers' acceptance of touchscreen features in notebook devices will also become major factors affecting demand for convertible notebooks.Ultrabooks have so far disappointed. Will convertibles (which have tried and failed once before, about ten years ago) succeed instead?FBI opens criminal probe of Hewlett-Packard deal for British software maker Autonomy &gt;&gt; SiliconValley.comSources familiar with the investigation said the Federal Bureau of Investigation's San Francisco office opened a probe into the $11 billion deal Tuesday at the request of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The bureau investigates complex financial crimes and has legal attachés at overseas offices that can cooperate with local agencies.That's a date for the diary.Metropolitan Police and Predictive Crime Mapping &gt;&gt; James Cleverly AMResearchers from University College London's Jill Dando Institute of Crime Science have shown it's possible to develop even more effective crime hotspot maps by modelling the spread of crime in a way similar to modelling the spread of disease. Their work confirms a 'prospective hotspot map' is more effective than traditional crime mapping methods.The Metropolitan Police need to get more crime fighting output with less financial input so money needs to be targeted at systems that can achieve more for less.Very intriguing. (Crime mapping was one of the benefits that the Free Our Data campaign pushed - and one that, to his credit, Boris Johnson was quick to introduce after first being elected.)Microsoft 'dragging its feet' on Linux Secure Boot fix &gt;&gt; The RegisterThe Linux Foundation's promised workaround that will allow Linux to boot on Windows 8 PCs has yet to clear Microsoft's code certification process, although the exact reason for the hold-up remains unclear.As The Regreportedpreviously, the Secure Boot feature of the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) found on modern Windows 8 PCs will only allow an OS to boot if its code has been digitally signed with a key obtained from Microsoft.That's a problem for many Linux distributions, because some lack the resources to purchase a Microsoft key, while others simply refuse to.Aren't Chromebooks good enough and fast enough for this? And they are pretty much running Linux already."Your criticisms are completely wrong": Stallman on software patents, 20 years in &gt;&gt; Ars Technica[Professor John] Duffy [of the University of Virginia] raised the specter that some things might not be invented at all without patents, in software and other fields. "The only thing worse than a patented technology that burdens the public is not having a technology at all," he said. Sure, some software patents were a pain, but others were protecting important work. "The question is, will you get very serious research that is patent-motivated? Speech recognition, for example, is very patent-intensive."In Stallman's view, the idea that society might be able to eliminate "bad patents" while keeping good ones is a kind of Jedi mind trick. Offering patents as a reward for software development--a system where the prize is a right to shut down someone else--is fatally flawed."Consider the MP3 patent," said Stallman. "That caused a lot of harm. It's not trivial, it came from a research institute. But we can fund research institutes in other ways."(Thanks @doarunner for the link.)In a nutshell, the Android problem: totally forked &gt;&gt; John Battelle's Search BlogJohn Battelle's Search BlogI'm a fan of "open." Anyone who knows me, knows this about me.But I'm also a fan of "easy." And of "good design." So, for the past couple of years, I've been an iPhone user, mainly because it was easy, and had better design than any alternative. Also, my company supported the iPhone, even though it was terrible for calendar, contacts, email, you know, pretty much everything that mattered to me.But because I'm no longer day to day at my company, I've been eager to move away from the iPhone, for many reasons, including the extraordinarily awful experience I recently had, chronicled here.  And I really like the philosophy of Android. It's open, it's hackable, it's generative in all the right ways.However, it's also a utterly confusing mess. Alas, this seems to be the price of "open" - chaos.He wants an Android phone, with one proviso: "once I buy it, I don't want to spend three days figuring out how to make it work."A good Ultrabook, a bad tablet: the Lenovo IdeaPad Yoga 13 review &gt;&gt; Ars TechnicaThere are three major problems with using the Yoga as you would an iPad or even a Surface tablet. The first two are, obviously, size and weight. This is a full Ivy Bridge system. While it's reasonably thin and light for a laptop, it's pretty thick and heavy for a tablet. The 13-inch screen also makes it awkward to hold for long periods of time, especially with one hand. It does somewhat better if you're sitting in a chair, on a train, or in a plane with it resting in your lap, but it's still not something you'd want to carry around your house.The other problem is the keyboard--since the screen flips all the way around on its hinge, it leaves the keyboard and trackpad completely exposed. The laptop disables keyboard and trackpad input when not in laptop mode, so accidental input isn't a problem, but it still makes the computer awkward to hold while in tablet mode. This is all to say nothing of the extra wear you're exposing the keyboard and wrist rest to by placing it on a flat surface and scooting it around.The full flip on the hinge is clever, though. (Thanks @hotsoup for the link.)Why competitors should fear the iPad mini &gt;&gt; TechPinionsBen Bajarin:The vast majority we interviewed had not owned a tablet yet and were on all parts of the economic scale. Those in the lower income brackets were also intending to research a few other tablets in the 7? form factor. The leading three were the Nexus 7, Kindle Fire HD and Nook HD. Even with that bit of feedback over 60% said they were still leaning toward the Mini.When we discussed the intended use cases for the iPad Mini, every single person with kids mentioned it as a part of their child's educational process as a key use case. This did not surprise me. What did surprise me was that over half of those who brought up using it as a part of their kids educational process made the point that they believed the iPad would be used in schools in the future and making sure their kids were proficient with it was important and that they wanted their kids to use the same technology at home they will be using in schools.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Early reviews are out, and the critical consensus is: wow. As the last blockbuster game to be released this side of Christmas, tropical open-world first-person-shooterFar Cry 3(Xbox 360 / PC / PS3) could easily have been met with excellence-induced ennui. Reviewers have already had to slog through the unreasonable brilliance of a glut of series-defining sequels, fromAssassin's CreedtoBlack OpsandBorderlands, and could be forgiven for taking depth, freedom and exhilarating action for granted. Far Cry 3, though, has all the inspired mayhem of its competitors plus an ace in the hole: unforgettable villains.And villains are vital. Just ask the audience at your local panto. The louder the children hiss and boo, the louder they'll cheer when the hero triumphs. The fouler the monster, the mightier its slayer must become, and Far Cry 3's pirate-slaver Vaas is deliciously and devilishly foul. At once brutal, poetic, feral and effeminate, he's a triumph of design, writing, motion-capture and acting. When he's on screen you almost don't dare make eye-contact. One villain this great would be an achievement. The fact he's one of several equally dark, adult and blood-chilling antagonists is staggering.Far Cry 3 begins with our every-lad hero Jason Brody bound and awaiting death or slavery at the hands of Vaas and his pirates, – of the speedboats and grenades kind, not peg-legs and parrots – who control all but a single tribal village of the fallen paradise of Rook Island. Here, on an idyllic holiday with his friends, Brody begins the game a whimpering civilian, quaking at violence and panting as he scrabbles to escape his captors. Slowly, with the help of the local tribesmen, he sets about rescuing his friends from the island's madmen, and we see Brody morph from bloke into berserker, becoming a monster in his own right.In gameplay terms, it's a well-built hybrid of Assassin's Creed, Grand Theft Auto and an RPG shooter such as Borderlands, with just about all the best bits of each. The first, in particular, shares a lot of the same DNA, as you'd expect from a game made at the same time by the same developers. Stealth is handled very similarly in both, complete with lobbed rocks to distract guards, silent kills from above and below, and the usual mix of ultra-cool make-your-own-action-film moves, such as chained machete and throwing knife takedowns and zip-wire assassinations.The sandbox dynamics, too, are familiar. Far Cry 3's radio towers act like Assassin's Creed's eagle's nests, revealing chunks of the surrounding area when scaled, and doling out the open world in manageable fragments. The player can capture outposts from the pirates, claiming them for his tribal allies, making them available as fast-travel points and retooling stations. S ide-quests are also reminiscent of Assassin's Creed, with collectibles scattered across the islands, as well as assassination missions, tribal combat training, hunting challenges and time-trial supply runs making use of the island's many vehicles.In fact, Rook Island is littered with old cars and jeeps, and liberally sprinkled with abandoned jet-skis and cliff-top hang-gliders. Grab an old 4x4 and cruise the dirt roads, dodging, fleeing or attacking pirate convoys, and it starts to feel like GTA: Jungle. Not that free-roaming is ever leisurely: in pirate territory there's a constant sense of danger, with patrolling jeeps doing the rounds and vicious local wildlife, from bears to komodo dragons, waiting to maul players who step off the beaten tracks.Then, of course, there's the shooting. Far Cry 3 is, despite its many other attractions, a first-person shooter at heart, with a sizable arsenal of pistols, shotguns, assault and sniper rifles to discover, customise and sling across your back, plus explosives, flame throwers, incendiary arrows and all sorts of other fireworks. All of which are quite a bit more effective if you take the time to craft holsters and ammo pouches to carry them. While these can be scavenged or bought, they're much more reliably sourced by skinning one or two of every animal on the island like a sick, inverted Noah.Players keen to preserve their animal rights record can focus on herbal medicine instead, creating syringes granting health and stat boosts from the island's flowers. There's even a primitive RPG-style skill tree and experience system, letting the player unlock new stealth takedowns, better crafting abilities or improved combat reflexes to suit their playing style.The multiplayer modes can't quite live up to the complexity of the campaign, but with an immersive world, tight gameplay and a mesmerising cast of villains, Far Cry 3 is a complete adventure.Far Cry 3 is released in the UK on 30 November and in the US on 4 December
I'm after a Windows 8 tablet/hybrid. Looking at the prices of these beasts, however, shows that they tend to be expensive. Is it possible to buy a Windows 7 tablet – which are now older and, on the whole, cheaper than brand new Windows 8 tablets – and a copy of Windows 8?NeilYou could, but I recommend against it. Windows 8 will run on all sorts of old hardware includingancient Atom-powered netbooks, and it will generally run faster than previous versions. However, Windows 8 has changed the set of touch commands that have been used over the past decade, from Windows XP Tablet PC Edition to Windows 7. Many of the Windows 8 touch commands require you to swipe from the edge of the screen, and this can be a major problem for old hardware.For example, swiping to the left in the middle of the screen will always pan the content to the left, as you would expect. However, if you swipe from the edge of the screen (or slightly beyond the edge) in Windows 8, this pulls out the Charms command bar that let you go back to the start screen or change the PC settings, etc. This is a frequently-used edge-swipe, but there are others.Swiping up the screen from the bottom edge brings up the commands for a Metro-style app. Swiping from the left edge provides access to the programs you have running. Swiping down selects something, and you can close an app by swiping it down and off the bottom of the screen.For completeness, there are gestures that do not use the screen edges. There are three one-touch commands: tap to activate; press and hold to learn; and swipe to pan. There are two two-touch commands: pinch to zoom, and turn to rotate. All these work consistently across the operating system and apps. However, Windows 8 hardware must support a minimum of five touch points, and many systems support 10.Old hardware can have problems working with these gestures. First, some screens only support two-point touch. Second, edge support is generally poor. Before the launch, Microsoft tested Windows 7 hardware with Windows 8, and many screens couldn't handle right-edge swipes consistently if at all.With Windows 7 and earlier versions, touch operations focused on the centre of the screen, and performance at the edges was lower. When you swipe in from an edge, the hardware has to detect the touch very quickly, or else it will be seen as a swipe-to-pan gesture. Tablets that carry the Windows 8 logo have been tested to do this. Tablets designed for Windows 7 have not. (Tip: if a swipe fails, try doing it a fraction slower. This gives the hardware more time to pick up the gesture as an edge-swipe.)Microsoft could have allowed a few pixels round the screen edges to pick up swipes but decided against it. One of the main design principles of Windows 8 is "content over chrome", and the app developer "owns" 100 percent of the pixels on the screen. In other words, Windows 8 is designed so that you can manipulate content directly, without any task bars, menu bars, scroll bars, docks and similar old-fashioned clutter (this is the "chrome").Edge-swipes have been introduced to replace these control features without taking any pixels away from the content. If the edge-swipes don't work properly, you don't have complete control, and the beauty of Windows 8's "fast and fluid" operation is diminished.Of course, you can still operate Windows 8 using a keyboard and touchpad or mouse, and this works well once you've got the hang of it. The Start screen's Live Tiles still work as launchers, switchers, widgets/gadgets and notification areas, which is why they are such a huge advance on the Start menu and dumb icons. The drawback is that you lose the sense of directly manipulating content that makes tablets in general, and Windows 8 tablets in particular, a pleasure to use.The only Windows 7 tablet that comes close to delivering the sort of experience you get from a Microsoft Surface is a Samsung Series 7 Slate. Microsoft worked closely with Samsung on the design. Microsoft used this tablet in its demos, supplied thousands to developers who attended its major conferences, and loaned hundreds to the journalists who have been using Windows 8 for many months.You could buy one of these (US import) Samsung Series 7 Slates with an Intel Core i5 processor, 4GB of memory and 64GB of solid state storage (SSD) from Amazon for£807.49, reduced from £1,599.99. They're generally not much cheaper new on eBay.In ablog post, Microsoft also mentioned the HP EliteBook 2760p Convertible, Asus EP121 tablet, Dell Inspiron Duo and Lenovo X-220t as machines that developers could use instead but said: "This is not an endorsement, and users of these PCs should not expect official support from PC vendors when installing Windows 8."The current equivalent of the developers' tablet is the 11.6in Samsung ATIV Smart PC. This has an Intel Core i5-3317UM, 4GB of memory, 64GB of storage, Windows 8 Professional and a 5-year warranty for around£999. There's also a cheaper version with an Intel Atom Z2760 processor for£795. An Atom can handle tablet apps in Windows 8, but I wouldn't pick one to run Adobe Creative Suite or similar desktop programs.The most attractive Windows 8 touch-screen laptop at the moment is the 11.6in Asus VivoBook S200. You can have a look at one in PC World, which is selling them for£499.99with the 1.4GHz dual-core Intel Pentium B987 processor. However, Expansys is offering a faster Intel Core i3-3217U version on pre-order for£399.99, and Tesco has offered it for£449. Stocks are short and demand is high, so you will have to shop around.If you really want a tablet, then Microsoft'sSurface RTis good value at £399 for a tablet with a 10.6in screen. It is exceptionally well made, and also includes a copy of Microsoft Office. But there are several "buts". Surface RT uses a Tegra ARM-based processer so it won't run your old Windows 7/XP software, the 32GB of storage is really only 16GB (Windows 8, Office and the reset/recovery system take up half the space), and you'll need a Touch or Type keyboard/cover for an extra £99.99 or£109.99. At least the USB port and microSD card slot are built in, and Surface RT works with a lot of old Windows controllers, printers and other accessories.TheLenovo Yogaconvertible (£699) is an interesting but more expensive alternative.The cheapest way to run Windows 8 today is to load it on your current PC, and this is what I'd do in the short term. PC manufacturers have not done much to support Windows 8 so far, apart from loading it on sub-£350 laptops and £650+ Ultrabooks. Some more innovative designs will be shown at the CES 2013 computer trade show in Las Vegas in January, and will hit the market early next year. You can also expect the AsusVivoTab Smart, AsusTransformerBook, and Microsoft Surface Pro, which have already been shown.Big multi-touch capacitative screens are expensive, so there's no chance that this kind of Windows 8 PC will appear at typical Windows 7/XP prices in the near future. However, if you like the idea of having both a big-screen tablet and a Windows 7 laptop in one convenient device, they're good value.
Four activists from the hackers collective Anonymous caused multimillion-pound losses to a number of firms in revenge for the backlash against WikiLeaks, a court has heard.Using the name Operation Payback, the four flooded websites belonging to companies including PayPal and Ministry of Sound with messages and requests in order to bring them down.People who tried to visit the sites were greeted with the message: "You've tried to bite the Anonymous hand. You angered the hive and now you are being stung."What began as a targeting of the music industry over its antipiracy stance turned into a campaign in support of WikiLeaks and its founder, Julian Assange. The self-styled "hactivists" caused losses worth more than £3.5m at PayPal and caused sites belonging to MasterCard and the recording industry to go offline.Three of the group have admitted their role in the conspiracy. Christopher Weatherhead, 22, a student at Northampton University, is on trial at Southwark crown court accused of being "part of a small cabal of leaders" of the cyber-attacks.Opening the prosecution case, Sandip Patel said Weatherhead – who went by the online name "Nerdo" – played a central role in the campaign mounted in 2010. "This case, simply put, is about hackers who used the internet to attack and disable computer systems, colloquially described as cyber-attackers or vandals," Patel said."Christopher Weatherhead, the defendant, is a cyber-attacker, and … he and others like him waged a sophisticated and orchestrated campaign of online attacks that paralysed a series of targeted computer systems belonging to companies, to which they took issue with for whatever reason, that caused unprecedented harm."The campaign involved Weatherhead and his three co-conspirators carrying out distributed denial of services (DDoS) attacks against the companies, the court heard. The tactic paralyses a computer system by flooding it with an "intolerable number of online requests and messages", Patel said."The members of Anonymous describe themselves as hacktivists … They conducted online attacks against computer systems which they took the view, for whatever reason, needed to be dealt with, taught a lesson. Their method was to carry out DDoS attacks in order to bring them down."He said Operation Payback had originally targeted companies involved in the music industry and opponents of internet piracy, but was later broadened to include new objectives after the backlash against the publication of classified data by WikiLeaks.The four used a free internet tool called Low Orbit Ion Canon (LOIC) as a "destructive cyber weapon", the court heard. "Once downloaded, the LOIC could be used to attack by sending internet traffic to a target computer," Patel said. "When the volume of traffic sent to a computer becomes too much for it to handle it would suffer a denial of service. The more LOICs used, therefore, to attack a target computer, the more likely that a denial of service will take place."He said the LOIC was used in connection with an online chat system calledAnonOpsto allow Weatherhead and other hackers to order several computers or "bots" to attack simultaneously.Weatherhead is alleged to have played a "prominent" role in setting up the online chat – or internet relay chat (IRC) system to attack PayPal and other sites and was, the court heard, the network administrator of AnonOps. "He was responsible for organising the IRCs used and directing resources for campaigns," Patel said.Weatherhead bought the website anonops.net from a Russian-based service provider that he claimed to know "permitted anything, even CP – child pornography", the court heard. "A number of organisations, were targeted some of which have contacted the police and confirmed the level of damage caused by such attacks. There were many more, we know that from chat logs, but they may not have known what had happened to them."He said the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) was attacked on 19-20 September 2010, though the DDoS did not shut the site down. Four websites operated by Ministry of Sound were also attacked between 3 and 6 October. "As a consequence of the attack they suffered loss of reputation and sales," Patel said. "The total cost of the attack, including additional staffing, software and loss of sales, was approximately £9,000."The International Federation of the Phonographic Industry was forced to spend £20,000 as a result of being attacked between 27 November and 6 December.Weatherhead, of Northampton, denies one count of conspiracy to impair the operation of computers between 1 August 2010 and 27 January last year. Ashley Rhodes, 28, of south London, Peter Gibson, 24, of Hartlepool, and an 18-year-old from Chester have pleaded guilty to the same charge. The trial continues.
Tablets will outsell notebooks in the US in the fourth quarter of 2012, beginning a trend that will accelerate through 2013 as the new form factor begins to usurp traditional computers,says NPD DisplaySearch.The company reckons that a total of 21.5m tablets will be sold in the fourth quarter, compare to 14.6m notebooks and "mini-notes" - otherwise known as netbooks.It's even possible that in 2012 as a whole tablet shipments in North America could pass those for notebooks. And for 2013, NPD is confident that tablets will outstrip notebooks - by 80m to 63.8m.But for troubled PC makers, there's a little breathing room: NPD reckons that notebooks will keep outselling tablets. Until 2015, that is, when we'll hit 275.9m tablets against 270m notebooks.Note that this doesn't mean that tablets will be outstripping PCs as a whole - the notebook market is about 70% of the world market - but it suggests that they will be getting awfully close. The desktop (as opposed to notebook) market is not growing; a series of estimates from IDC have shown its forecast for the PC market dropping away in future years while tablet shipments grow.Thus in June 2011, IDC reckoned that in 2015 PC shipments worldwide would be 543.5m - of which 383.3m would be notebooks.But with the rise of the tablet, it has repeatedly revised those PC figures downwards, so that in September this year it wassuggesting450m PCs (289m notebooks), and 233m tablets. And that was before the explosion in availability of 7in tablets from Amazon, Google and of course Apple.And for 2013, IDC's September estimate was 166m tablets worldwide, and 391m PCs (of which 235m would be notebooks).So why should North American be so quick to embrace tablets? NPD offers a few reasons:• over 70% of US households already have a PC, giving it one of the highest penetrations on the world - and also making a new PC purchase less important. (That's been evident from the falling sales of PCs in the US particularly, where the market has been shrinking year-on-year for some quarters.)• consumer preference has shifted from notebooks to tablets: while the North American tablet market has exploded (to 38.2m units in 2011, and a forecast 56m for 2012), people aren't buying notebooks as they used to - the figure is pretty static (54.9m in 2011, 55.9m in 2012).• the big players (Amazon, Google and of course Apple) "started, focussed or emphasised their tablet efforts in the US."The phenomenon of "Black Friday" - the US shopping bonanza that follows the Thursday Thanksgiving bloat-out, and marks the beginning of Christmas shopping season in the US - is expected to accelerate tablet sales. (It's "black" because retailers saw it as a point where they'd start turning a profit - though deep discounting is putting that under pressure.)
Susan Boyle's PR people are probably wishing they had re-read their promotional hashtag after missing its alternative message to Twitter users.Causing great mirth on the social network on Thursday, the unfortunate choice of hashtag#Susanalbumpartyto promote the singer's new album event has spawned a wealth of mock invites to the partyand ridicule.Gawker reportsthe rumour-bashing siteIs Twitter Wrong(run by@flashboy)managed to track downthe original tweet from Susan's account, which was hastily changed to #SusanBoylesAlbumParty.Since we're aware of the potential pitfalls of an unfortunate Twitter name or hashtag (remember to cap up US for@GuardianUSeveryone!), SuBo's PR fail (some may call it genius) prompted us to revisit some previous so-called PR "hashtag fails", including:1. #McDStories:Back in January, McDonald's #McDoStories hashtag backfired when instead of offering "good news stories" about the fast-food chain, users began flooding the tag with claims of fingernails in burgers and other nasties.2. #WaitroseReasons:When the supermarketasked shoppers to complete the sentence: "I shop at Waitrose because …" using the hashtag #WaitroseReasons in September, it perhaps should have expected the subsequent tirade of jokes about the brand's posh image – thoughmany have said the way Waitrose respondedturned the campaign from disaster to success.3. #QantasLuxury:Airline Qantas won theaccolade of PR disaster of the year at the end of 2011after opening up their promotional hashtag #QantasLuxury at a time when thousands of passengers were stranded overseas.4. #MadeMeSmile:Vodafone was left bemused whenTwitter users redeployed the PR #mademesmile tagto publish tax avoidance allegations direct to the company's website.Hey everyone @vodafoneukare giving away prizes for the best tweets with hashtag#makesmesmile. Anyone have any good ones?&mdash; UK Uncut (@UKuncut)December 12, 20105. #AskStevieG:The hashtag designed by Adidas staff probably should have predicted thetypes of questions Twitter userswould post to the Liverpool footballer – the social media equivalent of scoring an own goal.Over to you – what are the best and worst PR hashtags you've seen this year, and does SuBo's PR contribution top them all?Your favourite #failsReaders in comments have been posting their favourite Twitter hashtag fails which also demonstrate a need for some serious proofing from social media teams.freeclimbsuggests #rimjobs from Blackberry maker RIM, added to job opening tweets.SubhajitBanerjeeremembers the abuse of the #AskTony tag which was promoted for a Q&amp;A with Tony Blair over the interfaith harmony week.Switzerland has picked #hobbitch for the promotion of the Hobbit with its country code, thanksdudelsac.And a fantastic shout fromPorkBoy- who told us about Chester Literary Festival's #epicfail with the hashtag #CLitFest. Delightful!
Facebook has become so large that a system allowing users to vote on policy changes has become ineffective, the company's head of communicationsannounced on Wednesday.The site's three-year old experiment allowing users to vote on corporate policy changes was introduced in 2009 in response to user outrage over Facebook's terms of use which gave the site licence over users' photos, videos and posts.Elliot Schrage, vice president of communications, public policy and marketing, wrote that the system had to change since the site grew to more than one billion users, and since it became a public company in May."The voting mechanism, which is triggered by a specific number of comments, actually resulted in a system that incentivized the quantity of comments over their quality," wrote Schrage. "Therefore, we're proposing to end the voting component of the process in favor of a system that leads to more meaningful feedback and engagement."Organised chiefly around commenting, the new systems will include submitting questions directly to the chief privacy officer Erin Egan through a privacy page and live webcasts, though users have until 28 November to push the new proposal to a vote. Other proposed changes include settings that will filter incoming email and share data with Instagram.Facebook will continue to email all users directly about changes to privacy policy, it said.Until now, proposed policy changes had automatically been put to a vote by users if they attracted more than 7,000 comments.By Thursday morning, the announcement had attracted more than 3,000 comments and was overrun with users objecting to changes and demanding a vote on Facebook campaign siteour-policy.org. A detailed 1100-word manifesto on the site demands clearer language in Facebook's data use policy, a list of retained personal data available to users and a ban on Facebook keeping data after an account has been closed.
It's time for our weekly roundup of the best new games for smartphones and tablets, easing down slightly from the chaos of trying to narrow down a longlist of 60 new releases forlast week's post.As ever, all these games were released in the last seven days. Prices are included, but bear in mind where a game is marked as Free, it's highly likely to be using in-app purchases. Actually, a lot of the paid games are also using IAP nowadays too.On with this week's selection:Endless Road (£0.69)This is probably the most visually-interesting game of the week: an isometric racer where you have to outrun a collapsing landscape, dodging traffic and obstacles as you go. As you can see from the screenshot above, it's got a distinctive visual style through its perspective and use of colour. But the gameplay matches the hipster visuals.iPhone / iPadHeroes of Order &amp; Chaos (Free)Gameloft was inspired by World of Warcraft for its Order &amp; Chaos Online massively multiplayer game for smartphones and tablets. Now it's spinning that off into what it claims is iOS' first Multiplayer Online Battle Arena (MOBA) game. The idea being to pick characters and battle enemies alone, or with friends. The Android version hasn't gone live at the time of writing, but I'll update the link when it does.Android / iPhone / iPadSkylanders Battlegrounds (£4.99)It's not been long since Activision's last iOS Skylanders game – Skylanders: Lost Islands – but now its popular console franchise is back for another bite at the App Store. As the name makes clear, this game is much more focused on battles, as players tear into an evil warlord army. There's also an optional "Bluetooth Portal of Power" accessory to bring physical Skylanders toys into the gameplay.iPhone / iPadMotley Blocks (£1.99)Square Enix has taken a break from Final Fantasy and other RPG duties to release this 3D rotating-block puzzle game. It sees you matching chains of blocks, earning virtual coins and buying power-ups, with online leaderboards and the ability to create puzzles to send to friends or publish for the wider community to play.Android / iPhone / iPadDragon Slayer (Free)Publisher Glu Mobile's latest freemium game has more fire-breathing giant mythical monsters than you can shake a stick at. Well, cast deadly spells at, really – a stick won't do you much good here. It's a magic-based combat with enemies, items and in-app purchases a-plenty.Android / iPhone / iPadTransformers (Free)Card-battler games have been a huge hit in Japan, but they're going more global – Rage of Bahamut being one popular example. How about applying the genre to Transformers? That's what Mobage has done on iOS already, and now on Android. It sees you building a virtual card-deck of Autobots or Decepticons, then battling other players over the network.AndroidAvengers Initiative (£3.13)Here's another big brand with a fervent fanbase jumping from iOS to Android, although in the case of Marvel's Avengers Initiative, this is more an Infinity Blade-style brawler rather than a card-battler. Available for a select bunch of devices initially, including Samsung's Galaxy smartphones and Google's Nexus 7, it sees you fighting as Hulk against a bunch of villains.AndroidPaper Monsters (£0.62)Crescent Moon's platform game Paper Monsters won huge critical acclaim on iOS, but now it's available on Android too. It sees you running and jumping along side-scrolling levels made out of paper, cardboard and other natural materials, with 28 levels to explore and some nifty features to encourage you to replay when you're done.AndroidBladeslinger Ep.1 (£1.99)There's plenty of buzz around the Bladeslinger game this week, as the first episode makes its App Store debut. It's a 3D action title using the Unity engine for some eye-popping graphics, as you shoot and punch the living nightlights out of various monsters in an otherwise-deserted town.iPhone / iPadRage of the Gladiator (£0.69)Rage of the Gladiator started off as a WiiWare game on Nintendo's console, but is now crossing over to iOS. It puts you in the (studded, blood-stained) shoes of a gladiator, fighting a succession of bosses with weapons and magical finishing moves. Expect beefy 3D graphics and lots of shouting.iPhone / iPadMonopoly Millionaire (£0.71)The iOS-to-Android ports are coming thick and fast, which is a good sign of how publishers are taking Google's platform more seriously – even if simultaneous releases would be an even better indication. Anyway, this is EA's latest reboot of board-game Monopoly, which focuses on speeding up the game and throwing in upgrades.AndroidSpy Mouse (£2.29)This is a Nokia-exclusive, so you'll have to search for it on your Lumia smartphone – the link above is to WP7 Connect's story on its launch. Spy Mous is a fun line-drawing puzzler from the clever folk behind the Real Racing and Flight Control games. It sees you guiding a mouse to cheese while avoiding cats in a succession of top-down levels.Windows Phone (Nokia)Groove Coaster Zero (Free)Taito's Groove Coaster appeared as a paid game on iOS in July 2011, but now it's been re-released as a freemium title. It's like a futuristic rollercoaster game powered by music, with tracks available to buy using in-game currency, and some freebies available for people who bought the original version.iPhone / iPadToy Defense (Free)Have we hit Peak Tower Defence Games point yet? Seemingly not, because they keep on coming. Toy Defense's twist on the genre is its use of toys as the characters, as you defend your base through 24 levels of enemy onrushes, upgrading units as you go.AndroidAlt-Minds (Free)Alt-Minds isn't really a mobile game: it's a transmedia "interactive gaming adventure" that runs across websites, Facebook, PC/Mac and tablets (the latter being the reason for its inclusion here). The storyline focuses on five mysteriously-disappeared researchers, and is told through a mixture of videos, games and web content. The tablet games focus on puzzles as part of all this.Android / iPadAsura Cross (Free)Here's a new take on the 2D beat 'em up genre from Korean publisher Gamevil, which sees you battling a series of foes, upgrading your character's skills in between fights, and then challenging other players in the game's Versus mode. An intriguing sign of what may come next for famous franchises like Street Fighter in the freemium/social era.iPhone / iPadThe Epstein Mysteries (Free)This is a nice curveball in the week's releases: a game from The Connected Set made for The New Art Gallery in Walsall, based around the real-life shooting of artist Jacob Epstein's mistress Kathleen Garman in 1923. The idea being that you listen to witness testimonies, peer at letters and artefacts, and try to find clues in the Gallery itself – the game can be played there, but also at home. It's the latest interesting glimpse at how museums and galleries can use apps and mobile games.Android / iPhone / iPadMegaCity (£0.69)On iOS, MegaCity was a quirky and inventive puzzler that included elements of city-building games. Now it's on Android, where it deserves a wider audience. Described as "Tetris meets Sim City", it makes placing homes, utilities and industrial units a brain-taxing treat.AndroidLittlest Pet Shop (Free)Gameloft is making a play for cutesy freemium games at the moment, with Littlest Pet Shop following My Little Pony, Wonder Zoo and Monster Life onto the app stores. Here, you (or, let's be honest, your children – so be on top of your IAP settings) are collecting dogs, cats, bears and other critters, then playing with them in a series of mini-games. The link above is for Android, buthere's the iOS version.Android / iPhone / iPadTurn N Run (£0.79)EA and Chillingo have bagged this week's Xbox-enabled game launch for Windows Phone, although early indications are that it works on Windows Phone 7 devices, but is encountering some issues on Windows Phone 8. Assuming those get sorted, it's fun – a port of an existing iOS game that gets you to twist the gameplay world to link up blocks and find your way to the alien hero's crashed spaceship.Windows PhoneThat's our selection, but what have you been playing on your smartphone or tablet? Make your recommendations in the comments, or give your thoughts on the games above.
Thursday is here, standing right in the way of Friday. If we could just squeeze past...
Samsung has won the right to see the text of theHTC-Apple agreementto cross-license (some) patents and end their lengthy court battles, which have dragged on since 2010. The document will be shown only to its lawyers as part of arguments before Judge Lucy Koh in its post-trial arguments after Apple was awarded a billion-dollar judgement against Samsung over infringement of some of Apple's design and interaction patents.Patents blogger Florian Müller haspulled off something of a coup, discovering a copy of the agreement, though heavily redacted.Even so it provides a number of fascinating details:• any change of ownership of either company (most likely for HTC at the moment), the agreement dies ("unless other wise agreed in writing by the Parties")• if either side gives or lends the patents to another company, the other side is still covered• the cessation of the lawsuits isn't permanent; it could restart at the International Trade Commission, though on what basis isn't known• it's unclear whether the agreement coversallpatents that the two sides hold (the detail is redacted) but there is a section called "Exclusions to grant of rights", which makes it sound pretty clear that not everything is available to both sides• the agreement only covers some - unspecified - products.Samsung demanded sight of the agreement for its case with Apple, where Judge Koh will on 6 December hear pleadings by both sides over the outcome of the jury decision.According to Groklaw, Samsung has prevailed in its demands to see an unredacted version of the agreement including the licensing fees, although it will be for "attorneys' eyes only" and so not publicised.Apple and HTC hadagreed to provide a version of the licence agreement to the court - but with 33 key words redacted, specifically the ones that specify the licence fees that HTC is paying Apple under the agreement. (That HTC is paying Apple is taken as read; although HTC had some 4G/LTE patents, it had yet to prove those against Apple, while the US company had gone as far as winning some injunctions against HTC handsets.)Apple is seeking sales injunctions against Samsung products found to have infringed; Samsung argued that Apple's willingness to license its patents to HTC means that injunctions are unreasonable, since all that is needed is some more negotiation between Apple and Samsung - given that Apple has already shown that it will license the patents to others (specifically, HTC).The price on the patents, and the detail about which patents, indicates what value Apple puts on its technology, Samsung argued. Groklaw quotes Judge Koh's interim ruling:At the hearing, Samsung explained that it needs an unredacted version of the settlement agreement because the financial terms are probative of [give proof of the] arguments Samsung raises in its opposition to Apple's permanent injunction motion. Despite Samsung's assertions that consumers' willingness to pay a premium for patented features of a product is not relevant to a consumer demand inquiry, it argues that to the degree Apple prevails on the contrary argument, the licensing fees with HTC are relevant to the degree of consumer demand for Apple's patented features.Samsung's lawyers are using a subtle argument: they're saying they don't think Apple's patents are relevant to how much demand there is for products in the marketplace. (They argue this because if Samsung is found to have infringed Apple patents, the payments per patent by HTC would point to the amount Samsung should pay.) But equally, if Appleisright, then it is hoping that the HTC licence will be quite low, so it can argue any fine down.Samsung's lawyers may have some inkling of the amount, because of a per-handset deal Samsung has made with Microsoft to license patents the software giant claims are infringed by Android.HTC's Peter Chou has said in interviews that suggestions that HTC is paying $6-$8 per handset to Apple under the agreement are "outrageous" and, more to the point, untrue. Too high? Too low? We'll have to crawl over HTC's financial results to see if it shows up.The licensing of non-essential patents has rapidly become a business worth hundreds of millions of dollars every quarter - of which almost all goes to Microsoft, which has demanded and won licences for its patents from almost all of the Android device makers marketing products outside China.HTC and Samsung have both signed deals - whose values have been guessed at being anywhere between $5 and $15 per handset - andeven in October 2011 Microsoft could boast other dealsfrom Acer, Quanta Computer, Wistron, Viewsonic and others.The biggest holdout: Google-owned Motorola Mobility (MMI), which for a couple of years has been asserting its standards-essential H.264 patents against Microsoft, claiming infringement and demanding a payment related to the retail price of products, while Microsoft has been demanding payment against the non-essential Android patents.It's hard not to see MMI's suit against Microsoft as a reaction to the Android payment demands - MMI was one of the first companies into the Android space - but a court is presently determining how much Microsoft should pay. Once that is done, and the Apple-Samsung trial is wrapped up, the beginning of the end of the smartphone patent wars might be in sight.
A quick burst of 9 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamAndroid 4.2 Source now Open &gt;&gt; Linux UserIt always takes a short while, but the latest version of Android is now up on the Android Open Source Project. The code comes with a list of suitable devices, with warnings for those that may experience problems or just are not supported at all. Interestingly, the Nexus 7 3G edition will not work with the open-source version of 4.2 due to licensing issues.Unfortunately, the Motorola Xoom and Nexus S are no longer supported with 4.2, which has caused some concern with users.The "licensing issues" relate to the 3G element of the tablet, though there's no more detail than that (might it relate to some of the 3G code that has patents attached?). The Xoom and the Nexus S were released in early 2011 and late 2010 respectively. Likeliest explanation for being left behind: lack of RAM. (Thanks @sputnikkers for the link.)Linux users targeted by mystery drive-by rootkit &gt;&gt; Techworld.comSecurity researchers have discovered what appears to be an experimental Linux rootkit designed to infect its highly select victims during a classic drive-by website attack.Posted anonymously to Full Disclosure on 13 November by an annoyed website owner, the rootkit has since been confirmed by CrowdStrike and Kaspersky Lab as being distributed to would-be victims via an unusual form of iFrame injection attack.Dozens of people could be at risk. (Thanks @sputnikkers for the link.)Nokia HERE maps sucks (significantly) more than Apple maps &gt;&gt; Mike BlumenthalNokia, with the help of Navteq, is a seasoned mapping company. Arguably they are in the top tier of digital mapping. Their new product, Nokia HERE Maps for the iPhone, should show Apple what good mapping is all about. It doesn't. In fact basic interface issues prevent the product from being a serious contender in the iPhone navigation market. Apple can now proudly say that there is a mapping product for the iPhone that sucks more than theirs.Disappointing. (He goes into plenty of detail. But: has walking routes, and public transport details.) Where's Google's Maps app? If Nokia can get one through Apple's App Store approvals, so can Google.wewantanycar.com - any experiences? &gt;&gt; PistonHeadsA nice bit of astroturf-busting.US said to waver on antitrust case against Google &gt;&gt; BusinessweekGoogle may skirt the most serious antitrust allegations under investigation by the US as regulators waver on whether they can prove consumers are hurt by the way the company ranks its search results, three people familiar with the matter said.Insufficient evidence of harm to consumers being the sticking point.Microsoft 'Xbox TV' device due in 2013 with casual gaming and streaming &gt;&gt; The VergeTom Warren:Microsoft is building an Xbox set-top box. Multiple sources familiar with Redmond's plans have confirmed to The Verge that the company plans to introduce a low-cost alternative to its Xbox console, designed to provide access to core entertainment services. The move will allow Microsoft to further increase its presence in the living room, providing consumers with a choice between a set-top box or a full next-generation Xbox console.Xbox 360 installed base: 70m. PlayStation 3: 70m. Wii: 97m. By comparison, RIM has 80m users, and everyone thinks it's a loser in the space. Ambitious, though.The BlackBerry Death Spiral &gt;&gt; TechPinionsSteve Wildstrom:"Notice of Intent to Sole Source iPhone Devices." That dry headline, from aNational Transportation Safety Board poston the Federal Business Opportunities web site, is news about as grim as it can get for Research in Motion. Though the launch of the new BlackBerry 10 smartphones the company is counting on for salvation is just over two months away, it may well be too late. Enterprise customers, long the backbone of RIM's business, are abandoning the platform and without them, RIM has little hope of survival.That is sobering indeed for RIM. The worst part is this, from the tender document:"These Apple devices will replace the NTSB's existing blackberry devices, which have been failing both at inopportune times and at an unacceptable rate.Typing on a Microsoft Surface RT: great, but no sale &gt;&gt; ZDNetJack Schofield:The Surface RT is such a gorgeous bit of hardware that I might still buy one, but it would probably be a Surface Pro with an Intel processor. In effect, this would be a replacement Windows laptop that happens to come with a "free" tablet. However, I suspect I'm more likely to go for a touch-screen Asus or Lenovo PC that works better as a laptop than as a tablet. Good as the Type cover is, by tablet standards, I wouldn't want to use one for the extended keyboard work I often need to do.Prince William photos slip-up forces MoD to change passwords &gt;&gt; The GuardianThe photographs, which included those of the prince sitting at a computer with a document on his desk, and another of him attending a briefing, had to be replaced and new versions launched with sensitive details pixelated out.As a precaution, the MoD has been forced to reset the user names and passwords of some RAF staff on its internal system.Moral: don't pin usernames and passwords to the wall.You can followGuardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the freeDeliciousservice.
Some analysts pump hot air into the hype around unproven new mobile technologies. Thankfully, Eden Zoller is one of the other ones.The principal analyst atOvum'stelecoms consumer practice delivered a dose of common-sense regarding mobile payments at this week's Guardian Mobile Business Summit conference."There's a new launch every week, which is exciting, but we're literally in danger of leaving the consumer behind," she said during a panel session on mobile payments. "Mobile payments are pretty much off-the-radar for most consumers, or usage is very low and it's not habitual."Ovum recently surveyed more than 11,000 people in 11 countries, asking them whether they use apps – around 7,000 said yes – and if so, what their three most frequently-used apps are."3% of those 7,000 surveyed ranked mobile banking as one of their most popular apps. Things like shopping, price comparisons and auctions scored 1%, and mobile wallets was actually under 1%," said Zoller, who noted that the mobile industry has a lot more work to do on making these technologies popular."We need to tell people about this stuff, make them aware that it's actually there, and convince them that it's more convenient, it's easier, and that it gives value compared to the existing payment mechanisms that they have. We need to do all this, we're not doing it very well, and instead we're just confusing them… For the consumer, this is doing their head in."There are dozens of companies pushing mobile payments technology in various forms in 2012, trying to simultaneously win over mobile operators, banks and credit card issuers and retailers, let alone the normal people who might use this technology at some point.Also on the panel was Tony Moretta, director ofWeve, which is a joint venture created by British mobile operators Everything Everywhere, O2 and Vodafone, which wants to create a set of technologies and standards for mobile payments and marketing for banks, retailers and advertisers to work with.Even he didn't mince his words about the current situation. "There's a proliferation of products, services and launches, or rather a proliferation of announcements, because there are very few products that consumers can take and use today," said Moretta."Even when they work, they don't replicate what consumers want to do. It doesn't really matter what you come up with as the technology: you have to convince consumers that it's easy to use, secure and it's going to be accepted everywhere."Judging by the mood in the conference room, there is plenty of industry scepticism about the operators' ability to move fast enough to make a big difference in this regard, although Moretta pointed out that Weve's status as an independent joint venture should help it avoid getting bogged down."Separately, we're not quick, but [the operators said] 'actually we're going to put that exclusivity around certain areas and give the responsibility for developing the technology to a joint venture that will be more fleet of foot," he said.'You've got to have simplicity...'The challenge with a 45-minute session on "mobile payments" is that the term covers a huge range of different technologies and services, from mobile wallets through to retailers taking card payments through mobile devices, through to location-based vouchers and coupons on smartphones. Any of which could generate a day's worth of conference sessions on its own.So, Stewart Roberts, UK managing director of mobile card-payments firmiZettle– often compared to Square in the US – talked about his company's work convincing retailers to "make the journey a bit easier" for their customers as they move from traditional card or cash payments to something more mobile."Ease of use is critical in this," he said. "You've got to have simplicity. If it's difficult, [people think] 'I'll do it the old way'."Meanwhile,Foursquare'sbusiness development director Omid Ashtari talked about his company's partnership with American Express to offer special deals to people checking in to specific locations or businesses – for example, people checking in to a Tesco outlet and spending more than £5 could get £5 back on their Amex card."We're taking people and driving them to merchants and businesses that might be useful for them," said Ashtari. "There's an opportunity to tie in coupons and specials, but also to tie payments into it. But it's important for us to adopt the mechanism that is as mainstream as possible."One question that cuts across most of these areas is how Apple, Google and possibly Amazon will fit into and/or disrupt the mobile payments market as it grows.By September 2012, Apple had 435m registered iTunes accounts, complete with credit card details. In its PassBook app, it also has the beginnings of what looks like a mobile wallet. Meanwhile, Google already has its own digital wallet service, and is encouraging the 1.3m people who activate a new Android device every day to link it to their devices.Why will these companies co-operate with operators, banks and card issuers rather than going it alone?"We spent a lot of time with the European Commission talking about Apple and Google," admitted Moretta. "There's not a lot we can do to stop someone like Apple, but they can stop us by blocking things in the App Store, for example. They're all playing around in this area."However, he suggested that Google has encountered some pushback from banks in the US with its Google Wallet, predicting that Apple may face similar obstacles."They do have a wallet in many ways: they've got the credit card details and most people have an iTunes account," he said."Translating that into something banks will be happy to use at the point-of-sale is not that easy. There are quite a lot of obstacles for Apple… They do have the scale and control of the ecosystem, and they can put up barriers for other people. Our hope is they don't do that."The tone of this article – which reflects the conversation in the panel session – is quite downbeat. That may be a good thing, though.There's still a lot of hype around mobile payments, but it's good to see people from that section of the mobile industry being realistic about the challenges this technology faces, particularly the needs and expectations of its potential users.Whether they're being as realistic about the likelihood of Apple and Google playing ball with the plans and development cycles of operators and banks is another question entirely.
