MondayWoW gets another expansionGamesblog WikiGame update: Week 5id unleashed Rage and lets off SteamTuesdayUser-generated gamingBeating KongXbox price cut - not for UKPa Rappa creator brings Musika to iPodWednesdayMake a MMOUser-gen is the new killer app says EAArtists climb the uncanny valleyThursdayDanny Ledonne on Super Columbine MassacreWhat IS this thing under my TV?FridayNew Nintendo characters on the way
Google confirmed it would to close down its video sales and rental service just after Blockbuster bought the Movielink download site co-founded by five Hollywood studios. According to theAPstory on the closure:Google has been selling the right to watch a wide range of video, including sports, music and news, since January 2006. Most of the video sold for anywhere from a couple dollars to $20. Customers could pay less to "rent" the right to watch a selected video for a day or buy the show so it would be available to watch indefinitely.Since videos had to be watched via Google, Google is refunding the people who will no longer be able to watch movies they paid for. There probably are not many of them.Movielink doesn't seem to have been successful either, with its copy-protected downloads.According to theLA Times, the studios had been trying to sell the service for a couple of years, "and in the end, Blockbuster bought the site for significantly less than the $150 million its founders had pledged to invest in it." See theanother AP storyfor more details.Blockbuster is in a battle withNetflix, which rents DVDs by mail order. Netflix has been trying to launch a download service for a couple of years, and it unveiled a Watch Now section (Windows only, naturally) back in January. According to theUSA Todaystory:"This is a big moment for us," says Netflix CEO Reed Hastings. "I have always envisioned us heading in this direction. In fact, I imagined we already would be there by now."Netflix claimed 5m viewings in the first six months, in its recentpress release, but I can't see anything about it on the Netflix home page.Amazon has anUnboxservice, and another alternative isCinemaNow. Both work with Windows Media Player and portable devices with Plays For Sure. Apple also offeres some movies via its online iTunes store. None of them looks likely to replace BitTorrent any time soon.Update: AtBoing Boing, Cory Doctorow has had a rant: "This is a giant, flaming middle finger, sent by Google and the studios to the customers who weredumbtrusting enough to buy DRM videos."
For the past week's posts on a single page, clickhereHighlights include:Microsoft says Mac Office 2008 will be delayed until January 2008IBM fingers the vendors of vulnerabilitiesReclaiming the bookshelves for reasonWho are Britain's hottest dotcoms?
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
Thursday's edition of Chatterbox.
Vivendi'sUniversal Musicplans to experiment by selling MP3 music files without copy protection or DRM (Digital Rights Management) for 99 cents each, but they won't be available from Apple's iTunes Music Store.Although independent labels have been doing this for many years, it's a novel step for the world's biggest music publishing conglomerate, which has artists such as U2, Amy Winehouse, Sting, Stevie Wonder, 50 Cent and Black Eyed Peas.APsays the DRM-free songs will be available from August 21 to January 31, adding: "Among the online retailers that will be selling the tracks are Amazon.com Inc, Google Inc, Wal-Mart Stores Inc, Best Buy Co, RealNetworks Inc's Rhapsody, Transworld, PassAlong Networks and Puretracks Inc, according to Universal." Also:Universal will be offering the tracks in the MP3 format, but the retailers will be free to sell the tracks in any DRM-free format they choose.It looks as though Universal is testing the waters to see if it can reduce Apple's control of the legal digital music download market, and thus increase its bargaining power. Last month, Universal refused to renew its contract with Apple, according toThe New York Times.Apple is the largest supplier of DRM-encumbered content: "the iTunes service accounts for 76% of digital music sales," says the NYT story. Also, it "has refused the industry's calls for Apple to license its proprietary copy restriction software to other manufacturers."EMI has been experimenting with higher-quality but higher-priced DRM-free downloads, which it sells via a wide range of online music stores, including Apple's. And according to EMI, quoted byBloomberg: "The initial results of DRM-free music are good."Both EMI and Universal will continue to offer music with DRM, which is essential for subscription services. However, most people don't think it's worth buying DRM-ed tracks. According to anArs Technicareport on EMR's recent survey of UK music consumers (PDF): "68% of those with opinions on the matter say that the only music worth purchasing is that which is DRM-free."
The blogosphere is throbbing withnewsthat Nintendo's Super-Guy Shigeru Miyamoto haspossiblylet slip that the Japanese games makersmightrelease new content, with totally new IP, sometime next year.Now, why should such a wishy-washy story get everyone's controllers in a twist?Well, because Nintendo, and Shigeru Miyamoto in particular, are masters of making the most well-loved games characters in the world. And even the slightest whiff of a new Nintendo experience is enough to send the gaming world into paroxysms of delight.The company is second only to Electronic Arts in pumping out sequels based upon a raft of standard characters. The last time they created a truly new Nintendo story was in 2001, with the release of the gardening simulation Pikmin. They side-stepped this difficult development issue at the release of the hugely successful Wii console by introducing character templates, thus allowing the player to represent him or herself on the screen. Very clever; no need to devise a complex back story for that one.There is universal excitement over the release of a new Nintendo character, with many gamers predicting it will be an updated version of their famous Italian plumber Mario. Others hope they'll consider the older gamer - and those other players whom they've won over with the accessibility of the Wii - by creating a darker, more mature character.Speculation abounds, and pressure is certainly on the development team to produce something consistent with their previous output. So, if you were to create a brand new character for one of the best-known and best-loved games publishers in the world, what would be on your list of requirements?
What's your favourite piece of technology?It's got to be blogging.How has it improved your life?I have spent most of my adult life proving that I existed. A blog is an accessible way of doing this - there is a date and place in cyberspace that I existed a year ago, to the day, and the proof is still there. Isn't that just the greatest thing? I can access that place, and so can you and my newfound family, and I can say look, I existed then too.Is it good for your art?Good-ish. My art has a different approach altogether. Like journalism, I suspect blogging to be more of a craft than an art - more crafty than arty.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I used it just yesterday to describe a visit, 300 miles from home, to a cemetery at the foot of a hill in a village on a road called Lovers Lane, for a boy I knew in the children's home whose parents were from Egypt and who hanged himself at the tender age of 32, and was being buried by his lover.What additional features would you add if you could?Writing is writing is writing. No additional feature needed. "It does what it says on the tin" is a phrase used for wood sealant, but it's also technology's greatest aim.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?Technology will never last if it ignores human beings' basic instinct to express and discover through expression. The blog acknowledges this.What one tip would you give to non-blog users?A blog is neither a diary nor a journal. Many people think of blogging in relation to those two things, confessional or practical. It is neither but includes elements of both. My tip? Don't be consumed by whether anyone reads it or not. It really doesn't matter. The act is everything.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?The world has changed. Technology is not a new thing on the horizon which we either point at in fear (luddite) or skip towards in glee (nerd). Those days are over. It now is the landscape that produces horizon after horizon after horizon on a minute-by-minute basis.What's the most expensive piece of technology you've ever owned?I think we are in an age where cash pays for time and space. The more cash you have the bigger space you can buy and the smaller the technology to put in it. My computer is too big - and it's a laptop!Mac or PC?I'm a Pac man: PC and Mac. That was a nerdy answer, wasn't it?What song is at the top of your iPod's top 25 most played?Better Not Look Down, by BB King. It is sunshine music, the kind you should play when caught in a downpour.Will robots rule the world?One of the clearest statements on the human spirit above technology is the end of a Gil Scott-Heron poem: "The revolution will not be televised … The revolution will be live."What piece of technology would you most like to own?An idea liquefier that could reduce convoluted ideas down to two things: a) the true reason for the idea; b) the idea itself. Otherwise, I'd like a decent mobile.Lemn Sissay is artist in residence at the South Bank Centre.
Lord Broers: chair of the committeeThat's one of the more controversial suggestions bandied around in the new report into internet security from the House of Lords Science &amp; Technology select committee, which I'vewritten about today.Much of the report is dedicated to discussing the government's stance, and the policing situation - but they do mention the possibility that software vendors, banks and other organisations could be held increasingly liable for security breaches.Unsurprisingly, that's gone down like a lead balloon in the tech industry.The Confederation of British Industry said that "increased liabilities on ISPs and software providers need to be treated with caution. Such catch-all legislation to address personal security is not guaranteed to work in the fast-evolving landscape of the Internet."Meanwhile Nick Kalisperas of IT trade body Intellect told me that he was also concerned by this: "We're very supportive of the report and its recommendations. But one area which is cause for serious concern is the idea of placing liability for security breaches on technology companies. We don't buy a car and then expect the manufacturer to pay up when it gets broken into."In that way, I can certainly see there's a strong argument that we should be able to take action against, say, a bank which fails to protect its customers. But what about the people who make the software on your computer? Should you be able to sue a company for failing to protect you from online crime?
The government and police must act to improve online security and stop the internet becoming a "playground of criminals", a parliamentary committee warns today. A report from the House of Lords science and technology select committee accuses both business and government of creating an image of the net as a "wild west", with millions of internet users unnecessarily exposed to crime."The internet is now increasingly the playground of criminals," the report says. "Where a decade ago the public perception of the e-criminal was of a lonely hacker searching for attention, today's bad guys belong to organised crime groups, are highly skilful, specialised and focused on profit. They want to stay invisible, and so far they have largely succeeded."The result of a six-month committee investigation into online security suggests radical solutions including a new internet crime fighting police unit and an independent web regulator.The report attacks the received web wisdom that individual web surfers should be responsible for their security. "You can't just rely on individuals to take responsibility for their own security. They will always be outfoxed by the bad guys," said committee chairman Lord Broers, a veteran of the technology industry and former vice-chancellor of Cambridge University. "We feel many of the organisations profiting from internet services now need to take their share of the responsibility."The document accuses politicians of an outdated attitude to internet safety and an inability to prevent the spread of fear about internet crime. A recent survey showed that people were more fearful of having their online security compromised than they were of being mugged.Proposals include laboratories for investigating internet crime, in place of the National Hi-Tech Crime Unit, disbanded during the creation of the Serious and Organised Crime Agency in 2006.A new police e-crime unit would also be supported by a website where members of the public could report cyber-crooks.Metropolitan police commander Sue Wilkinson told the committee that forces did not have enough resources or expertise to investigate all reports of internet-based crime. "The scale is such that the police service would fall over if it tried to investigate every case," she said. "I would hate any member of the public to feel that they can't report a crime, but people need to understand that each individual e-crime can't be investigated."Last month business leaders called for better support from the government and police as they struggle to cope with the increase in online crime. But the peers said banks and software companies had not given enough priority to the security of their customers."At the heart of this is establishing public trust in the internet and safeguarding citizens," said Nick Kalisperas, director of the IT trade group Intellect. "We're very supportive of the report and its recommendations. But one area which is cause for serious concern is the idea of placing liability for security breaches on technology companies. We don't buy a car and then expect the manufacturer to pay up when it gets broken into."Last year identity theft and online fraud cost British consumers at least &pound;414m, and the information commissioner has  called the state of data protection "frankly horrifying".
Recently, emails I have received from companies such as Land's End have had included the word PHISH in square brackets in the Subject line. I am used to seeing SPAM, but am ignorant of what PHISH means.Mary MuirYou are seeing emails that pretend to come from reputable companies, but are designed to lure you to fake sites that collect and store your log-in name and password. This process is called phishing, which is a variant of fishing. When your mail checker (McAfee) spots these emails, it marks them to warn you not to follow the links they contain. Phishing emails often target sites such as banks and payment services (eg, PayPal) where criminals can use your data for financial gain.
When I double-clicked Internet Explorer 7 on Monday, it didn't go to my home page. Instead it created two windows, then cancelled the navigation. It asked if I wanted to download an unknown 2.64K file called navcancl from ieFrame.dll instead. (By the way, it's very easy to misread the filename as navcand.) Clearly I did not, but either way, it stopped IE7 from running.JS:This is due to an error in the operation of the anti-phishing filter, and it has been introduced by Microsoft along with the May 2007 Cumulative Security Update for Internet Explorer (MS07-027). It has affected an unknown number of Windows XP, Server 2003 and Vista users. Microsoft has now published two workarounds inarticle 937409in its Knowledge Base. If you are running XP, ignore the first sets of instructions which apply to Vista - in other words, start half way down either Method 1 or Method 2. Another workaround is to turn off the phishing filter.
There are a staggering number of ways to get your music through this &pound;249.99 radio. Most obviously, it features an iPod dock on top which is compatible with third-generation iPods and forward, including the Nano. There's also a USB connector, for playing music stored on external memory. Using the supplied FM tuner doesn't really do justice to this gadget's potential. The most interesting source of music comes from internet radio. This can be accessed by connecting the radio via an Ethernet cable to your computer or wirelessly. It seems churlish to suggest that the sheer choice available makes navigating between radio stations a long-winded process, although this is improved by supplying a favourites option for stations you listen to regularly. Podcasts from across the world are also accessible through the radio, although the limited amount of information that the screen can store (only 50 podcasts per menu) makes this fairly difficult as well.terratec.co.uk
In some respects, satellite navigation systems have become a commodity with decent-ish models going for less than &pound;150 at supermarkets. But there is plenty of room for innovation at the top end, with models like Tom Tom's &pound;330 Go 720 leading the way. It looks smart, displays very readable maps and delivers concise instructions. It also boasts features that hint at the way satnav systems might be going. The key one here is Mapshare, which enables the user to edit the maps and share those corrections with other users. There's also an FM transmitter, so the spoken instructions can be played through the car's radio. The device also acts as a hands-free Bluetooth mobile phone unit, but my mobile, the popular Nokia N95, is not compatible with it. However, this is a wonderfully versatile satnav and well worth considering.tomtom.com
Mobile video calling - making a phone call and being able to see each other using the phone's screen - has been available in the UK for four years. Using a small camera built into the face of the phone, it is possible to look at, and chat to, another person equipped with the right handset, and connected to the right network.Sounds wonderful, doesn't it? Webcams are now so popular that they are built into PCs as a matter of course. Skype, AOL Instant Messenger and MSN Messenger all have video-conferencing functions that are easy to set up and use.Small groupUnfortunately, it seems that hardly anyone is interested in making a video call with their mobile phone. "We see a small group of our customers using video calling every month," says John Eccleston, manager of voice and video at 3 UK. 3 was the first company to offer mobile video calling in the UK when it launched four years ago. "It's a service you would use to call close family and friends, and usage is predominately consumer-based," he adds.The company wouldn't say how small that group is, and it's difficult for analysts who watch the mobile phone market to find out the numbers, too. Ovum, a consultancy known for watching the telecoms market closely, estimates global revenues of $2bn (just under &pound;1bn) a year. In contrast, the mobile services market - basically, everything you can do with your phone on the network apart from making phone calls - was worth &pound;16.5bn in the UK alone, according to research group CTR.Unfortunately, finding out exactly how much video calling is worth in the UK is a tricky task. "Video calling has been around for a while, but it's very, very niche," says Stephanie Pittet, an analyst at Gartner. Instead, Pittet and other staff at Gartner offices in Europe, China and the US estimated that for every 100 minutes of mobile phone calls on the planet, mobile video calling would make up five minutes.There are plenty of reasons for this lack of success, and also plenty of reasons why it might not be the disaster for the mobile industry that it might at first appear to be. To get people using - and paying for - the extra bandwidth that 3G networks provide, mobile phone network operators needed to offer something that made use of it: after all, all of that bandwidth certainly wasn't going to be taken up with more phone calls, and an SMS is an even smaller piece of data on the network.Pictures, both still and moving, take up plenty of bandwidth. Things like video calls, picture messaging and services such as Vodafone Live! are called Value Added Services, and compared to the popularity of texting and calling, they're struggling."From what we see, after four years on the market for 3, and three years for the other mobile phone operators, with lots more [video] handsets in the market, video calling isn't doing too good," Pittet says. She argues that people don't necessarily want to make video calls."There's a cultural block - people are just not that interested in showing their faces," she says. "Calls are also priced differently depending on whether both parties are on the same network or not. This is something, perhaps, for friends and family, but there's really not that much enthusiasm for this among business users."The cost of calls puts people off as well. Vodafone charges 35p a minute for video calls to other Vodafone numbers, and 55p for calls to other networks. O2 is charging the same as equivalent voice calls until late September. Virgin charges 30p to other Virgin phones and 50p elsewhere. Orange charges between 30p and 60p per minute.Eccleston of 3 agrees that price has hindered video calling, but he argues that what is more important is the number of people able to make and receive video calls. Knowing who it is possible to call with a videophone is one of the biggest factors. As video phones become more ubiquitous, it's more likely that a video call will reach a phone that can handle it.Another thing is that, while video calling might not be taking off, there are plenty of other things that use the cameras on the phone that are doing just fine, thank you very much.3's SeeMeTV has enjoyed plenty of popularity. This allows 3 users to shoot video footage using their phone and upload it to 3. They are then paid between 1p and 2p every time the clip is aired. The mobile movie-makers get a little bit of money - or a lot if their clip is popular - and 3 gets more people downloading video clips using their phones.Video messaging - recording clips and sending them to others' phones - is proving popular, too.Young usersThe real story, however, is how young people use the technology. They've grown up with mobile phones, rather than adapting to them."It's clear that, when we ask people over 25 what services they will use, most answers are around communications - voice calls, texting, a little picture messaging; instant messaging is getting a fair bit of interest too," Pittet says."Phone companies in the US and other places are getting more interest in music downloads, games and the like, mostly from users between 13 and 24 years old. I tend to see myself as young [Pittet is 32] but I am having to rethink this."Young people have been born with mobile technology, whereas people my age have had to learn it. Mobile applications are not aimed at us, but to young users. We might have the money, but youngsters have tomorrow's market."&#183;Ben Tudor is features editor of Computeractive magazine&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I used to be able to email my friends on AOL, but now AOL is blocking my emails and quoting error 554 RLY:B1. My server is terra.es, in Spain.John BrosterAOL has a help file that says error 554 RLY B1 is an automated block "placed on an IP address when AOL member complaints go over our set threshold. These are automated blocks that are removed by the system within 24 hours if the complaints are below the threshold."There is nothing you can do about this, except nag whoever runs your mail server to stop users from sending spam or bulk emails that might be identified as spam.You could, of course, set up a free email address to communicate with your friends on AOL. In fact, you could sign up for a free AOL mailbox with 2GB of storage atmail.aol.com, and see if AOL blocks itself.
I know we've only just met, but I feel it's important to get through to you before I see that knowing glint in your eye as I introduce myself - I AM NOT A POLE DANCER.Some people would dream about being mistaken for a famous person - think Chanelle from Big Brother pinning her future on emulating Posh Spice.But what if you shared the name with a fictional character and were stereotyped by whatever the author saw fit to write about said character?If you Googled me, chances are you would come across pages of book reviews: "Gina Davies, 26-year-old pole dancer who becomes a prime suspect in a murderous plot after spending the night with an attractive stranger." It's not exactly what I'd like my mother to come across, never mind my boss.But thanks to Richard Flanagan - best selling author of The Unknown Terrorist, in which my name so strongly features - visitors to my web page prefer to believe this information rather than trawl through to find the real me.Of course, I'm not the only one whose Google hits have been changed based upon the whim of an author - although JK Rowling seems to have done Oliver Wood a favour after casting his name as a good looking Quidditch captain in the Harry Potter series. The real Oliver Wood is a 26-year-old IT professional working in the north-east. He's no Potter fan, but does enjoy having a namesake."The numerous 'Oliver Wood is dead cute' websites can be quite amusing," he says. "But people I work with not being able to Google my name without getting a massive amount of chaff isn't brilliant."Even though the Harry Potter series is known as fiction, Oliver still gets mail from people desperately wanting it to be real. "I get a few emails to my Gmail account and a couple of Gtalk requests too, mostly from slightly embarrassed teenagers who don't expect a reply," he says. "Somebody also set up a MySpace page and gave my email address as a contact, which was pretty annoying for a bit."In a world where countries go to war on the basis of "facts", it seems that people can be so lazy that they would be willing to believe anything as long as it's a top 10 hit on a search engine, be it temptress or wannabe wizard.As for my new fame Down Under, don't get me wrong - I'd love to have the body of a pole dancer, and maybe if I didn't use the internet for work contacts I'd have a laugh and a joke about it. But for now, in the real world, a fictional character dictates my pay and my hours.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Google for Jakob Nielsen and you'll often find him described as a "web design guru". He's also the man that some web designers love to hate. In particular, they love to heap abuse on his website -UseIt.com.It's a decade-old design and it wouldn't take much effort to make it look nicer, would it? More importantly, surely he ought to be following all his own guidelines on usability.Nielsen is not a graphic designer, and he reckons that smartening it up would put him in the middle range of site designs: "I'd be just one out of 10m. Redesigning it would take away the real value, which is that it stands out. But I'm probably the only one who could get away with it. I wouldn't recommend it to somebody starting out now!"Although Use It annoys the people who think web design is graphic design, Nielsen doesn't mind. "There is something good about upsetting people, because it's making an impact," he says. But, he adds: "It's not good if you only annoy people," and you have to offer something of value.'My site stands out'Nielsen evaluates sites using principles described by Don Norman, his partner in the Nielsen Norman Group, in his book, Emotional Design (seearts.guardian.co.uk). The idea is that all designs work in three main ways: visceral, behavioural and reflective. Use It might upset people at the visceral level - if they immediately dislike the look of it - but Nielsen reckons it works well on the behavioural and reflective levels. "On the behavioural level - in actual use - it scores pretty well," Nielsen says. It's fast, has readable text, is fairly easy to use, and so on. "On the reflective level - what does it say about you  -my site stands out like a protest against the overly glamorous, flashy sites. So it scores really high."Nielsen is careful to point out that he's not making recommendations for all websites. There's no reason why people can't go mad on their MySpace pages, or create sites that are complex and challenging for, say, geeks or gamers. But his main focus is on sites where people go to get something done, such as look up a timetable, buy a car or take out a loan.He's also very closely involved with intranets - in-house webs where companies provide things for staff, from news to forms for claiming expenses. In these cases, even quite small usability improvements can bring enormous financial benefits, justifying high fees."Who are the users and what are they trying to do?" Nielsen says. "So what is a good interface for computer engineers is not a good interface for the average person. A lot of computer guys don't recognise that, and it creates problems."Nielsen's approach is to test usability using one or preferably more real users. Unlike the site's designers and other company employees, real users don't know what they're supposed to do, and often won't take the time to find out. "One of the main reasons companies need systematic usability studies is to make explicit the fact that outside customers don't find your design as important as you do," he writes in hislatest columnon Use it.According to Nielsen Norman research, "users visiting a new site spend an average of 30 seconds on the homepage and less than two minutes on the entire site before deciding to abandon it. They spend a bit more time if they decide to stay on a site, but still only four minutes on average." If they have to spend 15 of their 30 seconds figuring out which link to click on your home page, you've probably lost them. He says: "Thus, websites should have almost no features: focus on the words."Plenty of people make a living adding features with Adobe's Flash and Sun's Java, so you can add a few more to Nielsen's piles of potential haters.He added a few more recently by posting an article that upset some bloggers, including ex-Microsoft geek Robert Scoble. InWrite Articles, Not Blog Postings, Nielsen wrote: "To demonstrate world-class expertise, avoid quickly written, shallow postings. Instead, invest your time in thorough, value-added content that attracts paying customers.". That's the aim on Use It, where casual visitors can be converted into buying reports or attending conferences, and so on.User loyaltyBut Nielsen's point is that short and generally superficial blog posts are a commodity, and it's difficult to make yours any better than thousands of others. It's hard to build up any user loyalty that way. "One longer post beats many small pieces given superficial treatment, which will essentially be free, so maybe you can get people to pay for it - maybe not in money, but in a registration, or whatever."He makes a similar point about short videos. People can get an audience on YouTube, but by building up their own sites and "a loyal viewer base, they could actually make money out of T-shirts and DVDs and so on" he says. "In the long run, how you get value from being online is that users become regulars. If compiling other people's work is how you get value, like YouTube does, that isn't good news."What worries him is search engine domination: Google "takes a big percentage of the money," he says."The web is a web, and that is good, but companies invest a lot of money in creating content, and the money goes to Google for indexing it." Google drives lots of traffic to a great many sites, but it's delivering "no-value users. So they look at one article, but they never go there again," Nielsen says.But what could you do, boycott it?"That would only work if everybody did it. You would have to get all of them to agree, and that's essentially impossible. So we have to do something else, and it has to be something that encourages user buy-in and creates loyalty."Looking forward five years or more, Nielsen thinks sites should try to get themselves in users' "need to know" category rather than "nice to know". It's a fair bet that, in another decade, Use It will still be in the "need to know" category, at least for web designers who are interested in usability. Whether it will look nice is another matter. I wouldn't bet on it.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Sounding off about SACDSony shot itself in the foot by thinking that everyone would go out and buy music that they already owned on CD and vinyl (No taste for high-quality audio, August 2). Hardly any new titles were released on SACD. Sony owns a major music label and could have ensured SACD's success by releasing everything on hybrid SACDs, but chose not to. As an aside, SACD is very good, much better then CD - I won't even bother comparing it with MP3!Harry Winterbottom, Frankfurt, Germany&middot;Most of the music that people purchase these days has very little benefit from higher resolution or dynamic range because the producers of such music do their level best to reduce these aspects before the crappy iPod-type product reduces it further. But for classical music, there appears to be a very real taste for higher-quality music.Three of the largest independent classical recording companies either have or are about to release all of their discs as hybrid SACDs. Also, the ability to play SACDs is almost obligatory for all quality "universal" players -  hardly the mark of a dying format.John Broggio, Sutton Coldfield&middot;I agree it's poor judgment to throw modified versions of existing formats, like DualDisc, MVI etc against the wall to see if they stick when it's obvious that people are shifting their needs from a physical format to a downloadable format. With this in mind, I'm heartened that Sony is showing restraint by not introducing Blu-ray music discs, even though eight channels of lossless PCM would be heaven for audiophiles.Doug Osborne, California, US&middot;Most ordinary mortals buy mini/midi systems whose amplifiers and speakers probably can't distinguish CD quality from MP3, let alone do justice to SACD. Music lovers will just have to go back to attending concerts.Alan Kennedy, LondonSkype hypeDear Louise, throw the USB phone in the bin: I did (Technobile, August 2). I replaced it with a headset but only plugged in the microphone. I left the speakers plugged in to hear with. You might have to be careful with the volume to avoid getting feedback, but it is possible to listen to the Archers and call friends on Skype. Keep the faith.John Belton, High Peak&middot;I've stopped using Skype out of sheer frustration.Adrian Robinson, via emailSpreadsheet prehistoryI agree with Neville Holmes that computer-based spreadsheeting has a longer  history than the desk-top computer (Letters, August 2). I was using a commercially available spreadsheet system as long ago as 1976. It was called Foresight and was delivered on XDS Sigma 7 computers by the brilliantly named Cybernet time-sharing bureau. It provided up to 40 columns and used Fortran-style formulae similar to modern spreadsheet systems. Data-entry was via a tele-typewriter and paper tape - cutting-edge technology and light years ahead of the punched cards you had to use with ICL's Prosper system. The data link was via acoustic coupler.Simon Sanders, SalisburyOpportunity to shineThe network of high street e-government shops Michael Cross suggests already exist (High street e-government, July 26). Set up in 1999, UK online centres' original remit was to improve IT access and skills. There is an opportunity for new ministers to maximise on that investment by using the network to support transformational government. Centres are already working to help the hard-to-reach interact with government online. To truly transform government, that kind of support needs to be sustainable and nationwide. Future government focus should not only be on the websites themselves, but on reaching the people with most to gain from them.Helen Milner, managing director, UK online centres
In June this year, the Ministry of Defence sent a recruitment mailshot to the family of Lance Corporal Dennis Brady, a reservist with the Royal Army Medical Corps, inviting him to re-enlist. But Brady had been killed eight months previously while serving in Basra.Although the blunder was very public, prompting a ministerial apology and the MoD to suspend direct mailing, it was not unusual. About 570,000 deaths occur in Britain every year.Emma Reid, founder of OBiT, a non-profit service that enables direct-marketing databases to share information about customers who have died, says that many bereaved families continue to receive mail addressed to the deceased person.One reason for the embarrassment is that the law prevents the regular release of official lists of people who have died. Reid is campaigning for a change. The issue is also of concern because of initiatives to join up government databases of citizens' information - and to those worried about the consequences for civil liberties.Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign is interested because death records seem to mark the boundary between public-sector information which should be made freely available and that which should be closely controlled to protect privacy. With concerns running high about the potential uses of data accumulated through national ID card systems, this has emerged as one of the most controversial points of our campaign.Database of deathsThe law governing the release of information on death registers dates from 1864. Essentially, this allows people to look up individual entries in registers but not to extract the data in bulk. This restriction is a barrier not just to companies wanting to avoid the embarrassment and expense of trying to contact dead people, but also to government initiatives to simplify the notification of bereavement.A report published by the Treasury last year found that one family had to contact official bodies 44 times over 18 months to deal with a death. The report recommended that government set up a "one-stop" death notification service. The idea is at least 10 years old, but as the report's author, Sir David Varney, was last month appointed the prime minister's adviser on transforming public services, it seems likely to become reality. The database most likely to be used belongs to the Department for Work and Pensions, which receives weekly updates of births, marriages and deaths.Moves are now afoot to make this record available outside government. The Police and Justice Act 2006 allows registrars to release information on deaths, but only for the prevention of crime. Responses published last month to a consultation carried out by registration authorities in England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland found widespread enthusiasm for the release of bulk data to prevent so-called "impersonation of deceased" fraud.The three registrars say they plan to introduce a joint scheme for releasing the data later this year. And Reid welcomes the move - up to a point. "We think it's a start, but it's not going to fulfill our requirements." The problem is that the government does not regard updating direct marketing databases, such as that used to contact Brady, as prevention of crime. To allow data on deaths to be used to "suppress" commercial databases, new legislation will be necessary.Such legislation would be in line with data protection laws, Reid says, as one of the eight data protection principles requires personal data to be accurate and kept up to date. In its response to the registrars' consultation, the Information Commissioner agreed. As the data protection act relates only to living individuals "it will not in general have an impact on the controlled disclosure of information relating to the deceased". Concerns would arise, however, if information released under the proposed scheme identified living individuals.Caution neededFor example, a surviving family member with a similar name and address to the deceased might find themselves denied credit or accused of fraud. The commissioner suggested that organisations such as banks exercise caution. "Correspondence which appears to originate with an individual whose file shows a 'deceased' marker should be treated as a matter to be investigated further, rather than a definite attempt at fraud."Responsibility for sorting out the law lies with the Ministry of Justice - which, happily, is responsible for freedom of information, data protection and regulations covering the re-use of public sector information. The last is the focus of the Free Our Data campaign.Up to now, we have been concerned mainly with information about the natural environment and anonymised statistics, where we think the case for automatic free dissemination is clear. At the other end of the spectrum, data about identifiable citizens should be rigorously protected - the more so as the government moves towards joined-up databases.Records of deaths lie at the boundary between the two. We believe that, while the existing restrictions on the release of bulk data are absurd, the potential harm to living individuals means that re-users (including those in government) should be under a special obligation to get their facts right.&middot;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
In one of the largest deals of the web 2.0 era, the Walt Disney Company last week agreed to pay as much as $700m (&pound;345m) to buy Club Penguin, a "virtual world" for children between the ages of six and 14. When kids join Club Penguin, they adopt an animated penguin as their online alter ego, or avatar. The penguins can chat or play games with one another or collect coins to buy trinkets at in-world shops.Although it's been around for less than two years, Club Penguin has become enormously popular. The site attracts nearly 5 million visitors a month and 700,000 kids have become paying members.A subscription - $57.95 (&pound;28) for 12 months - provides an array of benefits, such as the ability to customise the appearance of your penguin, decorate your penguin's igloo and be the first to enter new areas within the site.Compared to Club Penguin, Second Life - the much-hyped virtual world aimed at adults - is something of a ghost town. It has managed to attract only about 95,000 paid subscribers so far, a fraction of Club Penguin's.In fact, all of the most popular virtual worlds are geared to kids and teenagers. The venerable Habbo Hotel, originally launched in Finland in 2000, attracts 7 million visitors a month, Sweden's Stardoll attracts 5 million, Webkinz and Neopets attract around 4 million each, and Gaia Online reports nearly 3 million monthly visitors.Such high and rapidly growing traffic levels are spurring big investments in kid worlds from venture capitalists, and they're the reason that Disney is happily doling out hundreds of millions of dollars to the three Canadian men who created Club Penguin."Kids are starting to go to the internet first," explained the company's CEO, Robert Iger, announcing the deal. "So it is important for us to operate in that space."Clearly, there are big commercial rewards to be had by enticing children to spend a lot of time exploring virtual worlds. What's less clear, though, is the long-term effect on the kids themselves.In one sense, the virtual worlds are simply the latest versions of the make-believe games that children have always played, with online avatars taking the place of dolls and action figures.Some experts argue that hanging out online is just another benign form of play, and a few suggest that it may actually help speed the socialisation process through which children learn to interact with others.They point out, as well, that virtual play helps youngsters become skilled users of computers and the internet.But there are reasons for concern. The hours that kids spend in front of computer screens, moving and conversing through keystrokes and mouse clicks, are hours they don't spend engaged with the physical world, talking and playing with real people and real things.Some authorities in child development wonder how effectively socialisation can occur when a child is sitting alone in front of a monitor."If kids are involved with things that keep them from playing with other kids, or keep them from being involved with physical activity, then it's too much," Richard Gallagher, a child psychologist at New York University, recently told a reporter from Newsday.He worries, in particular, that the meticulously designed and programmed virtual worlds will rob children of the imagination required to engage in unstructured, open-ended play with their friends. He also warns that the intent of the commercial sites is less about socialisation and more about turning "younger and younger kids [into] consumers and the targets of advertising".The fact is that even as it's becoming routine for children to spend hours in virtual worlds every day, we don't yet know whether it will help or hinder them in becoming happy, productive adults.With Club Penguin and its like, we're undertaking a massive experiment in child development, and it will be a long time before we learn the results.&#183;Nicholas Carr's next book will be The Big Switch. He blogs atroughtype.com&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Going wireless is a move you will never regret. These &pound;71 headphones are very easy to pair up with both your mobile phone (assuming it is equipped with Bluetooth) and your MP3 player. (There's also a Bluetooth dongle supplied.) There's a discreet microphone, and the controls are intuitive so there's no panicked fumbling when retrieving a call. The build is attractive - the earphones are nicely padded and the band sits comfortably around the back of your neck rather than on top of your head. Unfortunately, there was a tendency for the connection to be dropped occasionally. The other disadvantage is that while the fast forward and rewind buttons work if you're listening to music from your A2DP Bluetooth mobile, they don't work with an MP3 player using the dongle.
Smart parking metersPhoto Violation Technologies has launched a smart parking meter that takes photos of cars for enforcement purposes. It also calls drivers when they are running out of time and offers a pay-by-phone option.photoviolation.comUbuntu at DellDell is now offering PCs preloaded with the Ubuntu version of Linux in the UK and the rest of Europe.dell.co.uk/ubuntuSearch for SpockSpock is planning to launch a next-generation people search engine and already has 100m names.spock.comCinema for the birdsBird Cinema has been launched as a video-sharing site for bird-watchers.birdcinema.comWeb in your pocketDatawind will next week launch its &pound;180 PocketSurfer2 handheld, which provides 640 x 240 colour widescreen web browsing via your mobile's GPRS connection.pocketsurfer.co.ukWe're going mobileJuniper Research predicts that almost a third of cellphone subscribers will have a mobile broadband connection by 2012.juniperresearch.comHD war in BerlinDVD Forum Europe will be held in Berlin on September 3.dvd-intelligence.comYour Damn Channel?My Damn Channel is a new video site launched by Hollywood professionals and "gives its artists 100% creative control".mydamnchannel.com
When dancing penguins are sold to Disney in a deal worth up to $700m (&pound;345m), you know that websites aimed at kids are a serious internet phenomenon.The corporate giant last week acquiredClub Penguin, a virtual world aimed at children aged between six and 14. With a claimed 700,000-plus young subscribers paying $57.95 (&pound;28) for a 12-month subscription, it's clear that social networking for the young is likely to be just as big - and as lucrative - as websites such as Facebook and MySpace.Club Penguin is by no means the only place for children to interact online. Among the latest crazes is Webkinz, a website that lets young children bring their real-world fluffy toys to life online within a virtual world.Webkinz, developed by privately owned Canadian toy and gift company Ganz, is a range of soft toys aimed at children between the ages of six and 13. Each toy comes with a code that can be entered into the website to create an animated virtual version of it.Marketing messageGanz has sold more than 2m of the toys since 2005 and the website has seen an elevenfold growth in market share of visits for the year to April, according to Hitwise, the internet metrics company - more than double that of Club Penguin. According to Nielsen/NetRatings, the Webkinz site attracted 4.1 million unique users in May, outstripping long-established brands such as Barbie, ToysRUs and Hasbro.While much media and analyst attention has been paid to the growth in social networking sites, such as MySpace, Facebook and Bebo, the rapid growth in games sites and virtual worlds targeted at younger children has largely slipped beneath the radar.Yet sites like Webkinz and interactive dressing-up sites aimed primarily at young girls are proving very popular.Cartoon Doll Emporium, for example, aimed at children between six and 16, now has around 3 million visitors a month, whileStardoll, aimed at children aged between seven and 17, claims 8.8 million members.And Disney is just the latest of the big media groups to get into the pre-teen market. In 2005, Viacom - owner of MTV and Nickelodeon - boughtNeopets, an interactive cartoon gaming site that claims to have 143 million Neopet "owners",for $150m.Disney was in this space two years ago; its website - Disney Online, which attracts more than 17 million unique users a month - launchedVirtual Magic Kingdom, a multiplayer gaming world aimed at children between 8 and 14, in 2005.  Nick Gibson, an analyst with Games Investor Consulting, says: "Game-playing among pre-teen children is pretty much 100% so this is a market that has emerged strongly over the past few years. We're likely to see a gradual infusion of non-games companies into this virtual world environment as brands attempt to control the marketing message."But concern is growing about the way some of these sites are marketing themselves to young children. Webkinz may be advertising-free, but it is nonetheless relentlessly commercial in its approach.Once you've registered, you get 2,000 "KinzCash", the virtual currency which kids can use to buy food, furniture, clothes and other accessories for their pets. Playing with, feeding and exercising the virtual pet daily keep it healthy, happy and fed. Neglect it and you have to take it to the virtual clinic to buy medicine. In other words, children are given a strong incentive to return to the site regularly. Buying more real-world toys, playing games and entering quizzes earns the children more KinzCash to lavish upon their virtual pets, providing yet more incentive.But the real genius lies in the fact that the account lapses after a year. If kids want to keep up the relationship with their virtual pets they have to buy another real toy (at around $12 each) - and there are 51 Webkinz and 29 Lil'Kinz toys to collect.Piers Harding-Rolls of media analyst Screen Digest, says: "There is a lot of interest in the Webkinz business model as it is one of the first to combine the real and virtual worlds so effectively. Offering real toys reinforced by a virtual world of games is a brilliant way to enhance a brand and build up a continual relationship with it. That they can do this without resorting to advertising, as many free-to-play games sites have to do, is impressive."Using a virtual currency or points system as a reward for repeat website visits and engagement with the games is common among such sites, with Disney's Virtual Magic Kingdom, Stardoll and Neopets all adopting similar practices.While Club Penguin relies on a subscription-only revenue model and makes great play of the fact that it does not take advertising, other child-orientated games sites such as Stardoll and Cartoon Doll Emporium have no qualms about making money from monthly subscriptions supplemented by advertising.Professor Sonia Livingstone at the Department of Media and Communications at the London School of Economics says: "There is lots of concern in academia and beyond that sites like these encourage children to become ever younger consumers without alerting them or encouraging them to be critical of the commercial relationship they are entering. The message learned is that education is equated with money or points and that buying things for your pet is fun."'Crack for kids'There is little evidence that online games and virtual worlds can cause addiction among young children, but nevertheless pestered parents and exasperated teachers in the US are beginning to protest. One blogger has described Webkinz as"crack for kids".And Professor Livingstone warns that an over-reliance on such virtual entertainment could also be detrimental to a child's imaginative development. She says: "Educational theory is clear that play which demands imaginative input from the child is far more beneficial than play in which all the pieces are provided and the scope for imaginative responses is extremely limited."At least parents worried about the potential for Webkinz fever to take hold in this country can rest easy - for the time being at least. Ganz says: "At this time, we have no plans to expand into the UK."&#183;SeeRead  me first
I have written a book in AppleWorks (Mac OS 9.2), which my publisher wants in Microsoft Word. I have Microsoft Office 2001. Is there any software which will enable me to transfer my manuscript without losing all the notes?Don ChapmanMicrosoft Word can open files created in AppleWorks 5 and 6 and save them as Word documents, though I think Office 2001 only handles AppleWorks 5 files. This should preserve footnotes. Otherwise, the general answer is to save files in RTF (rich text format), which most word processors can handle. (Microsoft developed RTF to make it easier to move files between PCs and Macs.) In principle, RTF can handle footnotes, but this doesn't mean every word-processing program will actually pick them up. If all else fails, Panergy Software'sicWordconverts ClarisWorks and AppleWorks files to Word for $19.95 (£9.85).For the future, note that both AppleWorks and Mac OS 9 are now obsolete, and neither is compatible with current Intel-based Mac hardware running OS X. You don't have to keep up with the leading edge, but you're falling off the trailing edge.
Some amusing stats doing the rounds on the internet today, courtesy of a report by market analysts, theNPD Group, entitled "Next Gen Functionality &amp; Usage". Apparently, 40 percent of PlayStation 3 owners are not aware that the console doubles as a Blu-ray movie player, while an astonishing 50 percent don't realise it is capable of producing high resolution graphics.But before Xbox fans raise a wry smile, it seems a mere 30 percent of 360 owners realisetheirmachines have HD capabilities. So 70 percent don't. That's several million people. If I was working for the Sony or Microsoft marketing departments I'd be scratching my head in bemusement. Or possibly clearing my desk.Of course, the accuracy of this data depends on the size and quality of NPD's survey group. Apparently, "The report is based on online survey responses from 6,260 members of NPD's online consumer panel. These respondents, compromised of males and females ages 6 to 44, are qualified owners of at least one next generation system (PS3, PSP, Wii, NDS, Xbox 360)."Commenting on these results, Anita Frazier, industry analyst at the NPD Group said, "While systems' capabilities of providing owners with additional features may become more important in the future, currently the importance of these features and the awareness among consumers of these features is far from universal. To make headway in this 'next-gen' race, manufacturers still need to be primarily concerned with the quality and entertainment value of the games themselves."'The quality and entertainment value of the games'?! Oh crap, it's the worst case scenario!Morehereandhere.
In this week'sGamesblog column, I'm talking about videogame documentaries, specifically Playing Columbine, the forthcoming film from Danny Ledonne who wrote the controversial online game, Super Columbine RPG. I managed to get quite a few questions to Danny, which he answered in more detail than I could cram into the column. So here's the complete interview.Ledonne has some controversial views, not just on his own game, but on its consequences and ramifications. It's an interesting read, even if you're in the anti-SCMRPG camp.What initially inspired you to make a documentary about your experiences with Super Columbine? When and how did the process begin?The idea probably started about the time the game became a public discussion point in the summer of 2006. I thought that it would be interesting to collect all the various opinions expressed of the game and put them in one place. As a filmmaker, that seemed the natural medium of choice for me.However, it didn't feel like much of a project at that point. After the subsequent controversies surrounding the game in the Dawson shooting and the Slamdance film festival, it became clear to me that there was enough substance here for a really good, engaging story. I thought, "if the public is this interested in the controversy, there may be something to this."Thus, I took my camera to the film festival that booted the game and began interviewing everyone I could find that was affected by the game or the controversy. I went to Vancouver, to Boston, to San Francisco, to Corpus Christi, to LA, and to Montreal. Along the way, I met many people and they all found their own part in the story that the film tells. I write you today in August 2007 with the last interview shot just yesterday (NY state senator Andrew Lanza).What has surprised you most about the global media reaction to the game? Any specific instances you can recall?Firstly, of course what is surprising is how global the reaction is. Because this is an online game, it has the potential to reach people from around the world and with that comes many varying reactions to an interactive treatment of a decidedly American tragedy.I am always pleased to read an email from a university professor in Europe who is now using "Super Columbine Massacre RPG!" to teach game design choices, game ethics, etc. Last fall there was a school shooter named Sebastian B. in Germany and although he didn't mention my game in any way, Der Spiegel still sent a reporter all the way to Colorado to interview me as part of a larger story about school shootings and their possible causes. I never though anyone would regard my opinion that highly, honestly. There are a generation of disenfranchised youth who never get to speak in the mainstream media because they aren't the conventional pundits.As an interesting consequence of making SCMRPG, authors like Joseph Lieberman decided I had something worthwhile to say (and thus had me write the foreword for his forthcoming second edition of 'The Shooting Game: the making of school shooters').Do you feel the situation has changed for 'serious games' since Super Columbine was developed? Are games respected more as a medium for political/social comment?To my mind there is little doubt about that. When I think about what games in the serious games with an agenda movement existed in early 2005, many of those that come to mind (such as titles from Mole Industria or Persuasive Games) did not exist at all. I'm not sure if the broader public is aware of this movement yet, however - which is one of the chief reasons as to why I think a film on this subject is valuable.The film argues that 'SCMRPG,' 'Darfur is Dying,' 'September 12th,' 'McDonald's Videogame,' etc. are just the beginning of a socio-political genre in interactive entertainment. The film doesn't take an interest in "mainstream" games, really; it focuses on the people who are forging a new direction for videogames to explore.How many people are involved with Playing Columbine?The cast consists of about fifty people and I would estimate a dozen people so far have helped me to shoot interviews, score the film, etc. It is by all means a smaller production by studio film standards but is far and away the largest project I have produced.How are you funding the project, and what software/hardware are you employing?The film has been entirely self-financed for purposes of creative control as well as the simple fact that I wanted to begin shooting without getting anyone's check in the mail. The beauty of running my own video production business for a living is that I already had most of the gear laying around to begin with so it was just a matter of emailing my subjects, booking a flight, and shooting footage. Most of the film has been shot on the Sony Z1U HDV camera and I'm editing on Adobe Premiere Pro. It would be great to see the film finished on HD-DVD or BluRay in addition to DVD format.Along with journalists, developers and professors you apparently interview two Columbine survivors in the movie - who were they and what was their standpoint on Super Columbine and its aftermath?I interview two people directly affected by the Dawson shooting (Melissa Fuller and Joel Kornek) as well as two affected by the Columbine shooting. Richard Castaldo is partially paralyzed from gunfire while Roger Kovaks was close friends with one of the deceased from the shooting (Rachel Scott). They express a variety of contrasting sentiments but you'll just have to see the film to find out more!You've just released a trailer for the movie - what's the reaction been like?The reaction to the trailer, much like the reaction to the game itself, has been demonstrably mixed. There are those that seem to pump their fists in the air and say, "a film that tells the whole story and engages the issues, I can't wait to see this!" while others say, "ugh, Ledonne get over your 15 minutes of fame and stop exploiting Columbine." Both perspectives are predictable and understandable.For my part, I want to articulate that the film isn't about me or really even SCMRPG other than to touch upon larger issues of videogames as art, virtual vs. real world violence, and the causes of school shootings. I'm smart enough to realize that a film about these issues is far more interesting than a film about me. I think the trailer outlines the subjects explored in the film very effectively.Do you feel that popular mainstream documentaries like the Michael Moore films and Inconvenient Truth, as well as the success of 'amateur' projects like Loose Change have enlivened the field of documentary film making? Have they made it easier to work on Playing Columbine?I think more people than ever are becoming interested in documentaries on a variety of subjects. So while it's great to see blockbuster documentaries like 'March of the Penguins' or 'Fahrenheit 9/11' or 'Inconvenient Truth' because they warm audiences up to the idea that non-fiction films can be just as engaging as narrative films, there are many people that can make a film today simply because the means of production are much more affordable.I have drawn inspiration for this film from everything such as Brian Flemming's 'The God Who Wasn't There' to Steven Greenstreet's 'This Divided State' - both made on smaller budgets. Having the access to production and editing equipment means that we will see films cover a wider variety of topics in general - which is always a healthy dynamic. In fact, this is the same argument I lay out for videogames in 'Playing Columbine:' tools like RPG Maker allow for people from non-traditional fields to program their own videogames.How does Playing Columbine pan out? Is it a justification for the Super Columbine project, or simply a reaction to what's happened since? Or both?I am fully candid in saying that 'Playing Columbine' makes no attempt to be 'objective' and remain neutral; it has arguments to make and while it includes counter-arguments, the film (much like the game) has a perspective and a thesis to convey.There is ultimately no way to "justify" SCMRPG in the minds of those who find it deplorable but I believe even the game's detractors will find that the film fleshes out the controversy to better understand the future of games as a medium. The film is essentially a challenge to game developers to rethink the limits of their medium and a challenge to the general public to expect (demand!) more from games than mere entertainment.What do you feel you've learned about the media, videogames and the Columbine massacre since 2005?So much. About the press I've learned how it works, how to make it work for you, and how to foster professional relationships with media publishers. About videogames I've learned just how many talented, creative, and passionate people develop the games that find their way onto our consoles and hard drives.Having now spoken with many involved in the Columbine shooting, I have come to conclude that even among those affected directly by the tragedy, there are a wide range of opinions on what happened and what can be done in the future to prevent further massacres.Why do you think there have been so few serious documentaries looking into videogame culture? Do you think we might see more in the future as the medium penetrates mainstream entertainment?There are a few films we're seeing now such as '8-Bit' and 'Moral Kombat' that seek to understand various aspects of this emerging phenomenon we might call "videogame culture." The fact is that while videogames are an incredibly popular past time, only recently have they asked us to take them seriously and only recently have their critics gained substantial momentum in the popular discourse.Interactive media, I believe, has entered a period of tremendous growth not so much in terms of technology (though that is still considerable) but in terms of social integration. We are seeing games in the military, in the classroom, and even in the art gallery. No one really knows where games are headed; indeed there are so many potential directions that it may soon be superfluous to attempt to call all these diverse creations "videogames" whatsoever.You've apparently said you'll never write another videogame after Super Columbine. Why? And do you regret making it?I have said that I have no plans to make another videogame. This is still the case. In some sense I never planned on making a game at all but RPG Maker begged me to push its limits and so I did - almost on a creative dare at 3am. I needed to confront my emotions surrounding Columbine and I happened to have a piece of game developing middleware installed on my computer.This actually happens often when I discover something; even as a kid I wanted to test the limits of Lincoln logs or Lego (the latter of which I used to make a short film called 'Ship of Fools' from a short story written by the Unabomber). Since videogames became a focal point of scrutiny after Columbine, it seemed so clear to me that a videogame would be the best way to deconstruct those allegations. To my mind the media was almost asking for a game about Columbine to pop up and challenge them to confront it. The rest is history.I don't regret making the game even if it has changed my life in ways that I'm still trying to understand. My skin is thicker and my convictions are stronger for it. I have formed many friendships and drawn many critics. I have realized that it's impossible to have the whole world like you all at once when you want to be an artist who creates subversive work - thus in that sense, polarization is validation. I am about to begin working on my MFA in film production and leave the subject of videogames behind. In some sense, this film is an attempt at wrapping up the entire experience and leaving the world with something to discuss - and hopefully helping to illuminate the path toward the future of videogames.
The Microsoft naming team must be having some impact, because the online storage system previously known as Windows Live Folders is now being rolled out asSkyDrive.There's an announcement at theSkyDrive team's blogon Spaces and a video demo at theWindows Experienceblog.Lucky us: it's being rolled out in the US, the UK and India. (Note: it's still in beta.)Drag-and-drop file transfer means it is easy to use, but users only get 500MB of disk space. This puts it in the quite-nice-to-have-as-it's-free category. It's not likely to attract customers away from venerable services such asXdrive(5GB free).
Daniel Lyons. He invented the friggin' Secret Diary of Steve Jobs. Have you heard of it? Anyhoo, for the past 14 months "Fake Steve", or FSJ, has been writing a fake blog that last month attracted 700,000 visitors including RSJ - Real Steve Jobs - and The Beastmaster himself, Bill Gates.Part of its huge appeal has been FSJ's ability to tell "the real story" behind the jargon and stale platitudes the IT industry normally provides. Another has been the knockabout humour featuring a comic book cast of Uncle Fester (Microsoft's Steve Ballmer), My Little Pony (Sun boss Jonathan Schwartz), Squirrel boy (Google boss Eric Schmidt), The Clintstones (Bill and Hillary), Woz (Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak), Bono, Al Gore and many more.Last year, Forbes publisher Rich Karlgaard offered an iPod to the first person to identify FSJ and Valleywag, a Silicon Valley gossip blog, made more than one inept attempt. Eventually, however, Brad Stone from The New York Times assembled the evidence andexposedthe real Fake Steve last Sunday. And amusingly enough, he fingered one of Karlgaard's writers."Damn, I am so busted, yo," responded FSJ, saying the one bright side was that he was exposed by a journalist rather than a blogger. According to The New York Times, Karlgaard said he had a good laugh and holds no grudges. "I think it is the most brilliant caricature of an important part of American culture that I've seen," he said. "We're really proud that he's one of ours."FSJ's blog has now been moved from Blogger to Forbes, so Lyons will get paid for writing stuff he wrote for fun. He says: "I'm coming back next week, badder than ever." Whether a Forbes staffer can be as rude and politically incorrect as an anonymous blogger remains to be seen. Plenty of FSJ fans think Brad Stone just shot Bambi's mom.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
It's another content delivery service developed by Microsoft. Don't yawn. Because this week Nokia said that it has licensed the technology and will be incorporating it into its S60 and Series 40 mobile phones.It's a DRM thing, of course. It means that content providers such as music stores can deliver stuff in a way that limits the user's options for spreading it around their mates.Does this sound like Microsoft's unloved PlaysForSure DRM format? Well, yes - and that's because PlayReady is in effect the same thing, but with greater potential.PlayReady also works with lots of other formats, including Microsoft's WMV and WMA as well as AAC, used by Apple. The sharp-eyed will have noted that those are not all just music formats: PlayReady works with video, too. And it can also be used with other stuff that teenagers like to download, such as games and ringtones.Now, it's no secret that mobile operators are desperate to get us to download more stuff and therefore spend more money with them. However, Nokia's move to license this technology from Microsoft raises eyebrows for two reasons.The first is that there have been rumours floating around the blogosphere for ages that Nokia is thinking about launching its own iTunes-style music store, and now some bloggers are staking if not their lives, then at least some of their reputations on Nokia announcing that it will indeed jump into this arena at the end of this month.And what it, and other, mobile operators want you to do is to download to your phone, which costs you more, rather than sideloading your content - downloading via your cheap broadband connection and then moving it on to your phone for free. The other thing that raises eyebrows is that, contrary to mutterings online that it's a blow to Apple as Nokia and the Redmond big hitter cosy up together, it's quite the opposite.PlayReady is a superdistributor, a technology that will potentially deliver pretty much anything to the mobile platform. PlayReady also supports the snappily named H.264, an efficient video codec that is used by Apple for videos it distributes via the iTunes store and also by YouTube. It is also used in both next-gen high-definition video formats, Blu-ray and HD DVD, meaning it could even pave the way for high-def downloads one day.So PlayReady is potentially a powerful platform that could not only be rolled out across other mobile devices, but also unite the parallel universes of Apple and Microsoft. It means any provider, from Apple to Sony, Toshiba and Microsoft or Napster, could deliver their stuff to your mobile and dictate what you do with it from there. It's downloading, Jim, but not as we know it.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Apple product announcements are usually greeted with hyperbole, but this week's had already been discussed on the net by the time Steve Jobs took the stage at the company's Californian HQ on Tuesday.Leaked images of a new iMac keyboard had already laid the foundation for predictions - a new aluminium desktop to replace the big white iMac range.And so it came to pass.The new iMac is slimmer than its predecessor, with aluminium and glass replacing the familiar white plastic. The internals are impressive, chalking up as much as 4GB of memory and up to a terabyte of hard disk space. While the 17in model has been phased out, a new spec 20in model takes its place and pricing remains relatively consistent: British consumers will fork out &pound;799 for the low-end 20in iMac, &pound;949 for the faster 20in model and &pound;1,149 - a &pound;200 drop - for the 24in screen.With this new look, the iMac now hits its fourth design revision (five if you include the shift from PowerPC chips to Intel) but this is much more of a cosmetic change than previous versions.Jobs played up the green credentials of these new models, clearly reacting to criticism that the company has been doing badly on environmental issues."Aluminium and glass are phenomenal materials," he said. "This has really been thought through from a recycling point of view. We're using really high-quality plastics."But many of Tuesday's announcements were given over to the new software packages, including iLife and iWork. The iLife suite was hailed as the biggest move forward in the product's history, but on the surface it seemed more like a gentle evolution. The only significant change was iMovie, which has been completely rebuilt.With iWork, Apple is finally entering the spreadsheet market with Numbers, a product that - like the current Pages word processor - highlights visual impact and intuitive interfaces. The release is also a tacit admission that some Apple owners may like to do boring things, even if the company doesn't really want them to.iMovie users are also given the option to create iTunes versions of their videos or even upload their film straight to YouTube: a clear sign of support for the hugely popular website.The YouTube uploading is a minor part of iMovie, but it is indicative of the increasing link between Jobs and Google, forged last year when Eric Schmidt took a seat on the Apple board. The iPhone already has integration with Google Maps and YouTube, and that has continued across the new applications: iWeb includes drag-and-drop map integration and integrates AdSense straight into web pages.So what does the new look mean, if anything? After a question and answer session with the assembled journalists, Jobs made Apple's positioning clear: higher-end consumer electronics."We're obsoleting ourselves because we really care about it," he said. "There's some stuff in the industry that we wouldn't be proud to ship or show to our friends and family. We can't ship junk."&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Complaints, I've had a few, but then again, too few to mention. The main one is that there is no longer an Ask Jack page on Guardian Unlimited. However, there is now anAsk Jack Seriespage instead, which I really do think is much better.Bookmarkguardian.co.uk/technology/series/askjackand you can go straight to the 15 most recent queries, with the option to go straight to the next 15 at the bottom of the page.If you pick one query to read, look to the upper right and you will see three links: Previous | Next | IndexThis means you can move backwards and forwards, reading the Previous story or the Next story, or go back to the Index at any time.There are a couple of drawbacks. First, you can no longer see Backchat, unless you go to the blog entry for that query. And you won't because you'd have to look at every entry to see if Backchat had been added. Tricky, eh? Suggestions welcome.Second, the old system had multiple queries on a single page and most of these are not accessible via the new system. However, you can get the most recent 215 items, and the idea is that eventually they will all be moved over. But don't hold your breath because there are more than a thousand and everybody has a million other things to do, such as moving the whole of GU from the old to the new system.In the meantime, there isan index of the old pagesof Ask Jack columns, going back to July 2005 on this blog. .
When I double-clicked Internet Explorer 7 on Monday, it didn't go to my home page. Instead it created two windows, then cancelled the navigation. It asked if I wanted to download an unknown 2.64K file called navcancl from ieFrame.dll instead. (By the way, it's very easy to misread the filename as navcand.) Clearly I did not, but either way, it stopped IE7 from running.Jack SchofieldThis is due to an error in the operation of the anti-phishing filter, and it has been introduced by Microsoft along with the May 2007 Cumulative Security Update for Internet Explorer (MS07-027). It has affected an unknown number of Windows XP, Server 2003 and Vista users. Microsoft has now published two workarounds inarticle 937409in its Knowledge Base. If you are running XP, ignore the first sets of instructions which apply to Vista -- in other words, start half way down either Method 1 or Method 2. Another workaround is to turn off the phishing filter.Note: I never write my own questions. In this case, I did suffer from the problem, and had to solve it. I guessed that a lot of other people would be affected, that several readers would write in about it, and that I'd be able to swap one of their queries for mine at the last minute. As you can see, it didn't happen.....
Jupiter: smaller than TrES-4. Photograph: AFP/GettySometimes I read something and, frankly, it blows my mind. Take the story about a new "exoplanet" that's been discovered called TrES-4; a gas giant which is 70% larger than Jupiter.The orb was spotted by the Transatlantic Exoplanet Survey (hence the name) but has scientists befuddled as to how it can remain despite having such a low density.According to the BBC:"We continue to be surprised by how relatively large these giant planets can be," says Francis O'Donovan, a graduate student in astronomy at the California Institute of Technology (Caltech) which operates one of the TrES telescopes."But if we can explain the sizes of these bloated planets in their harsh environments, it may help us better understand our own Solar System planets and their formation."Its density of 0.2 grams per cubic centimetre is so low that the planet would, in theory, float on water.There's the mind-blowing part: a whole planet that could Float On Water.Crikey.
Companies spend billions building profiles of us as consumers and billions more trying to persuade us to buy their goods. Is there another way? Alex Willcock, a 43-year-old ex-Conran executive, thinks most of this is wasted money. He has started a web site,imagini.net, using photographs to assess what he calls our "Visual DNA". He says that more than 4 million people have already built their profiles having heard of it by word of mouth. He claims to be "turning Google's approach on its head" by letting users control their own digital identities.It works like this. When you log on to the site you are presented with the words "Art is ..." and invited to click on one of 15 images - from the Mona Lisa to a tattoo - that most closely reflects your taste in art. This is repeated a number of times with different sets of images and questions. By the end the site has your so-called visual DNA which is automatically compared with millions of others in the database - so you can immediately see who else in the world approximates to your profile (from zero to 100%). You can contact them based on their age, sex or location. Soon you will be able to use Google Earth to home in on, say, your holiday destination to see how many people there share your visual DNA.The site has a "wall" with lots of small photos of participants which you can click on to get more details or to contact them. You can see the attraction for marketers because images transcend language barriers and people can be matched to products they like. Within six weeks of starting the site had at least five people from every country in the world. Willcock says: "I wanted to turn the art of intuition into a science," an approach recently made fashionable by the best-selling book Blink, which claims first impressions are better than detailed analysis.The test is whether Imagini's visual profiles reveal things about ourselves that words can't reach. I found I could easily get a different personal profile by clicking on different pictures that were equally valid as a reflection of my tastes. This, apparently, doesn't matter as long as the answers are honest. I emailed five people coming closest my own visual DNA (though not age!) and those that answered were all intrigued by the site but hadn't yet started using it regularly - maybe because Imagini is still a work in progress and hasn't yet unveiled some strong features.I was shown some of the visual DNA of Guardian readers taken from a wider exercise Imagini had done. It was eerily familiar, reflecting this reader's taste in furniture, mobile phone operator, preferences (eg, being a cat rather than dog lover), preferring Amnesty International as a social brand, plus other traits that would be very useful for advertisers.But what chance does it have when social sites such as MySpace, Bebo and Facebook are sweeping all before them? Willcock says Imagini is not a creator of social networks but an enabler of them. To prove it, he gave me a sneak preview of an interesting application due soon for Facebook. It uses Imagini's visual images to enable Facebook users to learn more about each other's moods and interests and to cluster together in "planets" containing like-minded people who can share messages and photos and see how many of their existing Facebook friends are there. Imagini is also hooking up with MyDeco, the upcoming new venture from the founders of Lastminute.com that helps people decorate their homes.Imagini has some very high-octane financial backing and has been well received by some major companies. It is significant not just as another interesting UK startup but as an indication of the direction social websites are taking. Its backers hope it will make money if companies adopt it as an alternative to conventional marketing. Meanwhile, I'll have to discuss with my wife why our visual DNA correlation turned out to be 0%.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Really intriguing piece in theMIT Technology Reviewabout the trouble starting surround Second Life's virtual banking industry; a number of issues have raised questions about the in-world economy:Although financial institutions in Second Life are careful to define themselves as games, some Second Life banks offer more than 100 percent annual interest--a tempting rate when combined with the possibility of turning Lindens into U.S. dollars via the Lindex. Right along with the promise of turning virtual currency into real-life riches are problems with how some Second Life financial institutions are run, says Robert Bloomfield, an economist at Cornell University who makes a serious hobby of studying Second Life's economy."The average person who goes to a [real-world] bank isn't aware that there's a large regulatory body keeping track of the reserves the bank has," he says. But banks in Second Life, which Bloomfield compares with the Wild West, are mysterious and unregulated. Ginko Financial's CEO, Andre Sanchez, of Sao Paolo, Brazil, has refused to release records of Ginko's investments or financial history, and he has not revealed a clear plan for returning people's money.These problems seem to raise a couple of pertinent issues about Second Life, which remains a niche pursuit despite massive media attention.Firstly, is its virtual economy as big as some have said - and if so, is it mainly based around virtual assets (ie property) or services (such as gambling, which has now been banned)? If you outlaw economically vital services, things are going to start looking sketchy.Second, what happens when there's a perception gap between what you are selling and what people think they are buying? Here we have a perfect example - people have expectations of "a bank", and you wouldn't be able to simply set up shop in real life and call it a banking service. After all, that's why we have regulation and terminology to differentiate between the legal (bank, building society) and the less palatable (loan shark, pyramid scheme).But is simply saying "oh, it's only a game" fair? After all, Second Life is very carefulnotto call itself a game, even if the banks inside it say otherwise.It remains unclear whether Second Life's independent bankers are treating their customers' money with enough respect; but it's clear that not all is well in paradise.
Last summer, one of the most discussed games wasn't the latest gangsta romp from Rockstar and it wasn't even a commercially released product. It was Super Columbine Massacre RPG, an interactive analysis of the school shooting tragedy, written by filmmaker Danny Ledonne using a cheap game creation utility. Distributed free online, the title was noisily attacked by politicians and yelping tabloids looking to slide blame for the tragedy on to videogame culture. Ledonne could have gone underground, distancing himself from the project. But he had a better idea - he'd make a documentary about the experience.The start was last year's Slamdance film festival, where Super Columbine was kicked off the nominations list of the event's disingenuously titled Guerilla Gamemaker Competition. Says Ledonne: "I took my camera and began interviewing everyone I could find that was affected by the game or the controversy."Entitled Playing Columbine, the documentary features some 50 interviews with games journalists, anti-videogame protestors and survivors of both the Columbine and Dawson College shootings. "The film isn't about me or really even SCMRPG other than to touch upon larger issues of videogames as art, virtual v real-world violence and the causes of school shootings," explains Ledonne. "There is ultimately no way to 'justify' SCMRPG in the minds of those who find it deplorable but I believe even the game's detractors will find that the film fleshes out the controversy so that we can better understand the future of games."Like Loose Change, Dylan Avery's 9/11 conspiracy documentary, Playing Columbine exploits cheap movie-making equipment as well as online marketing to convey a message that the conventional media will not touch. And like Avery, Ledonne is speaking to a generation that rejects the conservative message of the big US news networks. A trailer for the documentary, released last week onplayingcolumbine.com, picked up 10,000 hits in five days. With other recent documentaries such as 8-Bit and Moral Kombat putting a similarly knowledgeable focus on game culture, it is clear that there is an audience that wants analysis of such events rather than scaremongering.Ledonne is looking to send out a final cut to movie festivals soon. This time, it's doubtful his work will be banned. It is acceptable, you see, for movie makers to explore the tragedy of gun violence, but not game makers. However, with serious games like Darfur is Dying and Airport Insecurity flourishing in the wake of SCMRPG, it's another cultural prejudice bound for the knackers' yard.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
You can now read This week's printed Technology section online at theusual address.....
Earlier this year, I was asked by the representative of a big computing company (no, no that one, nor the other one) about how it ought to market its new line of more "green" computers. My job emphatically is not to do marketing for computer companies, but I remarked that my suspicion is that people will not pay a premium for green anything, unless they're eco-eager, in which case you can flog them almost anything. In an email, I said: "Look at how many people profess that they back green measures - except when it comes to their cheap plane flights and petrol prices ... They won't pay more. But they will choose it over others if it costs the same while having more green credentials."At that moment Michael Dell was planning an empirical test of my assertion. In January he launched the "Plant a Tree For Me" scheme in the US, where you could pay a little more for your computer in order to have its carbon emissions for three years offset by a tree (well, one-third of a tree) planted on your behalf. But would people pay &pound;1 more for a desktop or &pound;3 more for a laptop to be green?The answer - or at least, what we managed to wring out of Dell - was that by April in the US it had planted 20,000 trees through the scheme (How green are Dell's customers in Europe?, August 2). It sounds like a lot, but the back of my envelope says that's just 1% of Dell's computer sales. For every 100 customers, only one was prepared to pony up the money that might ameliorate - in the most minimal way - the effects of their decision on everyone else. Bear in mind that offsetting wouldn't make up for the emissions of the factories which made the machines, nor the effects of the mines needed to extract the raw materials in the machines.Need another example of how un-green we are? Look at Microsoft's"Live Earth Tree", launched on July 3: "17,863 pledges so far!" it said, bravely, precisely a month later. This on a site where you can pledge - nothing more active - what you're going to do to "join the battle to halt climate change", as one breathless site put it: "The tree is a unique social networking site, as visitors can search the tree to find leaves created by family, friends and celebrities worldwide." It's hardly rivalling Bookface, or whatever that site with millions of users is called, is it?The reality is that most of us won't do enough on our own to make any difference to climate change. We won't sacrifice things now for pleasant uncertainties in the future. That's the entire problem with climate change: it seems so much less proximate than terrorism. It doesn't make handy videos that the TV channels can show.The reality is that we, as consumers, won't make those decisions voluntarily. They have to be made mandatory by legislation. Self-regulation won't work. Self-sacrifice doesn't work, and thank you Michael Dell for providing such a wonderful laboratory in which to demonstrate it.But there is one thing that might help. Some of the richer folk could make contributions to things like tree-planting. Michael Dell's net worth is estimated at  &pound;7.7bn (en.wikipedia.org). Last year Dell sold 39m computers.At &pound;3 each - because Dell sells a lot of laptops - it would cost Michael Dell &pound;117m to personally get trees planted to offset all those computers Dell sold last year. That's less than 1% of his fortune. Funny how that number keeps turning up. Could you bear to be 1% less rich, Michael?&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Dear Matt,I have a Saracen mountain bike nearly 10 years old. The problem I have is with the twist-grip gears. When I change gear, it takes an extra twist to move up or down a sprocket, and then the chain does not seem to be fully bedded; it often suddenly jerks after a few turns of the pedal, meaning smooth riding using appropriate ratios is impossible. I have left it with two different cycle shops, but when I get it back it does not seem to have made a difference. Any suggestions?Martin McCann, via emailThere is a possibility that the twist-grip mechanism needs replacing, but what is more likely is that the rear cassette and the chain itself are worn out. What happens is that, over time, the chain stretches minutely and then, especially once dirty, quickly grinds down the teeth of the sprockets. Eventually, efficiency is lost, and the chain can start skipping under strain. You'll need to replace both together (which may cost about &pound;50, with labour).&#183;Please send your cycling queries tobike.doctor@guardian.co.uk.
Masahiro Mori'sUncanny Valleyhypothesis states that, as artificial beings get closer to resembling real humans, the slightest errors or inaccuracies can shift our responses from empathy to disbelief and even disgust.It's why, in Toy Story, we love Woody and Buzz Lightyear, but are totally unmoved by Andy, their human owner. During a panel at the recent Comic Con show, Neil Gaiman did some interviews to promote the forthcoming movie version of Beowulf that he's scripting, and was less than complimentary about director Robert Zemeckis' Polar Express with its, "horrid little rotoscope-y ghost people".This is something both videogame and movie special effects artists are having to grapple with now that processing power is allowing ever more naturalistic representations of human characters. And grappling with it they are.Yesterday, a panel of Hollywood CGI experts gathered at theSiggraphshow in San Diego to discuss how the uncanny valley problem can be addressed. There seems to be an agreement that the key problems are movement and facial animation."Important things to getting a convincing performance was getting the speed of movement to the eyes -- the subtle responses -- and also the shape of the mouth," said Weta Digital's Joe Letteri, VFX supervisor on King Kong. "It seems like particular attention to the corners of the month is an easy place to get it wrong because there is so much compression and tension there."Motion capture, used extensively in both games and films, can only help so far, the experts reckon - animation and human craftsmanship must make up the shortfall. At the moment, a lot of movies are side-stepping the whole issue, either by using entirely animal casts, or by employing motion-capture, virtual backgrounds and other CGI elements, but blending in human actors - see 300, or the aforementioned Beowulf. But that's not going to appease audiences forever. You can read more about the panel eventhere.In many ways, videogame artists have an even tougher job. In the movies, you're dealing with scripted sequences that can be planned to the smallest intricate detail. With games, characters are under the control of the player and need to be able to switch moves at any given moment. Which is why physics-based animation has become such a big deal - characters can immediately react to player direction (rather than having to complete animation cycles), but still retain a convincing look.Most developers now use some form of physics/animation middleware like Havok, Morpheme orHumanIK, while Sony has just recruited Mystic Game Development's EMotion FX 3.5 real-time character animation SDK into the Tools &amp; Middleware program for PlayStation 3 (morehere). These days, studios boast more about how their characters move than how they look - the likes ofIndiana JonesandUncharted: Drake's Fortune(pictured) are being hyped on the authenticity and variety of character motion.And itisimportant. In a hugely detailed environment, populated by intricately drawn characters, the slightest stiff gesture, repetitive move or dead-eyed leer just breaks the spell. It's a weird time for videogame graphics - we're sort of poised between two worlds: the world of caricature and the world of representation. Moving between the two is not going to be comfortable.
EA seems to be going through some kind of existential crisis at the moment. Two weeks ago we had the new chief executive, John Riccitiello, proclaiming that gamers werebored with sequelsand that the industry had to stop relying on them - a comment of such staggering hypocracy it could conceivably have breached the human rights of anyone listening.Then on Monday at the Siggraph graphics conference, Glenn Entis, senior VP, chief visual officer and chief technology officer, told show-goers that spectacular visual effects are not going to be as important as user-generated content in the next-gen era. After talking about how Sims fans spend more time designing their characters than actually playing the game he stated, "We're seeing across the board, in different kinds of areas, people want to create stuff for themselves."My favourite quote though, is this piece of impenetrable American corporate rhetoric, addressing the prevalence of CGI in the movie business:"As an industry, we won. We just won. But with that, as an industry, we're drinking from the firehose. When you have 1,000 big thrills a year, where are the big thrills?"Your mission this week is to get the phrase "we're drinking from the firehose" into an important meeting or work email. Please do copy us in on the latter (gamesblog@gmail.com).Anyway, the EA guy is probably right. His company now has a whole department dedicated to producing Sims spin-offs while just about the most exciting game PS3 has to offer isLittleBigPlanet. Of course, there's been a vibrant online modding community for over a decade now, but the problem has always been user-friendliness - now, developers have the capacity to build extremely intuitive DIY design features into their games and gamers have the capcity to share their creations via superfast broadband upload.Don't ask what your game can do for you, but what you can do for your game.
According to theMozilla wiki: "In order for Firefox to reach our market share goals, we need to improve our ability to retain users. Currently, approximately 50% of the people who download Firefox actually try it and about 50% of those people continue to use it actively."Firefox's claims to success have been supported by clocking up the number of downloads, encouraged by payments from Google, but it turns out that 75% of the people making those downloadsdon't"continue to use it actively."Mozilla also has a 12-point plan to increase retention levels, though it's actually an 11-point plan with one item repeated.Well, I'm not convinced that 25% is such a bad figure. I remove at least 90% of the programs I download and try, often within seconds.Sturgeon's Lawapplies.But Mozilla does have a real problem, which is that the days of easy pickings are over. Microsoft's IE7 works well and so far hasn't had the sort of security problems that afflicted IE6. (In fact, Firefox suffered from more vulnerabilities than IE, in 2006, according toIBM.)It also has competition from Apple's Steve Jobs, who haspublicly committedto wiping Firefox out. Whether he's just blowing smoke remains to be seen.Frankly, the 12-point plan doesn't seem to offer much of real value (ZDnethas made some comments on the ideas). Nor does spending big bundles of cash onTV advertising. If you have any other ideas, they need them over at the Mozilla wiki.Every Windows user has benefitted from Firefox -- even the ones who didn't download it -- because it forced Microsoft to get off its rear end, improve the product and compete for users.Netscape folded because its marketing strategy was a shambles, and because it couldn't keep up with Microsoft's product development. (Netscape abandoned v5 and gave the code away to Mozilla; Netscape 6 was rubbish.) Now Redmond is back on the road, it would be a terrible shame if Mozilla went the same way.Guys, you are not going to win by "1. Change the Firefox icon label to closer resemble action of getting to web". You need to build a better productandcome up with a better marketing strategy. Preferably soon.Update: Firefox for Mac is getting a bit of a roasting at the O'Reilly publishing site. SeeIs Firefox on Mac Unusable?.
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Have you ever been misquoted in a news story? Did the reporter get the facts wrong? If so, Google may be about to provide rapid redress. Google's News blog is now floating the idea in a post headedPerspectives about the news from people in the news. It says:Our long-term vision is that any participant will be able to send in their comments, and we'll show them next to the articles about the story. Comments will be published in full, without any edits, but marked as "comments" so readers know it's the individual's perspective, rather than part of a journalist's report.It's starting in the US, but will be expanded to other areas, if it works.If you've appeared in a news story, you can now send a comment to news-comments@google.comHow will they know it's really you? They'll check. Ahelp pagesays:Google works with each author to confirm their identity individually. The means for confirming identity may differ on a case by case basis, but they may include contacting the organization affiliated with the author, contacting local officials, or collaborating with journalists.It will be interesting to see if Paris Hilton, Angelina Jolie, J-Lo, Posh Spice and other celebs who feature in what might loosely be called "news" take advantage of the system. (As Gramlin points out in a comment below: "It's unlikely to be the celebrities themselves who use it -- rather it will be their PR people." So Google will be able to take rebuttals in bulk from people like Max Clifford.....)Obviously, lots of other people will take this as an invitation to abuse the system. Presumably Google will make sure it has enough staff to cope. .
Think of any media form - say writing, photography or film. Now think of all of the things you can imagine doing with it. I like to think of this as the "possibility space" - a spectrum running between so-called high art at one end, to tools at the other.High art doesn't have to be hoity-toity snobbery, and it can function inside or outside commercial enterprise. This end of the spectrum focuses on explorations of what it means to be human: it's the domain of film auteur Whit Stillman, photographic legend Henri Cartier-Bresson and expressionist poet Georg Trakl.Tools, on the other hand, get things done. They are instruments designed for specific purposes. My favorite example use of a tool is for airline safety. What could be more practical and less expressive than airline safety? But yet any medium can convey it: written prose, the spoken word, images, overhead films.Most mature media — writing, photography, film — have explored the possibility space of expression from end to end. A photograph can capture the aleatory chaos of modern urban life, or it can document the atrocities of war, or it can advertise a product for sale, or it can help us remember what size lug nut to fetch from the hardware store.Right now, videogames explore just a small fragment of this expressive possibility space. We use them for leisure—a particular kind of leisure—and not much else. But for videogames to grow in audience, reputation, impact and cultural relevance, they would do well to explore as many expressive avenues as broadly and deeply as possible. Some would argue that videogames still haven't produced their Citizen Kane… but neither have they fashioned their equivalent of the airline safety video.In my own videogame design and criticism, I've been primarily interested in games as political speech. Games are an excellent medium for exploring complex problems like healthcare or war or taxation, and can manage it in a way that does such issues justice. It is also a great way to live in someone else's shoes—the store worker just as much as the space marine.These are just two ways to expand the explored possibility space of videogames. There are many others. Advertising, exercise, and cooking are areas that commercial games have taken an interest in recently.One surefire way of undermining videogames' potential is to understand them only as entertainment. Making and using videogames beyond leisure doesn't mean that the medium must either be an entertainment practice or something opposed to entertainment.Some proponents and detractors of so-called "serious games" advance such a binary viewpoint. Instead, treating videogames as a real medium means imagining, supporting, and creating new games with new uses.Doing so advances not only that one use of a videogame, but videogames as a whole: by filling out the spectrum of videogame expression with one new color, the whole of videogames benefit.&#183;Ian Bogost is a professor at the Georgia Institute of Technology and author ofPersuasive Games
Scientists in Japan have taught a human-sized robot to imitate the steps of a dancer.They say the prancing dancebot could be used to record the movements of traditional dances that are being lost as their performers die off.To demonstrate the robot's prowess, the team programmed the 1.5 metre tall machine to imitate the graceful sways and whirls of the Aizu Bandaisan, a Japanese folk routine.To prove its accuracy, the robot can perform alongside a human dancer. And despite its "Terminator" appearance, the robot is remarkably lifelike.Shin'ichiro Nakaoka and his colleagues at Tokyo University taught the dancebot - named HRP-2 or Promet - by using video-capture techniques to record human dance movements. According to New Scientist magazine, these were converted into a sequence of robotic limb movements and fed into Promet's processors."They have got it to directly copy human movements. That is very difficult because the joints of the robot are very different from the joints of a human," said Noel Sharkey, a robotics expert at Sheffield University. The advance would allow robots to perform human-like movements on factory production lines, for example.Although its rendition of the mainly upper-body Aizu Bandaisan dance is impressive, the robot - produced by Kawada Industries - has difficulty with complicated leg movements. Any step more demanding than lifting a foot is likely to result in the 58kg automaton losing its balance and falling over. The team published its results in the International Journal of Robotics Research.Despite Promet's lifelike appearance and fluid movements, truly intelligent robot butlers or soldiers are still a long way off."It is not a thinking intelligent robot. What you have got is a set of processes that translate human movement into joint movements for a robot. That is it," said Prof Sharkey."It is not going to start copying people doing other things or doing anything really advanced."Even simple tasks such as making a cup of tea in an unfamiliar kitchen are a major challenge because recognising objects in new environments is difficult.Military powers are becoming increasingly interested in the possibilities that robots present. Last year the South Korean military unveiled a robot border guard built by Samsung that can shoot targets up to 500 metres away, and could be programmed with a shoot-to-kill policy.The US is developing a remote-controlled stretcher-bearer called the Battlefield Extraction-Assist Robot (Bear) to help evacuate casualties. It is also nearing its goal of replacing one-third of its ground vehicles with autonomous robots.As robots become more integrated into the military, it will make it easier for governments to go to war, said Prof Sharkey, because they will have to worry less about the negative public reaction to media images of body bags coming home.The Bear robot, for example, may look cute and save soldiers but it is all part of robots taking over the battlefield, Prof Sharkey said."The fact it is made to look like a bear deflects your attention from what it really is. I don't see it as entirely benign. It's still developing a military technology, so ultimately it is a fighting machine."As for the dancebot, if it can be tweaked to handle more leggy British folk dances it may be popular with purists who want to see traditional dances preserved."You've got two schools of thought: one which says let's preserve them in aspic and have them there forever, and another which says things never stay like that," said Peta Webb, an assistant librarian at the English Folk Dance and Song Society, in London.She prefers to see dances change and evolve. "It is like language. If you think about the development of language we are constantly developing new slang and dropping old slang."Others will need more convincing. "My impression is that there would still be a human element lacking. The robot would still look, for the want of a better word, robotic," English folk dancer Joe Healey told New Scientist magazine.Review: Pas de machineThe dance-world has always been fascinated with automatons. Copp&eacute;lia, first performed in 1870, is about a man who falls in love with a life-sized doll. In Wayne McGregor's Nemesis (2002), dancers wore arm-extensions modelled on the limbs of the praying mantis, and this autumn, on London's South Bank, the French company Beau Geste is performing Transports Exceptionnels, a tender love-duet for a man and a mechanical digger.So the interface between humans and machines is nothing new, and it's tempting to imagine a whole corps de ballet of robots performing Swan Lake, but it's unlikely machines will replace human performers altogether, since the focus of the theatre arts is the relationship between the audience and the fallible human performer.Dominique Boivin, choreographer of Transports Exceptionnels, speaks of the desire "to give body and life to something purely mechanical - the machine", and perhaps this is the mirror-reflection of the desire of dance-makers like McGregor to take human movement into the mechanical. What's certain is that the meeting point of the two will continue to fascinate. As things stand, the  dancebot would fail even the simplest audition. The damn thing can't jump!Luke Jennings
Gosh, it's user-generated content week in games news land. Another interesting titbit of information for those folks out there eager to flex creative interactive entertainment muscles has just arrived in the gamesblog inbox:Multiverse Network, a platform technology which allows developers to create their own virtual worlds, has completed its beta phase. Now, anyone who wants to design an MMO can create their own.The application itself is even more interesting as a platform; the creators' aim is to become a kind of Safari/Internet Explorer/Netscape for 3D virtual worlds in the future, providinggateways/portkeysbetween any of the worlds developed using the software so participants can move from one virtual environment to another with the same digital identity. Each virtual world developed using the Metaverse tools will become like a self-contained webpage-world.So you can take your Level 60 mage, with all the assets and experience you've accrued, from one place to another. Rather nifty. And if those with their ears to the ground are correct, this is the direction our online identities are heading. Look, after all, at Amazon. OrAreae.Great for social networking. Quite exciting for the way we'll interact with internet content in the future.viaWonderland's del.icio.usandCnet
Just a housekeeping notice, really, but I thought this might be of use to some of you.A while ago I was experimenting with putting our RSS feeds intoTwitter- initially so that I could keep track of what was being posted on the Guardian tech site and blogs. That experiment went on the backburner but the other day - after some prompting fromMike Butcher- I resurrected it.If you want to get the latest headlines from Guardian tech, sign up to Twitter and followguardiantech: you can then choose to get the messages delivered to you in IM, on the web or as texts to your phone. You should only see about half a dozen messages a day; let me know if there are any things you desperately want to see.There's also a Twitter account I created for the main Guardian news feed; it's atguardiannews.
The freedom of internet bloggers to take revenge on previous employers is facing a challenge after an investigation into a Facebook page which encourages ex-call centre operators to let off steam.The social networking website, which has mushroomed to 30 million users worldwide, is being asked to close down the Survivors of 118 118 page because of its high level of abuse.The action by The Number UK, which runs the 118 118 phone directory, follows two months of monitoring the page, which was set up by two former staff members earlier this year. Potential users, who apply online to become a "friend", are sent an initial skit on 118 118's official marketing. It reads: "The 118 experience: numbers, politeness, quality, productivity, presence, cut-off, refund, angry, Scottish ... bovvered!"The site lists alleged shortcomings of the directory, but The Number UK said that repeated abuse of customers was the main reason for wanting it shut down.One of the page's founders, Simon Stranks, says in an online entry that he left 118 118's Cardiff centre in January and wanted to let the world know how difficult callers could be. He claims to have got his own back by "writing their numbers on the walls of public toilets and pasting them on many an internet site".Andrew Iles, co-founder of the webpage, criticises customers, saying: "People of Britain, rediscover the phonebook, you lazy buggers."The page has 100 members but none are thought to be working for 118 118, according to The Number UK.The firm's spokesman, William Ostrom, said: "They absolutely do not represent the views and the attitudes of the vast majority of our staff. We are now in discussion with Facebook for them to withdraw the comments on the grounds that they are defamatory to our customers."
