"When your friends and well-intentioned acquaintances tell you that you've made a mistake, it's good to listen. So we'd like to say thank you to everyone who wrote to let us know that we had made a mistake in the case of Google Video's Download to Own/Rent Refund Policy," saysGoogle's blog.Google now says it will give everyone a refund for the videos they have bought from Google but will no longer be able to play (because of the Digital Rights Management). But: "You can still keep the Google Checkout credit that you've received already. Think of it as an additional 'we're sorry we goofed' credit," says Google.That seems to me to be a very fair response.....
It is the site, say aficionados, that discovered Arctic Monkeys long before their much discussed emergence on MySpace. It noted the popularity of Gnarls Barkley's Crazy, the bestselling single of 2006, weeks before it became the first ever number one based solely on download sales.Now its influence on the music industry has been officially acknowledged. Music Week, the influential trade title, will this week publish a chart based on the internet listening habits of the social networking site Last.fm, the first time the magazine has included data from an online supplier.The move is an indication of the increasing influence of online social networks on the charts, and an acknowledgement of the ability of a group of musical tastemakers to predict future stars.Last.fm has become something of a cult among music obsessives since it was founded five years ago. Users download a desktop program that tracks every song played through their computer's music player. They can then build their own customised "radio stations" based on tracks they like, and link to similar artists recommended by others.To music industry watchers, however, it's the data generated by the site's 20 million enthusiasts that is priceless. Last.fm's weekly charts, the site claims, are much more significant for the industry than reviews or even sales data, which cannot trace how often tracks are listened to once they have been bought. In addition, they say, they are less subject to huge marketing spends and targeted buying which critics say can distort the traditional charts."Our users are on street level and they pick up music as it happens," said Last.fm spokesman Christian Ward. Referring to the early popularity on the site of Gnarls Barkley, he said: "That's the kind of thing these charts reflect and that's priceless to the industry. It's beyond our control what happens in these charts, and artists can't be artificially 'bumped up' the chart."Music Week's acting online editor Adam Benzine said Last.fm's data is important because the magazine needs to show "the most relevant, influential voices" in the industry.The magazine's adoption of the online chart is the latest sign of an "old media" publisher or broadcaster embracing new-media techniques and data. In May, it was announced that Channel 4 radio is to broadcast a weekly show based on the listening habits of Last.fm users. The show will be based on Last.fm's international charts. In addition, the site wants to explore possible US partners for its chart data (despite its name, the site is not a traditional radio station - rather its domain name was registered in Micronesia).In the same month, the site was bought by CBS Interactive for &pound;140m, the largest European purchase to date of a web 2.0 site - one whose content is to a large extent generated by its users.The website will supply three charts to Music Week, a spokesman said yesterday: the overall most listened-to artist, the most listened-to artist in Britain compared to elsewhere, and the "hype list" of artists whose popularity has risen most in the past month. While the magazine, for the moment, will publish the first of the three, it may be the third that will become of the most interest to chart watchers. This week's hype list includes Robyn with Kleerup, the Ghost Frequency, Newton Faulkner and Blaqk Audio.Critics of the site, however, note that not all its charts are cutting edge: the consistent presence of the Beatles in the top artists listing, for instance, reflects the site's demographic rather than their imminent re-emergence as chart toppers.HMV spokesman Gennaro Castaldo said that the data from Last.fm is useful, but only as one of several different measurements. "The days of the definitive music chart, the sole reference point, are over," he said. "The national charts are just one part of the picture and Last.fm comes under that canopy."Looking for new music? Here's what Last.fm recommendsLike Lily Allen, Madonna and MIA?Try Robyn (right).Amy Winehouse and Regina Spektor?Try Florence &amp; the Machine.Simian Mobile Disco and Klaxons?Try Crystal Castles.Rufus Wainwright and Tom Waits?Try Julian Velard.Kraftwerk and Prince?Try Fujiya &amp; Miyagi FileOfficial UK top ten1 Kanye West: Stronger2 Robyn with Kleerup: With Every Heartbeat3 Timbaland Feat Doe/Keri Hilson: The Way I Are4 Kate Nash: Foundations5 Plain White T's: Hey There Delilah6 Axwell: I Found U7 Fergie: Big Girls Don't Cry (Personal)8 Gym Class Heroes: Clothes Off9 David Guetta Feat. Chris Willis: Love is Gone10 Newton Faulkner: Dream Catch MeHype top 101 Robyn: Swedish europop it's ok to like2 The Ghost Frequency: Electro-punk, drum machines, London accents3 Newton Faulkner: Sensitive, guitar-strumming soloist with dreadlocks4 Blaqk Audio: 80s synthesisers, Pet Shop Boys-esque vocals5 UGK: Hip-hop veterans from Texas6 The Dragons: Gloomy electronic rock from Bristol7 Four Year Strong: Massachusetts rock band with shouting and synths8 Samim: Minimal techno9 Epic45: Ethereal, experimental electronica10 Swizz Beatz: Jaunty hip-hop with air raid sirens, gunshots, whistles ...
That says it all really. Konami has announced that it's bringing the world's finest footie sim to Wii, scheduled for an early 2008 launch. From the press release:"The Wii version of PES will offer the same level of realism that has established the series as the definitive football title, but has been undergone a radical rethink to make the most of the Wii's motion-sensitive control system. The game will make full use of the Wii Remote and Nunchuk controllers, offering total control over every aspect of the players and their movements both on and off the ball. The clever use of the Wii controllers will allow users to send players running into space, and to distribute the ball with ease."Whoa? How's it going to work? It sounds crackers. PES, of course, built its reputation on pinpoint controls and accuracy - how will this marry with the casual frippery of the Wiimote experience? And is frippery even a word?
It's due out in the US at the end of 2007 and in Europe in early 2008 and now it has a whole new selection of music tracks. Yes,Rock Bandis at the Games Convention with EA revealing a localised music selection for Europe.New songs for the disc are confirmed as: Rolling Stones "Gimme Shelter," Deep Purple "Highway Star," The Clash "Should I Stay or Should I Go," Faith No More "Epic," Smashing Pumpkins "Cherub Rock," Radiohead "Creep," Beastie Boys "Sabotage," Jet "Are You Gonna Be My Girl," OK Go "Here It Goes Again," and Nine Inch Nails "The Hand That Feeds."This brings the total to 26 and EA is talking about making more available for download.So any of these tickle your drumming, strumming or vocalising fancy? OK Go is a rather unexpected inclusion, and can you imagine the mess that drunk, flirty blokes are going to make of Radiohead's morbidly self-indulgent ode to doomed love?I've put the full track list below...1960s Rolling Stones "Gimme Shelter"1970s The Who "Won't Get Fooled Again" Mountain "Mississippi Queen"* David Bowie "Suffragette City" Black Sabbath "Paranoid"* Blue Oyster Cult "Don't Fear the Reaper" The Ramones "Blitzkrieg Bop" Deep Purple "Highway Star"1980s Rush "Tom Sawyer"* Bon Jovi "Wanted Dead or Alive" The Clash "Should I Stay or Should I Go" Faith No More "Epic"1990s Foo Fighters "Learn to Fly" Metallica "Enter Sandman" Nirvana "In Bloom" Stone Temple Pilots "Vasoline" Weezer "Say It Ain't So" Smashing Pumpkins "Cherub Rock" Radiohead "Creep" Beastie Boys "Sabotage"2000s The Hives "Main Offender" Queens of the Stone Age "Go With the Flow" The Strokes "Reptilia" Jet "Are You Gonna Be My Girl" OK Go "Here It Goes Again" Nine Inch Nails "The Hand That Feeds"
Wal-Mart has put out apress releaseto say it is now selling MP3 music files free of copy protection, known as DRM (Digital Rights Management). This follows the Universal Music Group announcement (below) of an experiment with DRM-free tracks, which listed "Amazon.com Inc, Google Inc, Wal-Mart Stores Inc, Best Buy Co, RealNetworks Inc's Rhapsody, Transworld, PassAlong Networks and Puretracks Inc" as participants. Wal-Mart says:At only 94 cents per track and $9.22 per album, the new MP3 digital format delivers value, convenience and the ability for customers to play music on nearly any device, including iPod, iPhone and Zune portable media players. Wal-Mart is one of the first major retailers to offer MP3 digital tracks with music content from major record labels such as Universal and EMI Music.Kevin Swint, Wal-Mart's senior director and divisional manager for digital media, says the MP3 catalogue "includes music from popular artists like The Rolling Stones, Coldplay, KT Tunstall, Amy Winehouse, Maroon 5, George Strait and Nelly."Wal-Mart has put up afree MP3 track-- 12 Stones' It Was You (Acoustic) -- to attact business.At 94c each, the 256kbps MP3 tracks are more expensive than Wal-Mart's copy-protectected 128kbps WMA downloads, which cost 88c each. However, they are cheaper than tracks from Apple's iTunes Store, and will play on a much wider range of devices. For equivalent sound quality, the MP3 files are also much larger.Although the MP3 tracks will play on Apple iPods, Mac owners may have problems buying them -- unless they also run Windows. The Wal-Mart store says it requires "Windows 2000, XP or Vista (sorry, no Mac or Linux)" and purchasing needs Internet Explorer or Windows Media Player 9 or later. Of course, a friend could buy the DRM-free MP3 tracks on their behalf and pass them on.....Update: Sorry, not being a Wal-Mart shopper, I missed the fact that Wal-Mart does not sell music that includes "inappropriate content". AsArs Technicapoints out: "Only edited versions of albums with parental advisories are available, just as they are in Wal-Mart's offline stores." (In other words, Wal-Mart does not sell CDs that have warning stickers. If record labels choose to provide versions that don't need stickers, Wal-Mart will sell them.)
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox.
The Leipzig Games Convention kicks off today and Sega has got in early with an exciting announcement - Creative Assembly is developing its latest RTS, Empire: Total War. It's due out next year and here are some words from the press release:"Empire: Total War is set in the 18th century, a turbulent era that is the most requested by Total War's loyal fan base and a period alive with global conflict, revolutionary fervour and technological advances. With themes such as the Industrial Revolution, America's struggle for independence, the race to control Eastern trade routes and the globalisation of war on land and sea, Empire: Total War promises to be amongst the richest and most dynamic PC RTS games of all time."Empire: Total War will see the debut of 3D naval combat within the Total War franchise. PC Gamers will be able to intuitively command vast fleets or single ships upon seascapes rich with extraordinary water and weather effects that play a huge role in your eventual glorious success or ignominious defeat. After pummelling your enemy with cannon fire, close in to grapple their ship and prepare to board taking control your men as they fight hand to hand on the decks."Along with the revolutionary introduction of Naval Combat, Empire: Total War will see further enhancements to the Total War series signature 3D battles and turn based campaign map. Real time battles will pose new challenges with the addition of cannon and musket, challenging players to master new formations and tactics as a result of the increasing role of gunpowder within warfare."
It's all happening in the crazy, unpredictable world of high definition disc formats. Earlier this week, Paramount and Dreamworks announced that they would be abandoning Blu-ray to focus on HD DVD as their sole HD format. Industry gossips immediately suspected that certain financial incentives may have prompted this decision - there are whisperings that promotional deals and tie-ins between the studios and HD DVD backers might be to the tune of 50 million dollars for Paramount and 100 million for Dreamworks (morehere).Justifying the decision Alan Bell, executive vice president and chief technology officer for Paramount Pictures, toldPC World:"For one thing, the lower prices of the players: It's good for consumers, it's good for our customer base. For another thing, HD DVD came out of the DVD Forum. The DVD Forum is very experienced at developing and managing specs. [HD DVD] was launched in a very stable way, with stable specifications, and they had specified a reference player model, so all players had to be compatible with the HDi interactivity layer, and all players had to be capable of the interactivity. So when we publish titles in the future that have interactivity, we can be assured that every HD DVD player will be able to handle this content."Naturally, this is not great news for Sony. With PS3 being heavily pushed as an all-round entertainer, some family-orientated purchasers might be put off if they can't watch all the Shrek movies on their shiny new media player.But, wait, the story doesn't end there. Apparently, blockbuster movie director Michael Bay was so enraged by the decision he threatened not to work on the Paramount franchise, Transformers 2. Posting on the forum of hisShoot For The Editwebsite, the director exclaimed:"I want people to see my movies in the best formats possible. For them to deny people who have Blu-ray sucks! They were progressive by having two formats. No Transformers 2 for me!"A marvelous display of foot-stamping petulance.Sadly it wasn't to last. Later, the director was back, perhaps after a quick chat with Paramount bosses. According toVarietyhis stance had somewhat changed to:"Last night at dinner I was having dinner with three Blu-ray owners, they were pissed about no 'Transformers' Blu-ray and I drank the Kool-Aid hook, line and sinker. So at 1:30 in the morning I posted -- nothing good ever comes out of early a.m. posts mind you -- I overreacted. I heard where Paramount is coming from and the future of HD and players that will be close to the $200 mark which is the magic number. I like what I heard."As a director, I'm all about people seeing films in the best quality possible, and I saw and heard first-hand people upset about a corporate decision."So today I saw '300' on HD, it rocks!"So I think I might be back on to do Transformers 2!"The Variety report also mentioned that Paramount had excluded Stephen Spielberg movies from the HD DVD exclusivity. He's a Blu-ray fan and he's got company - at least on the creative side of the industry. Many directors are said to prefer Blu-ray, partly for image quality and partly as the format's larger capacity offers more scope to provide extras and alternative cuts of their movies. (Although Paramount exec Alan Bell points out that HD DVD backers can just provide more discs in the package - which consumers see as added value anyway.)On the business side of the Hollywood machine, HD DVD is the prefered format as the discs are cheaper to produce. Bell also reckons the interactive features are arguably better.As for consumers, the latest sales figures suggest that the public is coming out in favour of Blu-ray. According to Home Media Research,quoted in PC Advisorthis week, Blu-ray discs are outselling their HD DVD rivals by two-to-one.It looks like another occassion where the interests of the corporations involved might notexactlymatch up with what's best for the paying public. Bceause, in the end, who cares about them? They'll buy enough stuff anyway. One way or another.
Here are the headlines: Hillary Rutledge, 19, was killed when the car she was driving hit two tractor-trailers; Desirae Scott, 19, passed away from an accidental drug overdose; Nathan Benner, 22, drowned and his body was found in a gorge; Mat Hirstein, 30, died when he fell off a ladder and hit his head while trying to catch a raccoon.Welcome to the world of mydeathspace.com, a website set up by a 26-year-old legal clerk from California that records the deaths of MySpace users. Since its launch in December 2005 the site has accumulated 3,000 obituaries and 11,000 members.Unsurprisingly, given the nature of the networking site MySpace, most of the deaths are of young people, many of them suicides, drug-related or road-related."Life can end at any moment," said Mike Patterson, the website's founder. "Kids are kids: we have every kind of death imaginable on the site. Most of the deaths are car accidents and teens behaving irresponsibly. Most of them are preventable."While Mr Patterson has claimed an altruistic motive for the website - he bills it as a precautionary forum to warn young people of the consequences of irresponsible behaviour - it may carry greater significance as showing how customs are changing. Death and mourning were once treated with reverence, spoken about in hushed tones, if at all; on an internet forum the tone is anything but restrained."How people mourn is changing," Mr Patterson said. "There are so many memorial websites now, it's easier to do. I can't go and mourn someone who died across the country but I can visit their website."Such is the speed with which mydeathspace lists the recently deceased that many still have functioning MySpace profiles. Take 18-year-old Ashley Miller who, in the words of the site, was one of two motorists "killed in a head-on collision caused by text messaging". Her mydeathspace entry links to her MySpace page, where she states that she is "off to college - now for the real partying to begin".In cyberspace, it appears, you never die: the company's policy is to remove an inactive profile only at the request of a family member.Scroll down Miller's page and tributes to the dead woman appear, most of them conventional messages of condolence expressing grief and sympathy, albeit with some irreverence: "OK babicakes, we had some fun times swimming in our backyard."The site includes foreign deaths, the bulk of them involving US soldiers killed in Iraq. "They're usually a lot more sombre," Mr Patterson said. "They usually say things like 'thank you for your sacrifice', even though most of our people are young and don't necessarily support the war."He denies he is exploiting the deaths of others or treating them inappropriately. As well as the deadpan headlines on the obituaries the site has a death map, showing the locations of the recently deceased: a figure in a black shroud indicates a death, a red devil with horns a murder.The website features banner advertisements for insurance companies but Mr Patterson says he does not make any money from the site: "I do this on the side. If someone says we're exploiting these people or profiting from their deaths, that's just not right. This isn't a money-making enterprise. I have a full-time job."
This ain't your grandad's Google. Microsoft is experimenting with a slick new search site that has a Silverlight interface. It's calledTafiti, which apparently means "do research" in Swahili. It's "designed to help people use the Web for research projects that span multiple search queries and sessions by helping visualize, store, and share research results," according to Microsoft, as quoted on the independentLiveSide News blog. There's also a video demo at10.In a typical screen, the controls are on the left, and there's a ring selector like something out of a video game so you can pick from options such as Web, images, books, news, RSS feeds and so on. The results are in the middle. On the right there's a sort of "shelf" where you can drag-and-drop results you want to keep. You can also click the little tree for a tree-view, which is like a tag-cloud with mouseovers (below right).It's pretty slick, although not as fast as working with text. Also notice that the news items are displayed in a newspapery style, while the images are formatted to look like a pretty good picture album.But bear in mind that this is aninterface exploration. I don't think you'd want to use it for any real searches because the results are frankly terrible. Maybe my choice of term didn't help -- I should have tried "Paris Hilton". Still, the equivalentGooglesearches -- especially forNews-- knock Microsoft's into a cocked hat. Oh, and Google findsvideos, too.Update: Tafiti seems to have been written wholly or mainly by a very small external web developer,Jackson Fish. Their site says: "Thanks to everyone at Microsoft for making us a part of this project. The search folks were full of great ideas that they'd been wanting to explore, and the Silverlight team did a great job holding our hands as we wound our way through development on their new platform. We hope you enjoy this exploration." Jackson Fish was set up in Seattle last November by a former Microsoft employee. Microsoft is working with many others. Another recent example ishttp://mediapreview.tv/(in Portuguese).
You may not be able to tell by looking out of your window, but it really is summer out there. Just check out the latest game charts. For the week ending August 18:1. Transformers: The Game (Metacritic range: 47-56) 2. Pokémon Diamond 3. Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Metacritic: 51-68) 4. Pokémon Pearl 5. New Super Mario Bros. 6. Trauma Center: Second Opinion 7. Disney's Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End (Metacritic: 52-66) 8. Mario Party 8 9. Purr Pals 10. Shrek the Third (Metacritic: 55-70)The top five is almost the same as last week with Mario Party 8 politely making way for New Super Mario Brothers. The only new entry is Purr Pals, THQ's cutting edge kitty owning simulation. In fact, that is the only new entry in the whole top 40, unless you count an unexpected comeback for Red Steel at number 35.There are five popcorn movie adaptations in the top five - I've included their Metacritic scores (the figures are the lowest and highest totals across the various platforms) just in case you were underany illusion whatsoeverthat they might be worth purchasing.Summer is rubbish. Not only is the weather an insult to meteorology, but the games are terrible too. Publishers: not all of us spend six weeks in a Tuscan cottage, you know (although as a Guardian contributor I feel I really ought to).I'm thinking Bioshock might do quite well this week.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox.
Maybe something annoyed Jeremy Zawodny because he's had a nice rant, sayingThere is no Web Operating System (or WebOS). He says:A Web Operating System is a myth propagated by people who either don't understand the Web, don't understand operating systems, or both. A good example is thisTechCrunch storywhere mimicking a desktop interface is confused with an operating system.Well, it's probably not harmful to think of individual Web sites and services as platforms, or think of the whole Web as a platform, and I suspect the "Web OS" idea comes from that sort of "thinking by analogy." It only becomes a problem if people take it literally.
When I started making web videos, YouTube was still in its infancy. I had the pick of the litter to choose from as the host of my shows, but decided to avoid YouTube for several reasons:  the low quality flash encoding, the watermark on every video and the terms of service (they allowed the company to use and sub-license to broadcast television without the creator's involvement).Two years later, though, and YouTube has surpassed every other video site on the internet - and hundreds of startups are launching their own clones to cash in on the craze.Comedian Will Ferrell recently helped launch one of these me-too sites,Funny or Die, and contributed one of his own videos -The Landlord.  Almost immediately, a fan uploaded The Landlord to YouTube. It was later taken down for copyright infringement, but the episode demonstrated exactly how YouTube has become the biggest place to search for and watch web video.With so many competing options, the choices for a creator in this wild west of new media can be bewildering. How does somebody break YouTube's grip? What are the things that web video producers want from a website?Ideally, the perfect web video site should have more options for its content creators. At the moment, many of the new names are backed by major television networks, which use traditional TV lawyers to write their terms of service. Often they don't consider the rights or concerns of the people who actually make the video.The sites should also be more customisable - in layout, look and player function as well as in license options. They should give creators the option to choose different licenses, whether it's a traditional "all rights reserved" copyright, or aCreative Commonsoption. And, if the company behind the site wants to use the videos anywhere else, the creator should be given the option to opt out or refuse.Blip.tv, which acts as a free host and allows users to choose their own licenses and deals, practices this sort of community-based approach.Instead of giving exclusive ad-revenue sharing opportunities to the most popular show creators, the ideal site should open it up to all original content creators - just asRevverhas. It would also be beneficial to the sites to make the ads interactive (although too obtrusive and they annoy the audience). A recent web-based ad campaign by Juicy Fruit is a good example of this, where the banner ads were actually flash games built into the sites rather than a simple gigantic link.Next, the video viewing experience should be paramount in order to continue to develop the internet as a viable future for video entertainment.  Both Apple's iTunes and DivX'sStage 6site have already created excellent viewing experiences, with high quality encoding that preserves HD content much easier. But Flash is easily winning the war thanks to its light weight and popularity.We need to find a happy medium; a lightweight, high-quality option or a site that allows for multiple download formats.And, finally, web video sites need to have more effective ways to filter spam and abuse. Cyberbullying is becoming common practice on many popular sites like YouTube, MySpace andDigg- and often just flagging up abusive users isn't enough.At the moment, the only thing we content creators can do is vote with our feet: stay away from sites with terrible user interfaces and terms of service, and try to make connections in the industry to find ways of communicating our ideas to shape the future of these sites.If you plan on making your own YouTube clone, consult with the web video community before launching: the more you cater to the creator, the more support you'll have.· Casey McKinnon is co-producer of the video podcastsGalacticastandA Comicbook Orange.
Just a quick one for those who haven't seen this yet. Last friday, a blog named Sonydefenseforce.com posted a'review'of Bioshock, criticising the animation and entreating gamers to wait for the 'superior PS3 version'. The score? 5/10. The comments section is a sort of teenage American gamer's equivalent of a mob lynching. I'm certain this is, a) an ingenious satire, b) a means of attracting page impressions or, c) some sort of art stunt. It could be the 'all your base are belong to us' of 2007. Whatever, it might make you smile this morning. Or weep.
I was on hols last week so missed so this, but Charles Arthur has been tinkering with the innards of hisbroken Wii.Having bought a three-headed screwdriver online to defeat Nintendo's three-headed screws - which it uses to flummox would-be DIY repairers - and with the help of an online pictorial, I was soon gazing at the innards... and trying to work out what, and where, the rattle was.While the problem with the Wii was easily solved the wider unreliability issues surrounding the good ol' 360 remain a mystery. When my initial 360 died it went very quickly, but anecdotally I've heard of others which have suffered a slow stuttering death over a few weeks. As Charles reports, there is still no word on what the exact problem is. And while my second 360 has been going strong for a year it will be interesting to see if the 360 Elite - out this Friday - is more reliable. For the sake of cack-handed DIYers like me, I hope so.
Editing Wikipedia entries based around yourself or your company is forbidden by the website. Instead, unhappy parties are encouraged to get in touch with editors and voice concerns about perceived inaccuracies - otherwise it looks ateeny weenybit like censorship.And now, thanks to a helpful tool known asWikiscannerit's possible to track the anonymous edits made by corporations keen to control their image. Two prominent players in the videogame industry have fallen foul of this recently. Last week, a web user whose IP address was within a range registered to EA's Redwood City HQ was caught removing references to founder Trip Hawkins from the company's Wikipedia entry.According to ShackNews:"The EA Wiki user also removes a reference to Trip Hawkins' founding of the company in the main description of the entry, and cuts a paragraph from the "History" section detailing Hawkins' business plan."And later:"Other changes made by the user in the November cleanup focused on clearing out controversy associated with the publisher's business practices. A user at the Redwood City IP removed a line - "The company has also been the subject of criticism, most notably for its business tactics and its employment policy' - from the end of the introductory description of the company.""Many companies routinely post updates on websites like Wikipedia to ensure accuracy of their own corporate information," claimed an EA spokespersonquotedin Gamesindustry.biz. But where does 'accuracy' become 'propoganda'? And is it NOT accurate that Trip Hawkins founded EA? Trip might have something to say about that.On Saturday, Gamepolitics.com discovered that America'sEntertainment Software Associationseems to have been altering theMod chipentry on Wikipedia to more closely align with its own hardline stance on modding. From the article:"In one paragraph, someone at ESA deleted a nuanced discussion of mod chip legality, replacing it with a flat assertion that mod chips are illegal."Less than a minute later, a lengthy section on the positive uses of mod chips was deleted, as was a notation that the US Supreme Court has not yet dealt with the DMCA."Finally, a sentence stating that mod chips are legal in Australia was removed."Of course, mod chips aren't just about pirating - they also facilitate the vibrant 'homebrew' community of coders who create their own games for major consoles. But not according to the alleged ESA version of the mod chip page.This should remind anyone who's read 1984 of Winston Smith's job within the Ministry of Information, constantly re-writing historical documents to reflect the changing doctrines of the obsessively controlling government.The Thought Police are looming.
Monday's edition of Chatterbox.
This week's edition of Science Weekly - our regular science and technology podcast - is online for your listening pleasure, with a couple of techno interludes on the subject of hi-tech clothing and .Despite being a lover of all things silly, I have a minor rant about the waste of supercomputer energy on issues likecoming up with the ultimate Rubik's cube solution. Personally, all these "supercomputer solves trivial issue" stories are starting to grate.Of course I know that plenty of heavy lifting is being done on massive problems in physics and mathematics. But if all those cycles spent trying to beat grand masters at chess,playing poker, or sorting out theRubik's cubewere instead used for solving the world's ills, would the world be a better place?Anyway, I digress. You can listen to the podcast right now byclicking here, or visit the mainpodcast blogfor more information.
It seems no Hollywood movie goes by these days without a welter of technology plugs. The recent Bond movie Casino Royale was a case in point; despite being a rip-roaring adrenalin fest (TM), it was nearly impossible to get through five minutes without some heavy plugging for Sony products.Now our pals over at Tech Digest have pointed out theregular product placementsin the latest instalment of the Bourne series, the Bourne Ultimatum. Featuring prominently are Motorola, Carphone Warehouse, 3 and BMW.Incidentally, number two on their list is the Guardian. I've always thought of myself as a bit of an action man - stop spluttering at the back - so it's pleasing to note that the paper features heavily, with a reporter central to the plot and the newspaper making several appearances. Maybe if I get a promotion one day I can spend my days being chased all over the world by deadly assassins. We can only hope, eh?I can only hope that's not the reason that Ian Douglas over at the Telegraphdidn't like it- but it's not strictly product placement, since we're obviously too cheap to pay for actual promotion at Hollywood prices.
Yes, it's noisy and unreliable but the Xbox 360 has a medium term release schedule that towers over the competition. Forget the Wii for a moment. If you want to play the best selection of cutting edge "traditional" videogames from now until Christmas - Halo 3, Mass Effect etc - then the 360 is the console to go for. Things will be different next year. The PS3 will finally have got going while the Wii could have made the Sony/Microsoft contest an irrelevant spat for second place. But for now the 360 is in a good place.Microsoft have used this Friday's launch of the Xbox Elite - think normal 360 with 120GB hard drive, HDMI slot (for HD TVs) and black paint job - to cut prices. The Elite will cost £299.99 and is likely to appeal to hardcore 360 owners who are heavy users of the online Live Arcade service. The standard Xbox 360, which includes a 20GB hard drive, has been reduced by £30 to £249.99. The essentially pointless Core console - by the time you've bought another controller and something to save your games on you may as well have bought the standard model - is reduced by £20 to £179.99. Tempted by the price cut then?
Is it a clever marketing ploy, an attempt to extend their already-successful reach into the Asian sub-continent, or a cultural nod toIndia's and Pakistan's recent 70 year anniversary of nationhood? Sony have announced a couple of specialist-themed products that - hope beyond hope - reach these shores.The first,Singstar Bollywood. Need I say more? The second is Ramayan 3392 AD, a massively multiplayer online game based upon the Hindu epic Ramayana. The latter is a co-development with Virgin Comics, who are keen to develop an interactive version ofthe comic seriesof the same title.Cultural inclusiveness is undoubtedly the way to go. If Chinese myth has been successfully integrated into interactive media and the Ramayana is set to be a MMOG, why not something from the legends of these shores?Tips offs fromRenzephy's TwitterandNews.com
I'm in love with Pandora. My wife is happy about this - she could love Pandora, too. But now, me and Pandora have got stuck in a bad patch. She can no longer sing in my little shell-pink ears. We have been torn apart by two powerful organisations - the US Copyright Royalty Board and the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) - who have made it too expensive to maintain a worldwide internet radio service.Yes,Pandorais a web-based music system founded by Tim Westergren, and it allows you to launch up to a hundred personal "radio stations". Creating a station takes a few seconds: you just "seed" Pandora with the name of an artist you like, and she will keep playing similar tunes for as long as you like.Unlike other similar services such asLast.fm, Pandora is based on some serious music research: theMusic Genome Project. This was set up in January 2000 by "a group of musicians and music-loving technologists". They identified hundreds of musical "genes" based on things like melody, harmony, rhythm, instrumentation and orchestration. To create Pandora's database, one or more musicians listens to each track, identifies the genes it uses, and gives each gene a value on a 10-point scale.Something like Sinead O'Connor singing Nothing Compares 2 U will use a fairly small number of genes, whereas Beethoven's 9th will have many times more. This isn't a value judgement - they're both wonderful. But there are more genes in a long orchestral work with soloists and a choir than in one simple pop song.You can get some idea what's going on by popping up the menu and asking why Pandora played a particular song. You'll get an answer along the lines of: "because it features IDM influences, use of tonal harmonies, inventive synth arrangements, a highly synthetic sonority and subtle use of pianos". (Sorry, IDM is "intelligent dance music": think Warp Records, Boards Of Canada, and Aphex Twin. I was listening to my William Orbit Radio.)The system works really well as a music discovery service. Pandora can fish out lots of tracks that are very close, musically, to the things you like. And the chances are you'll not have heard of many of the artists, let alone have heard them on terrestrial radio.You can also provide direct feedback, giving each piece a thumbs up or thumbs down, or you can stop a track and make Pandora promise never to play it again. That could be useful with artists such as Miles Davis, where someone who loves funky stuff like Bitches Brew might not want to get involved with bebop or freeform jazz.If you live in the US, you can still listen to Pandora. If you live almost anywhere else, you can try it until it times out and asks you to register with a US zip code. Sadly, that's probably the way things will stay until the copyright payment issues are sorted out - or Pandora finally opens in the UK, as planned.
With E3 in a transitional phase theGames Convention, which kicks off in Leipzig this Wednesday, has suddenly become an important event in the gaming calendar. I went last year and it still felt very German - there's only so many PC Real Time Strategy games you can take - but this year the GC looks likely to step up to the next level. Around 200,000 visitors are expected - unlike E3 the show is open to the public - and all the main players are in town.Much of the code shown is likely to be the same as E3 - not a problem for most European visitors who were locked out of the US event - but there will be show exclusives. The best bet should be Sony, the only one of the three hardware manufacturers holding a traditional press conference. Expect details of the PS3 TV tuner and - hopefully - some indication of a pre-Christmas price cut. Microsoft and Nintendo are focusing attention on their stands, with Halo 3 and Wii Fit likely to stand out. Fingers crossed we'll get some Super Mario Galaxy and Mass Effect too. The latter can't come soon enough for me. Likewise PES 2008, which will hopefully sort out the flaws of PES 6 on 360 - will we finally have online co-op play?Elsewhere the focus is likely to be PC heavy. Crysis, the hyped shooter from the guys behind Far Cry, is likely to be swamped as is the first playable version of Warhammer Online: Age of Reckoning. The online game is one of the few upcoming MMO's that stands a chance of siphoning off a sizable proportion of World of Warcraft's audience. Talking of which, Lich King, the next WOW expansion pack, is likely to be playable too. With an unprecedented amount of big titles arriving in the next few months - starting with Bioshock on Friday - Leipzig will help confirm whether they fulfil their immense promise.
Alfa Romeo SpiderPrice:&pound;25,995Miles per gallon:30.1Seats:2Good for:Lonely heartsBad for:Heart murmursIn the summer of 1990, the unnecessarily upsetting film Arachnaphobia opened. The plot was straightforward: a South American killer spider hitches a lift to the US in a coffin and starts to breed. The poster featured a bulked-up eight-legger with drool spilling from its fang-filled mouth and the traumatising tagline 'Eight legs, two fangs and an attitude'. Now, 17 years later, another spider is stalking the byways of the land. And this one is as pumped up as the last, with attitude dripping from its polished shanks. The crucial difference, of course, is that this is a spider everyone will fall in love with.The 100-year history of Alfa Romeo is studded with achingly beautiful cars, but for many it is the iconic presence of its Spider that best defines the romance of Italian sports cars. When Dustin Hoffman carried the sweaty-palmed aspirations of every young man on his shoulders in The Graduate, it was obvious that he would drive a Spider. Where would the passion have been if he'd driven off Mrs Robinson in, say, a Mondeo?But how did the world's loveliest car come by the name 'Spider'? The answer sounds like raw material for a Paul Whitehouse sketch. The early Alfas were synonymous with motor racing and the English-speaking world came to describe these streamlined cars as 'speeders', a name which quickly became 'corrupted' to 'spiders'. Imagine Claudio Ranieri saying, 'There is a speeder in the bathroom,' and you get the idea.Now, exactly 40 years after, Pininfarina unveiled the cuttlefish-shaped Spider Duetto - a car which some claim to be the sexiest ever made - we have a new Spider. And it is every inch an Alfa Romeo, from the famous shield grille which looks like a Chippendale's poser pouch to the flared rear wheel arches where its powerful shoulders pay homage to the Giulietta Spider of the Fifties.Four versions of the new Spider are available, top of the pile being the 3.2 JTS which features Alfa's Q4 permanent four-wheel drive system. The car does its best to keep driver anxiety in check with a host of passive and active safety features. Six airbags, seatbelt pre-tensioners, a fire prevention system, electronic braking, traction control and stability systems are all fitted as standard. There is also, crucially, a fully automatic fabric roof which disappears neatly into the boot in a matter of seconds - the joy of a soft roof over a folding hard top is that you still end up with room in the trunk for more than a slice of Parma ham. Storage space is important in the sportscar market as in Britain half of all convertibles are bought by women. Strangely, the more northerly the market, the higher the demand among women for open tops.Inside, the oil, water and fuel gauges are labelled olio, acqua and benzina, which neatly capitalises on the fact that anything said in Italian somehow sounds more alluring (a 'panino' seems so much more desirable than a 'toastie'). Indeed, everything about the car is an Italophile's dream - except, of course, the name - a slightly racist English joke!martin.love@observer.co.uk
Your boyfriend is a twat. What do you do? You could ask him to change his bad habits, you could kick him out or, like Zoe McCarthy, you could write a blog about him.Her online diary, My Boyfriend is a Twat, has become cult reading for thousands of internet users, including frustrated wives and girlfriends. It is now to be issued in book form, making her the latest blogger to secure a publishing deal and potentially lucrative career.McCarthy started the blog four years ago - after being dared to by the boyfriend - and has been posting entries ever since. From her home in Brussels, where she moved over 20 years ago, McCarthy wryly records her everyday life as an office manager bringing up three children - as well as letting off steam about her partner and his irksome habits. Sample entries include following 'The Twat' around clearing up coffee stains, finding boyfriends quite useful because they can drive, and making wry comments about his fashion sense - or lack of it.Myboyfriendisatwat.com averages about a thousand 'hits' a day and has totted up more than a million overall. This year it won best European weblog in the Bloggies, the leading blogger awards voted on by the public, for the third year in a row. The winner of the best British or Irish weblog award was Girl With a One-Track Mind by Zoe Margolis, who sold the publishing rights to Ebury at the Frankfurt book fair. Books based on blogs have been called 'the world's fastest-growing new kind of book' by the organisers of a dedicated award, the Lulu Blooker Prize. The most famous example is probably Belle de Jour, the online diary of a call girl which became a bestselling novel. Her identity will be the subject of renewed speculation this autumn, when ITV screens a dramatisation of the writer's life starring Billie Piper.Now McCarthy is to follow the trend after receiving a &pound;5,000 advance to make a book out of her blog. Billed as 'an affectionate guide to spotting, dealing and living with a twat, aka the average English bloke', My Boyfriend is a Twat will be published by the Friday Project next month. Far from being offended, the eponymous boyfriend, Andy Carling, says he is delighted. McCarthy, the daughter of a diplomat, is twice divorced and has three children. She met Carling, a conservationist, in 2001.'Andy does the most irritating things all the time,' she explained, 'and right from the very beginning I just replied, "God, you twat!" I used to get so annoyed. Things like: I'd write out a really long shopping list, we'd go to the supermarket and I'd given him the shopping list before we left home. I'd say, "Right, where's the shopping list?" and oh, it's on the kitchen table! One day, coming back from the supermarket, he said to me, "Right, I dare you to start up a blog called My Boyfriend is a Twat." I said "Done! You set it up for me, because I know nothing about computers", so he did.'The portrait of family life in the blog has been described as a mixture of The Osbournes, Absolutely Fabulous and My Family. The tone is gently chiding, whimsical and self-deprecating. McCarthy, 44, continued: 'I don't think I've ever offended Andy - otherwise he would have told me and I would have taken it down.'Carling, also 44, insisted that the 'twat' label did not trouble him. 'In the north of England you can call someone a twat and sometimes it's offensive, sometimes it isn't. It's certainly eyecatching.'
So you have penty of people who use Firefox because they can block ads, and it seems some site owners are retaliating by blocking Firefox. (I've not found one myself.) TheWhy Firefox is Blockedsite says:While blanket ad blocking in general is still theft, the real problem is Ad Block Plus's unwillingness to allow individual site owners the freedom to block people using their plug-in. Blocking FireFox is the only alternative. Demographics have shown that not only are FireFox users a somewhat small percentage of the internet, they actually are even smaller in terms of online spending, therefore blocking FireFox seems to have only minimal financial drawbacks, whereas ending resource theft has tremendous financial rewards for honest, hard-working website owners and developers..This is viaDigg.Clearly there's a long-term problem because universal ad blocking would eventually lead to the disappearance of vast amounts of free content, including The Guardian. Well, we sell aGuardian Unlimited Ad-freeversion, but I don't expect many people pay for it. The FAQ doesn't seem to have been updated since July 1, 2003.....What's the solution?Charles Arthur adds:actually, "some site owners" might be a slight overstatement here. There's onlyonesite owner doing this - Danny Carlton, aka (to himself, for reasons I can't fathom) Jack Lewis, who is - judging byhis site- a gun-owning home-schooling evolution-dissing Christian who reckons that to not look at the ads on his site(s) is theft. Whether he would then consider it theft ifothersite owners divert Firefox users to his site (thus using his bandwidth and, um, money) isn't covered.You can read his logic - I think that's the generic word -here(Google cache): the short version isUsing ad blocking software to block all ads is stealing, no ifs, ands or buts. Every new script I come up with to keep people off my sites who use ad blocking software, the filter people come up with work arounds. They're my sites and if I don't want people using them that use ad blocking software then I darn well have the right to keep them off. Since the crooks who made the plug-ins, software and filters can't seem to ge that through their thick skulls, I'll simply block all FireFox users.Ah, I love the smell of syllogism in the morning. Hmm, am I sounding too much like Marina Hyde?You can also commenthere(I think) - his browser-blocking expertise doesn't, it seems, extend to the CGI scripts running on the server.However it's not just Firefox that gets blocked - I spent an interesting Saturday night trying to view his sites with a variety of Mac browsers, including Camino, Safari and WebKit. All got told they were "Firefox", and redirected. And I couldn't get his jacklewis site via the command-linecurl. Which suggests that he doesn't want people to read his site much. If you do, though, there's always Google's cache.Which means that the answer to Jack (Schofield, sensible) above is: switch your user-agent to "Googlebot". That will get you into places even Jason Bourne would struggle with.
Anyone who wants to useWindows Live IDon their own Web site can nowdownloadthe Windows Live ID Web Authentication 1.0 SDK (software development kit) from Microsoft. It's platform-independent and you can download code in six different programming languages: ASP.NET, Java, Perl, PHP, Python, and Ruby, says the site.There are two obvious attractions. One is that there are already (I guess) more than 100 million users who already have a Live ID, because they use Hotmail or some other Microsoft system. These users don't have to invent a new log on name and password (which they will forget): they can just use one they already have.The second attraction is that instead of "signing in" you can use an Information Card. This is like presenting a credit card to pay for something, You just go to your "wallet" and pick whichever card you want to use. If you don't have one, you can create one, using whatever data you like. This authentication data is never sent to the site, so you can sign up for Computer Fetish Monthly and ogle the slinky new USB dongles without parting with any personal info.The system is similar to Open ID, but more secure. It could also be more user friendly, but we'll have to see about that. There's a good guide to some of the problems with Open ID atflow|state, inOpenID: Great idea, bewildering consumer experience. The number one problem is that "It's way, way too hard to get started."The solution to the ease-of-use problem is to use InfoCards instead of passwords. However, getting started with InfoCards is also going to confuse lots of people, as you can find out by trying ithere. There's already a fully working system that most Windows users could use,but it's practically invisible. Why?Now, suppose you want to sign on to Hotmail with your new InfoCard. You go to Hotmail and it says: "Click a Windows Live ID to sign in". The InfoCard option doesn't even appear unless you hover the mouse over the ID (email address). If you haven't used an InfoCard before, you can only see Password, and you have to click the down-arrow to select InfoCard (after that, it becomes the default entry).OK, so you click to sign in, your Windows screen goes dark, the CardSpace wallet pops up, and you either click Send (if you've used that card before) or pick a different card and click Send. I can't see how it could be done more easily, but it's still more work than the old fashioned method of typing in a password.So there's a chicken and egg problem. Using InfoCards is not very attractive for one site. However, if you can use the same InfoCard to sign into a dozen sites, or a thousand, then it's a lot easier than creating a dozen or a thousand names and passwords, and trying to remember them all. It's therefore in Microsoft's interests to make both Windows Live ID and InfoCards as widely available, and as platform independent, as necessary.Mac users interested in the topic can look at anInfoCard Selector for Safari, and Novell has shown (viaBandit) an Open Source Identity Selector (OSIS) on Windows, OS X, Linux that supports the same InfoCards as Windows CardSpace.What this means is that Live ID is competing with Open ID, but InfoCards are not. No one cares what kind of plastic cards you put in your physical wallet. Similarly, no one cares if you put both Open ID and Live ID and other types of InfoCard in your InfoCard wallet (which in Windows is your CardSpace wallet). CardSpace canhelpOpen ID by making Open ID InfoCards much easier to set up and use.Incidentally, there's the not-for-profitHigginsproject, backed by IBM and Novell, which provides an alternative framework for implementing InfoCards. Both systems are based on WS-* standards and should interoperate. To quote from aNovell press releasefrom February:The Bandit and Higgins projects are developing open source identity services to help individuals and organizations by providing a consistent approach to managing digital identity information regardless of the underlying technology. This reference application leverages the information card metaphor that allows an individual to use different digital identity 'I-Cards' to gain access to online sites and services. This is the metaphor used in the Window's CardSpace identity management system that ships with the Vista* operating system.* It's an add-on for XP.I don't expect Microsoft will offer a version of CardSpace for Linux clients. However, a Linux (or Mac or Windows) PC user should be able to add Open ID and Live ID identities to a Higgins/Bandit InfoCard wallet and use these to log on just as easily as Windows users can use CardSpace and Live ID today.
For the past week's posts on a single page, clickhereHighlights include:Why newspapers are screwed by GoogleBott and Ou call out Gutmann's Vista FUDWe know where you live, says SonyDid you see the meteor shower?ISPs warn BBC over iPlayer bandwidth useHow much is Sun paying Google to distribute Star Office? (Updated)
MondayWikigame update: Week 6Halo3 will be quite successfulis there a commercial future for the touch-'em-up?TuesdayDreambuilder hit Xbox LiveBioshock almost wasn'tWednesdayPS3 vs Xbox 360: spec wars continueRockstar pleads for helpThursdayGame mag ABCsBioshocks and BorderlandsFriday
Earlier this week I had cause to dismantle my Nintendo Wii. Our two-year-old had stuck some toys into it, and the Wii's disc drive had got serious indigestion. Something was rattling. In a bad way.Given the choice of sending it off for official repair - cost and duration unknown - just as the summer holidays mean the machine should be working its hardest, I opted for the apparently easier choice of trying to repair it myself (after all, if I futzed it up, it wouldn't work – but then it wasn't working already).Having bought a three-headed screwdriver online to defeat Nintendo's three-headed screws - which it uses to flummox would-be DIY repairers - and with the help of anonline pictorial, I was soon gazing at the innards... and trying to work out what, and where, the rattle was.Machine internals are fascinating, because they're essentially a map of design tradeoffs. Each screw is a little cost base in its own right: each must be the right size and depth, and putting them in requires a slice of time and money on the assembly line. When you're trying to work out which screw to undo next, you're seeing the outcome of designers wrestling with the need for the machine to not go wrong, and for it to not cost too much. Would leaving this screw out make the drive wobble? Will adding a screw to secure this fitting firmly put you over the cost and time limits you've set yourself? And overall, will the design work?That's the problem that the designers of Microsoft's Xbox 360 clearly got wrong - to thetune of more than $1bn. Sony, meanwhile, issayingthat the failure rate of its PlayStation 3 is only 0.2% (against an industry average of 3%-5%) - although since I suspect most of the PS3s that have been made are still sitting unused in warehouses and on shop shelves, I don't think that's much of a boast.The point about the Xbox 360, though, is that Microsoft still hasn't said what was wrong - or what collection of faults there were. Aside from a number of extremely evasive interviews given by the now-departed executive in charge of the division, there's been nothing. Not even in arecent New York Times story, which has to ask an industry analyst what he thinks."The most likely explanation of where the engineers went wrong is that the 360s are poorly designed to deal with the intense heat generated by game play and that computer chips and other electronics may be popping off the motherboard," Richard Doherty, an analyst with the Envisioneering Group, a technology assessment and market research firm, told them.According to Doherty, Microsoft probably skimped on product testing in order to beat the PS3 to market.When we opened up an XBox 360 recently to photograph it fora recent story, there weren't any three-headed screws to defeat us. The reasons for its failure didn't reveal themselves. People have written about extra dust, about heatsinks, about all sorts of things in their anecdotal efforts to cure the problem.Me, I'm still interested in what the problem - or problems - were, or are. I know what the problem with the Wii was: stuck inside a valley for the slot-loading drive was abrown plastic Playmobil spear. Amazing what little it takes to make a fearsome piece of engineering fail. Perhaps if the Wii's designers had tried it out on a two-year-old we'd have lockable covers for the drives. But that's another design story...
The CD audio format is now 25 years old, and more than 200 billion discs have been sold. If you want to feel nostalgic, you can give Abba's The Visitors a spin: thePhilips press releasesays it was the first CD produced. Failing that, play the first CD you ever bought, whatever that was. (I can't remember... but at least it wasn't Dire Straits' Brothers In Arms, the first million-seller back in 1985.)The CD-DA (Digital Audio) disc was partly inspired by the failed LP-sizedLaserdiscsystem developed by Philips and MCA (DiscoVision). The CD was relatively tiny -- hence a "compact disc" -- though the name also reflected the huge success of the Philips Compact Cassette.The popular story is that the CD's size was increased from Philips' 11.5cm to 12cm so that a Karajan version of Beethoven's 9th would fit on a single disc. It could be true. Snopes's verdict isUndetermined.Many papers have stories, often theAP storyfiled from Eindhoven, where Philips is based. Also see theBBC.Although it's getting on a bit, various attempts to supersede the CD have not done well so far. See my story,No taste for high-quality audio, published a couple of weeks ago.
Electronic Data Systems (EDS), the giant American corporation founded byRoss "The Boss" Perot, has regained its top spot on Ovum's UK software and IT services (S/ITS) industry rankings, overtaking IBM. Sales grew by 11%, driven by work for the Ministry of Defence.EDS had a UK turnover of £2.7bn, which put it ahead of IBM (£2.6bn) and Japan's Fujitsu (£1.6bn), which got big by taking over the former UK "computer champion," ICL.The rest of the top 10 is made up of France's Capgemini (£1.5bn), Capita (£1.3bn), BT (£1.3bn), Accenture (£1.2bn), CSC (£1.2bn), HP (£1.0bn) and Microsoft (£887m). Both Oracle (£668m) and SAP (£344m) were in the top 20.Ovum principal analyst Phil Codling picks out Capgemini as the star player. "As recently as 2003, the French firm was on the verge of dropping out of our top 10 altogether, but that was before it started to benefit from its Aspire mega-deal with HM Revenue &amp; Customs." he says in a press release.Aspire -- basically the Inland Revenue tax system -- was run by EDS for a decade. However, itlost the jobafter atax credits fiascothat had Tony Blair grovelling. It was replaced by a consortium of Cap Gemini Ernst and Young, Fujitsu and BT.The S/ITS market is threatened by "offshoring," with many jobs going abroad (technical services, call centres, help desks, back-office administration etc) to Indian companies such as TCS, Wipro, Infosys and HCL. "But for all the growth of such players, it's worth noting that their market share remains pretty low - at just 5% of the combined revenues of the top 50," says Ovum.The S/ITS list is a good indicator of where your UK taxes are going, and British companies such as Capita and Logica CMG still have 28% of the market, including five of the top 20 places. It would be bigger (but not necessarily better) if ICL, the old Labour government's crumbling computer company, hadn't been flogged off to the Japanese.
Friday's edition of Chatterbox.
What's your favourite piece of technology?The programGarageBand. I use it to put ideas down and then write my songs. It's really low-fi, even though it's high tech. I don't use any external mics, just the internal one on the computer - I just press record and sing at the computer, and that's how I get my ideas down.Is it good for your art?It has made it easier to include other people in what I'm doing. I used to use a MiniDisc, and before that a tape recorder. Now I can immediately turn my ideas into a MP3 and send it in an email to someone else who is going to play on the song.When was the last time you used it, and what for?I actually used it the other day to record a phone message that a friend of mine from Portland had left on my mobile. It was a really weird voicemail that I thought needed to be saved.What additional features would you add if you could?I've always imagined at some point that all the different programs and software would be a bit more integrated.Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years time?Software is changing all the time and always being updated, so I don't know.What one tip would you give to non-GarageBand users??If you're making music, forget about using external mikes and just mess around using the internal one.Do you consider yourself to be a luddite or a nerd?I'm not tech-savvy at all – it's weird, if someone shows me how to do something I will embrace it, but it's not something that holds my interest. I just love the freedom technology gives me.Mac or PC?I've use a Mac Powerbook laptop. I got a new one last year after my last one was stolen.What song is at the top of your iPod's Top 25 Most Played?I don't own an iPod. I don't like them – I think music sounds terrible on them. Although a friend said I might like it if I used really good headphones.What piece of technology would you most like to own?A really, insanely good pair of headphones!Scout Niblett's fourth album,This Fool Can Die Now, is released on October 15 on Too Pure.
Will GTA IV's massive delays kill off ailing games publishers? That's the questionMSNBChas posed in a recent analysis of the roller coaster that the games industry rides:The much-anticipated title, along with Electronic Arts' "Madden 08" and Bungie's "Halo 3," was expected to account for one-third of all game sales this holiday season. And Sony and Microsoft were both counting on "GTA IV" to help sell PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 consoles.The answer, however, is no. While certain titles may garner the attentions of millions of fans, and may pad the pockets of the top brass, publishers like Sony and Microsoft won't rely upon one brand to see their heads above water. It bodes less well for Rockstar and Take-Two, whose recentbad publicity surrounding gorefest Manhunt 2and the controversiesrocking the executive cabins, require a stellar product to see them through the tough times.
Eyebrows were raised this week when the BBC's iPlayer suddenly lurched towards confrontation. Just two weeks after the video-on-demand software became publicly available, internet service providers were going on the offensive - claiming that they could be forced to throttle such services in order to save bandwidth.So-called "traffic shaping" measures - restricting the use of high-bandwidth applications - already happens with excessive downloaders, and is used to try to retain the speed of most broadband connections. But the threat to introduce similar measures against a public service such as iPlayer has resulted in confusion and anger on all sides.Software makers say the ISPs should be running networks that can cope with the demand for video, while service providers are concerned that they are being forced to invest heavily in order to satisfy the commercial demands of others.One assessment by media regulator Ofcom suggested it would cost the internet industry more than &pound;800m to keep up with the growth in online video. It's a debate reminiscent of the US argument over so-called "net neutrality", and stuck in the middle are the customers who have paid their ISP for "unlimited" downloads and handed over their licence fee to the BBC."I pay my ISP for a package that includes unlimited downloads," wrote one commenter,AJWimble, on our Technology Blog. "That means that if I download something from the BBC, I have paid the ISP for the bandwidth I am using so they have no right to complain. On the whole it sounds like this is a case of ISPs complaining because they may be asked to actually deliver what they already advertise."The situation is made increasingly murky by the fact that many of the providers leading the charge - such as BT and Tiscali - also offer their own internet-based TV services. Some observers feel that it's just an attempt to kill off legitimate peer-to-peer services in favour of their own products - though the service providers reject the accusation."Something like iPlayer has the potential to become really mainstream; it's higher quality than YouTube and the downloads are 10 times as long," says  Jody Haskayne of Tiscali. "It's 30 times the bandwidth."The providers can foresee a number of solutions they may be happy with: the main one is revenue-sharing to pay for the cost of transmission, where the ISP in effect takes a cut of the cash made from the download. But while that could work for pay-per-view services like Channel 4's 4oD, it's trickier for the iPlayer, where video is free at the point of delivery.Either that or, they suggest, people might start having to pay more for their broadband. Given that until now the industry has been focused on driving down prices while simultaneously driving up connection speeds, it is not hard to see why customers are left confused.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
The battle for control of your mobile phone is about to enter an interesting stage. You may think that you are in charge. After all, you press all the buttons. But in reality the operators have been calling the shots for years. They have been trying to keep you within their walled gardens of paid-for services and charging by the amount of data consumed, leaving you with open-ended bills. They have even been fiddling with handsets to discourage use of the wireless connection appearing in an increasing number of handsets that can make near-free phone calls if you are in a Wi-Fi area.This is understandable in terms of a desire to recoup the billions shelled out on 3G licences, but unacceptable when they pretend this is what consumers want. What consumers want is cheap phone calls and affordable music downloads from the web. They don't want to find out that the 99p track they downloaded ends up costing them &pound;10 because operators have charged them for all the data passing through their networks.This is why operators are up in arms about Nokia's upcoming N81 "music phone". It will offer what is being hyped as a seamless music download service that could gobble up some of the operators' revenues. If Apple, with its brilliant iTunes, is moving into the phone business then we should be unsurprised that phone companies are moving into the music business.Nokia, which sells 1bn phones a year, is already the world's biggest supplier of mobiles, cameras and MP3 players. Its move into music downloads could make its long-held ambition to capture 40% of the world mobile phone market (against a current 38%) less of a pipe dream that it seemed a year ago. Mobile music is potentially a far bigger market than cameraphones because listening to music is a more continuous experience than taking snaps. And surveys show that users want to download tracks to their phones as well as, or instead of, sideloading them from a computer at home.Nokia reckons that all the technology is now in place and that the battle is now over design and usability. This is why Nokia has extended its links with archrival Microsoft to use the latter's PlayReady digital rights management (DRM) technology which enables music, games or videos to be shared between devices in a platform-neutral way. Although content access (the new euphemism for DRM) is still restrictive, it is much less so than before and could be popular with punters.Operators argue that they have to subsidise the handsets and don't want phone manufacturers muscling in on their turf. To which Nokia replies that operators don't have to subsidise handsets (it doesn't happen in some countries) and no one is stopping operators doing what others are now doing in providing affordable music downloads and the ability to abandon your Sim card to make calls from your phone through the internet. Nokia rightly argues that if the operators don't provide these services then other companies will provide them instead.They already are. During my summer holiday in France I tested yet another VoIP service (from WiFiMobile) offering voice calls over the internet using my Nokia N80. Phoning Britain (without a Sim card) worked well for nearly all calls. It cost 2p a minute to phone a fixed line anywhere in the world or 14p a minute to UK mobiles (after paying a monthly fee of &pound;7.99). The catch is you have to phone from a Wi-Fi hotspot. However, Wi-Fi is slowly being rolled out across Britain, though implementation of the more powerful WiMAX, with a longer reach, is hampered by lack of suitable spectrum. Meanwhile, operators had better prepare to offer more cheap Wi-Fi phone deals as well as music packages because, if they don't, others will. Led by giants such as Nokia.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
"Your invitation from Grodunkley Sprunkley on LinkedIn will expire soon. Follow the link to accept Grodunkley Sprunkley's invitation!" Yes, it's another of those social networking invitations that are becoming part and parcel, warp and weft, of our online lives. But for me this one comes with a wrinkle: there's an aspect of my virtual persona that remains forever beyond my reach.In this case, it's my LinkedIn embodiment, created some years ago now in a moment of madness, boredom or totally legitimate and not-at-all-timewasting experimentation. At the time the phrase "social software" was all the rage (even if the stuff itself wasn't) so I thought I'd try some. I created an account on LinkedIn, waited for a bit and found that nobody was there who I knew, and nobody apparently wanted to know me, and went off to the rest of the net.Only now, years later, do I discover that tons of busy important professionals have been pouring on to LinkedIn (which seems to be the busy important professional's social networking site of choice, probably because you can't buy each other gifts on it or play virtual Scrabble or join groups called "If 100,000 people join, my wife will let me name my second child Spiderpig"). And some of them want to "link" to me. Leave aside the question of why, and I get emails inviting me to click the link so we can all be busy important professionals with friends. Sorry, contacts.Only one flaw: I can't remember my LinkedIn password. Well, it's been years. Given the permutations that my fiendish attempts to devise new password systems have gone through over the years, that's not surprising.No problem: LinkedIn knows that busy important professionals have minds like sieves, and so will send your forgotten password to the email that you signed up with. Simple!Except for the one problem. Was I on Gmail when I joined? I don't seem to have been - can't find anything from it. Did I use my personal domain? Probably. Did I use a personalised address at my personal domain? Probably. Searching my email suggests I did. OK, send it there!Nothing happens. I wait a minute, an hour, a day and the LinkedIn system does not favour me with my password. Or perhaps it does and a spam filter eats it. Either way, I'm stuck.And so that piece of my virtual persona sits like a little piece of my soul, detached and beyond reach, within that site. I can't kill it; I can't get to it. Other people interact with it, entreating it to come and join them. But it won't. It can't. And meanwhile all the busy important professionals who were too busy and important to use social software all those years ago will conclude I'm just aloof. Is that really what social software was meant to do?&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
After a year of negotiations, academic geographers have conceded defeat in their attempt to find a way to make a pioneering 3D representation of the capital, Virtual London, available to all comers via the Google Earth online map.Followers of Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign will have guessed the reason: Virtual London is partly derived from proprietary data owned by the government through its state-owned mapping agency, Ordnance Survey (OS). What makes the situation bizarre is that Virtual London's development was funded by another arm of the government, the office of the mayor of London.Virtual London, developed by theCentre for Advanced Spatial Analysisat University College, London, represents all of the capital's boroughs in 3D, including 3m buildings. It was intended  to help citizens visualise the impact of new developments and hazards such as air pollution and flooding. The mayor's London Connects e-government programme has also sent copies of the model, running in Google Earth, to each of London's 33 local councils.Then the problem emerged. Virtual London contains spatial data derived from OS's MasterMap, the definitive crown copyright database of Britain. Licences to use MasterMap data are a valuable income stream to OS, a trading fund required to earn a profit for the Treasury by selling products and data licences. There was no problem with London's boroughs using the 3D model in-house, because, like virtually all government bodies, they have licences to use OS data. What they could not do was post Virtual London on websites for London's citizens to use.Licensing issuesFor Virtual London's developers, this defeated the project's whole purpose, which was to help make urban planning more democratic. For the past year, they and Google have been trying to find a way to make the model available to all. The original negotiations reached deadlock at the end of last year (Public money paid for it - but the public can't view because of crown copyright, January 4). The stumbling point is understood to be that Google wanted to make a one-off payment for the use of the MasterMap data, while OS wanted a per-user charge.Talks reopened in the spring, with hopes raised by a pioneering effort by the London borough of Haringey, which has posted aheat loss mapof the borough on its website derived from a commercial aerial survey by Bluesky International - and OS's MasterMap, under the terms of its local government licence.But last month the Virtual London team formally admitted defeat. The Centre for Advanced Spatial Analysis reported on itsblogthat "our Virtual London model will not be appearing in Google Earth due to data licensing issues". The decision "puts a stop to six years of research to openly inform the public about changes to London's built form via a publicly accessible model".OS said granting Google special terms for Virtual London would be unfair on other licensees. "We provide an open, fair and transparent set of terms for providers seeking to operate in the same commercial space as each other. We cannot therefore license Google in a different way to other providers. We are completely supportive of anyone putting our data on the web as long as they have a licence to do so." Google would not comment.Virtual London's chief developer, Dr Andrew Hudson-Smith, said the blame lay with Ordnance Survey's licensing practices, which he described as "quite frankly arcane in the digital world". He called for the government's Advisory Panel on Public Sector Information to look urgently at the issue.The Free Our Data campaign agrees. We also think there is a strong case for government classifying MasterMap as an "unrefined" database and making it freely available to all users, both in government and outside, as with all other types of data created in the course of the government's work. Up to now, OS has dismissed this idea. However the agency's stance is likely to come under greater scrutiny following the publication of a government strategy for geographical information expected later this summer and a separate examination of the costs and benefits of running agencies such as OS as trading funds.Virtual EarthAlthough Virtual London may be dead, interest in mapping the capital in 3D is strong. London is a priority for Google's rival Microsoft, which is ploughing hundreds of millions of dollars into itsVirtual Earthglobal web platform for location-based systems.Unlike Google Earth, which requires users to download an application, Virtual Earth operates entirely on the web. One early target for mapping in detail is the London borough of Newham, site of the 2012 Olympics.OS, meanwhile, has just launched a new product called Pictometry covering the whole of London in oblique aerial photographs to a resolution of 15cm, which it says is particularly useful for law enforcement and other public services. It is promoting the product to emergency services, insurance companies - and town planners. One difference between Pictometry and Virtual London is that there is no intention to allow ordinary citizens to browse the images for free - even if their taxes helped create them in the first place.&middot;Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Last Friday, Judge Dale Kimball of the US District Court for Utah ruled that software company SCO does not own the copyrights to Unix. Those copyrights were the basis of SCO's central claim in its long-running lawsuits against Novell and IBM (A Dickens of a copyright case at last approaches its endgame, February 8) - namely that their Linux distributions contain portions of Unix code to which it owns the copyright. Except that, according to Judge Kimball, it doesn't.The upshot is that SCO has no case for copyright infringement against Novell. Worse for SCO, the court also ruled that SCO must recognise Novell's waiver of SCO's claims against IBM and Sequent - which ends SCO's copyright infringement claims against them, too. And even worse for SCO, the money Microsoft and Sun paid SCO in 2003 for licences to Unix - thought to be $25m (&pound;12.5m) - properly belongs to Novell. IBM and SCO are each supposed to prepare, by the end of this month, a statement explaining the impact of the Novell decision on that case.The impact on SCO and, crucially, on its $1bn lawsuit filed against IBM in March 2003 - in which it claimed that IBM had "devalued" SCO's Unix by contributing some of the code to the Linux operating system (which has never been proven) - is that it the future looks bleak.SCO is now less than half the size it was in 2003. Its share price has fallen from a historic high of $132 to around 40 cents, giving it a capitalisation of just $9.4m.Nonetheless, the company has published astatementin which it manages to locate a silver lining in its disappointment: it owns the technology it's developed since 1995, the court did not dismiss its claims regarding a 1995 non-compete agreement, and it will "explore our options". Presumably that means SCO might appeal against the ruling, but it's hard to know how what's left of the company can afford to.SCO lost nearly $1.2m last quarter, compared to its loss of nearly $4.7m in the same period last year. It notes that its revenues are decreasing due to competitive pressure on its Unix products, and the only reason it lost less money this year was that it spent less on litigation, which was a matter of timing, not policy. Any way you slice its numbers, SCO's assets are shrinking. It does have $11m left in its legal fund - but, notes Pamela Jones ofGroklaw, which has closely documented and analysed this case, the licensing revenue SCO now owes to Novell "is probably huge".Unless the two sides settle, there will still be a trial which will determine the amount owing and settle other disputes, such as Novell's complaint that SCO's copyright infringement claims slandered Novell. "Most litigants would, after a ruling like this, decide to try to settle," Jones says. But "SCO has never acted like a normal litigant, in my opinion."&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Google handed opponents of digital rights management (DRM) a huge weapon this week when it announced that DRM-protected videos bought from its online video store will no longer work, and that customers will not be reimbursed."After August 15, 2007, you will no longer be able to view your purchased or rented videos," the company said in an email sent to customers who had bought items such as NBA basketball games or TV shows such as CSI.Checkout creditThe decision follows theresignation in Mayof the head of Google's video division, which seems to indicate that the company is consolidating its previously separate Google Video and YouTube divisions. Increasingly, internal company videos are being posted to YouTube, bought just nine months ago, rather than the video.google.com part of the site, launched in January last year.But that is no help to those who bought or rented content and who now find it unplayable. Google is giving them a $2 (&pound;1) credit for digital goods - though it stipulates that they must be bought through services which use its own Google Checkout payment system, and must be claimed within 60 days.Analysts agreed that the move could only harm DRM's never-shining reputation. "We've seen a physical format device combo go out of manufacture before - wax cylinders, eight-tracks. But can you think of any consumer-purchased medium that actually becomes unusable while there are players that still work? Ouch," notes David Card of Jupiter Research. With that in mind, it would be wise to take precautions, he suggests: "Everybody, take a deep breath and go out and burn MP3 CDs of your purchased music."Michael Gartenberg, another Jupiter analyst, comments that the Google Video service "wasn't likely to succeed" because the company has no relationship with companies making video viewers - Google used a proprietary video DRM which was not compatible with Apple's video iPod or other portable players. And, he notes, "the choice of content was all over the place in terms of selection and price".But the fact that thousands of purchased files will cease working will give pause to organisations charged with creating public archives of published information - such as the British Library and, in the US, the Library of Congress. The latter in particular was anyway considering whether any redrafting is needed on the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA): the idea of offering a loophole to circumvent DRM on products that no longer work properly was rejected in its last consideration. Google's decision might lead to a reversal in thinking.Obsolete contentWriting on the Guardian Unlimited website, the activist Cory Doctorowsaid this weekthat the DRM business model "is the urinary tract infection of media experiences: all of the uses that used to come in an easy gush now come in a mingy, painful dribble - a few pennies out of your pocket every time you want to watch a show again, hit the pause button, or rewind".The closure of the service is one of the first examples where bought content has become obsolete through DRM protection. But many other video services also use DRM to protect their content - including Apple's iTunes Store, BitTorrent and Amazon Unbox.The closure of Google's Video service, even while the company itself is going from strength to strength, leaves a cloud over the future of DRM-protected video which can be downloaded but which cannot be permanently unlocked: if a company shuts that service, will those films or shows also stop working too? The Google example suggests they will.Doctorow is scathing about the implications of this, made possible by the shift to digital distribution: "These movies can only be watched where and when they say. This might be 'purchased digital content', but don't ever mistake it for your property. Like feudal times: lords get to own property, and everything we serfs have belongs to the lord."&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
Recognise this? "An achievement comparable with social security in the 1909 Budget and the establishment of the NHS in 1948." That's right, it's the public service infrastructure created during the Blair years, with its "electronic whiteboards, broadband connections and major investment in IT equipment and capability".The words are from Sir Michael Barber, former head of the Prime Minister's Delivery Unit, in his fascinating new book Instruction to Deliver (available from Politico's). A partisan view, of course. But just because a view is biased doesn't make it wrong. For all the cockups and waste we have seen in recent years, the government's IT infrastructure is undoubtedly in a better shape than it was a decade ago, handling tasks of vastly greater sophistication.That said, our Rolls-Royce of a government machine still has some creaky cylinders, won't always go where we want it to go and costs a great deal of money to run. Sir David Varney, last month named as Gordon Brown's equivalent to Barber on public service transformation, appears to be taking action. Especially on the third shortcoming.Varney's central cost-cutting idea is to force individual bits of HM Government to stop designing, procuring and running their own IT systems and start taking advantage of those already in place elsewhere. The most visible sign of the new philosophy will be government's face on the web. Organisations across government have been told to draw up plans for moving their citizen-facing web services to direct.gov.uk and their business-facing ones to businesslink.gov.uk. Behind the scenes, more fundamental rationalisations are going on.The latest manifestation of one-size-fits-all is in IT supplies. A surprisingly little-noticed contract last month awarded Fujitsu Services the right, in theory, to become the sole beneficiary of government IT contracts for the next four years. Under a deal called Flex, any part of central and local government can order IT services, software and hardware from Fujitsu without holding a separate procurement exercise. The Cabinet Office itself is the first to take advantage of the deal, and thus acts as "purchasing authority" for the whole government. The Office for National Statistics is expected to sign up next.So-called "framework" contracts aren't new, of course. But up to now, they've had little success. What tends to happen is that the first purchaser dangles the possibility of government-wide business to encourage suppliers to cut their prices, but then other organisations - egged on by rival IT contractors - find a zillion reasons why they need to procure their own system.Under the new rationalisation regime, being driven directly from Downing Street, it will be harder to get away with such tactics. One obstacle may be the sheer size of IT projects in progress - the ID card programme, for example, last week invited expressions of interest for framework contracts all of its own. But even without that business, Fujitsu could be on to a nice earner.Older observers of the government IT scene will spot an irony here. It's now more than a quarter of a century since the UK government last had a preferred supplier of computers. It was a company called ICL, created in 1968 as Britain's national champion in the mainframe market. In the 1980s, however, ICL's protected position became an early victim of globalisation and the company was rescued by a Japanese investment. In 2002, the ICL name was dropped in favour of that of the new owner, Fujitsu. Our Rolls-Royce of a government IT machine seems destined to be delivered in a Model T range of corporate colours.&middot;If you'd like to comment on any aspect of Technology Guardian, send your emails totech@guardian.co.uk
I get intensely annoyed when I sign up to a new website, they ask me for a password, and then they send me an email with that password in plain text. As we all know, email is not a secure medium.Bruce EvansWebsite passwords are not usually very important, so I wouldn't worry too much. Also, the idea is that you pick up the password then log on immediately and change it to something only you know.Either way, it's not a good idea to leave plain text passwords hanging around in a web-based email system, because anyone who can read your email will know which sites you've joined. Most sites will send the current password in exchange for your email address, so you may not be protected even if you did change it.
Each month I'm offered Microsoft's Malicious Software Removal Tool as part of Windows' updates. Does it provide anything that my Zone Alarm security suite (including weekly scans) doesn't already give me?Chris WilsonThe Malicious Software Removal Tool does much less than other products, including Zone Alarm, and it offers no protection against viruses. However, it does no harm to run it. MSRT removes some common bits of malware, which helps people who have no other form of antivirus protection. It also scans your PC's memory to see if any malware is running, and stops it. Finally, while Windows Update never installs MSRT on your PC, you can download and run it separately if you want to scan your hard drives. This can be useful if you think your anti-malware suite might have missed something. See theMicrosoft Knowledge Base article 890830for more details.
It's doubtful that there will ever be a more unlikely PS3 exclusive than Ninja Gaiden Sigma - it's a remake of a game created for the original Xbox. Which may sound unpromising, but surprisingly proves to be impressive. The Xbox Ninja Gaiden was revered for its graphics, its coherent gameplay which mixed ninja-fighting and action-adventure and, most of all, its fearsome difficulty level. Ninja Gaiden Sigma will be reassuringly familiar to those who played its predecessor. It contents itself with merely tweaking gameplay and adding three chapters (in which you play a female character rather than main protagonist, Ryu). But incredible graphics - you can sense Tecmo's glee at having the PS3's power to play with - and hyper-responsive controls add up to a visual feast and a slight amelioration of the difficulty level. It still features some of the best boss-battles ever, and when you do prevail, provides serious satisfaction. A must-buy if you own a PS3.
I'm thinking of buying a new Sony Walkman that plays video. As I'm behind the times with podcasting etc, I hope you can give me some general advice.Nicky PlemingPodcasting and video blogging are based on people making files available for download. You can usually play these on any computer. You don't need a portable player, let alone an Apple iPod, unless you want to listen to or view the files while out and about.Most podcasts seem to be in the MP3 audio format, which almost any device will play. If not, it's easy to convert other formats to MP3.Unfortunately there are about a dozen video formats, including AVI (DivX, Xvid), MPeg-1, MPeg-2 and MPeg-4 (mp4), Adobe's Flash and Microsoft's WMV. Since video bloggers worry about creating large files, they tend to use more modern systems that offer better compression.Most portable players except the iPod play .wmv files, while the iPod is the main device that plays .mp4 files. Video bloggers can minimise the problem by offering files in more than one format, such as .wmv and .mp4, with perhaps a special iPod (mp4) version. Ideally, all players would handle both.Video quality is rarely critical, so you can always transcode unprotected video files into a different format. (The player software may do it automatically.) However, this may not be possible with copy-protected podcasts, music videos, TV programmes and movies from commercial libraries.Going forward, there are two mandatory video systems for both Blu-ray and HD DVD discs: AVC (sometimes known as H.264/MPeg-4) and VC-1, which is a standard based on Microsoft's WMV9. The adoption of AVC and VC-1 should simplify the market -- especially if H.264/AVC becomes the dominant format.
This summer has seen some truly atrocious film tie-ins - Spider-Man 3, Pirates of the Caribbean 3 - but Transformers is the laziest, most cynical cash-in of the lot. The action is simple, but not in a good way. Mostly it involves tedious pursuit and pummel missions set in a surprisingly ugly open city. The scenery is destructible, and there is some initial entertainment to be had stomping away at a house or car. But any joy is short-lived, extinguished by the nausea-inducing camera and repetitive gameplay. Even simple actions like locking on to a target or object are infuriatingly fiddly. Bugs aplenty - thrill as your robot gets stuck in scenery! - just add to the shoddy unfinished feel. You don't expect deep narrative tension from a game based around giant robots but Transformers is both shallow and dull. On the upside, the Transformers themselves are well animated, which is the only positive to take from this gaming disaster.
Just over 10 years ago, the edge in emotive, immersive and cinematic game design was the FMV (full-motion video) game. Constructing its complicated gameplay sequences out of live-action footage, these movie/game hybrids had a distinct advantage over their pixellated peers: they looked fantastic because their visuals were sourced from the real world.Things have changed. The obvious pitfall of this type of game - completely static, restrictive, and linear gameplay thanks to expensive, prerecorded footage - is now anathema. Gamers want to make their own choices about how to interact with their virtual worlds.Emergent strategiesKen Levine, president of Irrational Games, has been working to meet the needs of gamers since 1999, when it released System Shock 2. This game is the prime example of what Levine calls "emergent gameplay" - very little is pre-scripted, most parts of the game can play out in any order, and players are free to come up with their own strategies for dealing with enemies and obstacles. It's an immensely satisfying format, because players feels as though their choices matter. Irrational is now hard at work on BioShock, SS2's "spiritual successor"."The problem when you build emergent spaces," Levine says, "is that the amount of testing and rebuilding is much higher, because areas have to be applicable to a lot of different scenarios. If you look at a game like Half-Life 2 or Call of Duty, their developers can really custom build scripted areas with no fear that gameplay is going to trickle out of that area. Their AI [artificially intelligent] entities are tethered to specific areas and situations; in a game like BioShock, AIs will wander around and follow you around."He sees emergence as worth the effort, though, because it increases the audience's involvement with his games. "I think if you look at even the least participatory art forms there's the notion of vicariousness. When you see [the film] Goodfellas, you sort of walk out feeling like you're  in that world. You watch a romance, and if it works, you feel that kind of giddiness you feel in a real romantic situation.  And videogames just take that further, because you have more participation." Indeed, one of the videogaming's greatest strengths is its ability to construct "moral playgrounds" - safe arenas in which people can explore different  philosophies, principles and personalities. This has, however, also attracted most of the criticism and controversy surrounding the games industry in recent years.In videogames such as the Grand Theft Auto series, players can pretty much do whatever they want - they can play through the game's storyline as ethically as possible, or go on a mass killing spree.The question is, though, how much is too much? Are games in which mass murder is possible and allowed harmful? By allowing for (and simulating) destructive behaviours in their games, are developers thus endorsing those behaviours? These questions are extremely important when considering something like Running With Scissors' ultra-crass and (let's be honest) ultra-juvenile Postal 2 (2003). Featuring racist epithets, opportunities for "upskirt" glimpses with almost all female characters - albeit accessible only once you've bludgeoned, shot or otherwise fatally disfigured them - and spectacularly stupid violence, Postal 2 was designed, arguably, to excite the wrath of the moral majority. In Australia, it is illegal even to own a copy.That said, as Mike Jaret, designer on the upcoming Postal 3, notes: "You could decide how violent you wanted to be in any given situation. None of the missions required killing anyone for completion; therefore, it is possible to make it through Postal 2 without killing or firing at anyone."It's not easy to do, but it is actually possible to complete all the missions with nonlethal force. Free will [is the central design philosophy behind the Postal games]. Postal could be considered a test to see how people will react to different situations and also give them the opportunity to see how they would react in a situation that they may never be involved in. Postal is also intended to be an open-ended, sandbox-style game where you can do a ton of other things besides playing the missions."Levine is not a fan of gameplay that's explicitly intended to shock and offend - "there are certain topics that are so repulsive that they only belong in works of art designed solely to repulse" - but one part of BioShock's gameplay could be considered disturbing. Throughout the game, players need to collect a genetic resource known as "Adam" in order to survive and progress; the easiest way to do this is to harvest it from mutated little girls known as "Little Sisters". Because of the philosophy behind this facet of the game (and the apparent tastefulness with which it's been presented), Levine would find any uproar about BioShock unwarranted."Now, that's not to say videogame developers don't have a responsibility to make a game that deals with moral issues very seriously," he asserts. "The exploitation of children is a major theme in our game - we give the player the choice as to whether they participate in that exploitation, or they go the other way, and try to save those creatures who might still be children. It's appropriately compelling and disturbing. The Little Sisters are creatures who've been enslaved in the world that the player's thrust into. In order to survive, the player needs this material; one of his two advisers - his companion - advises him to harvest it from the Little Sisters, saying 'They're not really children any more,' and if the player refuses, he, the adviser, and the adviser's family will eventually die. And then there's another character, who says, 'No, you have to rescue them - they're still children. I'll reward you in some way if you do this.' So players have to choose: do they try to rescue the Little Sisters and turn them back into children, and risk their and their friends' lives in the process, or do they harvest the material - knowing the Little Sisters won't survive it - for an immediate reward?"BioShock manages to deal with the subject matter without being particularly graphic. Still, even if the game doesn't have the power to reinforce one's inner pragmatist or humanist, it certainly has the potential to reveal them. Levine concedes that in testing, most people stuck with a certain approach - harvest or rescue - throughout their time with the game, but he thinks this is mainly a result of role-playing, as all the players he saw taking the less morally tenable route were "perfectly nice" outside the game.Affecting behaviour"And I'm not a scientist," he says, "but there isn't a lot of data out there to support the notion that games affect behaviour in any significant way. I don't want to be put in a ghetto in regards to what I can do with my games, while other entertainment media can do what they want."Jaret concurs. "That is definitely the case nowadays. The latest example of this is the new Die Hard movie. The trailer makes it look extremely violent, with lots of explosions and people getting shot. It has only received a PG-13 rating by the MPAA, while a game like Postal gets an M rating by the ESRB. I would imagine Die Hard 4 received a PG-13 rating because it doesn't cuss that much, as you can have light cussing in a PG-13 movie. Postal 2 hardly had any curse words and lots of action/violence and received the highest non-adult rating possible."But will Bruce Willis torch a marching band, urinate on their corpses and watch in amusement as passers-by vomit as "Postal Dude" does in Postal?
