People keep sending me large email attachments. Many are the so-called humorous animated or video clips and have been round the world a couple of times. I'm not on broadband, and I don't want them!George WestgarthLook in your mail software's options to see if you can set your mail software it so it does not download attachments, or does not download files that are bigger than a size you specify. In Outlook Express, it's in the Tools menu: select Options, go to the Mail Setup tab, and click Send/Receive. If you can't find something like that, you can always create a rule. An alternative is to run theMailwasherspam filter. This will get a list of your email, who it's from and the size. Mailwasher will delete unwanted emails on the server, so you don't have to download them.
Over the next two years, the Office for National Statistics will spend the best part of &pound;10m creating and testing the first fully comprehensive list of homes in England and Wales. The register will be used for one purpose only - and then abandoned.Yes, despite the successes of Technology Guardian's Free Our Data campaign, the money-go-round of government bodies acting as jealous guardians of intellectual property continues to throttle the knowledge economy. The ONS's address database is to be created for the 2011 census in England and Wales. Accurate addresses are crucial because the ONS expects to send out 95% of forms by post, rather than hire enumerators to deliver them by hand.However, the census team has found that no existing database is good enough. Instead, it announced last week that it  will draw on three existing registers - Royal Mail's postcode address file, Ordnance Survey's MasterMap Address Layer 2 and the National Land and Property Gazetteer compiled by local authorities. And, in a policy condemned as "madness" by one expert in demographic information, the plan is to use the database for that purpose only.A white paper published last week paves the way for the 2011 census in England and Wales, which is expected to cost &pound;482m between now and 2016. (Scotland and Northern Ireland will carry out simultaneous, though separate, head counts.)The census is the most inquisitive yet attempted, with new questions covering migration and, in Scotland, income. In another cross-border difference, the Scottish address register will be maintained after 2011 as a public resource.Factors such as a "less compliant society" and gated communities make it "increasingly difficult" to make contact with households, the white paper says. As a result, fears are growing that the response rate may be lower than 2001's 94%.Many hopes are resting on IT. In August, defence and IT contractor Lockheed Martin won a &pound;150m contract to provide "secure and accurate data capture and processing support services".Keith Dugmore of the Demographics User Group says that England and Wales should follow the Scottish example: "It would be madness if government didn't use the ONS data as the definitive national address database."• Join the debate at the Free Our Data blog:freeourdata.org.uk/blog
You might want 50Mbps - especially if you're getting something more like the 3.2Mbps thatthinkbroadband.comsays is the average in the UK - but need and want are two different things. Virgin Media said on Monday that it is to start rolling out that next-gen speed to cable (not copper-wire ADSL) customers next year, meaning that they'll be able to download TV shows, films and music at blistering speeds: a 1.1GB film should download in around 15 minutes.It'll cost you &pound;51 a month if you don't buy a phone service from Virgin; &pound;35 a month if you do. Is it worth it? Do you need it? Maybe, if you're in a shared household with heavy users of the internet: a bunch of students or a family downloading movies, streaming high-definition films or watching the BBC iPlayer all at the same time, for example.Certainly more people are online and using the internet more heavily: according to research by YouGov for Virgin Media, 88% of Britons are online every day, while the ISP says that the average data consumption of its customers has risen from 4.7GB a month to 8.6GB a month over the past 18 months. Great; but most of us seem happy enough with 3Mbps or so.So why is Virgin doing this? It makes more sense when you realise that what makes profits for providers like Virgin is bundled services on top of the basic infrastructure (Making a play for customers, 30 August 2007). Those speeds would enable the delivery over the internet of high-definition TV on demand: just the kind of service an ISP would really like to be selling.At the moment, that kind of speed is a luxury, but, says Charlie Ponsonby of Simplifydigital, a comparison service, Virgin is shifting expectations. And maybe that's the key thing: in time, a 24 Mbps service, which is top of the range now, will seem as poxy as dialup.
The online world has changed dramatically even since we last drew up a list of 100 useful sites inDecember 2006. In the interim, there has been a revival of the browser wars - with Google's Chrome and Apple's Safari making surprising inroads into the Windows monopoly, and offering a new vision of what browsing can be like.Many of the sites listed here were not available when we did our last list; although longevity is a mark of pride online, it is difficult for companies set up in the 1990s to reinvent themselves quickly enough to take advantage of new technologies. Although of course rapid change brings casualties too: it's possible that with all the economic turbulence going on that some of the sites here won't be around in a year from now, or that their now free services will have become paid-for. That doesn't diminish their usefulness, though; it just underlines their determination to survive.The biggest changes since 2006 have been in the fields of collaborative online services that let people in different locations work simultaneously on projects. Collaboration in 2006 was very much focused on words, but now you can create presentations that look as though they were made with expensive packages. And then you can share those presentations, or look at other work that people have done - and even download them. You can convert files without needing expensive systems. Collaborative working has never been easier, even across different platorms. The web really is becoming the operating system, as the rise of the "netbooks" (aka ultraportables, aka Liliputers) emphasises.The growth of location-based services - particularly those which you can choose to log yourself in and out of, thus protecting your privacy - has been rapid. A parallel growth has come with the mobile web; there's no escaping the fact that Apple's iPhone has revolutionised how its users, in their millions, think about the internet. For them, it is no longer something that is experienced well on a computer and then badly on their mobile phone; the mobile version of Safari has made browsing on the move an altogether more pleasant experience, which it never was before.That opens up new vistas: location-aware task managers can adjust the order of your to-do list based on what the GPS unit in the phone is telling you, so that while you're in the supermarket it will remind you about the cereal you need, but in the office it will tell you to send that important memo right away.Video, of course, is now everywhere. YouTube was already dominant in 2006, but now the BBC's iPlayer is taking over. If it makes its technology available to all, perhaps the UK will become a nation of video makers and watchers.So here are our 100 revised best sites to see you through the next couple of years. They're organised roughly along those lines.BloggingNow as easy as falling off a log.http://www.guardian.co.uk/technology/2008/dec/18/internet-websitesBloglinesbloglines.comfor reading web feeds. Smart and clean.Wordpresswordpress.comfree, and most importantly spam-free, blogging.BrowsersA newly revived category, thanks to Chrome and Safari.Chromegoogle.com/chromenewly out of beta, though Windows-only.Firefoxmozilla.com/firefoxinfinitely malleable, with fewer security holes.Flockflock.comwith an emphasis on linking to social networks.Operaopera.comgrowing in importance for mobiles.Safariapple.com/safariApple's contender; a leader in mobile web access.CartoonsEveryone needs some relaxation.Dilbertdilbert.comhi, cube-dwellers.Alexalexcartoon.comamid the financial crisis, Alex the banker remains reliably self-interested.Doonesburydoonesbury.comthe cartoon you'll also find in that printed newspaper thing.The Joy of Techgeekculture.com/joyoftechwell-drawn, witty near-daily takes on Apple and computing life.XKCDxkcd.com"Stick-figure strip featuring humour about technology, science, mathematics and relationships."Create/collaborateThe main change from last time: whatever you want to do, wherever you are.Dipitydipity.combuild timelines and add text, pictures and videos.Zohozoho.comeverything in one place, from documents to presentations.Rememberthemilkrememberthemilk.comonline task/to-do management.Netvibesnetvibes.comyour to-do lists, news, weather and photos on one page.280slides280slides.comcreate presentations online. Very slick.Zamzarzamzar.comconvert files from one format to another.GamingA field where handheld, bedroom and Flash games are becoming mainstreamEurogamereurogamer.netreportage, with breadth, if not always depth.The Independent GamingSourcetigsource.coma great place to pick up on tomorrow's breakthrough hits.Pocket Gamerpocketgamer.co.ukstill by far the best site on handheld gaming.Metacriticmetacritic.com/gamesindustry touchstone and useful one-stop buying guide.Jay is Gamesjayisgames.compassionate, well-designed and knowledgeable.Geek squadStack Overflowstackoverflow.comwhere programmers gather.The Daily WTFthedailywtf.comdaily despatches from the coding warzone.Joel On Softwarejoelonsoftware.comessays by a former Microsoftie.Government/public services/politicsStreetwirestreetwire.orghyperlocal information including planning alerts, crime and public safety, traffic, local news and postings toFixMyStreet.com.Recycle Nowrecyclenow.comwinner of the Show Us A Better Way competition.British and Irish Legal Information Institutebailii.orga database of laws. Only survives hand-to-mouth on voluntary donations; where's yours?What Do They Know?whatdotheyknow.commakes filing a Freedom Of Information request as easy as sending an email. Too easy, some in power think.Upmystreetupmystreet.comall the detail on your area you could ever want.Location, locationServices like these blossom with a mobile phone that can access the internetDopplrdopplr.com"share your future travel plans with friends and colleagues", then find out if others will be there too.Qypeqype.comlocalised search for pubs, restaurants, etc; also a bit of a social network.Looptloopt.com"transforms your mobile phone into a social compass".Brightkitebrightkite.coma "location-based social network".MapsThe flip side of location-based services: seeing where you are.OpenStreetMapopenstreetmap.orga rights-free map created by people like you. Remarkably detailed and precise.Walkitwalkit.comwalking directions for all sorts of routes.Google Maps Street Viewmaps.google.com/help/maps/streetviewsoon to have the UK as well.Noise pollution mapnoisemapping.defra.gov.ukhow noisy is it in the area around your house?Where's The Path?wheresthepath.googlepages.com/wheresthepath.htmLet down by OS's absurd OpenSpace restrictions.Money/finance/ consumer fightbackWe all need someone on our side.Money Saving Expertmoneysavingexpert.comdoes what it says on the tin.BViewbview.co.ukreview businesses  before you use them.Say No to 0870saynoto0870.comdirect-dial numbers, not expensive national-rate ones.Consumer Directconsumerdirect.gov.ukgovernment site for consumers.Zopazopa.coma human-centred way to loan money to people in the developing world.MusicLast.fmlast.fmBritish-made, CBS-owned, music recommendation station.Amazonamazon.co.uknow has its own MP3 store in the UK as well as the US.7Digital7digital.commusic downloads in MP3 format - so not tied to iPods.Passionatopassionato.comclassical music MP3 downloads, slowly building momentum.Songkicksongkick.comfind out where your favourite bands are playing next, based on your music library.Blip.fmblip.fmbe your own DJ and create a social network from your choices and recommendations.News recommendationDiggdigg.comstill the reigning champion.Redditreddit.comslightly upmarket from Digg; slightly below...Techmemetechmeme.comtechnology news chosen by computer, though it's now adding human editors.Popurlspopurls.comaggregating the aggregators: the web in a window.Slashdotslashdot.orgstill attracts a big, and often knowledgable, audience.OffbeatThe Oniontheonion.comstill the satirical newspaper of record.B3TAb3ta.combeyond classification; its forum has spawned many memes... and trolls.Lolcatsicanhazcheezburger.comcaptioned cats and other animals.PostSecretpostsecret.blogspot.comnotes of secrets sent by people who want them posted. So they are.Passive-Aggressive Notespassiveaggressivenotes.comwould it be too much trouble for you to have a look?PhotographyFlickrflickr.comthe granddaddy of photo-sharing sites.Picnikpicnik.comphoto editing in your browser.Picasapicasa.comGoogle's photo organisation and editing tool.• This article was amended on 3 June 2009. The original said that Picasa was Windows only. That is no longer the case.Physical from virtualMoomoo.comMoo business cards have become a calling card in themselves.Blurbblurb.comcoffee-table book publishing of your books.Lulululu.combook, photobook, calendars and other sorts of publishing.Cafepresscafepress.combadges, T-shirts etc. US-only at present.Spreadshirtspreadshirt.netdesign your own T-shirt or sweatshirt and get it printed.ReferenceCIA Factbookcia.gov/library/publications/the-world-factbookall the data you need on pretty much anywhere.Wikipediawikipedia.comstill a first port of call on most topics.Rotten Tomatoesrottentomatoes.comcheck the film you plan to see here.Internet Archive/Wayback Machinearchive.orgthe web in aspic.Wikileakswikileaks.organonymous source of leaked documents.SearchGoogle still dominates.Clustyclusty.comresults in clouds.CoolIriscooliris.comimage-based searching - a new way to use the web.Social softwareChances are high you're a member of at least one, and perhaps all, of these sites.Facebookfacebook.comvirtually everyone's your friend here.Myspacemyspace.comhangout for all the teenagers. And Kirk Douglas.LinkedInlinkedin.commainly for business.Friends Reunitedfriendsreunited.co.ukthe original social network.Twitter, and associatedTwitter has proved itself over and over this year as a vector for news.Twittertwitter.comthe ur-site, where you can create an identity (or several).Monittermonitter.comwatch keywords on Twitter. A brand, your name, a meme? No login required at present.Mattthemattinator.compost to multiple Twitter accounts. Requires your password; only give if you trust the site.Twitterfeedtwitterfeed.composts blog contents to Twitter. Requires password; only give if you're sure that you trust the site. We do.Twitter Gradertwitter.grader.comfind how you rank on Twitter.VideoBBC iPlayerbbc.co.uk/iplayeralready taking up 10% of UK network traffic.YouTubeyoutube.comdominant provider of video content online.Vimeovimeo.combetter rights control than YouTube and a cleaner interface.Worldtv.comworldtv.comset up your own global TV channel.Qikqik.comvideo-sharing from your mobile.Joostjoost.cominternet TV via a browser plugin.Videojugvideojug.coma sort of social network of informational video.Seesmicseesmic.comshort video conversation: another social network.Virtual worlds/MMORPGsRunescaperunescape.comamazingly successful MMORPG.Entropia Universeentropiauniverse.comset in a distant future on the untamed planet of Calypso.Club Penguinclubpenguin.comminigame-tastic virtual world for kids.Moshi Monstersmoshimonsters.com"educational" virtual world for kids.VisualisationDabbleDBdabbledb.comcreate online databases and analyse them.Google Visualisation toolscode.google.com/apis/visualization/documentation/gallery.htmldozens of tools for making data more comprehensible.Many Eyesmanyeyes.alphaworks.ibm.com/manyeyes/page/Visualization_Options.htmlIBM's visualisation tools, similar to Google's.• Which essential sites have we missed? Tell us on theTechnology blog&#183;This article was amended on Friday December 19 2008. We  originally gave the wrong address for the local information website Streetwire. It isstreetwire.org. This has been corrected.
And you can't hear him comingJeremy Clarkson - who is unfathomably popular among Americans - tries out the Tesla Roadster electric car, and is, for once, impressed. "The top speed may only be 125 miles per hour, but ..."Some day all students will use itDoug Engelbart in "the mother of all demos" (this is part two of 10) from 1968, showing off copy and paste. And paste. And paste. Which is what children can do now. (Thanks, Ed Parsons.)Bruce Willis not shownOK, it's an ad by IBM, but the marketing's inaudible as an asteroid threatens a US IT bunch. (Thanks, Ed Brill.)• Send links totech@guardian.co.uk
If your eyes have landed here, it's likely you're already a gamer. If that's the case, you are likely to have already purchased the games that made the top five of our readers' choice list. The rest of this column should give you a slightly warm but overpoweringly smug glow, knowing that you are part of a gamer collective with mutually great taste in entertainment. If, instead, you're a gamer's loved one grasping for ideas about what buy for Christmas, let your panicked eyes rest here, your journey's end in the search for the perfect gift.The results of our Games blog poll were unsurprising. On the top of the pile isGTA4, the latest iteration in a series shrouded in such noxious controversy that its adult-themed antics leave a powerful aftertaste. But this one's different, as reader PhilWal attests: he says he "never felt the desire to just murder a load of people" throughout. High praise indeed.Roleplaying gameFallout 3was rated just as highly as GTA4. If your intention is to keep a gamer out of your hair for a while, reader Sorbicol suggests that this game is just the ticket: "The scope is vast, the exploration of the gaming world feels like it'll never end, and the ability to take whatever path you like through the game demands replaying." Economical and time-consuming. A safe bet for an uncomfortable financial outlook.In fact, it seems that many of our readers made their choices with reference to the economic climate: Dizzyisanegg describedLittle Big Planet, which came second in our list, as having "a huge value-for-money aspect in these times of credit crunch". He added: "That's probably the worst reason for liking a game ever." He said it, not me.Meanwhile, the sentimental Jon Porter gave our third-place winner - the stealthy puzzlerMetal Gear Solid 4- high marks "for simply BEING a Metal Gear game". Fans of the series are unlikely to be disappointed. Stephen Littlier made a huge commitment toRPG Fable 2, playing "from 8am to 11:30pm without stopping even for water". Don't try this at home, kids.Finally,Left 4 Deadlurched into fifth place. The cooperative zombie Armageddon shooter is "hilarious, tense, ridiculous, satisfying and evil in equal measure". MaybeNextTime describes all the gamer food groups in one breath.I was disappointed with how few votes the satisfying Xbox platformerBraidreceived, but my interest was certainly piqued by the appearance of games I've never heard of, includingYou've Got The Grappling HookandRom Check Fail. Thanks to everyone who voted. For more recommendations, check out the rest of the readers' choices on the blog today.
Yahoo threw down the gauntlet to bitter rivals Google and Microsoft yesterday by cutting the length of time that it retains information about what its users are doing online.It will now keep information about online searches for only 90 days - down from 13 months - before 'anonymising' the data by getting rid of any information about the computer address of the user.Crucially Yahoo has also widened the scope of the data that is covered by its new privacy policy to include information about which websites its users visit and the adverts they see and click on.Search engines have come under increasing pressure from privacy campaigners and regulators, including the European commission, to do more to protect the anonymity of their users.As the internet plays an ever larger role in people's work and personal lives, so the information retained about them has become more and more valuable.For the search engines, knowing what individual people have looked for enables them to provide more relevant results when they search again. The information can also be used to target adverts at them more accurately.Anne Toth, Yahoo's vice-president of policy and head of privacy, said: "We have established a bar which we think is the right bar for our business and we anticipate that others will do the same."Google, the first search engine to admit how long it was keeping data for, recently said it would halve the time it retained information from 18 to nine months.The company said at the time that it needed to retain general information about what users were doing online to offer useful services such as spelling suggestions for queries.Yahoo will make the switch next year, but it is unlikely to be in place across all its global operations until 2010.
Online maps sent direct to your mobile, arranging to meet friends on the far side of the world and letting them know what you are doing at any time of day or night are the most obvious capabilities of a new generation of websites highlighted by Technology Guardian's new Top 100.The sites used in the examples below are part of a new breed of location-based services that are transforming the web.The list, which appears in today's Technology Guardian supplement, focuses on sites that will be useful, educational or simply entertaining in the coming year. But it is almost completely different from the last list, published in December 2006.The notable differences are the rise in location-based services, in collaborative services - which let you create and share documents, spreadsheets, presentations and visualisations entirely online - and in the availability of online video, of which the BBC's iPlayer, launched only last year, is an example.The explosion in location-based services is driven by the growing number of mobile phones, such as Apple's iPhone and a number of RIM's BlackBerry smartphones, which have built-in Global Positioning System (GPS) chips, able to report their position with an accuracy of a few metres. Given that and the user's willingness to volunteer their location, people can let friends know where they are - or find new ones in the area.The top 100 listing identifies four sites - Dopplr.com, Qype.com, Loopt.com and Brightkite.com - which hold notable potential for location-based work. A key to their development has been the growth in map products online - another area that the Guardian's technology writers identified as a key area of expansion, as Google and Microsoft vie to provide programming hooks called APIs, which mean the GPS data can be transformed into a "pushpin" on a map display - known as a "mashup" of the two pieces of data, from the GPS and the map. Google's mapping service, which in December 2006 had only had such coding for six months, is now in widespread use."Location-based services on the web are exploding," said James Governor, principal at the industry analyst firm RedMonk, which has offices in the US and UK. "It's no accident Google Maps was the first widely used mashup API."Kaan Yigit, a Toronto-based analyst for the Solutions Research Group, who focuses on digital technology, media and consumer behaviour, says that what we are seeing now is only the start. "Mobile is driving [location-based services] and this is the tip of the iceberg. Fewer than one in 10 now have smartphones with location-aware capabilities - but that will be three in 10 in two years."Locality is important to three of the sites in the public sector: Streetwire.org, which provides local planning alerts and other information based on postcode; Recyclenow.com, which tells you what can be recycled nearby; and upmystreet.com, which offers house price and demographic data.But another form of development identified in the listing shows that to those working online, location matters less than it used to. Even though computers are becoming more powerful, more capacity is held in the "cloud" - so that online collaboration can be done simply online. Companies such as Zoho.com offer a full range of tools that let users write any sort of document - including spreadsheets or complex presentations - and share it with any number of people who can access a fast internet line.The top 100 covers a wide range of topics, ranging from simple tools for free blogging, through sites which will produce short-run books from content you write, to music, news and photography. Twitter gains its own category - having risen in two years from an idea to a full-blown service with millions of users.Ten of the best: From remembering to recyclingQype.comLocalised search for pubs, restaurants, gigs and moreStreetwire.orgLocalised planning alerts, local government detailsRecyclenow.comWhat can you recycle locally?Zoho.comCollaborate and do pretty much anythingRememberthemilk.comOnline to-do and task listBrightkite.comTell the world where you are, create a social networkBBC iPlayerYou can't ignore itSongkick.comFind out where your favourite bands are next playing, based on your music libraryMonitter.comFind out what is being said about any topic on TwitterZamzar.comConvert pretty much any file from one format to another
For a dozen years it has been the launchpad for some of the most high-profile new technologies in the world - including the first glimpses of the iMac and the iPhone. But Apple has shocked the hi-tech industry with the news that its chief executive, Steve Jobs, will no longer be making his keynote annual address to the industry at the Macworld Expo in San Francisco.The event has become something of a pilgrimage for the company's fans, with Apple's 53-year-old co-founder regularly holding court for two hours as he announces its latest much-hyped gadgets. This year, however, spectators will have to make do with an appearance by Apple's senior vice president, Phil Schiller.In a statement, Apple said the move was part of a decision to end its overall involvement with Macworld - which is run by the media and conference company IDG. "It will be Apple's last keynote at the show," said the statement. "Apple has been steadily scaling back on trade shows in recent years."However, the decision to pull Jobs out of the show, just three weeks before he was due to take the stage, has caused concern on Wall Street. Some experts said they had fresh worries that Jobs, who survived cancer in 2004, could be very ill."In business, perception is everything, so it's tantamount that Steve get up on stage and keep up the image," said Joe Wilcox, a business analyst. "Macworld is still a huge media event. There would have to be something big to offset the many reasons why Steve should [attend] Macworld. I come back to his health. That's the real news here, what today's announcement seeks to obscure. Steve isn't well."Apple spokesman Steve Dowling said the decision to pull Jobs out of the show indicated the company's intention to stop exhibiting at Macworld. "It doesn't make sense for us to make a major investment in a trade show we won't be attending any more."Jobs was first diagnosed with pancreatic cancer in 2003, although the news was kept under wraps for more than a year. After failing to treat his condition using only a special diet, Jobs - a strict vegetarian - underwent surgery to remove a neuroendocrine tumour in July 2004. Although the operation was deemed successful, over the past year he has looked gaunt at public appearances.In October he tried to joke about the concerns over his health, but the latest announcement has fuelled them again, with Wall Street nervous about the company's ability to come through the economic downturn with the levels of growth it has seen in recent years.Apple's recent fortunes have been directly linked to Jobs, who spearheaded its renaissance after he rejoined it in 1996, following a decade in exile. The firm has large cash reserves that could help it through difficult times, largely thanks to the success of the iPod, but it is less clear how well it could weather the absence of the man seen as its driving force.
The Internet Watch Foundation's considering an image on Wikipedia - the cover of the heavy metal band Scorpions' album Virgin Killer - to be a "potentially illegal indecent image of a child" set off a chain of events which created a media firestorm. The ham-fisted, over-broad, secretive aspects of the IWF blacklisting action, as well as the freedom of expression and censorware questions, have been widely examined and condemned, so I won't belabour those points.But Wikipedia's woes in this area did not start recently. There has been a prominent campaign denouncing the sexual aspects of Wikipedia, dating back at least several months. It is probable that the IWF incident was simply one successful aspect of those actions.Some Wikipedia critics have attacked Jimmy Wales for his past as an entrepreneur on the fringes of the adult entertainment industry, notably efforts such as the"Bomis Babe Report". And Wikipedia co-founderLarry Sangerhas said: "It was... that den of'glamour photography'(the Jimbo-approved euphemism) that paid my paychecks when I was starting Nupedia and Wikipedia". But although that past may be a public relations problem forJimmy Walesas he tries to present himself as a benevolent bringer ofknowledge(not "altruistic", given his large speaking fees and venture-capital-funded startup), rather than a businessman wanting to run digital sharecropping sites, it also means he's thoroughly familiar with social and legal issues applicable to sexual material while having little patience with activists or shock jocks. As documented on aWikipedia pageabout such controversies: "Jimbo once removed a photograph of autofellatio from its relevant article, with the comment: 'This image is completely unacceptable for Wikipedia - I don't even consider this borderline.' ... In June 2007, several lolicon versions of Wikipe-tan were uploaded. In the midst of the deletion debate, Jimbo deleted the images, noting, 'pedophilic sexualization of a community mascot? No. - email me if you have questions.'Anyone who needs to use an album cover more than three decades old in order to make a Wikipedia sexual controversy is not trying very hard.Let me be clear: Jimmy Wales is doing the right thing here. His actions are absolutely correct, in terms of patching something which is broken.The combination of moral-panic-mongers willing to practice a politics of personal destruction and the ability to anonymously advocate for one's favorite fetish on one of the world's most widely read websites leads to constant low-intensity conflict. Wikipedia trades off quality control for greater production. That same design flaw is manifested in extremely weak and failure-prone mechanisms for determining the boundary between provocative and profane.Given the dynamics whereby articles are sometimes the fiefdom of whomever is most obsessive about the subject, the idea of community acceptability can fail particularly badly. Arguably the major influence keeping things from getting out of hand is top-down directives and administrative patrolling that stamps out the sleazier elements - often, per above, very much against the "anyone can edit" ideal. This will not be mentioned in presentations about the wonders of web collaboration.It's not easy to address these matters. The cult characteristics of Wikipedia can lead to a bunker mentality. Administrators can avoid criticism by the time-honoured tactic of shooting the messengers - labelling them trolls, then banning them. But to be fair, there really are opportunists who would exploit these difficulties for political gain. When differing country laws and mores are added to the mix, a reasonable person must respect the tremendous complexity that results.But debate must end somewhere. The Virgin Killer image may have done a disservice by channelling discussion into well-worn channels of free speech versus censorship. There are deeper issues here which will continue to fester: the structural problems of accountability and responsibility, which are intrinsically poor in Wikipedia.sethf.com/infothought/blog
Not necessarily. PlayStation 3 (PS3) sales in the USA declined in November, according to figures released by the NPD Group: Sony sold 378,000 consoles last month compared with 466,000 in November last year. In contrast, sales of Microsoft's Xbox 360 went up to 836,000 from 770,000. Nintendo outsold both by a wide margin - just over 2m Wiis sold, up from 1.35m a year earlier. The figures must concern Sony, though there are variations in market share around the world. Nintendo seems to be winning everywhere, but the PS3 is way ahead of the 360 in Japan, and also easily outsells Microsoft in countries such as Spain, Portugal and Italy, according to Ed Barton, games analyst at UK-based Screen Digest.Sony's big problem is price, especially in the present economic climate. In the USA, the PS3 costs $399, compared with $199 for the cheapest 360, the hard-drive-less Arcade. In the UK, the 360 Arcade is &pound;129.99 and has gone for as little as &pound;99.99 at retailers such as Zavvi, while a PS3 costs from &pound;280. The PS3's unique selling point, the Blu-ray drive for high-definition (HD) films, looks less compelling now that cheaper standalone players have emerged, and customers are reluctant to shell out for suitably large HD screens that they need to enjoy the full benefit. Microsoft cut 360 prices aggressively in September, but Sony did not follow its lead, telling analysts that it is putting profitability ahead of market share.The 360's lead in North America will be difficult to overcome, but Barton thinks 2009 will be much better for Sony worldwide: he argues that Microsoft's deep price cuts for the 360 will be hard to repeat, that Sony has strong PS3-exclusive games in preparation, and that the PS3's strength as an HD source will help it in the long term. He is predicting a 60% increase in the PS3's worldwide sales next year, to 16m, more than double his projected Xbox sales of just under 8m units. Few would be surprised if Sony dropped PS3 prices next year, and there is scope for a cheaper version of the console.The PS3 will probably always be more expensive than the 360, but it is worth looking beyond the headline price. The 360 you really want is not the low-end Arcade edition, but the Premium, which has a hard drive. If you then add the cost of a wireless network adapter and a rechargeable battery for the controller - both of which are standard in the PS3 - the price difference reduces.Bottom line: the console wars are not over yet. What is certain, though, is that Sony has lost the dominance of the market. It is also remarkable that Microsoft has been forced to undercut the Wii (around &pound;180), yet still sells fewer units despite superior graphic capabilities. Microsoft has always argued that software matters more than hardware; ironically, it is Nintendo that demonstrates the truth of that point.
If there were a lifetime award for technological achievement it would surely go to the mobile phone, even though it is barely 10 years old as a mass phenomenon. It just goes on extending its reach and gobbling up other consumer products in a way that no other product has ever done. This is reflected in the dominance - at least for now - of Nokia, which is not only the biggest manufacturer of phones, cameras, calculators, video cameras, music players and maybe voice recorders, but also of GPS (satellite positioning) units as they become a standard feature of smartphones.Mobile use is more advanced in Asian countries such as China, Japan, South Korea and the Philippines (the biggest texters) than in the west. The use of mobiles as a means of exchanging money in Africa is spawning a banking system without branches. Banking without banks? If that doesn't catch the zeitgeist, nothing will.Mobiles are now a trillion-dollar industry and as their intrepid chroniclerTomi Ahonenpoints out, almost half the people on the planet have a mobile - after subtracting multiple subscriptions - and mobile sales are increasing by 1.2bn a year. Some 57% of phones have cameras, while top-end smartphones now have the power of a supercomputer of 20 years ago.He points out that multimedia messages (mainly photos), which haven't taken off in the UK - not least because of excessive data tariffs - have, for the first time this year, acquired more users around the world (1.3 billion) than email (1.2 billion).The trouble is that the exploding pace of change doesn't make it easier to choose a new phone. The trade-off between complexity and useability is not easily solved, as I have found in looking for a replacement for my Nokia N80, now well over two years old - almost an embarrassing antique in an industry where phones are changed every 15 months on average.There is a perverse law governing the purchase of a new mobile: the more you know, the less easy it is to make a choice. The luxury, as a journalist, of being able to test a fair number of new phones, coupled with knowledge of what is around the corner, can turn procrastination into a lifetime hobby.There are so many advanced phones, each with dozens of different functions, that what is really needed is a pick'n'mix approach, selecting the options that work best from different phones: the video from the Nokia N96, the open source of Google's Android T-Mobile phone, the brilliant design and screen size of Apple's iPhone and the value for money of 3's Skype-enabled INQ device.The INQ offers direct access to websites from a carousel on the screen, including the music network Last.Fm and Facebook. Eerily, data from your contacts on Facebook can be loaded automatically into a very versatile address book.It comes with a 3.2 megapixel camera (including video) and can act as a dongle to plug into your computer, providing broadband on the move. And it costs only &pound;79.99 on pay as you go, or &pound;15 a month on contract with "unlimited" internet access. You would have to be an enthusiastic early adopter to spurn that for the &pound;489 Nokia N96, despite its impressive video, bigger screen, Wi-Fi and GPS facilities.The trouble with smartphones is that technology is running too fast for usability to catch up. What's the use of GPS when you can't read your location because the screen is unreadable in daylight? Or a keyboard too small to type into, or a cursor that runs amok, or a battery that gives up after two or three hours of heavy use?It is possible to marvel at the truly amazing technological developments taking place while lamenting poor useability. Which is a roundabout way of saying I have yet to find a smartphone in which all the functions worked properly.vic.keegan@guardian.co.uk
That syncing feelingIt turns out that Nokia only reads the v 2.1 vCard standard, while everyone else reads and writes v3.0 (Read me first, 11 December). Yesterday I wrote two python scripts. One merged all the contacts which had email addresses with the ones that had phone numbers and churned out 600 vCards with both email and numbers. The other changed all these vCards from version 3.0 to version 2.1; now I have all my numbers back.thewormbook.comLavender in colourThe actor Ian Lavender stresses in an article in Radio Times that this [process] is restoring material to its original condition, expressing the common view that colourising originally black and white film is "cultural vandalism" (Unscrambling an army of colours, 11 December). Others think it legitimate creation of novel value-added material. In between those extremes, accurate restoration of originally coloured material seems pretty uncontentious.segalbooks.blogspot.comHealth on a stickMost of the items on sale just don't cut it, either by not carrying enough information or requiring a subscription (Medical jewellery moves out of the 1970s and into the 21st century, 11 December). The UTag seems like it is the answer. With a life of at least 10 years it works out at between &pound;2.45 and &pound;3.43 a year.the-morningstar.co.ukWhy limit the amount of data to allergies and next of kin? The storage capacity of memory sticks increases all the time and the cost is falling.justenoughtechnology.typepad.comCloudy viewThere are real reasons to be careful when moving your data into a cloud (Newly asked questions, 11 December). But be sure you're worried about the right things.gigaom.comAPI approach to mappingThe common thread across all the really successful web 2.0 properties is the availability of an API, allowing developers to work their own unique magic (Home Office warned over crime mapping, 11 December). The government needs to recognise this, and get in the API game. Not just as a "nice to have", but as an absolute priority.puffbox.comPossibly incorrectIs Steve Hooker being impossibly obtuse or ironic (Letters and blogs, 11 December)? Or has he never seen the Mac launch video with Mr PC? The Microsoft response shows they're really hurt by the inference that PC users are just not Apple cool.Terry HurstWirralTwitter ye lessI love your guardiantech Twitter feed, but there's just too much of it. I make it nearly 30 tweets in a day. Any chance you could break it down into separate feeds - games, science, internet, Free Our Data, etc? Then I could just follow the stuff I'm interested in.Al MacLeodWarwick• Email us attech@guardian.co.uk. Read all this week's letters in full atblogs.guardian.co.uk/technology
If you spend much time online, then you will understand that the world truly is flat. The web is visually not so different from reading a magazine or watching television, where words, images and pictures are in two dimensions. However, that bears little resemblance to the world we live in.But in books like William Gibson's 1984 Neuromancer and Neal Stephenson's 1992 Snow Crash, part of the action takes place inside a global virtual reality simulation: characters hold meetings and have fights in online 3D environments.This is not just the stuff of fiction: Bill Gates, the founder of Microsoft, has outlined his vision of a 3D web where online shoppers can walk between virtual shelves of products, mimicking the serendipitous discovery that comes with exploring a physical store today.Efforts to create online 3D worlds stretch back to 1985 - before the birth of the web itself - when Randy Farmer and Chip Morningstar developed the online roleplaying game Habitat for the Commodore 64, a forerunner of today's online environments such as World of Warcraft and Second Life.Deep in the webHowever, these services require users to leave the web and to enter a separate environment. Efforts have been under way for some years to make the web itself 3D, starting with the release in 1994 of VRML (virtual reality modelling language), which reproduces 3D graphics in a browser.But why bother? The web has already become a destination for information and shopping. What more can 3D bring?The answer is being worked out by dozens of software developers. These developers include Australian companiesVast ParkandMycosm, which have both released tools to help people create their own virtual worlds, while US companyKinsetcan model an online shopping environment in 3D.But nothing yet looks as though it's going to replace the flat web. Second Life was the first 3D environment to gain serious commercial interest, and for a while businesses such as IBM and the BBC could not get into it quickly enough, opening online shopfronts and facilities in parallel with their regular web-based presence. However, many businesses - including Starwood Hotels and retailer American Apparel - have since quietly bailed out.Vast Park founder Bruce Joy has been working on online 3D technology for more than a decade. He describes his goal as trying to bring the realistic look and feel that has become expected in modern computer games into the web, to create realistic, immersive environments that give visitors more options than just reading or watching website content. Its technology has recently been adopted by development partnersSecond InterestandInvolve.Says Joy: "3D can change the whole way we engage, because the 3D environment enables us to meet each other."According to Stephen Prentice, vice-president and fellow at analyst company Gartner, the greatest potential lies in the interactivity that the 3D web offers. "Today's web is a very lonely place, and most of the time you are there consuming content on your own. Virtual worlds succeed best when they become an environment where there is direct one-to-one presence-based interaction."Prentice believes that the most advantageous situation is one that combines 2D and 3D elements. For example, a user wandering through Google's Street View, which provides a 3D street-level representation of world cities, might be able to click on the front door of a hotel to find out more information: they would then be taken through to a standard 2D web page to make a reservation.Plug-in solutionIt is on this model that another Australian company, ExitReality, is pinning its hopes, with the release of a software plug-in that it claims can turn any 2D website into 3D. Visitors, in the form of their avatar, or virtual representation of themselves, can wander through sites and chat to other users. Founder Danny Stefanic has been working with virtual reality since starting the International Virtual Reality Association in 1994, and has been developing the ExitReality software since 2000.As an example of the benefits of implementing 3D, Stefanic suggests that online sales agents could chat to visitors or demonstrate products.He adds: "It's not a replacement for viewing the 2D page - that is still the best way to consume that content - but it gives everyone a 3D space that they can utilise if they want to. And what we have found is that instead of the two- or three-minute session times of 2D websites, when we are in 3D and exploring and chatting to people with similar interests, we spend 20 to 30 minutes there."While most efforts at creating a 3D web have yet to make serious money, Vast Park's Joy points out that plenty of companies lost money in the early days of the web - but that did not prevent it becoming the vital marketing tool it is today.However, he says, 3D is unlikely ever to replace the two-dimensional web. "The maturation of this comes when we get to the point that a 3D virtualisation is nothing more than another layer of the web."
When Apple senior vice-president Phil Schiller gets up on stage at next month's Macworld, a couple of weeks ahead of the Macintosh computer's 25th anniversary, he will have the opportunity to alter the direction of computing.Apple and its partners have been privately dropping hints to developers that its upcoming release of its Mac OS X operating system, dubbed Snow Leopard, will ship earlier than expected - and it will debut two new technologies that promise to speed up software without demanding any changes to the hardware.The first technology, Grand Central, is designed to make better use of the Intel processors that sit inside the current range of Macs. The other, OpenCL, could have a more dramatic effect on performance for some programs as it will tap into the power of graphics processors (GPUs) that now goes to waste.There are so many little processors inside a GPU - even the graphics chips inside the low-end Macbooks have 16 - that even a fairly basic model can crunch through calculations almost 10 times faster than the Intel Core 2 Duo CPUs that sit inside the latest Macbooks (The piranhas of processing await, 17 July). The top-of-the-range Mac Pros contain GPUs that have 64 processors; within a few years, they will all have a few hundred.Why the rush?Up to now, programmers wanting to make use of the computing power of a GPU had to know exactly what hardware they were dealing with: software written for an nVidia GPU would not run on an equivalent chip from AMD or Intel.Simon Robinson, chief scientist at film-effects house The Foundry, says that is why the company today only ships software to run on the main processors in a PC. "GPUs today don't provide a stable environment," he says.OpenCL promises to change that by making it possible to write an application just once and convert it on the fly to use whatever GPU is inside the user's machine. Apple originally said it would take about a year from June 2008 to prepare Snow Leopard. But over the summer things seemed to accelerate. To get broader support from industry, Apple took OpenCL to the Khronos Group, an industry consortium creating open standards for parallel computing and graphics.Neil Trevett, president of Khronos, says the group had taken some standards from rough draft to finished specification in 18 months. OpenCL took six months, with the group approving version 1.0 early this month. Why the rush? So that it could be ready for the release of Snow Leopard, he says. "Apple shipping OpenCL with Snow Leopard will be a tremendous boost, and that prospect motivated companies."Apple has good reason to push for an earlier than expected launch for Snow Leopard: Microsoft is also working on its next version of its operating system, Windows 7, and Apple could wrongfoot Microsoft by beating it to release.Rob Enderle, principal analyst at Enderle Group, says: "There is a rush to get the new platforms to market. The estimate for Microsoft's Windows 7 is sometime in June. Apple would like to beat that. Having something with which Apple can pound on Microsoft until 7 shows up could do good things for their volume."However, although Apple is expected to show off Snow Leopard at Macworld, the software is very unlikely to be in consumers' hands until at least a month later - and more likely two or three months later. "I think it will be a major factor at Macworld. The question is when it is going to be available," says Enderle. Although the standard itself has been published, Trevett says it will take more than a month to prepare the tests, without which companies cannot claim their hardware is OpenCL-compatible. "I don't think you will see production OpenCL before February," he adds.More than chipsResearch at groups outside Apple suggests OpenCL's usage may extend beyond graphics code. "You can do weather forecasting on it and never touch a pixel on the display," Trevett says.David Kirk, chief scientist at nVidia, says he had been surprised by what some groups have achieved with GPUs - even searching through text. "I never thought that would be the case," Kirk says. "After the fact, I could explain it: people talk a lot about doing maths in parallel. But, with GPUs you can also do a lot of comparisons in parallel. It is computation without the arithmetic."In contrast, Microsoft's equivalent, DX11 Compute, which appeared as a preview release for developers in November, concentrates on graphics, despite having its senior researchers work on much more wide-ranging techniques. "Microsoft hasn't really made the shift to GPU computing yet," says Enderle.Microsoft's lack of enthusiasm for OpenCL will not stop the technology turning up on Windows. The GPU makers will supply drivers for Windows and Linux as well as the Apple OS. But Apple will have the lead. "It is not clear that 2009 will be a big year for Linux and Windows with OpenCL," says Ray DePaul, CEO of development tools company RapidMind.The rush to get OpenCL ready for Snow Leopard will also reduce how visible it is next year, even on a Mac. Although Apple should be able to demonstrate the technology in use, the specification is only just getting into the hands of other application developers.The arrival of OpenCL and similar technologies could also increase confusion among consumers. As programmers learn to offload work to GPUs, it will become tougher to predict how well software will run on a computer. "This move might uncover a problem that has always been there. We like to boil performance down to gigahertz, but it is always more complex than that," DePaul says. "One thing is certain: the way we do things are going to be different to the way we did them before."• This article was amended on Thursday 18 December 2008. In the print version, we said that Apple chief executive Steve Jobs would appear at next month's Macworld conference. Jobs pulled out of the event shortly after we went to press. Apple senior vice-president Phil Schiller will take his place.
People used to complain about having to remember a single four-digit Pin to use their bank card. Today, they may have to remember half a dozen Pins, plus their usernames and passwords for dozens of websites. There are plenty of other numbers to remember too: national insurance, driver's licence, passport, bank accounts and so on.This creates a market for a handy credit card-sized device that can store all your names and passwords safely - or so Atek hopes. Enter theLogio Secure Password Organizer.The Logio is more complicated than it looks, and comes with a 60-page printed manual. It has enough processing power and memory to encrypt and store around 200 numbers for three different identities, and will generate random passwords that you'd never remember. But then, you don't have to. You just look them up.Obviously you still have to remember your master password of between eight and 16 characters to do that - which is ok, because the keypad works like a mobile phone. Type in Logio (one keypress each) and the Logio sees 56446.The system works, but there's a major problem: by the time you have enough passwords to need this sort of thing, you have too many to type in. The Logio wants a name or internet address, your log-on ID, and the password. I made lots of errors, for which I blame the somewhat unresponsive keys. At best, it's really tedious.The Logio deliberately does not connect to a computer, so you can't copy passwords across, and you probably don't want someone else to enter them for you.When you've got them all in, you have to worry about losing the Logio, having it stolen, or breaking it - don't sit down if it's in your back pocket.If someone finds your Logio and turns it on, they should see your name and phone number. If you've entered them, they appear before the master password is required. If you don't get it back, you'll have to buy another Logio and enter everything again.Because your Logio is vulnerable, you have to keep a separate record of the data. Maybe you can write it all down in a little black book and keep it in a safe...However, I can see uses for the device. For example, governments, banks and other companies with vital numbers to protect could enter them into Logios and hand them out to staff.The full package comes with a Logio, battery, case, the manual and a lanyard so you can hang it round your neck. The US price is $29.95, but you can order one fromExpansysfor &pound;23.99.Pros:tiny; protects passwords using AES encryptionCons:tedious entering data; slow in use; priceatek.com
DAB and Wi-Fi stereoI am thinking of buying either a DAB or a Wi-Fi radio, but judging from the images I see of these machines on the internet, they all seem to have only one loudspeaker. Aren't there any full stereo Wi-Fi radios, or sets you can link to your home stereo?Johan van SlootenJS:Lots of DAB radios have two loudspeakers, including popular Pure and Roberts Radio designs. Unfortunately, DAB - as broadcast in the UK, at low bitrates - has very poor stereo separation, so it doesn't really matter if radios have two speakers close together or are, in fact, mono.However, I would discourage you from buying either a DAB or Wi-Fi radio, rather than a radio that handles all three formats: DAB, Wi-Fi and FM. There's a growing number of these devices, including the Roberts WM201 Wi-Fi Radio (aka Stream 201), the Roberts Stream 202, and Pure's Evoke Flow (VL-60896).For your purposes, the best choice is probably Revo's iBlik RadioStation. This mains-powered radio handles all the main formats - DAB, FM with RDS, Wi-Fi and wired connections - and also the new standard DAB+. It is iPod-certified and can be used with other MP3 players via an M-Port cable. You can also stream audio from your PC or Mac. Finally, unlike most multifunction radios, it has stereo RCA line-out sockets so you can connect it to a real hi-fi system. This is better than using the headphone socket with a Y-cable connection. The iBlik's obvious drawback is the &pound;175 price, but it's versatile and relatively future-proof. If you want a battery-powered portable, the Roberts Stream 202 is worth a look at &pound;150.Avoiding distractionsIs there a program or fix that I can use to lock myself out of programs except for some specified times, so I can stop distracting myself from writing? I'm a Mac user.Paul DornanJS:There are some lockdown programs, but parental controls should do the job. In Mac OS X, go to System Preferences, then Accounts, select the Parental Controls tab, and set whatever restrictions you want. If the accounts are dimmed, you will need to enter the administrator's name and password. You could set up a special work account that only allows you to exchange email with a number of specified addresses, so you don't miss anything important.Vista rootkit checkerYou recommended Panda's Anti Rootkit, but this does not run under Windows Vista.Stewart BromfieldJS:GMERworks with Vista, but is particularly recommended for more experienced users. (Don't be discouraged if you hit the minimalist web site first.) F-Secure's Blacklight is another option, and Bleeping Computer has atutorial pageto walk you through the process.Free CAD?You recommended Audacity for manipulating music files, which I now use very happily. Could do the same for CAD? I want to build up reconstructions of archaeological sites, as they do on Time Team.Steve ThompsonJS:I use Audacity so I can recommend it, but I don't use CAD (computer-aided design) software. There's a list of dozens of free CAD programs atFreebyte, so have a look at the Architectural CAD Systems section. However, I don't have a clue which might suit you best: perhaps readers can help.Take a break!My Linux computer (using Ubuntu 8.04) has started telling me to "take a break" and locks up the screen, mouse and keyboard while it counts down for three minutes. Having a thing like this suddenly appearing is annoying, and it is MY computer, which I would like to only do what I want it to do.Leslie NaylorJS:The "take a break" feature is part of the Gnome desktop. You can control it by going to System Preferences, selecting Keyboard Preferences and going to the Typing Break tab.Large attachmentsPeople keep sending me large email attachments. Many are the so-called humorous animated or video clips and have been round the world a couple of times. I'm not on broadband, and I don't want them!George WestgarthJS:Look in your mail software's options to see if you can set your mail software it so it does not download attachments, or does not download files that are bigger than a size you specify. In Outlook Express, it's in the Tools menu: select Options, go to the Mail Setup tab, and click Send/Receive. If you can't find something like that, you can always create a rule. An alternative is to run theMailwasher spam filter. This will get a list of your email, who it's from and the size. Mailwasher will delete unwanted emails on the server, so you don't have to download them.BackchatNeil Tweddle asked about a digital recorder. Graham Marks says: "he could do worse than try any of the Olympus digital voice recorders. I have a WS-310M. It's stereo, is Mac-compatible, and downloads WAV files via an integral USB. It's &pound;70 onAmazon. There are also some useful comments on theAsk Jack blog, where it is revealed that I hadn't noticed that my Edirol R-09HR has a mini-USB port. D'oh.• Get your queries answered by Jack Schofield, our computer editor at jack.schofield@guardian.co.uk
Paris to launch Bongo VirusParis Hilton will launch the Bongo Virus - a social network for mobile users - at a New Year's Eve party in Sydney.G.hn is goThe International Telecommunication Union (ITU) has agreed to the G.hn next-generation standard for home networking.Palm going Nova?Palm is tipped to announce a new operating system, Nova, at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas on 8 January.Hey hey we're the CrunchiesThe awards ceremony for the Crunchies awards for startups - backed by TechCrunch - will be held on 9 January.RIM throws another CurveRIM says the new Curve 8900 is the thinnest-ever BlackBerry with a full Qwerty keyboard.China defends firewallThe Chinese government has defended its blocking of some websites, saying: "It is the same with other nations."Phone on iPod TouchTruphone has introduced software that enables iPod Touch users with microphone adaptors to make VoIP calls from Wi-Fi hotspots.Charity e-cards benefit childrenChase, which runs hospices for children, is offering Christmas e-cards where all users' donations go to charity.
Wow. Deny people their Wi-Fi, put them in a cold room and look what happens. When Loic LeMeur found that his Wi-Fi provider, Swisscom, had let him down over the provision of internet communications at his LeWeb conference last week (http://bit.ly/lewebwifi), who could have guessed it would spiral into a situation where an influential blogger would be dissing the entire European startup community?But so it transpired, asMichael Arringtonof TechCrunch took LeMeur and all the other European startups to task, claiming "Europe's persistent background pessimism was out in full force" - prompting LeMeur to ask the internet"Should Michael Arrington be allowed back at LeWeb next year?"To which the answer was a pretty resounding "no".Arrington's complaint? He reckons that European startups know too much about work-life balance - whereas he, being American, thinks there's no such thing as a balance when you're running a startup: it's all work, no life.I think that Arrington has slightly missed the point. There are key differences between Europe and the US, most of all in culture. As Lemeur says, "I never thought inviting someone I really liked to know better to dinner would get me an email from his assistant [saying] 'why would you like to invite him to dinner?'."Arrington says that LeMeur should have suedSwisscom. Certainly the company performed abysmally: it didn't provide a service it was contracted for, and to then claim that things worked swimmingly - against all the evidence - is piling Pelion upon Ossa. Swisscom didn't come close to meeting expectations. That's all.However, Arrington then admits he's run conferences where the internet provision was screwed up, even in the go-ahead US of A. And he then admits that after precisely the same thing happened to him, he agreed not to name the failed communications provider. Where's the transparency in that?What's telling is that it's been the US that has driven down the cost, as well as the value, of everything. But it's actually been Europe that has made the giant strides. Where did the free, open-source Linux operating system come from? Finland. Where did the free, open-source database MySQL come from? Sweden. Where did the free, open-source PHP scripting language come from? A Danish Greenlander. At least Apache, the free open-source web server, was an American project at its root.Those four projects have enabled more startups to spring into being than any American startup. Google would be unimaginable without Linux and MySQL. True, it was an American who came up with the first real peer-to-peer system, Shawn Fanning with Napster; and where's that now? Or BitTorrent, another American P2P dream that's fading fast. Meanwhile, MySQL and Skype sold for a tidy few billions... to American companies. European companies create the value; American companies pay for it. But the value exists whether you pay for it or not. That's the key lesson.So sure, Michael, perhaps that's culture at work. But it's also the way that Europeans think: rather than nickel-and-diming each other for the last shreds of their humanity, Europeans focus on the broader picture.European startups have it tough enough without being told they aren't working hard enough. Slow and steady can win the race. See you next year, perhaps, Michael.
Apple created a stiryesterdaywith the news that Steve Jobs would not be giving the keynote speech at Macworld early next month, and would no longer go to Macworld Expo events.Apple had already dropped out of Apple Expo in Paris, France, which was held in September this year. Now comes the news that "Reed Exhibitions will not hold Apple Expo Paris in 2009," according toMacworld.It seems to be a bad time for trade shows, becauseCNetis now reporting that "Novell just announced that it is cancelling its annual BrainShare conference." Apparently registrations were down….Several other shows have been cancelled, including the 2009 European Road Transport Show (ERTS) at the RAI in Amsterdam, the Brisbane International Motor Show in Australia, and the Welsh Hospitality trade show in Carmarthen.
Following the amazing amount of publicity aroused by the recent zero-day security flaw, Microsoft has rushed out a patch. The page you need is:Microsoft Security Bulletin MS08-078 - CriticalSecurity Update for Internet Explorer (960714)Look through the table of Affected Software to find what you have, then click the link to go to the right download page.You probably have 32-bit Windows XP SP2 or SP3 running IE7, in which case the download ishere.Download the file and run it to install the patch. Sorry, this involves closing down IE and letting the PC reboot. The patch creates its own restore point, but there are no known issues with the installation.If you are beta testing IE8, you should download the latest version (build 8.0.6001.18344), which has been fixed.For the curious, the flaw is, inSecunia's words, an Internet Explorer Data Binding Memory Corruption Vulnerability. The Secunia page has direct links to the patches.Now it will be interesting to see how many of the 1,000+ publications that carried stories about the flaw provide a link to the fix….
Looking for a new job? Fan of World of Warcraft? Probably best not to mention your WoW habit on your CV.  Game designerRaph Kosterpicked up on aforum threadabout recruitment consultants and WoW.He replied that employers specifically instruct him not to send them World of Warcraft players. He said there is a belief that WoW players cannot give 100% because their focus is elsewhere, their sleeping patterns are often not great, etc.Ouch. But how true is this? And even if it is couldn't it apply to any game? I'm thinking similarly addictive fare like Football Manager or Call of Duty 4. And let's face it, playing WoW hasn't doneKevin Werbachany harm. But let's see - any WoW fans here struggled at work due to a late night Azeroth session the night before?
New Yorkers who download music to their iPods are to see the cost rise after the state governor, David Paterson, slapped a 4% tax on the practice as part of an attempt to ease a massive budget crisis.The charge, which has been nicknamed the iTax, will also cover ebooks and other "digitally delivered entertainment services". It is one of 137 additional fees the state will exact from residents in its 2009-10 budget. Income from high-earning and highly taxed Wall Street financiers has nosedived since the credit crunch, leaving the state with a $15.4bn budget gap.To try to close it, Paterson has risked incurring the wrath of multiple groups of voters as he pushes up taxes and slashes spending.One of his most innovative moves is a charge on sugary soft drinks, dubbed the obesity tax. Any non-diet fruit drink that contains less than 70% natural fruit juice will be subject to an 18% tax. State officials said the tax would  combat obesity, which affects one in four New Yorkers, but there was no disguising that it would raise more than $400m in the fiscal year, rising to $539m the year after.Other products and services to be hit by higher taxes will be taxi rides, petrol, cigars and beer, manicures and massages, and tickets to cinemas and sports arenas.The budget includes cuts of almost $10bn to hospital and school subsidies. Efforts to reduce class sizes and improve healthcare for poor families are likely to suffer."Tax Hell" was the headline blazed across the front page of Rupert Murdoch's New York Post.The tax on music and video downloads will make New York the second state after New Jersey to impose such charges through legislation. A separate sales charge is exacted by Apple through iTunes in 18 states.Internet trade organisations have protested about the idea, saying it will merely increase piracy. The trade group NetChoice argued that downloading should be encouraged – as it involves no environmentally damaging packaging – rather than discouraged through taxation.
1976:Apple founded by Steve Jobs, Steve Wozniak and Ronald Wayne. Wayne leaves soon afterwards, selling his 10% stake for $800.1980:The company floats on the stock market, making its founders multimillionaires.1984:Apple launches the Macintosh computer, an innovative product that wins plaudits if not huge commercial success.1985:Wozniak leaves the firm to go back to college, while Jobs is forced out by chief executive John Sculley and the board. Jobs goes on to set up computing firm NeXT, while Sculley stays in charge until 1993.1991:Apple launches the Powerbook laptop. Its trademark row with Apple Corps ends in Apple making a £15m payout to the Beatles and agreeing not to enter the music sphere.1996:Apple's stock falls to an all-time low. Its purchase of NeXT brings Jobs back to the company.1997:Jobs takes over as chief executive.1998:Launch of the iMac desktop computer, followed in 1999 by the iBook.2001:Launch of the iPod digital music player, which plays a leading role in revolutionising the consumption of music. Within five years, global sales reach 40 million.2003:Jobs diagnosed with pancreatic cancer. Despite successful treatment, rumours about ill health persist.2007:Launch of the iPhone.December 2008:Jobs withdraws from giving the keynote address at next year's Macworld show in January, fuelling further speculation about his health.5 January 2009:Jobs and Apple break their silence about Jobs's health, both releasing statements that blame his weight loss on a "hormone imbalance".
Microsoft is releasing a patch for the flaw in its Internet Explorer browser, which has already lead to the infection of more than 2m computers worldwide. The patch should be available on theMicrosoftUpdatewebsiteat 6pm GMT today.The flaw, which lets hackers gain access to computers and steal personal data, was spotted last week in IE7. It was subsequently found in earlier versions of Microsoft's browser, IE5 and IE6, and the company has put together a patch for all versions of its browser.Because IE is used by seven out of every 10 computers in the world, the flaw was potentially very serious and security experts went so far as to suggest that users dump IE and use another browser, such as Firefox.The flaw in IE can give criminals control of computers that have visited a website infected with malicious code designed to exploit it. Antivirus software specialist Trend Micro reckons as many as 10,000 sites have been hacked to exploit the flaw.John Curran, head of Microsoft's Windows commercial business group in the UK, said yesterday that the company was "working around the clock" to fix a problem which had infected about 0.2% of IE users – or about 2 million.Sites that have been compromised so far, however, are mostly Chinese and the attackers seem intent on stealing people's computer game passwords in order to sell them on the black market, rather than looking for personal details such as bank accounts.Microsoft yesterday published an advance notification that the patch is on its way, adding that it will host two webcasts to address customer questions on these bulletins: on 17 December, at 1pm Pacific Time (US &amp; Canada) and 18 December, at 11am Pacific Time.
Apart from one notable exception, you're unlikely to find any of the games listed in my Top Five in a traditional game emporium. Sure, I liked GTA4 like the rest of you, and yeah, Fable 2 was an intense and incredible experience, but I'll leave the accolades to the other guys and the sequels to the money men. Instead, my left-of-centre games of 2008 were...1.Spaceship!OK, so I'm a bit biased here, but I wasn't the only one who nominated the gamesblog's own production as game of the year. It was a hard slog, but the team managed to pull together one heck of an adventure. Congratulations to everyone on the gamesblog who contributed to my game of the year 2008.2.BraidTHIS game is why we need independent developers. I'd most certainly play Braid again and again rather than drudge through another series iteration 4, 5, 6 or 8. The cleverest take on every novel gaming ploy known to gamer, it was a pleasure to discover, a pleasure to play and, heck, a pleasure to complete. Well-paced, innovative and a taste of things to come.3.Little Big PlanetA stunning and thoughtful application of web lessons on game mechanics. Little Big Planet may be the catalyst for the next revolution in interactivity. Superb.4.Pencil Rebel 2I'm a sucker for point and click adventures, and Pencil Rebel 2, which first came to my attention during theE4 Golden Joysticks Grand Master Flash awards, was this year's heart-stopper for me. It's beautiful animation is distracting, its puzzles less obtuse than my other favourites of this ilk (Samorost and otherAmanita Designgames spring to mind), and it's served its purpose during the waiting time before Amanita's next game,Machinarium, is released next year.5.Operation Sleeper CellCan a game actually encourage charity? Well, this one has. Operation Sleeper Cell has raised £3,638 forCancer Research UKto date, using embedded techniques to get you to part with your hard earned cash, all in the name of fun. A user-generated project developed forLet's Change The Game, Operation Sleeper Cell is a sterling example of how to use gaming for good.And instead of voting for a disappointment, I'm going to add a runner up:PMOGFinally released this year, the Passively Multiplayer Online Game, is the most interstitial game I've ever played. Sod The Sims, PMOG doesn't even require your attention. But if you do wander down the rabbit hole, there's plenty of content to behold.
As you could have guessed, the reaction to the announcement that Steve Jobs won't be giving the keynote at Macworld - for the first time in 12 years - and that Apple will not be exhibiting there after 2009 (if there's a 2010 show..) has split people pretty much into two camps. Well, perhaps three.Camp 1: Apple's withdrawal is a smokescreen for Jobs being ill again.Camp 2: Apple's withdrawing because it doesn't like exhibiting there, and Jobs doesn't want to do it because expectations always get boosted too high.There is though a Camp 3: Apple doesn't like itandJobs is ill again.Into all this I'll throw two perhaps pertinent points. Phil Schiller has taken the place of Jobs before: September 2004, at the French Macexpo. When Jobs was recovering from surgery to remove the original cancer. Schiller was very funny - and announced the flat iMac, which was a big move for Apple.So let's ignore the "Apple doesn't have anything big to announce" lines.The other data point: the five-year survival rate forneuroendocrine tumour(for which Jobs was operated on) is quoted as67%or a less encouraging50%(seesupporting article) - but the latter also suggests that if you hit five years, you've beaten the disease.Anyway, here's a roundup from various places so you can join in the triangulation game too.Joe Wilcox: the"last show" announcement is a cover:Good PR works like this: Bad news obscures even worse news. Because the topic of the press release is that this will be Apple's last Macworld, many bloggers and journalists will write mainly about that.Jim Cramer on CNBC:sources inside the company tell me that Jobs's decision was more about politics than his pancreas. Sources tell me that if Jobs for some reason was unable to perform any of his responsibilities as CEO because of health reasons, which would include the Macworld keynote, I should "rest assured that the board would let me know."Silicon Alley Insider:Time for Apple fans to freak out:possible reasons: Apple is phasing out trade shows ("almost certainly not the reason Steve won't be giving the keynote"); Apple wants to let other executives share the limelight ("A good idea, but not this way"); Steve just wants to pop out of a cake or something and stun his adoring fans ("possible"); Apple, Steve, and Macworld are having some sort of business dispute ("possible"); Apple expected to have an exciting product or two to announce, but it has now realized that they won't be ready ("This one makes sense"); Steve is sick ("At this late date, given Steve's history, we regret to say this also seems plausible").Valleyag:[the] stock market's fear is that Steve Jobs is dying.(Come on, guys, you're hardly trying there.)Good Morning Silicon Valley:the ones who are really sick are the folks at expo organizer IDG, who are now wondering why Santa hates them.Kara Swisher'sBoomtown: the announcement willRenew rampant and unsubstantiated speculation about the health of Apple CEO Steve Jobs, which will immediately impact the stock of the tech icon.FT.comTech blog:With Apple once again refusing to address the issue of its CEO's health, the speculation that follows this cancellation will be intense.Jason Snell at Macworld:What went wrong?I don't know anything about Steve Jobs' health. And I really do hate idle speculation about the health of a human being. (Though I do believe that if he's terminally ill the shareholders ought to be informed. Otherwise, it's nobody's business but his own.) Who knows the real reason for the exit of Jobs from the keynote? There are a nearly unlimited number of reasons that don't involve the man's medical history. Maybe there simply weren't any earth-shattering products ready. Maybe someone at IDG offended someone at Apple. Maybe a product that was intended for release at Expo has been delayed, either for technical reasons or because today's economy would make it a bad time to launch a new product.So, which of the three explanations do you prefer? And how does it explain both the Schiller presence and the future Apple absence?
Daniel Pemberton's Little BIG MusicIf you've played Little Big Planet, you'll be familiar withDaniel Pemberton'swork. The audio composer, who's created music content for games, TV and movies, is the clever music man behind the LBP theme and its whistles and organ sounds, among other melodic manipulations. Daniel's been in touch with the gamesblog to offer an exclusive track from his forthcoming album,Little BIG Music, which will be released on 1812 Records in time to stuff it in a stocking. The track we're giving away as a taster? Horny Old Man, of course.Listen and evolve. And if you would like,buy.Thanks .emily and daniel!
Wednesday's edition of Chatterbox
The Macworld Expo has become an annual pilgrimage for thousands of Apple devotees. But the undoubted highlight is usually the keynote address by Apple chief executive Steve Jobs - famous for his whooping fans and "one more thing" catchphrase.He has been delivering the speech since 1997 - during which time his two-hour performances and high-profile product launches have helped lift Apple out of the doldrums and back to the top of the technology heap.Here are his best moments - and his worst.1997Jobs makes a triumphant return to the company he was ousted from 1985. Clad in a sweater vest and glasses, he announced a radical shakeup of the company's board - it had been on the verge of collapse - and an investment from great rival Microsoft. Before the year was out he had regained his position as the company's chief executive.1998The first serious signs of a road to recovery are made as the colourful and innovative translucent iMac is unleashed. Aimed bringing Apple to a new generation of computer users - those who wanted to surf the web - it helped re-establish the company's mantras of style and innovation.1999Jobs builds on the iMac's success with the iBook, which helped popularise Mac laptops, and announced the Airport wireless base station - a gizmo that kickstarted the trend towards Wi-Fi... something many people now see as a basic requirement for home computing.2000A resurgent Jobs trumpeted the launch of a new desktop Mac, the 8-inch G4 Cube - which he said was "quite possibly the most beautiful product we've ever designed". Beauty wasn't enough however, and the Cube flopped - proving too expensive for consumers and with a number of problems. It was discontinued in July 2001.2004Three years after Apple had introduced the iPod, raising some eyebrows along the way, it was already starting to take command of the digital music industry. The iPod Mini - a smaller, leaner, fashionable machine - quickly became the fastest-selling model, and helped the iPod explode into the mainstream.2007Huge speculation had built up over the subject of 2007's Stevenote, with rumours of Apple's entry into the mobile phone business. In the end the iPhone - which incorporated a touchscreen iPod and web access - received a rapturous response. The device was eventually released that summer to great excitement, and got a major rehaul the following year.
Apple chief executive Steve Jobs will not be giving the keynote address at the Macworld show in January for the first time in 12 years, raising more questions about his long-term health.Instead of taking to the stage in San Francisco to unveil the company's latest products – an event that has become something of a fixture in the technology industry - Jobs will be replaced by Phil Schiller, one of Apple's senior vice presidents.No reasons for Jobs's withdrawal were given, but in a statement Apple said that it was making a long-term decision to reduce its activity at trade shows and conferences – adding that after 2009's event was over, the company would no longer hold any kind of keynote at Macworld."It will be Apple's last keynote at the show," said the statement. "Apple has been steadily scaling back on trade shows in recent years."However, the decision to drop Jobs in favour of one of his subordinates is cause for concern among those who follow the company closely, rekindling speculation about the health of the 53-year-old.Jobs was diagnosed with a rare form of pancreatic cancer in 2003, though he put off treatment until mid-2004. Although an operation to treat it was deemed successful, he has looked gaunt in recent public appearances and has started making significantly shorter appearances on stage.Joe Wilcox, a business analyst who watches Apple, said the decisioncasts new doubt on Jobs's wellbeing."In business perception is everything. So it's tantamount that Steve get up on stage and keep up the image. Macworld is still a huge media event, mainly his keynote," he said."From that perspective, there would have to be something big to offset the many reasons why Steve should keynote Macworld. I come back to his health. I think that's the real news here, what today's last Macworld announcement seeks to obscure. Steve isn't well, and he hasn't been for some time."According to Gene Munster, an analyst for Piper Jaffray, Apple was not settling Wall Street's concerns."I think that Apple could have done a lot to have made it so people wouldn't speculate about Steve Jobs' health," he told the Associated Press.Immediately after the announcement, Apple's stock fell by nearly 2% in after-hours trading.Jobs has given the keynote speech at the event since 1997, leading to it being nicknamed the "Stevenote". Over the years he has regularly delivered two--hour speeches in which he commands the stage almost throughout. But in recent months Jobs has been handing more public duties to executives including Schiller, as well as chief operating officer Tim Cook and Briton Jonathan Ive, the award-winning designer of the iPod.His gaunt appearance at June's Apple Worldwide Developers' Conference led to speculation that the cancer had returned, and while the company has previously denied such reports, it is believed his dramatic weight loss was linked to treatment he had been receiving while in remission.In October, Jobs tried to joke about the concerns over his health during a presentation to unveil new laptops when he put up a slide saying "110/70", saying that was his blood pressure - and that he would take no other questions on his health.That seemed to put the rumours to rest, but the latest announcement will spark them again. Wall Street has been nervous about the company's ability to come through the economic downturn with the same growth, judging it to be highly reliant on the consumer side of the economy, which has been very weak in the US. Apple however has enormous cash reserves and could almost certainly ride out any financial bad weather.What is less clear is how well it could weather a prolonged illness or absence of the man who is acknowledged to have breathed new life into it when he rejoined in 1996, and is now seen as its figurehead and driving force.The announcement meanwhile that Apple will not exhibit at future Macworld Expo shows almost certainly spells the death knell for the show - which will struggle to justify its existence without either Jobs or its principal supplier to draw crowds.It may end up rolled into the Consumer Electronics Show, which runs at the same time - although in past years Jobs's presentations have damped CES's announcements so thoroughly that that show, held in Las Vegas, has shrunk in both size and impact.Wil Shipley, an independent software developer,criticisedthe show as expensive: "Small booth: $15,000 You wanted internet? $1,000. You wanted curtains? $4,500. Decent carpet? $2,000. Power? Trash cans?.. You wanted extra outlets? Have to hire one of our union electricians. How many hours you want him for?"Apple's fortunes have been directly linked to Jobs, who has spearheaded its renaissance since rejoining in 1996 after a decade in exile from the company he co-founded. In the process Apple has almost attained the status of a personal cult, identified with Jobs far more than Google or even Microsoft ever have been with their leaders.Apple lost direction in the years after Jobs was ousted, its share price slumping to an all-time low before his return. Under Jobs, the company has gone from strength to strength, establishing itself as a byword for innovation and elegant design.The launch of the iMac and iBook were followed by the iPod, which was not the first – or even to some minds the best – digital music player but led a revolution in the consumption of music thanks to its sleek and user-friendly design. In 2007, Apple enhanced its reputation for technological innovation with the launch of the iPhone, a touchscreen smartphone that marked a step change in the mobile world.
A new course is offering members of the public the chance to learn how to become a professional computer hacker – without ever leaving the house.The lessons in so-called "ethical hacking", which is used by internet security companies to counter computer crime, are being offered for the first time as a distance learning course by the International Correspondence School.The 300-hour accredited programme is operated from the company's Glasgow offices, but teaching is conducted through the post and online.It is even supported by a series of iPod-compatible downloads."We are very excited," said the ICS education services director, Julie Hepburn. "Students can study on the move and at hours to suit themselves."The discipline of ethical hacking has grown in recent years, as more companies become concerned over the threat of criminal strikes on their computer systems.Ethical hackers – also known as "white hats" – focus on understanding the methods used by criminals, and test computer systems for weaknesses that could leave them open to attack. They often conduct dummy raids and penetration tests to discover the security of a client's system.During the £1,800 course, students will be taught a number of skills, including how to run denial-of-service attacks and the tricks of social engineering often used by hackers – as well as being shown how to create viruses.However, since the skills learned during the "Certified Ethical Hacking" course could easily be used for criminal gain, ICS said it is operating a strict set ofrules about who can apply to gain the qualification. All students applying to take the course will be vetted by New York's International Council of Electronic Commerce Consultants, and they will require the backing of a legitimate company before being allowed to proceed.Students will also have their references checked again before sitting any exams.•&nbsp;To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".
Every year, the Mac Faithful trek to the Macworld Expo to show their adoration for Apple co-founder and chief executive Steve Jobs, and to see whatever magic bit of kit he is about to introduce. But all the pre-Macworld speculation about Mac-netbooks, a new Mini etc didn't come up with Jobs opting to stay home and let marketing man Phil Schiller do the keynote sales pitch on January 6.Theofficial announcementalso says that "this year is the last year the company will exhibit at Macworld Expo", which is bad news for the IDG-run show. Apple pulled out of Macworld Boston a few years ago, so it will be interesting to see if the San Francisco event survives without the proprietary company. Psystar World? I think not.El Jobso's stage presentations generate a fantastic number of column inches round the globe of the sort money can't buy. However, Apple's press release says, basically, that it doesn't need the show any more:Apple is reaching more people in more ways than ever before, so like many companies, trade shows have become a very minor part of how Apple reaches its customers. The increasing popularity of Apple's Retail Stores, which more than 3.5 million people visit every week, and the Apple.com website enable Apple to directly reach more than a hundred million customers around the world in innovative new ways.However, it just so happens that there is an even bigger show on in Las Vegas every year at the same time. Better still, this show is actually about consumer electronics, since it's the Consumer Electronics Show (CES). It's a show that Apple has ignored, perhaps partly because Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates has been doing the opening keynotes, and Jobs is too proud to be a support act. However, Bill Gates has retired, and whileSteve Ballmer is doing the next CES opener, it's not hard to see Jobs upstaging him.CES wants publicity and it wants to attract visitors, and I reckon Jobs would bring in a lot more punters than Ballmer.I'm speculating, of course. But it doesn't sound unreasonable.There's also, inevitably, a different sort of speculation going on -- about Steve Jobs's health. Jobs appears to lap up the adulation he gets at Macworld, and he's missing the chance for a blockbuster finish. Would he really pass that up? He might, if he really was ill. He might, if he was planning to switch to speaking at CES.If neither of those applies, is he telling the Macworld faithful that he doesn't need them any more?
A court in Australia has approved the use of social networking website Facebook to notify a couple that they have lost their home after defaulting on a loan.The Australian Capital Territory supreme court last Friday approved an application to use Facebook to serve the legally binding documents after several failed attempts to contact the couple at the house and by email.Mark McCormack, lawyer for the lender, said that by the time he got the documents approved by the court yesterday for transmission, Facebook profiles for the couple had disappeared from public view. The page was apparently either closed or secured for privacy, following publicity about the court order."It's somewhat novel, however we do see it as a valid method of bringing the matter to the attention of the defendant," McCormack said.Despite the setback, McCormack said the Facebook attempt would help his client's case that all reasonable steps had been taken to serve the couple. A court is expected to settle the matter next week.Lawyer and computer forensic expert Seamus Byrne said he was aware of only one similar case. A Queensland state district court judge ruled in April against documents being served by Facebook because the option of contacting a person via a post office box had not yet been exhausted.In the latest ruling, Master David Harper insisted the documents be attached to a private email sent via Facebook that could not be seen by others visiting the pages.McCormack said the woman's Facebook page was found using personal details she had given the lender. The man was listed on her page as a friend. Facebook users can "poke" each other to attract attention. Before Tuesday neither of the couple had imposed security options that denied strangers access to their pages.
Oliver Selfridge, who has died aged 82, was known as the "father of machine perception" for his work as a pioneer of computing and as a researcher into artificial intelligence. Though London-born, he did his most significant work at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Cambridge, Massachusetts, and was among the organisers of the Dartmouth Conference of 1956 at Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire. The first public meeting on artificial intelligence (AI), it introduced the term into general use.The idea of AI, that a mechanical "brain" might some day be capable of "learning" from its experiences and evolving into a superior form, has been regarded by some as the holy grail of computer science, though in Hollywood it is more often portrayed as its nemesis. It was only with the invention of the programmable digital computer in the 1940s that it became practical to postulate how such a machine might be designed, and the ways in which its intelligence could be assessed.The Turing test is based on the premise that if a machine can hold a conversation with a person (using a keyboard and screen) and the person is unable to tell whether he or she is conversing with a person or a machine, then the computer can be regarded as "thinking". Alan Turing, who died in 1954, himself believed that machines would be powerful enough to pass the test by the year 2000. Current predictions put that date at somewhere in the third decade of this century.Computers are now powerful enough to fool some of the people some of the time, and have been able to beat humans at chess for several years. Their ability to do this is based upon speed and number-crunching ability; the computers of today are no more intelligent than Colossus, at Bletchley Park, the British codebreaking organisation in the second world war.Selfridge's early work in the field of pattern recognition was detailed in his 1959 paper Pandemonium: a Paradigm for Learning, a classic in the field of AI. Recognising that previous attempts to model human thought had been less than successful, he introduced Pandemonium as a learning model that was able to improve itself over time in its task of recognising dots and dashes of morse code.The paper also introduced the notion of parallel processing, the machine being able to process more than one piece of information at the same time - a concept that is fundamental to human thought patterns. Pan-demon-ium proposes specialised "demons" with single tasks, which assess the data in a manner that improves with time. Selfridge was able to demonstrate the distinguishing of dots and dashes in morse code and to recognise 10 hand-drawn characters. It is, in fact, an early description of a neural network. Pandemonium proved to be such a successful model of human pattern recognition that it has been adopted and adapted for use in cognitive psychology.Some of Selfridge's ideas were summarised in The Computer as a Communications Device (1968), a paper by JCR Licklider and Robert W Taylor in the journal Science and Technology. Honouring Selfridge, the authors referred to an Oliver (on-line interactive vicarious expediter and responder) - an early description of a computerised personal assistant.Selfridge, who was a grandson of Harry Gordon Selfridge, the American founder of Selfridges department store, London, was educated at Malvern college, Worcestershire. At the outbreak of the second world war, the family emigrated to the US and Oliver went to Middlesex school in Concord, Massachusetts. He graduated with a bachelor's degree in mathematics from MIT in 1945. After service in the navy, he returned there as a graduate student, and studied under Norbert Wiener, the founder of the science of cybernetics. Selfridge was one of the early reviewers of Wiener's Cybernetics (1948).Much of Selfridge's career was spent at MIT's Lincoln laboratory where, as associate director of Project MAC in the 1960s, he worked on multi-access computing. He then went to Bolt, Beranek &amp; Newman, now BBN Technologies, which develops computer and communications-related technology. In 1983 he became the chief scientist for the telecommunications company GTE, and retired in 1993.He served on the advisory board of the US National Security Agency, the government's cryptographic agency, where he chaired the data-processing panel. Along with scholarly papers and technical books, he also wrote several books for children.His marriages to his first wife, Allison, and second wife, Katherine, ended in divorce. He is survived by his partner, Edwina Rissland, their daughter Olivia, his children from his first marriage, Peter, Mallory and Caroline, his sister, Jennifer, and six grandchildren.• Oliver Gordon Selfridge, computer scientist, born 10 May 1926; died 3 December 2008
A new course is offering members of the public the chance to learn how to become a professional computer hacker - without ever leaving the house.The lessons in so-called "ethical hacking", which is used by internet security companies to counter computer crime, are being offered for the first time as a distance learning course by the International Correspondence School.The 300-hour accredited programme is operated from the company's Glasgow offices, but teaching is conducted through the post and online."We are very excited," said the ICS education services director, Julie Hepburn. "Students can study on the move and at hours to suit themselves."Ethical hackers - also known as "white hats" - focus on understanding the methods used by criminals, and test computer systems for weaknesses that could leave them open to attack. They often conduct dummy raids and penetration tests to discover the security of a client's system.During the &pound;1,800 course, students will be taught a number of skills, including how to run denial-of-service attacks and the tricks of social engineering often used by hackers - as well as being shown how to create viruses.However, since the skills learned during the course could easily be used for criminal gain, ICS said it is operating a strict vetting procedure.
Following on from Keef's selection – Gears of War 2 game of the year??! – my top five are below. And it was tough to choose too – 2008 has been a surprisingly good year for gaming.5.Aurora Feint(iPhone/iPod Touch)2008 was the year I finally "got" - or at least didn't dismiss out of hand -  mobile games. And predictably it was the iPhone/iPod Touch and iTunes that swung it. Ok, the controls – always a mobile gaming bugbear – are still an issue but iTunes slick distribution system meant that actually trying out games was now so much easier than the fiddly hell it is on most mobile gaming services. Aurora Feint gets the nod primarily because it adds depth to the "match 3" gameplay – which works so well on the touchscreen – and also because of the multiplayer potential in the future.4. Madden '09/FIFA '09 (360, PS3)Yes I know but I can't choose between the two. American Football may be a niche – but growing – sport in the UK but Madden is hugely entertaining and – crucially – accessible enough to be played by NFL virgins. FIFA is similarly impressive and 2008 was the first year that the glossy franchise beat its main competitor, PES. Konami's game still plays better on the pitch – more fluid, more intuitive – but the gap is small enough to be outweighed by FIFA's huge advantages elsewhere, especially online. Both Madden and FIFA online are lag free, with numerous co-op options (10vs10 on FIFA), leagues and sports headlines – the whole thing is incredibly polished. Compare that to PES 2009's hideously designed menus and laggy action and there was simply no competition.3.Sid Meier's Civilization Revolution(360, PS3)This was perhaps the biggest gaming surprise of the year. Civilization Revolution took the hugely addictive but life-consuming strategy classic Civilization IV and boiled it down into more accessible chunks for console owners.  Streamlined controls and objectives – games take a couple of hours rather than a couple of weeks to finish – combined with a welcoming graphical sheen made Civ Revolution not only great fun to play but also a breath of fresh air on the shooter-filled consoles.2.Fallout 3(360, PS3, PC)Yes it had bugs and yes the environment wasn't as climb-up-a-mountain-and-gawp-at-the-view beautiful as Oblivion but Fallout 3 was a fantastic role-playing achievement. The freedom to roam was complemented by some interesting and varied quests – did youblow up Megaton? – while the wasteland setting was the most atmospheric virtual landscape of 2008.  Heck, even the story was half decent too.1.Fable 2(Xbox 360)Yes it may have the most ineffective map in gaming history but Fable 2's sprawling fairy tale was the gaming highlight of the year for me.  Straightforward questing was fun but relationship building, property development and exploration were all equally as enthralling.  The morality stuff was handled well too but Fable 2 was simply hugely enjoyable to play and had a surprising amount of depth. Oh and having a canine companion is clearly the gaming trend of 2008.Honourable mention– LittleBigPlanet (PS3).  I'm not playing as much as I did in the heady days around release but this is the most charming and beautiful game on the PS3.Disappointment of the year:Wii Music (Wii)To be fair this could easily have been PES 2009 but Keef nicked that. He's welcome to my copy of Wii Music too.  This ridiculously simplistic "game" was so tedious that even my 3 year old daughter – surely the target audience? - got bored after about a minute of wiimote waving.   Wii Music was a rare Nintendo stumble in 2008.
JoinAleks Krotoski,Jemima KissandCharles Arthuron this week's Tech Weekly as they tackle the credit crunch in light ofrecently high-profileweb job losses. Carsonified'sRyan Carsonoffers his top tops for survival in the uncomfortable economic climate, while MSN discusstheir content strand, a clever attempt at diversification.All this, plus the latest on the Flickr layoffs, Google's net neutrality back peddling, the end of Lycos' days and your views from the blogs.Don't forget to...• Comment below...•Call our Skype voicemail•Mail us at tech@guardian.co.uk•Get our Twitter feed for programme updates•Join our Facebook group•See our pics on Flickr/Post your tech pics
Yesterday I posted aquick previewof Monolith's forthcoming F.E.A.R sequel, due out in February on Xbox 360, PS3 and PC. Now, here's an interview with the lead artist Dave Matthews, talking about some of the design decisions behind the new game, as well as the importance of really good AI...What elements of the original game were you really looking forward to exploring and expanding on in the sequel?The formula that makes F.E.A.R so wonderful to play is: the horror aspect; the great AI and emergent behaviours; the slow-mo effect; and the really creepy narrative. Another element that was kind of a sideline that we decided to push forward is the 'powered armour' from the first game – people really wanted to be able to jump inside it, run around and blow stuff up. So we decided to create the elite powered armour, which is kind of the big brother version, and we brought that to the table. And what's great about it is, you feel like a badass – it gives you the opportunity to come into this space and say, I've taken enough of this! You get to own the space...Were you worried that such an immense piece of firepower could be detrimental to the tight claustrophobic feel of the game?Sure, it could have been too liberating, absolutely. But then we started to analyse our AI. The way that it works is, there's nothing scripted, everything is stimulous-based, so the more that we can educate the AI about the environment, the better they can utilise it to their advantage. So we let them be aware of fire and other environmental hazards – they are aware of potential combat opportunities. So as you start to play you'll notice, when you make a very specific action, they will have a very appropriate reaction.Also, if you look at our environments, you see real quick – we still recognise that tight enclosed space is great for high-intensity combat. But too much of that can become numbing, so we want to expand some of the space, and as soon as we started to do that, we realised that the pacing and the flow of combat changed. We looked at it and asked, what are the strengths of close, frenetic combat and how can we play them against the open areas to create a good ebb and flow. We use environmental volume as a way to give pacing.How have you managed to translate the horror element to an open environment? Usually horror relies on claustrophobic spaces and a tightly controlled narrative...Right, but one of the things that's really key in getting players to feel that horror aspect is breaking down expectation. So when you feel like everything is normal your stress levels are a lot lower, but as soon as something goes awry – whether you're in a large or enclosed space – you go into a heightened defensive state. We looked at our environments and tried to create the exact same types of scenario to invoke those sorts of responses in a big space.And how about the narrative flow – does your adoption of open environments create problems?Much like with combat you can create really intense experiences by building chokepoints. From a control perspective, you're narrowing the focus of the player in a very specific spot, and when that happens it's a great opportunity to deliver story.Apparently you've drawn some influence from American psychological horror movies this time round. Can you give us some examples?I'll say the Saw movies, for lack of a better example! Although they're very gory, the core of it all is, you're trapped in one of these devices and have X amount of time to free yourself. Whatever the scenario, it's the emotional response that's triggered – that's the heightened state that we wanted to get. It's explored in Japanese horror, but the way that it's presented... Japanese horror is very much about the slow burn – you get these little elements that kind of sit out of sync, and then there will be a moment of clairty that stitches those together. Saw is about moments of high intensity that last for a very short duration. So we're taken those elements and bringing them all into the gameplay.One thing that F.E.A.R did and which games rarely try is to play with your perceptions of 'reality' – there were times you weren't sure if you were 'seeing things' or not – how have you developed that in F.E.A.R 2?One of the cool things about our technology now is that we have so many in-camera effects, we can leverage that to do exactly what you're talking about, immediately altering the environment in a way that is ceases to be real. Alma's field is one area – clearly you're not being teleported there, it's something that's being projected into Becket's head, so he's experiencing it, but although he feels like he's moving through the space, it's a fabrication. We'll have lots of those moments.F.E.A.R is well-known for its advanced AI. In what palpable ways does this add to the experience in F.E.A.R 2?Every time we go out and show the game I love watching people play, because things happen that no-one expects. I mean, I've been playing this game for three years now and I see things I've never seen before. I can come into each space, address it in a different way and I get a completely different resolution. And that's all about the AI.Can you give any examples of what's surprised you?I've seen moments where two AI crouch and hide while another one runs back so it looks like he's retreating. The player follows and the two hidden guys backdoor the player. In those moments you realise how cool it is to educate the AI about their environment so they can make those kinds of decisions. And we've really educated the AI much more about their surroundings in FEAR 2, including the structural integrity of things and that will manifest itself when you're playing.Where are you taking the character of Alma?In the first game we just exposed players to Alma and provided the basis of her story, and then at the end of that game she was released. So now we're starting to explore what's going through her head. How does that manifest itself in the city? Also, all of her powers were inhibited because she was in this stasis, but now that she's released what does that mean?So what does she represent – what's the guiding trait behind this character?I like to think to of Alma as… Toxic. I think is a really good term. She's been through a lot, she's psychologically damaged. She was able to liquefy people in the first game, and you're going to start to see some really weird stuff. We're starting to really explore what this toxicity is…
Users of Microsoft's Internet Explorer  have been warned of a flaw that could let hackers gain access to their computers and steal personal data, and told them to swap to a rival browser.The flaw was spotted last week when hackers started attacking users of IE 7. The flaw, however, has also been found in earlier versions of Microsoft's browser, IE 5 and IE 6.Because IE is used by seven out of every ten computers in the world, the flaw is potentially very serious. So far, however, it only seems to have been used to steal computer game code from rival gamers.Microsoft is trying to put together a patch, but in the meantime computer users have been advised to update their security settings or switch to unaffected browsers such as Firefox or Opera.The latter scored highest in a recent set of tests of how browsers deal with password security, by security consultants Chapin Information Services. Firefox came second with IE mid-table. Google's new browser, Chrome, and Safari 3.2 for Windows tied in last place.The flaw in IE allows criminals to gain control of computers that have visited a website infected with malicious code designed to exploit it. While restricting web surfing to trusted sites should reduce the risk of infection, the malicious code can be injected into any website. Users do not have to click or download anything to become infected, merely visiting an infected website is sufficient.Antivirus software specialists Trend Micro believe as many as 10,000 sites have been hacked to exploit the flaw. Sites that have been compromised so far, however, are mostly Chinese and the attackers seem intent on stealing people's computer game passwords in order to sell them on the black market rather than looking for personal details such as bank accounts.It is known as a "zero-day" attack because it exploits a security vulnerability on the same day that the vulnerability became generally known. Usually there is a "window of vulnerability" between when the flaw is discovered and when the vendor issues a patch. The hope is that the vendor issues the patch before writers of so-called "malware" can exploit the flaw. If the malware writers have the flaw first, then the vendor has "zero days" to create a patch."Microsoft is continuing its investigation of public reports of attacks against a new vulnerability in IE," the company said in a security alert updated yesterday. "We are actively investigating the vulnerability that these attacks attempt to exploit. We will continue to monitor the threat environment and update this advisory if this situation changes.""On completion of this investigation, Microsoft will take the appropriate action to protect our customers, which may include providing a solution through a service pack, our monthly security update release process, or an out-of-cycle security update, depending on customer needs."What should Internet Explorer users do?• Change the program's internet zone security setting to "high". This should protect against all known exploits of this vulnerability by disabling scripting and disabling less secure features in IE. It is, however, likely to slow down a user's web experience.• Log out of your computer and create a new user account which has limited rights to change the PC's settings. Log in as that user. This should reduce the chances of anyone being able to exploit the flaw should your computer become infected.• Keep antivirus software up to date. This is likely to have only limited effect as most antivirus software packages only investigate files that are downloaded from the internet, rather than looking at every page visited.• Switch to another browser, preferably Firefox. This is by far the best option.
Yahoo haspreviewedits new "smarter inbox" for Mail, which will be able to incorporate third-party applications (Flickr, Flixster, Xoopit). You can watch a 5-minute video but it's a limited beta so you probably can't use it. The blog post says: "Only our power users, who were invited into the limited beta, can test out the new applications at beta.mail.yahoo.com." There's nothing new in my Yahoo mailbox -- and it's still very, very slow -- but you may be luckier.Yahoo hasn't gone as far as Microsoft in the direction of Facebook-like social networking or in integrating its various services. However, it's clearly heading in the same direction.Yahoo Mail is the world's biggest email service.
Last week, an obscure quasi-non-govermental agency called the Internet Watch Foundation was catapaulted into the spotlight on the news that they'd classed an image from Wikipedia as child pornography and that as a result, the page was blocked for 95% of the internet users in Britain. That's because the IWF is charged with creating a secret blacklist of child-porn URLs that it distributes to subscribed ISPs, who then block those links for their users.Many reasonable people believed that the classification of the record cover was an error in judgement. It is the cover of Virgin Killer, a 1976 heavy metal album by the Scorpions. The image is of "a naked prepubescent girl" with a star of broken glass obscuring her genitals. The model herself has reportedly said that she isn't put out by the image's existence. The encylopedic context in which the image was reproduced is clinical, not titillating. After a vigorous public debate, the IWF withdrew its block, issuing a confusing and contradictory statement to the effect that even though the image is truly child pornography, they won't block it, unless it's on a British server, in which case they might.It may be that this was the first time the IWF ever made a mistake, but it seems more likely that the "police-trained operators" who are charged with reviewing potentially obscene material commit errors at the same rate that the rest of us fallible mortals do. But we won't ever know about it, because of the way that IWF's blacklist is handled. When an internet user at an IWF-subscribed ISP visits a blocked page, s/he is usually presented with a "404" error page ("Not Found") or a "403" error ("Forbidden"). There is no way to differentiate between a page that you can't see because IWF is censoring it and a page that you can't see because the server is overloaded or the because the page has been relocated.The only reason we know about this block is because of how Wikipedia handles its own blacklist – a list of IP addresses that have been used recently in vandalism against the encyclopedia. Traffic to sites that are on IWF's blacklist is all channeled through a small number of proxies, so once the Wikipedia page was blocked, it appeared to Wikipedia that every visitor from the participating ISPs shared the same addresses. This broke Wikipedia, triggering a lot of detective work by some very clever web users, who eventually concluded that the culprit was the IWF's (mis)classification.There's plenty of material that pretty much everyone will agree is exploitative child pornography – for example, material on sites that self-identify as child-porn servers run by and for paedophiles. But there's also a large amount of material that is much harder to classify: Nabokov's Lolita, the nude photography of Charles Dodgson (AKA Lewis Carroll, who shot chaste-but-naked photos of baby girls), and the recent critically acclaimed graphic novel Lost Girls by Alan Moore (or, indeed, the cover of the Scorpions' Virgin Killer). Some of the controversy arises through the uneven application of standards: communities run by and for gay teenagers are more apt to be classified as obscene for their frank sexual talk than a comparable forum run by and for their straight peers.As the father of a baby girl, I'd welcome any proposal that reduced the overall availability of child pornography and that could be used to catch, prosecute and treat or imprison those who exploit children. I want my daughter to be safe. I might even be willing to put up with the occassional false positive if the system was effective overall.But the IWF system is one that both works poorly and fails poorly. News accounts of police prosecutions of pedophile rings inevitably involve the infiltration of private file-sharing systems, password-protected sites, email lists and P2P networks – areas that are all invisible to the IWF and unaffected by its filters (for that matter, IWF's filters can be defeated by using any of literally millions of public proxies). The incremental benefit of an IWF is that it protects the public from being tricked into seeing child porn (this is a benefit, make no mistake, though a lesser one than preventing children from being exploited or preventing the gratification of paedophiles) and it may discourage particularly unresourceful paedophiles who don't think to try P2P or a private site to get their kicks.If IWF is going to make children safer from exploitation, it must succeed in reducing the number of paedophiles who get access to exploitative material – not in merely reducing the amount of exploitative material there is on the web. If the same paedophiles can access the same material using a different URL or protocol, the reduction in harm to exploited children is negligible. I don't want a system that squeezes the air into the other end of the balloon – I want one that lets the air out of the balloon altogether.But stipulate that there is some good in moving the air around – protecting adults and children alike from seeing the images inadvertently, or discouraging the very dumbest and least committed of the paedo cohort. Fair enough – but let's at least make sure that when the system fails (as all systems do), that it fails well, in a way that minimises collateral damage.Contrast the workings of IWF's list with the workings of HMRC, who are charged with examining the parcels that enter the country, some of which contain obscene material. If you order a copy of Lost Girls from a comics shop in New York, HMRC might very well open it at the border, have a quick look at the contents, and decide that this is obscene material. At that point, you'll get notice (or possibly even a visit from the police) that your parcel has been seized. Sometimes, they'll even notify the comics shop in New York. If you disagree with the judgement, you can appeal it internally with the Customs authority, and if you don't get satisfaction, you can ask a judge to rule on the case (something very much like this happened in Canada shortly after Lost Girls was published – and after a review, Canada Customs reclassified Lost Girls, clearing it for import).This system fails well. We can ask our law enforcement officials to err on the side of caution, knowing that their errors can be corrected by the addressee asking for a review. The rule of law and due process are excellent, well-understood tools for addressing the fallibility of human beings in authority. Indeed, as grave as the matter of distributing child pornography is, it's a lesser crime thanactually producingchild pornography – and yet, those accused of the graver offence are guaranteed the due process that is denied to those who are accused of merely attempting to view it online.IWF's blacklist lacks this fundamental check on its own fallibility. What if, instead of "404: Not found," pages on the blacklist returned this message: Material blocked: this page ("TITLE") appears on the Internet Watch Foundation's blacklist of obscene material. IWF officer NAME made this notation, "REASON_FOR_BLOCKING." If you believe that this is an incorrect classification, you can appeal the decision by visiting the IWF's appeals page (link). There is no penalty for appealing this decision, and your name and other details will be kept confidential."Additionally, the IWF could notify (where contact details existed) the sitemaster for any page that they add to the blacklist. This is a few hours' worth of additional programming, in order to add the same system of checks and balances that prevails in the real world. If we're going to give a private entity the power to decide what we can and can't know, shouldn't we at least have a minimal means to detect their handiwork where it occurs?
Microsoft goes karaoke for Christmas with Lips, which comes complete with two wireless motion-tracking microphones. It works a treat, with the real artists providing video backdrops and easy on-screen instructions – all you have to do is follow the words and bars, scoring points for timing and pitch. Lips is also compatible with a wide range of MP3 players, which means you can add any DRM-free tracks to the game when the handful it provides pall. If you want the full video backing, however, there are only 40 tracks available so far on Xbox Live — which is far less than the likes of Singstar Abba, Guitar Hero and Rock Band. Lips is fun while it lasts and beautifully produced — but by the time you're on to the turkey sandwiches on Boxing Day, you'll have heard and seen all it has to offer.
Rockstar's street-racing franchise has always lived in the considerable shadow of Grand Theft Auto, but Los Angeles, its fourth iteration, is the best game in the series. As the name suggests, it takes place in a lovingly crafted and thrillingly recognisable virtual LA. Races are generally point-to-point or around a circuit, with checkpoints marked by plumes of yellow smoke; in some, you can win your opponent's car, and cash and reputation points are always on offer. A certain amount of influence from Burnout Paradise is evident — notably the cars' arcade-style handling and resistance to damage, plus the Google Earth-style map. But Midnight Club Los Angeles differentiates itself cleverly, by offering real cars with vast customisation options and some interesting gameplay mechanics: slipstream an opponent and you will accrue a nitrous boost, and when you progress, you can earn special abilities, such as a brief burst of invulnerability or time slowdown. Graphically, it is simply stunning and in every respect it is vastly superior to the heavily marketed Need For Speed Undercover. The aficionado's choice of street-racer.
The only goals you have in Animal Crossing, a chilled affair set in a real-time cutesie sims world, are those you give yourself. For the entrepreneurial, make money to spend on customising yourself, your home and your town by taking on errands or selling items. For the more casual, take up a hobby such as fishing or clothes designing. This third in the series is more of the same, but with Wii-enabled extra features and more comfortable controls. Travelling to the city gives you the chance to spend hours perusing shops for more customisable items— you can even have a Mii make­over in the salon. However, the biggest additions are online and Wii Speak features, making it easier than ever to visit friends' towns and chat while you play. A breath of fresh air in the smog of Christmas action-packed gaming, this title is perfect for those who want to kick back and relax when they play.
Tuesday's edition of Chatterbox
You're forgiven if you didn't notice a major change behind the scenes at the Guardian over the weekend - but we've moved from our old dungeons in Farringdon Road to a palatial new spot in Kings Cross. I've not seen the new place in the flesh, but it seems verydotcommy... and there are somelovely photographsto show you what I mean.Beyond bragging about shiny stuff, though, looking at the pictures started me thinking about where we all post to this website from. (Forgive me, but Christmas is only a week or so away and I'm starting to get all fuzzy and community-minded.) After all, you're used to hearing from us - but you probably don't have much of a picture of where we slog away all day. Meanwhile, you guys leave some brilliant comments but remain relatively anonymous.So: where do you post to the site from? At home, with a laptop in the living room? From the office? On the train? Wouldn't it be nice to get a bit more insight into where we're all coming from? Why not show us?Anyway to start things off, I thought I'd start by showing you my home office.We've only been in situ for three months here, so things aren't the way I'd like - but it's getting there. But when you read something by me, chances are that's where I am (although I'm actually sitting at the dining table right now).What about you?
I recently wrote ablog post, aNetbytesand acolumnabout Microsoft rolling out Live Wave 3 of its online services, along with a suite of Live Essentials (beta) software for Windows PCs. Unfortunately, Microsoft failed to roll out the software when it said it would…. However, according toMicrosoft's Channel 10, Windows Live has now released a new set of beta versions of "Messenger, Mail, Photo Gallery, Movie Maker, Writer, Toolbar, and Family Safety, as well as additional programs like the Microsoft Office Outlook Connector, the Office Live Add-in and Microsoft Silverlight." They are athttp://download.live.com/They have a common installer, so you have to untick the ones you don't want (or want to remove). However, as I pointed out, the software is being integrated with the Web sites, which are also being integrated, so the idea is you'll take the whole suite. This is what worked for Microsoft with Windows, Office, and its Back Office suite.It has some appeal if you already use Messenger and Hotmail (which hundreds of millions of people do), and fancy having 25GB of free space to put your photos online. If you already have stuff spread over multiple sites and/or hate Hotmail -- sorry, hate Windows Live Mail -- then it may not.At least WLM has a few features Gmail lacks: for example, you can create folders and quickly drag-and-drop selections of email into them. (You can do this with Yahoo Mail too, of course.) It also synchronises with Windows Live Mail on the desktop, so you can use that offline and make the two sync -- though you can use a separate email client with Gmail as well. (Gmail is too slow for the mail volumes some of us get:Marissa Mayer, famous Google VP, usesPine.)The new Windows Live Calendar part of Windows Live (online) Mail is now working, and includes a To Do List feature.The download will vary according to what you install. Mine went up from 150MB to 175MB, so  yours should come in under 200MB. All existing Live apps, including IE, must be closed for the installation.
It's a compelling idea: strategy-based first-person shooter meets supernatural survival horror. What happens when an elite group of hi-tech soldiers comes up against a homicidal ghost? The answer is F.E.A.R, the highly respected 2005 shooter from US studioMonolith. Drawing heavily on Japanese vengeful spirit movies like Ring, the game has you exploring a research facility owned by the shadyArmacham corporation.Here, you encounter apparitions of a powerful psychic girl named Alma, experimented on and finally 'killed' by Armacham boffins. The game ends with an apocalyptic explosion through which the disturbed spectre escapes the confines of base. She's now free to exact her terrible revenge...On the whole planet.Monolith's sequel kicks off thirty minutes before the close of the first title. This time you're a member of a delta force squad sent in to arrest Armacham VIP Genevieve Aristide. Shortly after your arrival, the town blows up. And really, it's all down hill from there.One of the main criticisms of the first title was its reliance on repetitive office and industrial environments. In F.E.A.R 2, there will be many more open, exterior locations. Players will be able to explore the devastated city while taking on the Replica forces (a bunch of cloned super soldiers created by Armacham) in larger-scale conflicts.And it seems that weaponry will be scaled up to reflect the move to epic exterior set-pieces. In F.E.A.R 2, you'll be able to hop inside a new, more devastatingly powerful version of the mech-inspired 'powered armors' from the first game. We didn't get chance to test one of these out, but from theteaser trailerit seems you'll be able to reduce enemies to tiny bloody chunks in a  matter of nanoseconds. We're not sure how this grafting of devastating futuristic firepower onto a tense horror experience is going to work, but it sure looks like fun.According to art lead Dave Matthews who hosted the press event, this isn't the only thematic shift away from the original game. New influences have been brought onboard, including Timur Bekmambetov's Day and Nightwatch movies, plus the recent spate of brutal American psychological horror flicks like Saw. "We wanted to show something far more horrific than the first game," he laughs amiably.To counter the increase in earthly military firepower, the designers have introduced a couple of new, more supernatural enemies. The spectres are psychically strong citizens of Auburn, killed in the blast but now trapped on the planet as rampaging ghosts, fuelled by Alma's rage. "They're a threat," deadpans Matthews. I also like the sound of the Remnants, yet more dead residents of the city, this time cursed to act out moments from their lost lives. You'll encounter a ghostly piano teacher, still bashing away on the ivories, or a deceased businessman going through the motions of hailing a taxi next to the burned out wreckage of a yellow cab.These are harmless until you interact with them, at which point they fly into a rage, reanimating nearby corpses to attack you. Matthews shows us a section where he's up against one of these crazies. The aforementioned piano teacher reanimates a bunch of dead Replica soldiers who lurch at you firing machine guns with their broken, twisted arms. The teacher, though, runs off and hides – a pain as each remnant must be destroyed before their zombie puppet army can be stopped.This is one of several occasions where the game's AI comes into focus. The original F.E.A.R was well-known as a benchmark for enemy intelligence, abandoning any form of scripting in favour of advanced techniques such as GOAP. In F.E.A.R 2, computer-controlled soldiers rely on sensory input to get a grip on their surroundings and will use environments in the same way as the player – darting around looking for cover.I played through the first mission and it was immediately obvious they weren't just legging it to pre-defined cover points. In one set-piece, based in Aristide's penthouse flat, several troopers abseil in through the glass ceiling and immediately run in different directions, apparently sussing out the possibilities and communicating to each other. From here, they keep switching cover positions, reacting to my movements and – I'm pretty sure – trying to get around and behind me. If I lay down fire, they dart back and then come in from a new angle.It seems that the game is going to flip between traditional shoot-outs like this and tense horror-tinged moments. We're shown a section where you're exploring a school building and suddenly all the lockers start banging open and closed and the lights go out. Immediately ghostly figures appear in pitch dark rooms, often right at the edges of your screen so you're constantly questioning what you're seeing. Elsewhere, lights strobe on and off to reveal increasingly blood splattered walls and ceilings. It's genuinely disturbing stuff.Throughout the game, there are sections where you're momentarily transported to a spooky scene – an old dead tree with a swing attached to one branch, out in the middle of a deserted field. Matthews explains that this moment has important resonance for Alma and the image is used to communicate with Beckett. I'm not sure what that means or how it'll work, but it's an interesting effect clearly inspired by Hideo Nakata's ghost flicks.Visually, there are some impressive elements. I love the way that enemy targeting lasers show up through the clouds of smoke – you'll enter a location to see it criss-crossed by red lines, searching you out in the darkness. There are also some nice depth of field effects – if you go into the weapon targeting view and focus on a near-by object, elements in the distance blur out. It's off-putting at first, but – like the dodgy movement controls in the first Resident Evil titles - adds to the sheer tension and fear factor.So, yeah, I'm very much looking forward to F.E.A.R 2. The original was sort of an eccentric mix of hokey ghouls and sexy military hardware and it looks like the sequel is upping both factors.
