Law enforcement agencies from 17 countries flew into The Hague as 40 digital investigators collaborated on one of the biggest dark-web takedowns to date.From the clinical environment of Europol’s Joint Cybercrime Action Taskforce operations room, officers would use their scrambled communications to co-ordinate with those in the field, making arrests and seizing servers during the final stages of a six-month long investigation into underground sites used to sell drugs, guns and hitmen.The biggest target in the operation wasSilk Road 2.0, but another 413illicit services based on the Tor networkwere closed too, Troels Oerting, head of the European Cyber Crime Centre (EC3), told the Guardian.Cloud Nine, Hydra, BlueSky, Outlaw Market and Alpaca are some of the other names on the police hitlist that are out of action.A total of 17 suspects have been arrested globally over the past week, while $1m worth of bitcoin were seized, as well as drugs, guns, and €180,000 in cash, gold and silver, said Oerting. National Crime Agency officers were on board and six arrests were made in the UK on charges of supply of controlled drugs.According to the UK’sNational Crime Agency, the arrests were of a 20-year-old man from Liverpool, a 19-year-old man from New Waltham in Lincolnshire, a 30-year-old man from Cleethorpes, a 29-year-old man from Aberdovey in Wales and a 58 year-old man and woman also from Aberdovey.All six have been interviewed and are on bail pending further enquiries.On 5 November, two men in their 30s were arrested in Dublin, where a drug distribution centre was raided and a further “small seizure” of controlled drugs and documents related to offshore bank accounts in Switzerland, Belize, Poland and a number of other countries was carried out.Police in Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Romania, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland were all involved in Operation Onymous.“It’s a rather significant blow,” Oerting says. “We are only doing what law-abiding citizens want us to do, we are fighting crime regardless of where we find it on the internet. This was a very good day in operational terms, we’re very pleased, but the work still goes on.”Oerting won’t reveal what technical measures were used to take control of the hidden services used to host the dark-net sites. “This is sensitive … but it’s been done in a way that we have everything on the services and that’s what we need.”But there is a public interest in how users can be de-anonymised on Tor, which is used by those hoping to keep their identities secret. Many activists and journalists use Tor, which encrypts communications and sends them through different servers across the world to keep data private, to protect themselves from repressive regimes and intrusive intelligence agencies.The trial of Ross Ulbricht, the alleged creator of the original Silk Road, has stirred up intrigue surrounding the FBI’s techniques. His attorneys had suggested the FBI used illegal means to search the Icelandic server that hosted the drug bazaar without a warrant, but the complaint was thrown out by the judge. The law enforcement agency had previously claimed it exploited a flaw in theCaptcha protectionon the site to gain insight into its operators.According to theofficial complaintagainst Silk Road 2.0 and the alleged mastermind Blake Benthall, the site was compromised through old-fashioned social engineering, as an undercover agent managed to acquire a senior administration role for the site and was even paid in bitcoin.From that position the agent was likely able to gain enough information to deanonymise users, whilst Benthall made an operational security error when he used a personal email address when registering the servers used for Silk Road 2.0. Yet it’s unclear precisely what happened in the five months the agent had that level of access or how the hundreds of other dark-web sites were seized.Other details will have to remain silent too, including the identities of many of those arrested, the EC3 chief says. “Some of the arrests have been conducted silently first and then afterwards the bigger takedown happened … this has to be done without involving anybody.” He only tells the Guardian the arrests were scattered over the US and Europe.Oerting believes Operation Onymous offered the criminal world another sign global law enforcement teams can work together to shed light on the dark web. “This was one of the few operations that went flawlessly, everything went according to plan … it went like a conveyor belt … We have reached a different level in how we cooperate. This is good for the future.”
Congratulations to DexsMum, who outshone more than 300 entries to capture our favourite shot on the theme of light – this fabulous image of the reflection of a skyscraper. See our other top choices in the onlinegallery.Now we’d like you to take inspiration from the chilly weather with images on temperature. Whether it’s a ski slope, steaming mug of mulled wine, or a sunny November in the southern hemisphere, share your pictures and tell us how you took the shot. Our favourite will be in the December issue ofObserver Tech Monthly, with the best of the rest in an online gallery.You can share your photos by clicking on the blue ‘Contribute’ button on this article. You can also use theGuardianWitness smartphone appor thenew Guardian appand search for ‘GuardianWitness assignments’.Closing date is 24 November.GuardianWitnessis the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.
U2 frontman Bono has praised streaming music services as a way for musicians to get their music heard, and defended Spotify from criticism of the amount it pays out to artists and songwriters.“The real enemy is not between digital downloads or streaming, the real enemy, the real fight is between opacity and transparency. The music business has historically involved itself in quite considerable deceit,” he said, speaking at the Web Summit conference in Dublin.“But if we change that bit, and people can actually see how many times they’re being played, where they’re being played, get access to information on the people who are listening to them, get paid direct debit... I think those payments will add up to something, as the world gets more transparent.”Bono went on to address artists’ criticism of Spotify in particular. “When people pick on Spotify: Spotify are giving up 70% of all their revenues to rights owners. It’s just that people don’t know where the money is because the record labels haven’t been transparent,” he said.“That hasn’t been the demand: that will be the demand... That’s the thing to look for: transparency or opacity. For this new model to be successful and to take root, there has to be some kind of fairness... fair models of distribution. And I think when that happens, the music business will be a rising tide that lifts all boats.”Bono defendedU2’s recent album giveaway through Apple’s iTunes store, which caused controversy when iPhone and iPad owners found it automatically downloaded to their devices.“We got a lot of people who were uninterested in U2 to be mad with U2. And I would call that an improvement in the relationship!” he said.“And we were paid. No one values music more than the members of U2. To us music is a sacrament, it’s a sacred thing. I think artists should be paid way more than they are. But the greatest way you serve your songs is to get them heard.”Later in his on-stage interview, he returned to the theme. “We always wanted our music to be heard, and the idea that we could work for years and years on what we think are the most personal songs we have ever written – you have to become very raw to write like that - and then the idea that they might not be heard is terrifying. So we were just thrilled that we got this chance,” he said.“About 100 million people checked us out, one or two or three tracks, but about 30 million people liked the whole album. That took us 30 years with The Joshua Tree. So we did in three weeks with Songs of Innocence what took us 30 years with The Joshua Tree.”Bono also claimed that while digital music disruption is worrying many artists, it will ultimately be good for young bands starting out.“I’m already paid too much, I’m a spoiled rock star! I’m the wrong spokesperson for this, but i have to tell you if I were starting a band now, aged 17 or 18, I would be very excited,” he said.“I would be as excited as I was when we formed U2 when we were 17 / 18 years old. Though it is clear that there are some traumas as we move from physical to digital and 20th century to 21st century, and the people paying the highest price for those traumas are songwriters rather than performers, I still think forming a band is so exciting.”U2 may have signed an exclusive deal with Apple’s iTunes to distribute their latest album, Songs of Innocence, as a download, but Bono said streaming services are also a positive step forward for artists.“I see streaming services as uite exciting ways to get to people. In the end, that’s what we want for U2 songs,” he said.“I don’t see songs as like our children, I see songs as like our parents: they tell you how to dress, how to behave, what time to get home at, and the only thing they don’t like is to be ignored. So anything that gets your song out there is a good thing.”“I think the remunerative bit of this has yet to be figured out,” he continued. “It’s an experimental period. Let’s experiment. Let’s see what works.”Bono went on to compare artists’ situation now with the days long before recorded music, when their main source of income might be travelling to play for “the lord of the manor”.“I prefer it when we are in charge of our own destiny. What I would like to see is a station where tech companies cross-fertilise with cultural companies, and I think our voices will then be naturally more heard, more understood and therefore more valuable,” he said.“We are slightly slipping back: musicians are losing that firepower that they had. We must be careful that we don’t underestimate our value. We don’t have to play for the lord of the manor. The lord of the manor can come and see us, and pay in like everybody else.”Bono talked about his work with Apple on “new formats for music” which he hadalluded to in interviews earlier in the year, adding animation and interactivity to album artwork.He suggested that people might think of these formats as “more valuable than a simple MP3 file” and added “ we’re working with the company, if we get there we get there, but they’re letting us into the lab.”•Adele’s manager: ‘Streaming’s the future, whether people like it or not’
It's Friday!
Tip #1: Emergency Medical Info1. Emergency Health IDPowered by Apple’s new HealthKit, Emergency Health ID allows anyone to access basic and potentially life-saving health information from your iPhone’s lock screen. To set it up, open the Health app, tap Medical ID on the bottom right and add as much or as little information as you feel comfortable with. Now when you tap the Emergency button on the bottom left of your lock screen you’ll also find the option to view your medical details and emergency contact numbers.Tip #3: Delete old messages2. Auto delete messagesIf you’ve been using your iPhone for a long time, you’ll have built up quite an archive of text messages. This can take up a lot of unnecessary space (do you really need those texts and pictures from two years ago?). iOS 8 now allows you to automatically delete these old messages after either 30 days or one year, potentially freeing up gigabytes of storage. Tap Settings &gt; Messages and scroll down to Message History before selecting how long you’d like to keep your old messages.Tip #3: Self-destructing videos3. Snapchat-Like photos and videosYou can now send instant self-destructing videos, audio clips and pictures to your contacts via iMessage, not unlike Snapchat. To send a picture, go to your message window and tap and hold the camera icon on the left hand side. A small circular window will emerge, allowing you take a quick snap. A word of warning: once the picture or video has been shot, it will send immediately, there is no confirmation or edit screen, so make sure you don’t test this one while sitting on the toilet.4. Swipe notifications individuallySwiping down at the top of your screen will display your phone’s Notification Centre. In here you’ll be informed of various alerts and app-related information. If you have a lot of apps and receive a lot of messages, this section can get cluttered and messy. In the past you could only clear these notifications all at once or not at all. However, by swiping left, you can now clear each notification individually.Tip #5: Altering exposure5. Exposure controlIt’s no secret that Apple’s iSight camera has always been lacking in terms of advanced features, especially when compared with the likes of Nokia or Samsung. Fortunately, Apple seems to be keen to change this with the introduction of exposure control. When taking a picture, tap where you wish to focus the screen (or tap and hold to lock the focus) and you’ll see a small sun icon appear. Drag it up or down to manually control the exposure levels on the fly.6. Hide images from PhotostreamIf you have some unsightly or embarrassing photos in your Photostream that you wish to keep but would rather other people didn’t see, you’re in luck. Locate the offending image, tap, hold and select Hide from the menu that pops up. The image will now be quarantined in an album called Hidden, which you can access by opening your Photos app and selecting Albums in the bottom right corner. To put the image back where you found it, go to the Hidden album, tap and hold your image and select Unhide.7. Swipe Quick Type awayiOS 8 saw the introduction of Quick Type, which is supposed to intelligently suggest words you’d like to use before you use them for speedy typing. It does however take up a lot of space and some people don’t find it particularly useful. Removing it is a breeze: tap anywhere on the suggest words and swipe downwards. A small grey bar is all that will remain; swipe the bar upwards if you want to bring the suggestions back.Tip #8: Battery usage8. Battery hogging appsIf you find that your battery seems to be running out of juice all the time but you don’t know why, this tip could be a godsend. Go to Settings &gt; General &gt; Usage &gt; Battery Usage. You’ll see a breakdown of all the apps you’ve been using and how much battery power they’ve been eating up, which will give you a better idea of what apps you might want to regularly close down or uninstall.Tip #9: Quick replies9. Quick reply to messages by swiping down on notification bannersAny time you receive a text or iMessage you can swipe downwards on the notification banner, which will open small message window. Type your reply and hit send. This feature is particularly useful for those who dislike the faff of exiting an app in order to send a reply before re-entering the app they were in prior to receiving a message.Tip #10: Recover deleted photos10. Recover recently deleted photosBy default, iOS 8 will now save all your deleted photos in an album called Recently Deleted. They will stay in this album for 30 days before they’re ultimately deleted forever. To find the folder, head to Photos &gt; Albums. You might be surprised how many old photos are in there. If you don’t like the 30-day buffer zone, I’m afraid you cannot currently disable this feature. Your best bet is to open the album, tap Select in the top right corner and then tap Delete All in the bottom right corner.Tip #11: Desktop versions11. Request desktop/mobile sitesWhen using your phone to browse a website, a bit of code will often recognise this and send you to the mobile version of the site by default. This is not always preferable, particularly if you have the large iPhone 6 Plus or if the mobile version isn’t very good. Safari now has a new feature that lets you quickly choose between the mobile or desktop version of a website. To use it, tap the address bar and drag just below it to reveal the Mobile or Desktop options. Be warned: if you don’t have any favourites, the Mobile/Desktop options can be hard to see.Tip #12: Mute conversations12. Mute individual peopleIf you don’t want to mute your entire phone but there’s someone constantly texting you, you can now mute individual people from your contact list. Open their message window, select details in the top right corner and then swipe the Do Not Disturb button. You will no longer be notified of their messages until you turn Do Not Disturb off.Tip #13: Black and white screen13. Turn your iPhone greyYou can now remove all the colour from your iOS device, making it entirely greyscale. This is a great option for some visually impaired people, or for those who don’t like colour. To activate this go to Settings &gt; General &gt; Accessibility and swipe Greyscale.14. Automatically send last location of phone before it diesIf you misplace your iPhone, Find My iPhone will use your device’s GPS to pinpoint its exact location. However, your phone will need some power for this feature to work. A good way to combat the power issue is to tell your phone to broadcast its last location right before the battery dies. Turn this on by going to Settings &gt; iCloud &gt; Find My iPhone.Tip #15: Format text15. Format words and insert picturesA much-needed update for Apple’s pleasantly minimalist note-taking app sees the introduction of some useful formatting options such as the ability to use italics, bold and underline. You can now also import photos. For maximum convenience, be sure the notes app is interacting with iCloud (Settings &gt; iCloud &gt; Notes) so you can access your updates from any other iOS device. You will need a free iCloud email address for this.16. “Hey Siri” talk to Siri when plugged inIt’s 4am. You’ve just woken from a disturbing dream. Something about the owls not being as they seem. You feel compelled to Google owls, in search of answers. But wait, you’re comfortable in bed, this is no time for typing. Don’t worry, Apple thought of this situation. Settings &gt; General &gt; Siri has an Allow “Hey Siri” option. Enable it and you can control Siri by bellowing “Hey Siri” at your iOS device whenever it is plugged in.Tip #17: Siri’s song checker17. Siri ShazamSiri’s power continues to grow in iOS 8 thanks to its recent marriage with Shazam, a music identification service. Hold down your home button to activate Siri and say “Siri, what song is this?” wait for it to say “Let me listen” then hold your device up to the song that you’re trying to identify. This service is surprisingly accurate.TIp #18: Share location18. Share your locationIf you’ve arranged to meet a friend somewhere, don’t bother trying to explain where you are, show them. iOS 8 comes with the ability to share your exact location. Tap Details in the top right of your message window and select Send My Current Location. The recipient will get a snapshot of your current whereabouts. If you’d like to share your location that updates as you move, select Share My Location instead.Tip #19: Delete web history19. Delete specific pages from your history in Safari. Clear various days.If you’ve been up to no good online but don’t want to clear your entire history, you can now delete specific web pages rather than nuking the lot. In Safari tap the open book icon in the bottom right corner, then select History from your Bookmarks. Now swipe left and select Delete on any of the web pages you would like to remove.20. Lock screen now has location-based shortcutsThis one’s more of a heads-up. Did you know that your lock screen can now house location- based shortcuts? If you have the Starbucks app and you enter one of their chains, a small Starbucks icon will appear in the bottom left of your screen before you’ve even unlocked your phone. Expect to see these features arriving in other apps soon.Tip #21: Mail options21. Mail swipe optionsThe Mail app now comes with more swipe options. Swipe to the right and you can Mark as Read. To the left and you can Archive, Flag or tap More for a long list of other options. You can change how this behaves by going to Settings &gt; Mail, Contacts, Calendars &gt; Swipe Options. Another new Mail feature let’s you swipe a draft to the bottom of the screen, allowing you to multi-task in the app instead of having to delete the draft entirely.Tip #22: App widgets22. WidgetsiOS 8 finally allows widgets, a sort of app extension that provides basic functionality within the Notification Centre. To view your widgets, open the Notification Centre by swiping down from the top of your iOS device’s screen. From here you can also remove, add or edit your widgets by scrolling to the bottom of the Notification Centre and tapping on Edit.Tip #23: Photo editing options23. New editing options for photosApple has added a substantial amount of additional photo editing options to iOS 8. Once you have taken your photo, select Edit in the top right hand corner and at the bottom of the screen tap the third icon from the left, which looks like a small control knob. From here you can edit light and colour settings, such as exposure, highlights, shadows, brightness, contrast, black point, saturation, grain and tone – to name just a few.Tip #24: DuckDuckGo24. DuckDuckGo search engine optionDuckDuckGo is an internet search engine that attempts to provide a less intrusive and more private search alternative than the likes of Google or Bing. This is achieved – according to the company – by avoiding personalised search results. This search engine is now available in Safari on iOS 8. If you would like to activate it, head to Settings &gt; Safari &gt; Search Engine.Tip #25: Scan a credit card25. Scan credit card option in SafariSome websites, such as Amazon, which require payment information now allow iOS 8 users to scan their credit or debit card details with their camera phone instead of typing it all out. When the time comes to add your card details, an option will appear at the bottom of the screen asking if you would like to use the scan option. Simply click it and snap a picture.
Even if you’re not that angry about the rise of free-to-play (or “freemium”) gaming in the world of smartphones and tablets, the latest episode of South Park promises to be a hoot.It takes aim at the trend of games funded by in-app purchases of virtual items, and judging from reports, nails the flaws of some of the more cynical cash-in titles.VentureBeat has a good summaryof the pitch to characters Terrence and Phillip, who are thinking of starring in their own mobile game:1.Entice the player with an easy game loop.2. Compliment the player with flashy casino slots-like rewards and graphics.3. Train players to spend the in-game currency.4. Then offer players the chance to spend real money for that in-game currency.5. Then make the game about waiting, but let them pay to avoid waiting.It also notes the similarity between the spoof game in South Park, and the very real games based on rival shows The Simpsons and Family Guy. The episode is likely to provoke wry smiles even among defenders of freemium as a business model, but I suspect it may become a rallying point for its critics.What do you think? If you’ve seen the full episode, do its jabs hit home? And more generally, are you seeing examples of freemium games that aren’t as cynical as the formula above, or do you think the model can’t help but fall into this pattern? The comments section is open for your views.Also on the tech radar this morning:Encouraging news for anyone who wants Twitter to be doing more to help users – women in particular – who are being harassed on the social network. The company isworking with nonprofit group Women, Action &amp; the Mediaon a better way for people to report harassment, from hate speech to doxxing.Agreat piece on Google’s Spotlight Stories short films technology, described as “immersive shorts”, which is being pitched to Hollywood. The action is shot in 360 degrees, then the viewer gets to control the point-of-view. “Something that uses advanced tech to reframe storytelling itself,” as Medium’s Steven Levy puts it.PewDiePieisn’t regretting turning off commentson his YouTube videos. “Before I turned off my comments, I think things were going downhill. So, making that change, I feel like we’ve been going back up, and it’s been making me really happy, and it’s been making me really enjoy what I do.” A worrying statement for YouTube, given that he’s its biggest star.Thelatest on the WireLurker malwarefor Macs and iOS devices uncovered earlier this week in 467 Mac apps. Apple now says it is blocking those apps in order to prevent people installing them, and then having their mobile devices infected. I suspect there may be less on-stage jabs at Android for malware at the company’s next launch.Tablet maker Nabi, which focuses on children, hasa couple of big new devices. Literally big: they’re 20 and 24-inch tablets. The theory being that multiple children can play together on one device. Having seen my two sons’ differing tastes (currently Angry Birds for one and Toca Boca for the other) I’m wondering if there’s a split-screen mode.What stories have piqued your interest today? Jump in below the line with your recommendations, as well as your thoughts on the stories above.
The FBI and Europol cracked down on the latest version of the Silk Road drugs and contraband goods market on Thursday, arresting its 26-year-old alleged operator and shutting its website.Blake Benthall was arrested in San Francisco on Wednesday on federal charges related to his allegedly running Silk Road 2.0, an online market designed to let people buy and sell illegal drugs and other unlawful goods and services anonymously, said the United States attorney’s office for the southern district of New York.US attorney Preet Bharara alleged Benthall, who went by the username “Defcon”, had attempted to resurrect Silk Road after its original incarnation was shut down by the FBI last year and its alleged operator,Ross Ulbricht, also known as Dread Pirate Roberts, was arrested.Ulbricht, who authorities claim facilitated $1bn in illicit trades, has pleaded not guilty to charges of drug trafficking, money laundering and criminal enterprise. His trial is set for January.“Let’s be clear – this Silk Road, in whatever form, is the road to prison. Those looking to follow in the footsteps of alleged cybercriminals should understand that we will return as many times as necessary to shut down noxious online criminal bazaars. We don’t get tired,” said Bharara.The authorities said Silk Road 2.0, launched in November 2013, had enabled over 100,000 people to buy and sell illegal drugs anonymously over the internet.The website operated on the Tor network, a network designed to allow anonymity online. Since its launch Silk Road 2.0 had allowed thousands of people to buy “hundreds of kilograms of illegal drugs and other illicit goods and services to buyers throughout the world, as well as to launder millions of dollars generated by these unlawful transactions,” according to the US attorney’s office.In September, authorities say, Silk Road 2.0 had sales of approximately $8m per month and about 150,000 active users. The site had over 13,000 listings for controlled substances, including, among others, 1,783 listings for “psychedelics”, 1,697 listings for “ecstasy”, 1,707 listings for “cannabis”, and 379 listings for “opioids”. Silk Road 2.0 was a marketplace for illegal services too including fraudulent identification documents and computer-hacking tools and services.US law enforcement successfully infiltrated Silk Road 2.0’s support staff, gaining access to restricted areas of the site. The authorities said their infiltration allowed them to interact directly with Benthall throughout his operation of the website.Blake Benthall, in a photograph on his Instagram accountAccording to the complaint Benthall used his own email address to communicate with the service provider for Silk Road 2.0’s server. Federal agents also claim that IP addresses, obtained from Google, and their physical surveillance of the suspect and Defcon’s online activity further tie Benthall to the username. Agents monitoring Benthall during a visit to relatives noticed Defcon go quiet when he left his relatives’ house, they say.Benthall will appear in court in San Francisco later on Thursday. He is charged with one count of conspiring to commit narcotics trafficking, which carries a maximum sentence of life in prison and a mandatory minimum sentence of 10 years in prison; one count of conspiring to commit computer hacking, which carries a maximum sentence of five years in prison; one count of conspiring to traffic in fraudulent identification documents, which carries a maximum sentence of 15 years in prison; and one count of money laundering conspiracy, which carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison.According to his Linkedin profile, Benthall was a former employee of SpaceX, PayPal billionaire Elon Musk’s space exploration company. A company spokesman confirmed that someone of the same name did work at the SpaceX for roughly the time period claimed by Benthall. On Twitter he describes himself as “rocket scientist, bitcoin dreamer”.
Adele’s manager has backed streaming services like Spotify as the future of music, but warned the company that it may need to change its policy of insisting all albums be made available on both its free and premium tiers.“Personally, I think streaming’s the future, whether people like it or not, but I don’t believe one size necessarily fits all with streaming,” said Jonathan Dickins, speaking at the Web Summit conference in Dublin this afternoon.He was responding to a question aboutTaylor Swift’s back catalogue being removed from Spotifyearlier in the week.“Spotify have always been pictured as the bad guys in this, but the biggest music streamer out there is YouTube, without a doubt,” he said, pointing out that when artists or labels remove music from Spotify, it is often still easy to find it on YouTube.“If I make a search now for Taylor Swift on YouTube, give me 30 seconds and I can have the whole Taylor Swift album there streamed. Some of it’s ad-supported, so there is revenue, and some of it’s not,” he said.“On the one hand, labels are trumpeting YouTube as a marketing tool: 10 million views on YouTube and it’s a marketing stroke of genius. But on the other hand they’re looking at 10 million streams on Spotify and saying that’s x amount of lost sales.”He elaborated on his theory that one size doesn’t fit all when it comes to streaming, suggesting that Spotify could “make it easier for themselves” by relenting in its policy of having albums available to all its users, rather than allowing some to be restricted to its paying customers.“The premium tier to me are real active record buyers, paying their $9.99 or €9.99 or £9.99 a month. My feeling would be to get around the situation with someone like Taylor Swift – but Spotify won’t do it – is a window between making something available on the premium service, earlier than it’s made available on the free service.”Dickins has first-hand experience of this policy, withreports in 2012that Spotify refused to allow Adele’s last album 21 to be made available in this way. The album was added to the service later that year.Even so, he was positive about the prospects for streaming overall, and Spotify in particular. “It’s all about scale. Spotify will work if they get enough payers.”Dickins, who also manages artists and producers including London Grammar, Jamie T, Rick Rubin and Paul Epworth, was speaking as part of a panel of managers alongside Jeff Jampol, who manages The Doors and The Ramones, along with the estates of other artists.Jonathan Dickins and Jeff Jampol at Web Summit.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianJampol talked about the changing nature of the music industry, suggesting that record labels are no longer at the centre of an artist’s business.“Here’s the way an income pie should look for a successful or current artist: 60-65% of their income is going to come from tickets, 15-25% from tour merch, 10-15% from publishing, 2-4% from ancillary and 2-4% from record sales,” said Jampol.Dickins agreed that touring is becoming hugely important to most artists. “Adele is the exception not the rule. The record 21 came out in 2011, we’ve sold 30 million copies of that album,” he said. “We haven’t toured that much, for many different reasons. But I think touring has become a major focus point for 99.9% of current artists’ careers.”Jampol talked about the importance for managers of being able to handle many different business areas, from books and merchandise to publishing income and even museum partnerships – he’s worked on several for his artists.“The record business is a key but small part of it. A book publisher knows nothing about the record business, who knows nothing about the apparel business, who knows nothing about museums, who knows nothing about publishing,” he said.“We’re in the middle. We’re the quarterback, and the artist is the CEO... We have to get all these players to work together.”Dickins talked about the importance of turning down opportunities, rather than trying to do everything. “The one thing the internet has done: content is everywhere.... and part of the hunger for content is we’ve reached saturation point. and when you reach saturation point it cheapens it. And one of the things I do is say no,” he said.“That might be ‘no, I don’t want to do an Adele perfume, we’re not doing a nail polish’. Or ‘that ticket price is too expensive’. Whatever it is, the power of saying no, and being the gatekeeper to these opportunities is key.”He said that major labels nowadays “live under a culture of fear... people live with these two-three year deals, whatever they’ve got, they’ve got kids at school, and they have to produce hits. And if they have a hit - which are few and far between – there’s the opportunity to kill: to rinse every last bit of blood out of a record. And I think it’s dangerous.”Jampol agreed: “Labels are all about getting their profit and loss for the third or fourth quarter. We’re about the long-term vision. We plan in decades!” he said.“Having an artist legacy is kinda like walking up a down escalator. If you’re standing still, you’re not standing still, you’re moving backwards. You have to find that sweet spot that’s not doing nothing and not doing too much. And over-saturation is a big problem.”Meanwhile, Dickins said that managers are getting to grips with the biggest change in the music industry, which is its transition from sales to streaming.“The business was always about buying stuff. When it was cassettes and vinyl, then it became about CD, then the disasters like DCC [digital compact cassette] and mini-disc,” he said.“Streaming will be ubiquitous in five years. We are going now into a streaming model. Whether you want to be in it or not, within five years it will be everywhere. That something does not become about buying any more. It becomes about consumption and it becomes about access... and that hasn’t been done before.”•Streaming music: what next for Apple, YouTube and SpotifyThis article was amended on 7 November 2014 to reflect the fact that while Charles may be Dickens, Jonathan is most certainly Dickins. Apologies.
A new “verified identity” scheme for gov.uk is making it simpler to apply for a new driving licence, passport or to file a tax return online, allowing users to register securely using one log in that connects and securely stores their personal data.After nearly a year of closed testing with a few thousand Britons, the “Gov.UK Verify” schemequietly openedto general users on 14 October, expanding across more services. It could have as many as half a million users with a year.The most popular servicesare expected to beone for tax credit renewals, andCAPfarm information - both expected to have around 100,000 users by April next year, and on their own making up nearly half of the total use.The team behind the system claim this is a world first. Those countries that have developed advanced government services online, such as Estonia, rely on state identity cards - which the UK has rejected.“This is a federated model of identity, not a centralised one,” said Janet Hughes, head of policy and engagement at the Government Digital Service’s identity assurance program, which developed and tested the system.How it worksThe Verify system has taken three years to develop, and involves checking a user’s identity against details from a range of sources, including credit reference agencies, utility bills, driving licences and mobile provider bills.But it does not retain those pieces of information, and the credit checking companies do not know what service is being used. Only a mobile or landline number is kept in order to send verification codes for subsequent logins.When people subsequently log in, they would have to provide a user ID and password, and verify their identity by entering a code sent to related stored phone number.To enrol in the system, users have to be over 19, living in the UK, and been resident for over 12 months. A faked passport would not be sufficient: “they would need a very full false ID, and have to not appear on any list of fraudulent identities,” one source at the GDS told the Guardian.Banks now following gov.uk’s leadGovernment developers are confident that it presents a higher barrier to authentication than any other digital service - so that fraudulent transactions will be minimised. That has interested banks, which are understood to be expressing interest in using the same service to verify customer identities through an arms-length verification system.The government system would not pass on people’s data, but would instead verify that someone is who they claim to be, much like Twitter and Facebook verify users’ identity to log in to third party sites, yet don’t share their users’ data.The US, Canada and New Zealand have also expressed interest in following up the UK’s lead in the system, which requires separate pieces of verified information about themselves from different sources.The system then cross-references that verified information with credit reference agencies and other sources, which can include a mobile phone provider, passport, bank account, utility bill or driving licence.The level of confidence in an individual’s identity is split into four levels. The lowest is for the creation of simple accounts to receive reports or updates: “we don’t need to know who it is, only that it’s the same person returning,” said Hughes.Level 2 requires that “on the balance of probability” someone is who they say they are - which is the level to which Verify will be able to identify people. Hughes says that this will cover the majority of services.Level 3 requires identity “beyond reasonable doubt” - perhaps including the first application for a passport - and Level 4 would require biometric information to confirm individual identity.Consultation with privacy groupsThe government is cautiously optimistic about the Verify program after the NHS care.data scheme, which aimed to collate health records in a single “spine”, ran into objections from privacy campaigners. The backers of Verify are at pains to say that its use will be optional - though more convenient than having to go to a physical office to register or order secure documents and file taxes.The service has been built in consultation with privacy pressure groups including No2ID, Big Brother Watch, the University of Oxford’s Internet Institute, the Consumers Association, and the privacy regulator, the Information Commissioner’s Office.Emma Carr, director of Big Brother Watch, told the Guardian: “It feels inevitable that this will happen because of the government’s ‘digital by default’ drive” - which aims to make all government services available digitally. “If it’s done in a proportionate and secure way, that’s good. But it has to feel like it isn’t imposed, and it has to be clear how it works. This is the first time that private companies are being asked to verify peoples’ identities. How it works might confuse some people.”Privacy groups have worked with the government to create a list ofprinciplesfor interacting with the Verify system.It should take no more than 10 minutes to enrol in the system for the first time - and after that, users will be able to log in much more quickly using their identity. Users are asked to verify their identity via a credit reference agency: presently Experian and Verizon, though Digidentity and the Post Office will join soon.A Cabinet Office spokesperson said: “Hardworking people expect to be able to access public services at their convenience so we are moving to digital-by-default services, designed around users. Our first wave of 25 ‘exemplar’ online services will help save £1.7bn a year after the next general election, as part of this government’s long-term economic plan.“We want to make it easier for everyone to verify their identity online - without building new, single databases or reintroducing an illiberal ID card scheme - so we are building an online verification scheme which empowers the citizen to select the provider they want.”How geeks opened up government - video
Users of Apple’s Mac OS X are being warned to watch out for not one, but two new weaknesses in the platform which can be used in attacks – one of which is already in the wild.The first, known as Rootpipe, affects multiple versions of Mac OS X, including the newest release, Yosemite. It lets an attacker gain “root” control of a computer, the highest level of access, without having to know a password.Rootpipe could theoretically allow a hacker to install any malicious software that could be used to steal credit cards details or other personal data, among other things.The other, called Wirelurker, is the first malware seen in the wild which targets iOS devices that haven’t been jailbroken. Wirelurker could be used to extract basic personal information from a phone. It tricks the user into installing it on their Mac, and then waits until an iPhone or iPad is plugged in over USB before using the trusted relationship between the two to install software on the mobile device.RootpipeDiscovered by the Swedish hacker Emil Kvarnhammar, who works for security firm Truesec, Rootpipe is what’s known as a privilege escalation vulnerability. Modern operating systems employ several tiers of security, ensuring that a typical user can’t accidentally authorise software to damage their computer. The highest level of access, known as “root” access, is typically cordoned off from all but the most essential program.Rootpipe is a vulnerability in Mac OS X which lets an attacker ignore that requirement, and access the root of the computer without needing a password. “Normally there are ‘sudo’ password requirements, which work as a barrier, so the admin cant gain root access without entering the correct password. However, rootpipe circumvents this,”Kvarnhammar told MacWorld.If abused, the vulnerability would malware developers far greater scope to damage a user’s computer without needing to ask, or trick, them into entering a password.The hacker has reported the vulnerability to Apple, and is withholding further information on how, exactly, to trigger it until the company rolls out a patch to affected users – refusing even to get into the source of the name, since that reveals information which could be used to replicate the attack.In the meantime, he says the simplest way to protect a computer is to stop using an administrative account on a day-to-day basis, instead using a normal user account unless something needs administrative privileges. He also recommends using Apple’s FileVault system, which is turned on by default in Mac OS X Yosemite.WirelurkerUnlike Rootpipe, Wirelurker is already present in the wild, hitching a ride on certain versions of pirated Chinese software. When the user runs the pirated software, they accidentally install the malware as well.Wirelurker then hangs around the infected system until the user plugs in a mobile device with a USB cable, at which point it scrapes personal data and attempts to install malicious copies of apps. If the user’s device is jailbroken – hacked, to let them install software without Apple’s permission – then it steals far more information, such as old iMessages and the contents of the user’s address book.Currently, versions of the malware seen in the mild are fairly innocuous, seemingly more concerned with identifying the users of the pirated software than inflicting further harm. But the techniques used, which abuse Apple’s iDevice management systems, could open the door to much more damaging malware.“WireLurker is unlike anything we’ve ever seen in terms of Apple iOS and OS X malware,” says Ryan Olson, the intelligence director of Palo Alto Networks, who discovered the malware. “The techniques in use suggest that bad actors are getting more sophisticated when it comes to exploiting some of the world’s best-known desktop and mobile platforms.”For users who have made a habit of downloading pirated Chinese software,Palo Alto Networks have released a detection toolto check whether they are infected with Wirelurker.Apple did not respond to a request for comment.•Apple tightens iCloud security after celebrity nude photo hack
I have a Microsoft Professional keyboard plugged into a Toshiba laptop running Windows 7. When I press the delete key, I get a hash symbol (#). The delete key does work, but adds a # every time it moves backwards. It’s driving me nuts.StephenWe’re used to the idea that you can plug any keyboard into any Windows PC, but not everything will work every time. It certainly helps if you set things up correctly, but if that fails, there are several utilities that let you change the key assignments. For example, if you keep hitting caps lock or F1 by mistake, you can reprogram those keys to do something else, or nothing.If a key is producing the wrong response, check that Windows has the correct settings for your location and the language used by your keyboard. UK keyboards obviously have a different layout from French and German keyboards, but the most common problems are due to the much smaller differences between UK and US settings. UK users want a pound (£) sign, which was not part of the originalstandard ASCII character set. The double-quote (“) and ampersand (@) keys are also swapped.For future reference, if both UK and US layouts are available, you can swap between them by pressing left alt-shift. It’s very easy to do this by accident, which is probably why so many people hit the £ sign and see a # appear instead.Extended keyboardsFurther problems can arise with extended keyboards that provide keys for opening programs or controlling media events that weren’t standard key assignments on typewriters or early computer terminals. For example, a “media keyboard” may have extra keys for things like play/pause, volume up, and volume down. In these cases, Windows will need a suitable device driver. If Windows recognises the keyboard, it may provide one. If not, you can download one from the supplier’s website.In this case, I’m not sure which keyboard you have, but I suspect it’s a Microsoft Digital Media Pro USB keyboard. If so, you can download the correct driver,IntelliType 8.2 64-bit for Windows 7, from Microsoft’s website. If not, search for the exact name of the model you have, or look throughMicrosoft’s list. Most drivers are self-installing, but they can beinstalled manually.As always, don’t do things you can’t undo. You should always have a current backup of your work, and before changing Windows, you shouldcreate a “restore point”so that you can easily return your PC to its current state.Now, open the control panel, find the entry for “Clock, Language and Region” and click where it says “Change keyboards or other input methods” to bring up the Properties sheet. Next, click the Location tab to make sure your location is set correctly, eg United Kingdom. After that, click the tab for Keyboards and Languages, and then the button for Change Keyboards. This will allow you to add or remove a keyboard and set the default input language. (You have two keyboards: the Toshiba laptop has one built in.)Another tab refers to the Language Bar, which is used for switching between languages. This is usually docked in the taskbar, where you can easily get to it.If you have the location and the language set correctly, and a suitable driver installed, the keyboard should work correctly. However, keys can be changed to do different things by editing the Windows registry. Perhaps your delete key has been remapped by a program or by accident or by some odd registry corruption.Changing what keys doThe simplest way to change keyboard mappings is, as mentioned, to use a free utility that will change the registry for you. This avoids having to grapple with HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Keyboard Layout.Well known examples include SharpKeys, KeyTweak, and MapKeyboard. I’d start with SharpKeys but use whatever works for you. Note, however, that success is not guaranteed: some “non standard” keys are controlled by drivers and Windows can’t redirect those.SharpKeysis a simple program that provides two lists of keys: “From” keys on the left and “To” keys on the right. Select the key you want to change on the left hand side, and then select what you want the key to do on the right. After changing any keys, click the “write to Registry” button and then restart your PC for the changes to take effect.MapKeyboardis a very small program that doesn’t need to be installed, and it’s based on a graphical representation of a standard keyboard. The drawback is that this probably doesn’t match the keyboard you have. Also, it doesn’t include special hotkeys, but it does include some small advertisements.KeyTweak 2.30is a more sophisticated (but abandoned) program that also provides a drawing of a keyboard, but it can handle “speciality” keys. It also has a “teach mode”, though it’s still not as easy to use as SharpKeys.Of course, the ultimate in keyboard tweaking is the freeMicrosoft Keyboard Layout Creator(MSKLC). This would be handy if you needed to create a keyboard to handle more than one language, or one of the languages that Windows 7 doesn’t support. (Wolof, Cherokee and Scottish Gaelic, for example, are only supported inWindows 8.) I mention it for completeness, but it would be overkill for your purposes.Finally, there’sAutoHotKey. Not only can it remap keys, it can assign macro programs to them. You can use AutoHotKey to create keyboard shortcuts that open programs and documents, repeat a series of actions, expand abbreviations, paste in bits of text, and so on.Users who have written complex AutoHotKey scripts sometimes share them in theuser forum, and there areothercollections, but I’d be amazed if any of them included the one you want.
Star Trek’s futuristic vision of talking with friends through a small communicator badge on your jacket is about to become a reality, according to a startup in San Francisco.The Onyx is small button with a speaker that clips to clothing and connects via Bluetooth to a smartphone with a data connection.Pressing the button connects directly to other Onyx units in a pre-defined group allowing hands-free real-time communication anywhere with an internet connection, either via a built-in speaker or a pair of headphones.Jesse Robbins, chief executive and founder of OnBeep, saida blog postthat Onyx would “enhance the way people communicate, delivering effortless, group collaboration, using the power of your voice”.A small button allows hands-free group chat.Photograph: OnBeepRobbins and co-founder Greg Albrecht are both volunteers for emergency services in the US and came up with the idea while out attending an emergency situation.‘Communicate with the rest of the team without losing focus’“During an incident, an emergency responder needs to be able to communicate with the rest of the team without losing focus. The last thing you want is to have your attention pulled away from the scene in an emergency,” explained Robbins. “To make that possible, we rely on two-way radios. They’re bulky, ungainly and cumbersome, but they’re reliable — and that’s what matters when you’re working in life-or-death situations.”OnBeep claims to provide instant, one-touch communication without the bulk of a radio or walkie-talkie, using the global network of smartphones as its backbone.Other Bluetooth devices have allowed people to talk hands-free for years, normally attached to the ear, while push-to-talk functions that turn mobile phones into unlimited range walkie-talkies have been popular in the US since the 1990s. But none have offered the ability to manage groups of users across different networks and locations without having to purchase special mobile phone contracts.Onyx is a re-imagining of the classic walkie-talkie.The small round button is 60mm in diameter, weighs 46g and attaches to bags and clothing with a clip. A smartphone app for Android and iPhone allows users to manage groups and share locations in real-time.Onyx has been in development for the last year, the product of a startup group of 24 designers, engineers and artists, and is available for pre-order for $99 (£62) in the US, shipping before Christmas. Now’s your chance to live the Star Trek dream and issue the command “three to beam up”.•Jawbone’s Up3 fitness device monitors heart rate to track sleep cycles•Microsoft leaks its own new fitness band and health software
Activision; PC/PS3/PS4/Xbox360/Xbox One; £45; Pegi rating: 18+For a while it looked like the future of video games was realism. That is the point towards which the technology (if not the art) naturally curves: more power to better render the world and its physics on screen.Call of Duty, the apex predator of war games, led the charge. In the early 2000s, its makers attempted to recreate the second world war from the blood-soaked mud upwards. Then the series zipped to the present day modes of warfare (cringing in the reeds in a foliage-draped ghillie suit; lighting up insurgents on a gunship’s impassive targeting monitor), before taking a detour to Vietnam’s sweltering jungle, with its soupy rivers and heavy air.But while realism provided Call of Duty with its visual style, reality was never its modus operandi. You invariably played as a superman dressed in fatigues, swatting back incoming waves of foreigners. You’d stab the restart button every time the inexhaustible opposition overwhelmed as if pumping a fresh credit into an arcade machine. With each annual update, the series’ creators tried to find more outlandish Michael Bay-esque set pieces to up the ante, obliterating the Middle East in a nuclear attack, assassinating Fidel Castro, even going so far as to inexplicably blow up the Eiffel Tower.Once you’ve decimated Paris’ tourism industry, where can you really go next?It’s a question that Call of Duty’s publisher Activision has been struggling with in recent years. As the grandiose becomes increasingly familiar, ennui has begun its profit-rotting work.Advanced Warfare’s solution is simple: drop the pretence of realism and fully embrace the science fiction histrionics. This is achieved, as in so many video games, with the introduction of an ability-enhancing suit. The exosuit (an imaginative evolution of military technology that’s already in development) sits at the core of Advance Warfare, redefining both halves of the game’s offering: the single player campaign (Call of Duty: the movie) and the online competitive multiplayer (Call of Duty: the sport).With the exosuit (there are a few variations, each with different capabilities) your character is able to tear the doors from vehicles and use them as impromptu shields. It enables the wearer to boost high into the air, dash forward and body slam on top of an opponent. It affords superhuman strength (punch an enemy and they will blast backwards) and agility (you can scale metallic buildings using nothing more than your magnetic palms). You can even slow time, a trick that is put to creative use in one memorable scene where you must dash between the high-speed traffic as you cross a six-lane motorway.Crucially, the suit changes Call of Duty’s feel in the hands. You must acquire new muscle memory learning to dash across open spaces in multiplayer in order to reduce the amount of time you’re in plain sight, or to zip out of the way of incoming grenade blasts. It’s quicker, more stylish and, crucially, allows for a greater degree of showboating and skilful play – an essential development as publisher Activision continues to position the game as a serious player in the world of professional eSports.By setting the game 45 years into the future, new studio Sledgehammer (made up of staff best known for their Dead Space science fiction horror series) is able to provide set pieces that would have been impossible in historical or contemporary settings. The skies are heavy with drones – both the self-cloaking variety, able to eavesdrop on conversation from 200 metres away, and the swarming type, which flit through the air like emigrating swallows, and clatter to the ground when you trigger a vision-coning EMP blast. One mission has you ride hover-bikes through a drenched dystopian Detroit (“The city hasn’t changed much,” says your team-mate, drolly); another has you break into a chemical plant that’s hidden in the jungle under a kilometre-wide digital canopy.Exosuits and swarming drones lend a sense of high-tech verticality to the gameplayPhotograph: ActivisionThe futuristic setting has revolutionised your arsenal too: grenades dangle in the air for a moment while waiting for you to direct them toward a specific target with a nod of the head. You can switch between grenade types with a click of a button, even after pulling the pin (essentially increasing the number of grenade types you carry from two to six) while guns report their remaining ammunition with a digital readout on the hilt (removing the need for any screen-cluttering heads up display read-outs).A light upgrade system has been introduced to the single player campaign. As you rack up the kills and find the Intel-filled laptops that the enemy has carelessly left laying about, you earn upgrade points that augment your suit’s abilities (reducing the amount you recoil when hit, for example, or increasing the number of grenades you can carry). You also earn new equipment and outfits that can be taken into the labyrinthine online modes, a way to report your achievements to other players via the ambient showboating of your clothes.It’s here that Advanced Warfare’s long-term appeal is to be found (the storyline lasts for 10 hours or so; Activision hopes that players will remain in its competitive and co-operative multiplayer modes for the next 12 months). The science-fiction setting re-invigorates with a liberating range of different attachments and modifications for your weapons (everything from long-range microphones that an pick up the sound of distant enemy footsteps to heat-seeking scopes that light enemies up through walls). Call of Duty’s brittle rhythm remains, but here it’s played out with a new kind of urgency.New directed energy weapons and a range of customisable suit abilities increase the pace of the multiplayer mapsPhotograph: ActivisionYou can customise your load-out to a fine degree, “spending” 13 points however you see fit across a range of different weapons, attachments, projectiles and augmentations. The maps are some of the series’ best in years, designed to hustle players around in a whirlpool circuit. The exosuits bring a new sense of verticality now that you can leap walls and scale buildings with relative ease. Some maps even come with a set-piece moment that can be triggered to change its layout, or force players to congregate chaotically in certain areas.While Activision would have us believe that this is a bold and daring re-imagination of Call of Duty, in truth it is a necessary re-arrangement. Any multi-million annual blockbuster game series must find new ways to freshen its formula while retaining enough of its familiar character so as not to alienate its fans.Advanced Warfare is the best that Call of Duty has been for years, a successful negotiation of that troublesome creative and commercial tension. And while the game has nothing substantial to say about the future of warfare, it nevertheless presents a grimly vivid vision of how humanity’s technological ascent will continue to enable the wealthy (both governments and private military companies fronted by Kevin Spacey lookalikes) to better kill and maim others in the pursuit or protection of power.Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare means ‘brand new audience’ for Kevin SpaceyCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare – a pro-gamer’s guide to multiplayer
British developer Mind Candy delighted tens of millions of children with its Moshi Monsters virtual world, before watching many of them drift away to mobile games like Candy Crush Saga and Clash of Clans.Its latest effort to tempt them back is a new mobile game,World of Warriors, released this week for iPhone and iPad as a combat strategy game featuring historical warriors including vikings, knights and Aztecs.“Imagine Horrible Histories meets Game of Thrones meets Pokemon,” said Mind Candy’s founder Michael Acton Smith when he spoke at The Bookseller Children’s Conference in September.World of Warriors hopes to win over children and adults alike with its mixture of battling, crafting and strategy – the game is aimed at core gamers – as well as educational elements in the way it teaches players about the various historical characters.The game is a freemium title: free to play, but using in-app purchases of virtual currency – “wildstones” – which are used within the game.The model is less problematic in World of Warriors than it has been in previous Mind Candy mobile games that used the Moshi Monsters brand, such as match-three puzzlerMoshling Rescue, which sold virtual diamonds for up to £59.99 at a time.Acton Smith has talked regularly over the last year about the dilemma facing companies like Mind Candy, which are caught between their background providing children’s entertainment, and the freemium-dominated world of mobile games.“Over 90% of the revenue from app stores comes from in-app purchase products. It’s a very difficult business model to make work in the kids space,” he said at the Bookseller conference.“Kids, becaue they have access to all this, are playing these grown up games like Candy Crush Saga and Clash of Clans, which are backed by hundreds of millions of dollars in marketing.”He hoped that World of Warriors would find a wide audience of children and adults. “We are bringing this world to life with a mobile game originally, which we hope will appeal to kids of all ages, and offline products that we hope will appeal to a younger audience like books and magazines.”•Tech-savvy children abandon the web for ‘free’ mobile play
Intel’s general manager of new devices, Mike Bell, is unimpressed by the current generation of smartwatches.“Taping a cellphone to your wrist is not what I’d call a wearable. There has to be a reason why you’d use the technology,” he said, speaking at the Web Summit conference in Dublin yesterday.Bell later continued the theme. “That’s part of the reason you don’t see wearables selling much today,” he said. “It’s maybe not a thing that normal people want to wear.”But Bell said Intel is bullish about the long-term potential for smartwatches, fitness trackers and other wearable devices, and intends to play a high-profile role in the market.“We want to be in this space quickly. We’re like to help drive it. Wearables is one of those things where if someone doesn’t show leadership and make it happen, the hype won’t happen,” he said – in other words the reality won’t deliver on the hype.“We’re making a very big bet on wearables. We have announced we have a family of chipsets coming out in the next year that are wearables specific. It’s a pretty safe bet … Our plan is to partner with the best people, and have them teach us.”Bell added that fashion companies will have an important role to play too. “I do think we can make the reality live up to the hype. We are trying to bring technology companies and fashion companies together,” he said. “It turns out they [fashion companies] know their customers but don’t know tech. And vice versa.”Bell returned to his criticism of current smartwatches, saying that “it distracts me when somebody is sitting there and their watch is doing the blink thing every five seconds”, before praising Apple’s forthcoming entry into the market with its Apple Watch.“The great thing for me is overnight it legitimised smartwatches. Four to five months ago I would go and do interviews and people would say ‘Will the smartwatch ever take off?’. Now people say ‘Now apple has introduced the Apple Watch, clearly smartwatches will take off’. It’s changed the conversation, which is fantastic.”But he said future models will be a big improvement on current smartwatches. “I have’t seen anything I particularly like in smartwatches yet,” said Bell.“I have a Swiss-made watch that I like a lot. I think the ultimate device is where you have something that looks like a Swiss watch, and also has smart features inside it … I think we’re not too far off getting there.”
Earlier this year, I went tothe Grammysin Los Angeles – I expected it to be ostentatious and debauched, but instead it was eight soul-numbing hours in an over-lit arena, watchingPink perform a curiously unerotic trapeze actwhile dressed in three and a half sequins and a marabou feather.I mention this because since the Grammys, whenever someone mentions award shows, a small part of me crumples. So when I learned that this week’s review car, the redesigned Peugeot 308, was named winner of the European Car of the Year 2014 at the 84th Geneva Motor Show, I inwardly winced and shook my head, and imagined a ceremony in which it performed a risqué duet with Robin Thicke, wearing little more than a leotard and a prayer.Thankfully, the Peugeot 308 is considerably more understated than that. It’s a five-door hatchback that’s compact but with ample boot space. It’s not the most splendiferous car to behold, and there’s certainly no marabou feathering, but I rather like its quiet composure.I take it out on the tiles to toast its Motor Show win, past the fancy hotels and the kind of spangly nightspots frequented by award-winning celebrities. It is not as glamorous as I had hoped: swarms of bright-voiced young women drift into the road, burly young men squabble with rickshaw drivers and paparazzi clutter the pavements.Slightly embarrassed, I direct my gaze inside the car. The dashboard stares back, steady and sphinx-like. As with the Peugeot 208, the 308 has a small steering wheel, so you’re looking over it, not through it, to see the dials, and it has a central, easily navigable touchscreen control instead of the traditional scrabble of buttons. There’s an elegance and a simplicity to its layout that extends to the rest of the interior, and rather puts me in mind of the bathroom of a luxury hotel: fuss-free, and finely considered. It’s also a refined drive, smooth and quiet and responsive, making elegant work of the rowdy streets. And later, out on more open road, it appears to have more power than you might anticipate, enjoying its six-speed gearbox and overtaking with no strain.Quibbles: that steering wheel has a flimsiness that means you tend to regard it the way the surly student appraises the substitute teacher: as if it might never quite be in control of proceedings. I’m also not fond of the modern penchant for accessing the heating controls via the touchscreen – it feels fiddly and remote, somehow.All that boot space had to catch up with the Peugeot somewhere, and it’s in the back seats, which would become very slender little knee-crushing ledges were the front seats carrying taller passengers. But this is perhaps less of a family car than other hatchbacks – it’s a bit more grown up than that.We nudge on past lovers’ tiffs and raucous singalongs. The pubs are emptying now, the revellers making their way to bus stops and nightclub dance floors, and as we sit at the lights a hen party straggles past us in a cacophony of whistles and cheers. The Peugeot seems out of place here; too sober, too reserved. But this pleases me: in a world of ritz and flashiness, sometimes subtlety wins out.Peugeot 308 SWPriceFrom £14,895Top speed121mphAcceleration0-62mph in 12.1 secondsCombined fuel consumption85.6mpgCO2 emissions88g/kmEco rating8/10Cool rating8/10Follow Laura onTwitterThis article was edited on 6 November 2014. In the endnote on the original, we gave the wrong figures for speed, acceleration and fuel consumption. These have been corrected.
Companies which make spyware will have to apply for permission to export the software once new EU regulations come into effect in late December.Officially referred to as “intrusion software”, the software will now be included on the EU’s list of “dual use” items, defined as “goods, software and technology normally used for civilian purposes but which might have military applications or contribute to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.”The restriction means that companies will have to apply for a licence to export spyware, although it doesn’t affect the sale of the software within the UK. Inclusion on the dual-use list places the technology alongside nuclear reactors, ultra-high-resolution cameras, and rocket fuel.While the regulation is implemented by the European commission, the British government supports the restriction of spyware. “The UK has made it clear over the last two years that we believe that while these kind of technologies do have legitimate uses, they also pose threats to national security and to human rights and should be subject to export controls,” said a spokesperson for the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.“As these technologies are available from a number of supplier states it was important that we addressed the issue on an international basis. We have therefore worked hard with international partners to achieve these new controls.”Unlike many goods on the dual-use list, however, it is hard to prevent the unauthorised export of spyware. “Is the aim just to keep British technology or European technology out of the hands of people deemed unsuitable to own it, or is it really to deny those people access to such technology,” asks Trend Micro’s Rik Ferguson.“If it’s the latter, then it’s pretty much doomed to failure. Because all you have to do is look at the criminal underworld, and look at the tools and capabilities that are used by those people. In many cases they’re no different at all to the sort of commercial spyware that this legislation refers to.”One firm which would have been affected, had the regulations been in place earlier, is FinFisher, a German firm that used to be part of UK-based Gamma International. The company’s FinSpy softwarewas offered for saleto Egyptian security services in June 2010, according to documents seen by the Guardian in 2011, and activists from Bahrain and Ethiopiaclaim to have been targeted by it.The spyware can infect PCs and Macs as well as almost every mobile operating system, and break into victims’ email accounts, as well as monitor Skype conversations. In 2012, facing pressure from protest groups,the government movedto block the sale of FinFisher software by virtue of the cryptographic tools it contained, which are also included in the dual-use list.The updated dual use list also adds new controls on certain chemicals, such as plant pathogens, and limits other telecommunication and internet surveillance equipment besides spyware.
I can explain! It wasn't my fault this time - my access to the CMS crashed and wouldn't start up until this morning.Please, chat away!
The most popular messaging apps have hundreds of millions of users, but how secure are they really? The Electronic Frontier Foundation has been finding out,producing a “secure messaging scorecard”to rate them on a range of criteria.Are messages encrypted in transit, and encrypted so the provider can’t read them? Can you verify contacts’ identities? Are past communications secure if your keys are stolen? Is the code open to independent review, is the security design properly documented, and has the code been audited?“Many companies offer ‘secure messaging’ products – but are these systems actually secure? We decided to find out, in the first phase of a new EFF Campaign for Secure &amp; Usable Crypto,” explains the EFF.“This scorecard represents only the first phase of the campaign. In later phases, we are planning to offer closer examinations of the usability and security of the tools that score the highest here.”What’s interesting is that the apps that score seven green ticks are the likes of ChatSecure, CryptoCat, Signal, SilentPhone, Silent Text and TextSecure. Yet for most mainstream users, what defines their choice of messaging app is not “how secure is it?” but rather “which one are my friends using?”BBM, Facebook chat, Google Hangouts, Kik Messenger, Skype, Snapchat, WhatsApp and Viber don’t score well on the EFF’s criteria, for example. Apple’s iMessage actually does pretty well, with five out of seven ticks.Even so, will the EFF’s new research encourage those mainstream messaging apps to beef up their security? Or are we going to continue seeing a divide: security-conscious people messaging other security-conscious people on the niche apps, while everyone else continues using the popular apps?The comments section is open for your thoughts: I’d be interested to hear how important security is in your choice of messaging app, and whether you’ve tried to persuade friends to switch from one to another on those grounds. If so, did they?Also on the radar today:WireLurker isa new malware family that targets Macs and iOS devices, infecting the former in order to reach the latter – including non-jailbroken devices. “It is the first known malware that can infect installed iOS applications similar to a traditional virus,” claims Palo Alto Networks.Musician Aloe Blacc haspublished an opinion piece on Wiredstrongly criticising US streaming music service Pandora after he earned less than $4,000 for his co-writing share of a song streamed more than 168 million times. “If songwriters cannot afford to make music, who will?”The Verge hastested an early production model of Will.i.am’s Puls smartwatch, and isn’t impressed. To say the least. “It’s objectively the worst product I’ve touched all year... The Puls feels like a Kickstarter concept product that never should have made it to production.” Ouch.Snapchat isgetting into music, video and news. Or at least preparing to. Digiday claims the messaging app is in talks with Comedy Central, Spotify, Vice, BuzzFeed, CNN, the Daily Mail, ESPN, Cosmopolitan magazine, National Geographic, People magazine and Vevo.Acrowdfunding campaign on Indiegogo by Code.orgaiming to provide “an hour of code for every student” is already up to $2.8m of pledges, with Mark Zuckerberg already having chipped in. “Our schools teach kids how to dissect a frog and how weather works. Today, it’s equally fundamental to learn to ‘dissect an app’, or how the Internet works...”I actually don’t mind Russell Brand, but the“Parklife” meme– essentially someone realised that his more verbose sentences perfectly suit someone shouting “PARKLIFE” at the end, as if he was delivering Phil Daniels’ lines in the Blur song – has been making me smile a lot this past day.What stories have piqued your interest, and what do you think of the pieces linked to above? The comments section is open for your views.
Working in an office is dangerously untaxing for your body, according to Dutchman Govert Flint. This is the fear behind his latest creation: a dynamic desk chair that doubles as a computer mouse. With fluid motions of the limbs, the chair’s occupant can guide a cursor around a screen and click with a brisk kick of a leg.“In western society we tend to invent things that make everything so efficient that we don’t move at all during our working lives,” says Flint, who has degrees in architecture and design, and was exhibiting his chair at Dutch Design Week last month. Drawing on research from the University of Aalto in Finland, he believes that movement is indivisibly linked to emotion and that the office environment, by encouraging immobility, stifles emotional health. Flint calls this the “segregation of joy”, which is the title of his project. “When I worked in an office, even though I had an amazing job, I couldn’t really avoid [entering] a more negative mindset as the months went on,” he recalls.The chair, which is currently in development, is still a little too primitive to rival the traditional mouse – Flint confesses that writing an email would be “very frustrating” – but he remains confident. He cites motion-sensing hardware like Leap Motion and Kinect as directions through which the chair could be refined into a practical product, and has already identified areas where it could be most effective. “It feels like a game, so it could be developed for kids or for the gaming industry, but it also generates a big response in people who recognise its potential for physical rehabilitation.”Flint is not primarily concerned with the chair’s commercial future, however; he sees it more as a reaction to the anti-physical trends in modern technology, with their threats of atrophy and malaise. “Technology is blindly excluding the body,” he says. “I’m a bit afraid of some kind ofMatrixscenario!”
A new £1.25m drone testing lab is being built in South Kensington as part of Imperial College London’s investment into next-generation robotics.Construction of the Brahmal Vasudevan aerial robotics lab starts in 2016 and will see a two-storey lab and workshop built on the roof of Imperial College’s City and Guilds building. It will provided test-flight facilities for hybrid unmanned aerial robots that can also dive and operate in water – one of only a handful of such facilities in the world.“It’s an excellent opportunity to create a state-of-the-art facility, not only in the UK but worldwide,” Dr Mirko Kovac, the director of Imperial’s aerial robotics lab, explained to the Guardian. “The time is right to invest in drones because devices like smartphones are so widespread, technology like the GPS chip has become small and cheap and can be used for drones, which has fuelled this type of research.“At the same time industry – across oil and gas, water, agriculture, energy, health, flooding response and search and rescue – have realised that drones can transform their businesses. Drones are moving away from military use toward the civil space in service to humanity in general driving momentum in the space.”‘Develop new engines’The flight arena will open in 2017, a glass-fronted cube that will be lit so that the drones are visible from the outside. An accessible roof will also provide a takeoff and landing platform for testing outdoor flight.An early sketch of the inside of the aerial robotics lab that is in the process of being built at Imperial College London in South Kensington.Photograph: Rob Siddall/Imperial College LondonThe lab will have 16 high-speed 3D cameras capable of tracking the robots in flight, and a further eight under water. A handful of universities around the world, including Bristol and MIT, have similar facilities, but Imperial’s new drone lab will also have a fume extraction system.This “is unique and will allow us to research and test combustion for flying robots so that we can develop new engines and new principles for robotics using hazardous chemicals”, Kovac said.The new lab will be twinned with a a rapid prototyping facility that allows researchers to 3D print and laser micro-machine drones, making Imperial one of the world’s best-equipped centres for aerial robotics.‘Inspire future aeronautical engineers’Kovac’s lab , with14 researchers, currently focuses on two types of drone development: aerial robots for construction and repair of infrastructure, including a flying 3D printer that is currently on exhibit at the Science Museum in London, and aerial-aquatic robots, which are expected to be the next step in drones for search and rescue among other multi-use applications.Other researchers from across Imperial’s engineering departments will have access to the facility, including mechanical, electronic and aeronautical engineering students.Money for the new aerial lab is provided by Brahmal Vasudevan, an Imperial alumnus and chief executive of Creador, one of Asia’s leading private equity firms.“Aerial robotics has a tremendous range of applications, and Imperial is well-equipped to play a pivotal role in this nascent industry,” said Professor Alice Gast, the president of Imperial. “The Brahmal Vasudevan aerial robotics lab will showcase Imperial’s outstanding abilities and inspire future aeronautical engineers. We are fortunate to have engaged alumni who support the student experience and keep us at the forefront of discovery.”Legislative challengesDrones – and the legislation covering them – have been thrown under the spotlight as companies such as Amazon, Google and DHL have looked to use them to deliver goods and services.In the UK is prohibited to fly drones over gatherings of 1,000 or more people at any height, or within 50 metres of a building or structure. Since 2010 the Civil Aviation Authority has required drone operators to seek permits to use drones. The number of organisations given permits, including police forces and film makers,has increased 80%since the beginning of the year.Six movie and TV production companies were recently given permission by the US Federal Aviation Administration to film with unmanned aircraft in defined closed areas. It washailed as a “significant milestone”towards the commercial exploitation of drones in US airspace by the Obama administration.•Drones spotted over seven French nuclear sites, says EDF•Drone permits issued to UK operators increase by 80%
Halfway through our mobile-to-mobile chat, Samuel Johnston goes muffly. Hello? Hello? “Sorry, we’ve just moved into a new office and I haven’t worked out the blackspots yet,” says the head of marketing at OpenSignal.Complaining aboutmobile phone “notspots”is the new moaning about the weather, but for those living in the 20% of the UK with patchy coverage it is more than a passing irritant.Sajid Javid, the culture secretary,wants to eradicate partial notspots by introducing national roaming, allowing users to freely use other networks if their own provider fails to provide a signal.To some critics,our mobile system looks like the shambles created by under-regulated capitalism. Royal Mail delivers everywhere but mobile providers don’t bother because it’s too expensive to put masts in remote valleys, depriving rural users not just of the basic human right to Facebook on superfast 4G but also the chance to make a mobile call to granny. And it’snot just the countryside: surveys have found notspots inLondon, Birmingham, Edinburgh, Manchester– virtually everywhere.Blackspots would be more forgivable if everyone knew their network coverage. Providers offer coverage maps, but when I checked Vodafone’s, it offered an optimistic sketch of its signal in rural Norfolk. Several places (the pub, my mum’s house) where it claimed coverage have none.“It’s not entirely their own fault,” says Johnston when I ask why providers deceive us about blackspots. “Their testing methods are not effective enough to capture the experience of a user on their network.”Providers self-report to Ofcom, so there’s little independent data on coverage but this blackspot black hole is being filled by companies such as OpenSignal, which produce coverage maps crowdsourced via an app.Johnston is critical of the national roaming idea. “It’s another example of government making decisions without supporting data,” he says. By looking at “time on no signal” v “time on emergency calls only” (a sign that a phone can potentially access rival networks), OpenSignal calculates that, even in London, national roaming would not eradicate notspots but only cut time spent with no signal by 25%.James Barford, an independent mobile analyst forEnders Analysis, also argues that national roaming is a bad idea: if payments that providers will have to make to each other are too low, there will be no incentive to build better coverage; too high and “cheap and cheerful” providers will be put out of business. Better, he says, to loosen planning rules to allow for higher masts.It may be tempting to fantasise about nationalising the network, but Johnston judges that “absolutely impossible” and Barford says it would eradicate innovation. Worse, a perfect national mobile signal would eliminate peace in remote valleys, render redundant a perpetually useful excuse for avoiding calls and mean the end of the “no signal” dramatic device that allows thrillers to stagger on in the era of not-quite ubiquitous mobile communications.
1 Are landlines dying out?Don’t believe grand claims that everyone now uses a mobile phone rather than a landline. According to communications regulator Ofcom, 64% of British adults used a landline to make voice calls this year compared with 45% using smartphones. On average, we spend 29 minutes a day making voice calls, with 19 minutes of that on landlines.2 But they may already be dead for young peopleHowever, Ofcom’s figures make notably different reading when you look just at younger people. Its 2014 survey found that only 28% of 16- to 24-year-olds use a landline phone compared with 64% of all adults; 94% of this age group say their mobile is the main way they make and receive calls.3 Messaging apps roll out voice callingThis doesn’t necessarily mean that people won’t be talking to one another – just that they won’t be doing it through traditional systems. WhatsApp, the Facebook-owned messaging app with more than 600 million users, is expected to introduce voice calls soon, after its plans leaked as part of an update to its iOS app.4 Traditional firms focus more on videoWhatsApp getting into voice is a big challenge for companies such as Skype, which started as a voice-over-IP service (VoIP) but nowadays is equally as much about video. The quality of its video calls has improved steadily, while its recently launched Skype Qik app focuses on video messaging.5 Apple and Google get involvedApple and Google have arguably done more than anyone to reduce the need for traditional voice calls. But they are also providing their own methods: FaceTime Audio on Apple devices; and Google’s Hangouts app, which now integrates the company’s Google Voice VoIP service.6 Encrypted voice calls for more securityThe last year’s revelations about government surveillance are spurring a flurry of activity around encryption for mobile data, but also for voice. Apps like Signal, its maker Whisper Systems and companies like Silent Circle and Cellcrypt are working hard on the necessary technology to secure voice calls.7 Danger danger! High VoLTE-age!Whatever the app or service, a lot more voice calls will be transmitted over mobile data networks in the coming years. Enter VoLTE – Voice over LTE – which routes regular mobile calls over operators’ data networks rather than voice networks. Apple’s iPhone 6 smartphones support the technology already.8 HD Voice makes a noiseEven as VoLTE makes its appearance, mobile operators are still trying to make a feature of traditional voice calls, including several in the UK. The “HD Voice” tech offered by the likes of Vodafone, Three and EE promises “crystal-clear” calls that also filter out more background noise.9 Live translation is on the waySkype’s greater focus on video does not mean a lack of innovation around voice. In May, the company showed off a new feature called Skype Translator, which will translate calls as they happen, initially between English and German. It’s due to launch in beta by the end of this year.10 Talking to robotsWhere video could have helped. There was controversy last December over US health insurance cold-caller “Samantha West”. Recipients of calls claimed she was a robot not a human. It emerged that West was a computer program operated remotely by telemarketers: she could even deflect questions about whether she was a robot by claiming to be human.
Protesters will gather outside the White House and in a dozen US cities on Thursday to demonstrate against a “hybrid” solution now being considered to end a stalemate over regulating the internet.The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) is currentlyredrawing its rulesfor regulating the internet after a series of court defeats at the hands of cable and telecoms companies that effectively hamstrung its ability to oversee the industry.Protests areplannedin San Francisco’s Civic Center Plaza, on Las Vegas’s boulevard, Federal Plaza in Chicago and at the headquarters of Comcast, the largest cable company, in Philadelphia.“What President Obama’s FCC chair is reportedly pushing is not a compromise, it’s a sham. Nearly four million internet users submitted comments to the FCC against having fast and slow lanes on the internet, but this proposal explicitly opens the door for them. Worse, it’s based in overly complicated and untested legal theories that are likely to fail in court,” said Evan Greer, campaign director for Fight for the Future which is organising the campaign alongside Popular Resistance, Free Press and Reddit.Cable and telecoms companies are pushing for the ability to be able to create “fast lanes” for high volume customers, like Netflix, that would charge more money for the bandwidth they consume. But opponents fear such a move would effectively kill “net neutrality” – the principle that all traffic online should be treated equally.The FCC has been inundated with comments as it has weighed its options. A record 3.7m were sent to the regulator, at one pointcrashing the FCC’s systems.The Sunlight Foundation analysedthe first 800,000 and found that fewer than 1% were opposed to net neutrality enforcement.The “hybrid” proposal now under consideration has not been finalised but according to media leaks and discussions with interested parties they would expand the FCC’s powers to regulate broadband while also allowing a carve out for cable providers to charge more money for fast lanes.Net neutrality’s defenders want the internet to be regulated underTitle IIof the Communications Act – a move that would classify the service as a “common carrier” and give the FCC the power to stop cable companies introducing “unreasonable discrimination” and ensure they work “in the public interest”. Cable companies argue such a move would hamper innovation by tying the industry in red tape.The FCC has also considered using Section 706 of theTelecommunications Act of 1996which is less stringent in its language and enforces the regulator’s powers to “promote competition” and “remove barriers” to investment. In January Verizon successfully challenged the FCC’s power to use Section 706 to justify anti-discrimination rules in a ruling that led to the current regulatory malaise.The hybrid solution, which may be presented to the FCC at a meeting on 11 December, is likely to use both pieces of legislation as the regulator struggles to reconcile the powerful telecom and cable industry lobby and its numerous and vociferous opponents.The picture has become more complicated now that theRepublicans have taken control of Congressafter the midterm elections. Proposals for more regulation will face tougher opposition come January when the Republicans take control.Craig Aaron, president of Free Press, a consumer advocacy group that has called for full Title II reclassification of the internet, said: “This proposal divides up the internet in a way that is highly theoretical and not based in the law.”“We are very skeptical that it would work. It’s troubling in a lot of ways: it’s bad politics, bad policy and bad law,” he said.
New figures from Facebook show that the German government makes more requests for user data, relative to the size of its Facebook userbase, than any other.Despite the nation’s reputation for protecting internet freedom, bolstered in the wake of the Edward Snowden revelations and the German government’s response, Facebook’s latest transparency report reveals that Germany made 2,537 requests for user data in the first half of 2014.With the country’s Facebook population estimated at 22 million by eMarketer, that means the government made 115 requests for data for every million users. Those requests referenced 3,078 user accounts, but just a third of them led to some data being produced.Italy, America and France are the next three biggest sources of government requests, each producing around 100 requests per million users. Britain comes fifth of the 20 countries the Guardian studied, with 70 requests for data per million users.But requests from Britain and America are significantly more likely to be granted than those from mainland Europe; 71% and 80% of requests are granted, a success rate twice as high as that of Germany or France (where just 30% of requests lead to data being handed over).“We scrutinise every government request we receive for legal sufficiency under our terms and the strict letter of the law, and push back hard when we find deficiencies or are served with overly broad requests,”said Facebook’s deputy general counsel, Chris Sonderby.“More broadly, we continue to work with our industry and civil-society partners to push governments for additional transparency and to reform surveillance practices necessary to rebuild people’s trust in the internet. While we recognise that governments need to take action to protect their citizens’ safety and security, we believe all government data requests must be narrowly tailored, proportionate to the case in review, and subject to strict judicial oversight.”As well as requests for data, Facebook also revealed that access was restricted to nine pieces of content in the UK following court injunctions. In the US, no such content was restricted, while three countries – India, Turkey, and Pakistan – restricted access to more than a thousand pieces of content each, with India topping the censorship charts after imposing restrictions on 4,960 items. The country has the second-largest Facebook userbase after the USA.On Monday, the head of GCHQ argued that technology companies such as Facebook and its subsidiary WhatsApp were not doing enough to help western governments fight radical groups such as Isis.Writing in the Financial Times, Robert Hannigan described the social media services as “command-and-control networks” for insurgents and terrorists. Number 10 concurred, witha spokesmantelling the Guardian that David Cameron “very much shares the view that is being expressed there around the use of web-enabled, internet-access technologies by violent and extremist groups among others, and the need to do more.”•No 10 backs GCHQ chief’s criticism of internet firms
Rio Ferdinand has decided not to appeal histhree-game suspension and £25,000 finefrom the Football Association formessages he posted on Twitterin September.“I didn’t see the point in doing it. The rate of success on appeals on these type of disciplinary panels is almost zero. I didn’t see myself getting the games taken away: it’d just prolong the affair, so I’m nipping it in the bud now,” said Ferdinand, who was speaking at the Web Summit technology conference in Dublin this afternoon.During the on-stage interview, he was asked what he’d learned from the affair, which involved a row with a Twitter user on transfer deadline day. “You’ve got to pick your moments!” said Ferdinand.“The problem is that sometimes you’re at home, you’ve lost a game, you’re sitting there, and you’re looking though your Twitter feed, and you’re really frustrated. You’ve lost the game, you’re playing rubbish... and you just see a few tweets that come in,” he said.“’That’s funny, that one’s funny, he’s giving me a bit of stick, that’s funny, he’s giving me stick, he’s coming back on again! I’m gonna shut him down’. Invariably I get it right, and I shut him down and he gets retweeted and he has to open a new account because he gets destroyed.”Ferdinand said that the fine and suspension has reminded him to be more careful on Twitter. “You’ve got to be mindful of what you say and when you say it. Normally I’ve been quite good at that,” he said.Ferdinand said that his Twitter account has been “the biggest thing in my armoury” when it comes to scotching the “caricature” that he feels he’s been represented as in the media.“Now when I speak to people on the street, they say to me: the feedback I get is ‘you’re a different type of person’,” he said, before addressing the issue of criticism from journalists.“They paint that picture and you see a caricature of you evolve. And you sit there thinking ‘woah, you don’t know me’,” he said. “For you to be able to have this opportunity and platform on social media, that’s why I embraced it.”Ferdinand admitted he has faced racist taunts and other abuse on Twitter, and said he’d welcome more efforts by social networks to crack down on the worst offenders.“If Twitter, Facebook etc can find away of monitoring that, that’d be great. It’s going to be difficult, but it would be fantastic,” he said. “I say to people if you don’t have a thick skin, don’t go on there... you’ve just got to dust it off.”He said he uses negativity on Twitter as “fuel” for his career, including answering critics, whether regular fans or celebrity sparring partners like Piers Morgan. “When you win the league, that is when I’m on Twitter and Facebook!” he said.Rio Ferdinand on-stage at the Web Summit conference.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianFerdinand said that he believes Twitter has changed the way journalists perceive him too. “The ability to speak and interact all the time and engage with people: it just shows a realer side of you, and they get to understand you,” he said.“It can be a hard place to be at times, if you’re losing and not playing well. That’s when the venom starts coming out... The problem with social media is if you’re impulsive, don’t go on there. You’ve got to be able to control yourself.”Ferdinand talked about the digital version of his magazine #5, which has won plaudits as an app. “That has really set me a platform to be able to think to the next phase of my life after football,” he said. “By doing that, it’s opened me up to a lot of other things.”He also said that Roy Keane had been a big influence on his career, from the moment when he was bawled out by Keane for not passing the ball forwards in an early training session.“I thought ‘this guy is crazy! He’s nuts, how am I going to deal with this guy every day?” he said. “But I realised that you’ve got to take chances, and that’s how I ended up playing my career and not just playing the simple ball to Gary [Neville] or the guy who’s 10 yards away.”Ferdinand said he’d like to get into management, although he admitted he sometimes wonders whether he’d fancy the pressure, based on watching his current boss at QPR, Harry Redknapp.“I see the look on Harry’s face sometimes and think ‘I don’t need that!’ But I think I’d enjoy managing people. I’ve had three managers in the last two years: Ferguson, Moyes and Harry Redknapp. It’s been a great two years in terms of learning.”Back on a technology, Ferdinand warned against too much reliance on statistics in football management: “You’ve got to have a good balance,” he said, praising intelligent use of data to improve areas like training routines, while saying stats shouldn’t drive everything.“At the end of the day, can you get a ball from A to B?”
The growth of social media has changed the way news organisations cover conflicts around the world, but traditional journalistic values are still vital.These, at least, were the main conclusions from a panel at the Web Summit conference in Dublin this morning, featuring representatives from Time, Vice News and News Corporation-owned social curation service Storyful.“I’m not sure that the task of journalism has changed that much: we still send journalists to unearth stories and break news. But Twitter is our competition, and we have faced up to that reality,” said Matt McAllester, Europe editor for Time.“All legacy media organisations in the US and UK have gone through that process. And some have not survived.”While the panel shook their heads en masse when the phrase “citizen journalism” was mentioned, they admitted that on-the-spot witnesses are now as likely to be posting on social media as talking to a journalist.“Twitter to us is a news source. Things break on Twitter,” said Kevin Sutcliffe, head of news programming, EU at Vice News.“Now people can bypass us using a camera phone and a social network, and the means of production have been completely overturned,” added Mark Little, chief executive of Storyful. “Now everyone out there is a creator of content, and our job is more as managers of an overabundance of content.”The panel stressed that not all of the old values have been swept away. “It’s really old-fashioned: can I find it out, is it true, can I stand by it? That level of trust is really important,” said Sutcliffe. “I’ve got a story, but does it stand up, is it true, what are my sources?”“There will be two types of parallel journalism going on - the facts on the ground from people who are there, foreign correspondents, and people like us who filter,” said Little.Some of the filters will be the same media organisations who employ on-the-ground correspondents, though. Time, for example, has a division focused on breaking news, which is deliberately kept separate from its foreign correspondents.“We’ve hired a bunch of very young people in New York and Hong Kong and they’re essentially aggregating as a breaking news service: when anything appears from a reliable news organisation, quickly write two or three paragraphs and get it out there,“ he said.“That takes care of the news and it doesn’t tax our correspondents. They do the premium you-can-only-get-it-here content that Vice News is [also] doing.”However, Little was more critical of the idea of news organisations covering breaking news. “Social media has proved to us that the breaking news model is broken for good. It’s broken as a concept,” he said.“As a business, it’s a really good business. But the concept that you, with the flashing ‘breaking news’ on the screen are going to be the first to break something is completely bullshit, because someone out there has witnessed it.”He described Storyful’s approach, which focuses on finding those witnesses’ online posts, and bringing them to a wider audience. “The key thing for us is to find the first piece of content that will define a story: the video, the tweet… we have 40 journalists looking in real-time for the original source,” he said.“For us the most important thing is who’s the person on the ground with the camera-phone standing there right now.. Authenticity has replaced authority as the new currency of this environment.”Authenticity is sometimes a false currency, however: photographs claiming to show a bombing in one country may have been taken in another several months before, while false Twitter rumours can spread rapidly in the wake of a natural disaster or terrorist attack.Little suggested that there’s increasingly a self-policing aspect to social media. “There’s never been a better way to spread a hoax than social media, but there’s never been a better fact-checking desk than social media,” he said.In an earlier session, Anne-Marie Tomchak, presenter and producer at BBC Trending, made a similar claim. “It’s not just journalists who are asking lots of questions about what’s being shared online,” she said. “Social media users have become really discerning about what they’re seeing.”In the later session, the trio of journalists were optimistic about the appetite for hard news and foreign affairs among the “millennials” who are the most active demographic on social media, with Sutcliffe reiterating a claim that Vice executives have made regularly in recent months.“It’s come out of a really interesting debate in heritage news, that young people were not interested in news, and they were not going to watch anything longer than two minutes online, probably featuring a cat,” he said.“What we’ve found over the last six months, we’ve overturned the sense that there isn’t an interest from this age group for news, current affairs and the world. It’s enormous and it’s growing exponentially.”McAllester suggested that 5-10 years ago “the orthodoxy was the world doesn’t care about foreign news” and agreed that modern, online outlets have put paid to the idea. “What Vice, BuzzFeed, Mashable and numerous startups are doing by hiring [foreign] correspondents and getting amazing traffic,” he said.That’s incredibly encouraging to even an old brand like Time,” he said. “We all need competition. I absolutely see the BuzzFeed correspondent in the Middle East as competition… and that’s very encouraging.”Sutcliffe suggested that the 24-hour television news cycle has become “slightly worn out”, suggesting that the news agenda in that world is driven by “everybody running in one direction after one story” rather than digging for new stories.“What we’re commissioning is what we think is interesting and you should know about, and that can be anywhere,” he said. “We’ll do Ukraine and the big stories… but over there, that place that nobody’s bothering to go, that’s important too. We’re not chasing after other media organisations and their agenda.”Anne-Marie Tomchak of BBC Trending.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianIn her presentation, Tomchak praised the response of Twitter users to persecution and killings by the Islamic State organisation.She cited the #WeAreN campaign, where people changed their avatars to a sign painted by ISIS members on Christians’ houses marking them out, in solidarity with those people, as well as the movement to share an image of executed journalist James Foley when he was alive, to crowd out images shared by Islamic State supporters of his beheading.Tomchak also suggested that while Twitter tends to be the focus for these kinds of campaigns, as well as breaking news, mobile messaging apps like WhatsApp and FireChat have an important role to play.“I truly believe that chat apps are and will increasingly become the place in which we will distribute our news, and the place in which we find stories, and the place in which we gather news,” she said. “Social media is a place for political, cultural and social change… and it is also one of the newest weapons in war,” she said.In his session, Storiful’s Little warned that journalists must not underestimate the attempts by governments to subvert this role for social media.“New forms of journalism will emerge. We’re in an arms race now from the NSA to the Chinese government, tying to close down freedom of expression, and use social media against itself,” he said. “We are on the opposite side.”•Strictly algorithm: how news finds you on Facebook and Twitter
The Västervik prison is as ugly as its surroundings are beautiful. Located a stone’s throw from the water in Gertrudsvik, a few hours drive south of Stockholm, its pale concrete walls rise high above the summer homes and wooden jetties dotting the coastline. Tall steel fences encircle the building, topped with heavy loops of razor-sharp barbed wire.After emptying our pockets and passing through the metal detectors, a guard escorts us through a maze of dark corridors leading up to a visitor’s room.As the door swings open, Peter Sunde rises hurriedly from his chair. He is dressed in standard-issue prison clothes - a faded grey cotton tracksuit. His cheeks are stubbled and there are dark circles under his eyes. He looks a world away from the outspoken, impish provocateur that has spent the past decade building his reputation as the entertainment industry’s enemy number one. But his face lights up when we shake hands.Above all else, he is shockingly thin. His Adam’s apple bobs visibly up and down when he tells us about his weight loss.“I’m down 16kg so far. But it’s slowed down. There isn’t much left,” he says, running his fingers over his ribcage.Sunde declines to be photographed. “There are no mirrors in here,” he says, half-jokingly. But there is more to his refusal than that. A photo taken of him here - behind bars, underweight and dressed in grey prison garb - will likely haunt him for the rest of his life. “I don’t know how I’ll feel in three years, looking back at all this,” he says. Eventually, he agrees to an exception. He will allow his picture to be taken, provided he can cover his face with a blank piece of paper. “I’m thinking people can fill in whatever they want. Just like they do with The Pirate Bay,” he says.In 2009, the founders of The Pirate Bay, the world’s most notorious file-sharing site, were found guilty of copyright offences in Sweden. After being internationally wanted for two years, Sunde was arrested and transported to jail.Sunde, who is expected to be released in November, asks us to sit at the small, round table next to the barred window. In front of us, there is instant coffee, a few paper cups and a crumpled plastic bag with homemade chocolate muffins. He offers us a bite.“They’re made by a cocaine smuggler. They’re 100% vegan,” he says.‘The policeman was so pissed’On Saturday 31 May 2014, Sunde was relaxing at his girlfriend’s house just outside Malmö in southern Sweden. Around lunchtime someone knocked on the door. Sunde was alone in the house so he opened up. He was greeted by a man in civilian clothing.“Peter?” the man asked.Sunde suspected that the visit wasn’t friendly and did his best not to confirm his identity, with either words or expressions. The strategy failed. “You are under arrest.”Two years had passed since the Interpol issued an international arrest warrant for him. Now, a small group of policemen had arrived to take him to prison, where he was to serve the sentence handed down to him by a Swedish court in 2010.Sunde asked to call his girlfriend. Someone had to take care of the house if he was to leave, he reasoned. One of the two cops nodded. Sunde pulled out his phone and dialled a number.But as the signals went through, he kept fingering on the phone screen. A quick tap on an app icon, then another one. The phone sent out a signal over the internet, to all his computers at home and at work: “Shut down, immediately.” Then he quickly switched off his cellphone.“Everything was encrypted,” Sunde tells us, clearly pleased with himself. “The policeman was so pissed. I guess he’d been looking forward to arresting this mastermind hacker and then he misses a thing like that.”Peter “brokep” Sunde’s arrest made headlines all over the world. Now only one of the three founders of The Pirate Bay - Fredrik “TiAMO” Neij - remained at large. Gottfrid “anakata” Svartholm Warg had beeen arrested in the Cambodian capital of Phnom Penh in August 2012, on unrelated hacking charges.When the story reached the papers the next morning, Sunde was already behind bars. The police first brought him to prison in Malmö, where he remained for a week, then transferred him to his current whereabouts. Västervik is a class two prison, the second highest rating in Sweden. Many of its inmates have commited violent or drug-related offences. Sunde is serving time for aiding and abetting copyright crimes.We ask Sunde about a typical day in prison. He quickly rattles off his schedule: breakfast at 7am. Lunch at 11:30. Dinner at 4:15 PM. “Then you sleep.”He tells us about the other inmates. In the prison with him is a man (“a voodoo doctor”) who assaulted a 14-year-old girl to “drive the devil out of her”. Another man murdered his partner with 60 stab wounds to the stomach. And the cocaine smuggler who made our chocolate muffins.“He’s the guy I hang out with most,” Sunde says.Inmates at Västervik prisonPhotograph: KriminalvårdenThe hour he is allowed to spend outdoors each day is a highlight. Sunde points out of the barred window behind us towards a fenced-in gravel field a few yards away. Behind the barbed wire is a patch of green grass and a volleyball net, he says.At7pm, cell doors are closed and locked. After that, Sunde has only his television set and the books in his cell to entertain him. He hasn’t been online since he was arrested, he says. At 9pm, lights are turned off.‘I’ve signed a few autographs’Do the others in prison know who he is? Sure, he says. “I’ve signed a few autographs. Some of the guards have asked me what kind of computer they should buy. I’ve been distilled to this computer nerd,” he says.He receives letters from all over the world. Some people send him 50 pages of conspiracy theories. Others are content with a short note to say good luck. “Some guy wrote and thanked me for all the porn he’d downloaded,” says Sunde.Sunde does not work during the daytime, as many other inmates do. Instead, he has been given a textbook in Spanish. Formally, that means he is pursuing studies while in jail. That pays him SEK 13 an hour, money that he is free to spend on phone credit, fruit or food in the prison kiosk.Food is a big problem. Sunde is a vegan, which greatly limits what he can eat from the sparse menu on offer. Since two months back, he is given medication to counteract iron and vitamin deficiencies.“I mostly eat lettuce. I’ve been nagging them for a bottle of olive oil. It took seven weeks, but once I got them to stock some avocadoes in the kiosk,” he says.Västervik prisonPhotograph: KriminalvårdenWhen talking about how he is treated in prison, Sunde’s voice changes. His tone is reminiscent of how he sounded when we interviewed him several years ago, when the debate on online piracy was white hot and The Pirate Bay was at its most influential.Then, Sunde took every opportunity to rail against online censorship and the methods used by the film and music industries in their fight against filesharers. He was the figurehead for a rebellious movement that feared neither Hollywood lawyers nor Swedish prosecutors.But in the cell at Västervik, the fight against the film and music industries is a world away. Instead, Sunde directs his anger towards the Swedish penal system.How much did Sunde and the others make from The Pirate Bay? Very little, according to the founders. Sunde has always maintained that whatever money came in was spent on servers and maintenance.It’s a difficult claim to swallow. The Pirate Bay was, and still is, one of the most visited websites in the world. It’s also plastered with ads that someone presumably is paying good money for. But the fact is that nobody has been able to find any money to speak of. Even the prosecutor, Håkan Roswall, only claimed a total of about SEK 1.2m in court. That’s peanuts, considering the traffic volume that pours through The Pirate Bay each day.In the eyes of his opposition, Sunde was nothing but a simple thief. Piracy was a result of stinginess on the part of the filesharers, and the men running The Pirate Bay were only in it for the money, they argued. All such accusations were met with cocky and profane retorts from Sunde and his co-founders. “It is the opinion of us and our lawyers that you are fucking morons, and that you should please go sodomise yourself with retractable batons,” Warg once wrote in response to a takedown notice from Dreamworks SKG.A few days before our visit, Sunde’s brother, the author Mats Kolmisoppi, wrote a long Facebook post about his brother’s life at Västervik. His post went viral and was picked up by major newspaper. In it, he tells of enforced urine samples and humiliating body searches. How inmates are routinely locked up too early in the evening (so that guards won’t have to work overtime), are denied parole and subject to derisive comments from prison staff.‘Inmates are deprived of their humanity’Many of the claims are impossible to confirm. As a rule, the Swedish prison authorities won’t comment on individual inmates. That does not stop Sunde from talking, at length, about the ills he sees around him . Prison inmates are “deprived of their humanity,” he says.He talks about his first leave. He was told that it had been granted on the same day, at quarter to nine in the morning, 15 minutes before the guards were due to pick him up. “I wanted to meet my family to talk about the future. It was impossible. They can’t get to Västervik in 15 minutes.”The authorities at Västervik declined to comment on Sunde’s claims, but tell us that it isn’t improbable that an inmate has “a decision announced on the day requested”.What is most difficult to cope with is the boredom, Sunde says. The days in prison merge into a grey mass, indistinguishable from each other. Sunde has trouble sleeping at night. “You become brain-dead in here,” he says. “A guy who has been here a long time said it best: what I miss most are new memories.”Västervik prisonPhotograph: KriminalvårdenA few weeks before our visit, Sunde’s father died after a period of illness. During the summer, Sunde was granted parole to visit him one last time. The week before we meet him, he attended the funeral. He carried the coffin, along with his brother, and said his goodbyes. Afterwards, he was promptly transported back to his cell.Since then, Sunde has stopped trying to get his sentence truncated. Previously, he worked hard for permission to serve the last months at home, with electronic monitoring. He wrote letters demanding a response from the authorities. Now, he has decided he may as well remain at Västervik. Most likely, he will be released in November.“It doesn’t matter anymore. The reason I wanted to get out was to spend time with my father. But my father is dead now.”Almost 11 years have passed since The Pirate Bay, the world’s most notorious file-sharing site, was founded. Things took an abrupt turn in May 2006, when Swedish police stormed into the hosting firm in southern Stockholm where The Pirate Bay servers were. The raid marked the beginning of a lengthy legal process against the site’s three founders and their financier Carl Lundström.When the district court’s ruling fell in 2009, Sunde posed in a live video online. Wearing a baseball cap askew, he held up a piece of paper to the camera: “I owe u 31,000,000 SEK” it said. The court of appeal later changed the amount to SEK 46m . Sunde was sentenced to eight months in prison.After the verdict, Neij moved to Laos. Warg settled in Cambodia, where he was later arrested.Sunde was the only one who remained in the spotlight. He spent a lot of time travelling, speaking at conferences in the US and Latin America. He founded the company Flattr, which is developing a service for online micropayments. In the wake of the Edward Snowden revelations about online mass surveillance, he announced Heml.is, an encrypted messaging app that is supposedly impossible to eavesdrop on. It had been years since he had anything to do with The Pirate Bay, Sunde claims. The identity of whoever manages the site today is a closely guarded secret.We last met him most recently in the autumn of 2012. Sunde had no fixed place of residence and no official income, he told us then. All his assets were to be seized to pay back the damages he owed the film and music industry. In a way, he was already on the run from the police, but he was never very secretive about his whereabouts. Had he received a letter with demands to show up at prison? Had the police tried to call him? Sunde didn’t know, he said. He refused to call the police himself, asking for instructions.“They haven’t exactly been fair to me this far. If it happens, it happens, but I won’t make things worse for myself,” Sunde told us then.Messing with the systemAnd here we are, a couple of years later, in the room at Västervik. The police raid against The Pirate Bay lies eight years in the past. Looking back, it is clear that Sunde and his co-founders pushed forward the public debate on copyright and freedom of information. Illegal filesharing, spearheaded by The Pirate Bay, arguably functioned as a catalyst for legal streaming services and fueled the birth of for several Pirate Parties in countries across the world. In the European parliament elections of summer 2009, a few months after The Pirate Bay founders were sentenced to jail, the Swedish Pirate Party secured 7.1% of the vote.Many people who then took an active part in the debate on software piracy, some of them close friends of Sunde, are now renowned academics who have made names for themselves as proponents of copyright reform. But few ever translated their words into action to the same extent as Sunde, Neij and Svartholm Warg did.Pirate Bay co-founders Fredrik Neij (left), Gottfrid Svartholm (centre) and Peter Sunde leave the city court after their copyright trial in Stockholm, 2009.Photograph: Bob Strong / Reuters/REUTERSToday, the debate has largely moved on. The spotlight is on a new generation of legal, commercial services. Netflix, Spotify and others have filled the void once inhabited by illegal filesharing services. The Swedish Pirate party managed a paltry 2.2% of the vote in the European parliament elections of 2014.But filesharing has not gone away. After our interview, we visit thepiratebay.org and click on the statistics page. At that moment, 52 million users are sharing films, music and other software through torrents available on the site.Back in the prison cell, Sunde is at his most energetic when we talk about how he has been messing with the prison system. His applications for parole is a favorite he returns to: The more applications were rejected, the more he kept submitting. Eventually, he sent in 70 separate applications all at once. One for each day he would be willing to leave the prison (meaning all the days he had left to serve).Using an old computer , he printed out 70 separate letters, identical except for the date requested, and mailed them to the authorities. Not that he had any great faith that they would be approved. It was a show of defiance.“It’ll take them about 20 minutes to handle each piece of paper,” he says, smiling.He retains his energy when we ask him about his plans for life after jail. He talks about working with WikiLeaks, about continuing his work on the app Heml.is. He has plans for a documentary television series, he tells us, in which he will travel around the world helping various activist groups. Disrupting whale hunters in Japan one week, helping fugitives make their way across heavily guarded borders the next.He doesn’t seem very interested in software piracy. In fact, he has wanted to put The Pirate Bay behind him for years. “Just set fire to the servers and that’ll be the end of it,” he told us when we met him in 2010.Does that mean he now regrets what he once did? Perhaps putting his name and picture to the world’s largest filesharing site wasn’t such a good idea. Have the nights and days spent in prison so far made Sunde reconsider?“No. Not at all,” he says. “The verdict was ridiculous, and it is as ridiculous today as it was then.”“People ask if I would have done anything different if I could. The answer is no. This has been nothing more than five months of wasted time.”Pirate Bay’s first server is displayed at the Technical Museum in Stockholm in 2009.Photograph: Scanpix Sweden/REUTERSTimeline2003The Pirate Bureau sets up a bittorrent-tracker, later named The Pirate Bay. It grows to become one of the largest file-sharing sites on the internet.2006Motion Picture Association of America contacts the Swedish Ministry of Justice, asking them to take action against The Pirate Bay. This is a very sensitive issue in Sweden, where ministers are strictly forbidden to directly intervene in how government agencies, such as the police, handle specific cases. The legal term is “ministerial rule”. Police raid the data center where The Pirate Bay is hosted. The servers are taken offline and Gottfrid Svartholm Warg and Fredrik Neij are taken in for questioning. Three days later, The Pirate Bay is back online. Minister for Justice Thomas Bodström is accused of ministerial rule following the raid, but the allegations are dismissed.2008Sunde, Warg, Neij and Lundström are charged with copyright offenses. The police officer responsible for the investigation into the Pirate Bay accepts a new job with Warner Brothers, one of the claimants in the case.2009A district court sentences Sunde, Warg, Neij and Lundström to one year in prison and a total of 31m Swedish kronor in damages. The defendants appeal against the verdict. Tomas Norström, the presiding judge in the district court, is accused of bias after it emerges that he is affiliated with a Swedish pro-copyright organisation. Other members of the same group are employed by the film and music industries.2010The royal court gives its verdict in the Pirate Bay case. The four defendants see their prison terms shortened, but the damages increased to a total of more than $7m . The defendants again appeal the verdict.2012The high court declines to take up the case on appeal. Warg is arrested in Cambodia on unrelated hacking charges and transported back to Sweden. Neij and Lundström declare personal bankruptcy. Lundström serves his prison sentence at home, with an electronic tag. With interest, the site’s founders owe roughly $11m.2014After being wanted by the Interpol for two years, Peter Sunde is arrested in southern Sweden and transported to jail. He is currently serving time at Västervik prison until November 2014.Daniel Goldberg (@danielg0ldberg) and Linus Larsson (@linuslarsson) are writers based in Stockholm, Sweden. Their first English-language book, “Minecraft: The unlikely tale of Markus ‘Notch’ Persson and the game that changed everything”, published by Seven Stories Press, is available now.
Amazon’s head of devices for Europe has likened the poor selling Fire Phone to the original Kindle e-reader, which received poor reviews and sales on its release, stating that the company is “undeterred”.The Fire Phone was launched in June in the US with new3D features powered by face-tracking cameras. It sold only an estimated 35,000 smartphones before arriving in the UK in October, whilereviewsof the device werelukewarmfrom both critics and customers with an average of2.3 stars out of five from 3,525 reviewsin the US.Successful smartphones from Apple and Samsung among others typically sell millions of units in their first month on sale.“In an honest assessment of the Fire Phone, we’ve learned a lot on this one,” Jorrit Van der Meulen, vice president of devices for Amazon in Europe explained to the Guardian. “We’re undeterred, but we’re not immune to the criticism either.”“We certainly read everything that’s written from customers to journalists and take note, so might the second step be slightly different than our first step, sure. I suspect that it will be,” he said.$170m loss on unsold Fire PhonesAmazon was forced to write off $170m on unsold Fire Phones with chief financial officer Tom Szkutak saying that the company had approximately $83m worth of Fire Phones in store, which equates to approximately 207,000 unsold phones in October.Amazon’s senior vice president of devices David Limpadmitted to Fortunethat part of the Fire Phone’s problem was its pricing in the US, which put it in direct competition with Apple’s iPhone and Samsung’s high-end devices but with less attraction to consumers.In the UK, the Fire Phone costs £399 without a mobile phone contract, which is the same price as many of its high-end smartphone competition, or available for free on a contract costing £28 a month for two years.‘The number of times we’ve been written off’Van der Meulen likened the Fire Phone to some of Amazon’s other devices that have had rocky starts, including the Kindle ereader that went on to dominate the ebook market.“If you look at version one of the Kindle e-reader it was pretty bad, like the reviews we received on it,” explained Van der Meulen. “But we said we’re going to do keep going, keep investing and do this eventually, receiving many lumps along the way.”“The number of times we’ve been written off or received lumps because of short-term speed bumps – the list is really, really long,” he said.Amazon is looking at the Fire Phone as a long-term project, and while short-term sales of the device and a loss on unsold inventory are certainly a worry, the company is not deterred and doesn’t solely judge worth of iterating on initial sales and such thinking is “sub-optimal”, according to Van der Meulen.‘We care about are proactive devices’The Fire Phone was the company’s first attempt at a smartphone, but it has found success with its Kindle Fire tablets, which have been competitively priced to undercut large competitors like Samsung and Apple. Amazon has achieved this by pricing devices so they primarily only break even.“Our strategy has been to not make money on devices, but make money when people use the devices,” explained Van der Meulen saying that overall sales volumes are not the key to device success for Amazon.“What we care about are proactive devices, people who use the device,” said Van der Meulen. “People who buy a device and put it in a drawer and don’t continue to use it, those device sales are not nearly as interesting as those who proactively use it.”Amazon makes its money from the services that users access on its tablets, e-readers and smartphone – its Prime video subscription, its music store, the Kindle book store and its App Store, as well its traditional online shopping.So while the Fire Phone has fallen flat for now, a second version of the Fire Phone next year is highly likely, whether customers want it or not.•Amazon writes off $170m on unsold Fire Phones•Amazon Fire Phone review: setting nothing ablaze
Destiny, the latest science fiction shooter from the makers of the multimillion selling Halo series, has 9.5 million registered users, publisher Activision has claimed.The company revealed the figure in an investor call concerning its “better than expected” third-quarter 2014 financial results.Launched on 9 September for PlayStation and Xbox consoles, the game reportedly earnedrevenues of $325m in five daysmaking it one of the most successful new title launches in the modern industry.Although established titles like Call of Duty and Grand Theft Auto regularly sell over 20m copies each, a user-base of just under 10m is viewed as impressive for a fresh IP – it’s still reasonably rare for console games to sell in the tens of millions.“It’s certainly not bad,” said Chris Dring, editor of industry news site, MCV. “ 9.5m people playing any game is an incredible figure, and an average three-hour a day gaming time shows that the title has managed to attract a large number of real die-hard fans. It’s a success for [the game’s developer] Bungie, who had taken quite a gamble in abandoning the Halo series to start again with Destiny.”However, a question remains over what the term “9.5m registered users” actually relates to in terms of paying customers. “The number is of course opaque but offers some indicator of sell-through for the game, as it is mapped to individual Microsoft Xbox Live and Sony PlayStation Network accounts,” said Piers Harding-Rolls, head of games at IHS Technology.“The number is diluted because, on average, console gamers that play online have more than one account per console and some will have used more than one account on the same game. Likewise not all bought copies will have registered users assigned to them yet as they are gifts or sitting on a shelf.“Taking this into account we estimate sell-through to consumers across physical and digital sales to be in the 7.7-8.2 million range. Whichever number you use, this is still a very strong performance for a new franchise.”Based in a distant future where mankind is threatened by a cabal of aggressive alien races that have all-but destroyed its colonies throughout the solar system, Destiny is a multiplayer role-playing shooter that mixes co-op and competitive elements. The game received mixed reviews on its release with some critics pointing to the game’s under-developed story and unconvincing characters.Activision is extremely positive on the game, however, crediting it with the company’s 78% increase in revenue for the quarter, with a non-GAAP net figure of $1.17 billion. During the investor call, publishing chief Eric Hirshberg claimed that work on the next expansion pack, The Dark Below, is well underway, and that a full sequel is already in the works.Right now, it seems there is plenty of appetite for more. “The game continues to have a real buzz with our readers despite being released in the face of big-name competitors,” said Matt Martin, editor of gaming news source, VG247. “Destiny is a real ‘next-gen’ gaming experience, and it’s very encouraging to see a new franchise enter the console market with a solid impact.”The challenge now will be maintaining the momentum into, and well past, the busy Christmas release period, which is filled with other time-consuming action adventures including new Assassin’s Creed and Far Cry titles from Ubisoft.“It’s not just important for Destiny to be successful a month after launch,” said Dring. “It’s about whether it can maintain that into 2015. Activision has developed a great reputation for launching billion dollar franchises, but Call of Duty’s popularity has gradually waned over the last three years, while Skylanders is a series that is suffering a significant fall in popularity.“Hopefully, with Bungie’s help, Activision can ensure fans of that series are looked after and kept happy. Although charging £20 for a DLC pack does seem excessive.”Destiny review: the future of games remains locked in the past
If you’ve ever tweeted in anger after being served soggy chips in a restaurant, you may be fuelling Twitter’s growing business in selling big data to businesses.At least, that’s according to the company’s president of global revenue Adam Bain, speaking at the Web Summit conference in Dublin this morning.He cited a recent deal with a deep-fat-fryer manufacturer as an example of the kind of small-to-medium sized business that might be willing to pay for access to Twitter’s “firehose” of data.Bain said he’d been initially doubtful of being able to provide any value to the company by licensing this data, until he found out they were planning to scan Twitter for tweets about “soggy fries” – apparently a sign that a restaurant needs to upgrade or replace its equipment – then give those businesses a sales call.“I went to Twitter, and sure enough there are thousands of people tweeting about soggy fries,” said Bain, who said that while Twitter’s big-data revenues grew 171% year-on-year in its latest financial results, that area is in its early days. “Expect more from us soon on the data business,” he said.In a bullish on-stage interview, Bain talked up Twitter’s main source of income: advertising. In the third quarter of this year, Twitter’s $361.3m of revenues was up 114% year-on-year, including $320m of advertising income – with 85% of that coming from mobile ads.“In terms of billion-dollar revenue ad businesses, we’re the fastest growing. There’s no other billion-dollar ad business that’s growing at close to 100%. And we feel like we’re just getting started,” said Bain.Some Twitter users have been worrying that the company’s burgeoning advertising business will inevitably make the service worse for them, as it inserts more ads into their news feeds. Bain was keen to defend the company on this point.“Amazing companies build out products to change and touch the world, and that’s certainly been the storyline for Twitter,” he said, before claiming that Twitter has managed to avoid the intrusive advertising that some users had feared.“We could have done what everybody else had done, which was to bring banners or an interruptive ad experience to the platform,” he said.“The advantage of the monetisation experience is the ads look, act and feel just like the organic content. You can do all the things to a promoted tweet that you can do to an organic tweet.”Twitter is a public company now, however, with investors keen to see its revenues continue to grow rapidly. Bain denied that there is a “tension” within Twitter’s business, as it tries to keep users happy while continuing to increase its ad revenues.“It would be a great storyline if that tension was there but in truth it’s not there in the business,” he said, before suggesting that brands are having to adapt to Twitter, rather than the other way around.“There’s an economic advantage on Twitter for advertisers to be good, instead of just loud like we’ve trained them in the past however many years in display [advertising].”Bain talked up Twitter’s MoPub mobile advertising business, which is now selling ads beyond Twitter. “MoPub sees a billion iOS and Android users every 30 days, so just massive scale,” he said.Twitter is keen to get more companies buying its data beyond the deep-fat fryer market, too, with IBM recently striking a deal to offer access to the firehose of 500 million tweets a day through its business tools and consulting services.“We think there’s a massive set of insights for businesses in Twitter data,” said Bain, citing hedge funds using the data to influence their trading, and health companies tracking disease outbreaks as they spread across the world as examples.“It’s about a billion tweets sent every two days, so tens of billions each month, and hundreds of billion each year,” he said. “We think it’s the largest set of public conversations that are out there. And there are businesses that use the data in the most interesting ways.”Twitter’s third line of business is commerce, with its new “buy” button having launched as a beta in September. Bain warned that it’s “a very early experiment” that the company hopes will become a significant part of its business.“If you’re tweeting about a product or service, that button shows up and with one click, essentially, you can purchase a product. It’s early days,” he said.“We’re experimenting with different price points with different products, and more importantly what emotions you need to generate as a business to get someone to buy in the moment… We’re trying to prove to those marketers that we can actually move transactions, and once that’s in place, a variety of business models come into play.”Twitter users concerned about the company’s future direction may be wary of the way Bain sees their emotions as the driver for Twitter to make money, though.“You get into a different mode as a user of Twitter. You get transported almost to this different place mentally. You get into this mode of ‘What’s hot? What’s new? What’s going on in the world? Or what’s happening in my world?’” he said.“And for monetisation, all we do is monetise emotions. Those four emotions: what’s hot, what’s new, what’s going on in the world and what’s happening in my world.”•Twitter reports soaring revenues but struggles to recruit new users
They don’t take shortcuts at Rockstar. Back in June, when the company first announced PC and next-generation console versions of Grand Theft Auto V, industry watchers suspected that it wouldn’t be a simple 1080p upscale. And when the launch was subsequently delayed, those suspicions were confirmed. Now its clear what was going on.On PC, PS4 and Xbox One, Grand Theft Auto V is going to offer a first-person view option.According to gaming site CVG, which has seen and played the game in the new mode, the targeting, movement and driving engines have all been altered accordingly, and extra weapon animations have been added. You can walk along the pavement, look down and see the body of your character; you can pull out a phone and check the display right in front of you. You can take selfies with abandon.It is, of course, a pretty clever way of convincing owners of the PS3 or Xbox 360 versions to upgrade. Experiencing those parachuting bank heists or motorcycle chase sequences in first-person may be too scintillating a prospect for fans – especially when the additional physics and lighting effects are factored in. As wediscovered back in September, the new update will also include new wildlife, weapons, vehicles and activities, as well as more densely crowded roads and pavements. First-person is available in GTA Online, too.The mode is also highly configurable. From CVG:First-person options are bogglingly extensive, with options for Assisted Aim, Semi-Assisted Aim, Free Aim and much, much more. You can set first-person targeting with third-person cover, or third-person targeting with first-person driving... the choice is huge. First-person (FP) street brawls feel more hilariously, violently wrong than ever.In its own report on the upgrade,IGN mentionsthe newly designed vehicle interiors – different models get different dashboards and working speedometers. You can duck down in the seat when being shot at. “Hop on a bike or jump into a helicopter, and your character puts on a helmet or a set of goggles that authentically restricts your view and muffles the ambient noise of the world.”Certainly, this isn’t the first game to offer a switch between third- and first-person options – Skyrim and Fallout 3 do it too. But its fresh implementation puts GTA V a cut above other next-gen re-releases like Tomb Raider and Sleeping Dogs. It will be interesting to see how forthcoming story DLC will utilise the new view – apparently GTA Online will allow users to create first-person only challenges; that will doubtless be expanded in the future.Of course, for PC owners, this will all be part of their initial experience of the game when it launches there on 27 January (the console release is 18 November). The big question is how many of the title’s current 35 million owners will upgrade on their new machines. It’s a question that publishers of brand new PS4 and Xbox One titles will be nervously asking themselves this winter.Grand Theft Auto Online and Twitch windfall key to Take-Two financials
The UK must double innovation funding and set up a string of new technology centres if it wants to reap the commercial rewards of its world-leading science base, a new report has warned.Hermann Hauser, the technology entrepreneur who originally proposed a UK network of centres where scientists can turn their inventions into commercial products, said he was “genuinely surprised” at how well the government’s first crop ofCatapult centreshad progressed. His original recommendations were made in a2010 report for the Labour governmentand adopted by the coalition when it came into government later that year.In a follow-up review on Wednesday commissioned by business secretary Vince Cable, Hauser said the UK was still “playing catch up” with other countries such as Germany, where support for science spin-outs was more established and better funded.Hauser recommended setting up one or two new Catapults each year to expand the network from the seven current centres to 20 by 2020 and 30 by 2030.The budget forInnovate UK, the new name for the Technology Strategy Board, would need to double to £1bn a year by 2020, he said.“We are very good at science … Nobody, I think, doubts the prowess that we have in science and everybody, I think, laments the fact that we don’t seem to be getting as much value from our science in the UK as maybe some other countries do,” Hauser said.But he said the Catapults had helped lift the UK’s international standing and four years on from his original report he was encouraged that all seven centres were working well.“I have been genuinely surprised at the degree of progress made and impressed by the quality of the people and facilities in the emerging network. The UK is playing catch up with the best innovation systems in the world in translational infrastructure, so I was very encouraged to see how rapidly we are closing the gap,” said Hauser.Established tobridge the “valley of death”, as scientists call the gulf between having an idea and launching a successful business product, the Catapult centres give businesses and academics access to multimillion-pound equipment and laboratories to develop prototypes. Inventors can rent equipment and staff to work on their ideas in sectors including cell therapy, offshore renewable energy and high value manufacturing such as printable electronics.Austrian-born venture capitalist Hauser said the existing centres were a “great stride forward” but there were several areas for improvement. He recommended better links between Catapults and small and medium-sized businesses so that they can benefit more from the facilities, which get a third of their funding from the taxpayer and a third from industry. The remainder is via competitive tendering for projects that bring in grants and other funding. Hauser recommended keeping this model and warned against following the lead of governments elsewhere that only funded the setting-up of innovation centres rather than their long term running costs.“The really risky projects that industry wouldn’t be willing to do if they didn’t have two-thirds of the money come from other sources are exactly the sort of projects that allow a sector to be world-leading,” he told reporters.Hauser also recommended better links with universities, both in the UK and internationally.On funding he used the example of Germany’s network of Fraunhofer Institutes which have a combined revenue base of €2bn (£1.6bn).“You’ve got to compare that €2bn with our original estimate of £200m that we originally set aside for Catapults over a period of five years originally. That has grown to £500m now, but it’s over a period of 10 years, so it’s £50m a year versus €2bn.”
Jawbone has unveiled a new small fitness band that is capable of recording three stages of sleep including rapid eye movement (REM) sleep associated with memory and high quality sleep.The new Jawbone Up3 features an accelerometer like most other fitness trackers for detecting steps, activity and calories burned, but also new sensors that track the conductivity of skin to measure heart rate and sweat, as well as ambient and skin temperature sensors.Other fitness trackers and smartwatches can detect heart rate using optical sensors that shine a light into the skin to detect the rushing of blood cells, but they require a larger device and demand a bigger battery.“With UP3, our mission was to create the world’s most powerful tracker in the smallest possible design” said Travis Bogard, vice-president of product management and strategy at Jawbone. “Our advanced, multi-sensor platform delivers a huge amount of new health data, backed by our smart algorithms and highly personalised Smart Coach system.”The metal contacts within the Up3’s band measure skin temperature and bioimpedance.Photograph: JawboneThe Up3 is a slim strip of plastic with a flexible strap that adjusts to a reasonably tight fit to make sure the metal contacts within the strap make a decent contact with the skin.Jawbone will use resting heart rate, measured just before waking up and just after going to sleep, as a measure of overall health when it is not affected by caffeine or other things like stress that affect it through the day.The band can also automatically track different activities and sports, allowing the user to tag those active periods for better measurement of movements and the number of calories burned.It syncs the data via Bluetooth to iPhone or Android smartphones, uploading the data to Jawbone’s servers for analysis allowing the app to display sleep, activity and health measurements over minutes, hours, days, weeks and months.It will last approximately seven days on a charge, which is done with a small USB adapter that can be powered by any computer or standard USB power adapter.‘Improve the quality of your sleep’The biggest advantage the Up3 has over the previous generation Jawbone and most other fitness trackers is the ability to detect the different phases of sleep using the heart rate monitor. Activity trackers that use motion to infer sleep can only attempt to predict when a person falls asleep and not the important sleep cycles and quality of that sleep.“True sleep staging can only come from EEG with sensors on the head, which has been tried in the past with a wearable monitor ( i.e., the ZEO-which is no longer around),” Dr Michael Breus,sleep therapist and authorbased in Scottsdale, Arizona, explained to the Guardian. “But since each sleep stage has a signature heart rate, while not direct measurement of sleep cycle, I think that this is certainly something that will be much closer than accelerometry and the device has some serious merit.”“The more data we can collect about a person’s activities through new sensors, the better we can understand their sleep, fitness and health,” Jason Donahue project manager for data and insights at Jawbone explained to the Guardian. “The bioimpedance sensor allows the Up3 to detect light, deep and REM to measure the quality of your sleep not just the duration.”Sleep has always been considered scientifically important to all-round physical health.Studies have found that people who sleep for less than six hours a night have a risk of high blood pressure three times greater than those who get more than six hours, and that women who sleep less than four hours a night are twice as likely to die from heart disease as those who sleep longer.Other research suggests that a lack of quality sleep is linked to the onset of diabetes, obesity and cancer, not to mention deterioration of mental health and memory. Conversely, sleeping too long has also been shown to cause issues. The recommended amount is between seven and nine hours.“If, for instance, we notice that you sleep better after a certain amount of exercise or steps in a day, we can suggest hitting that amount of steps regularly will improve the quality of your sleep,” Donahue said. “But going further, if you get a bad night’s sleep with poor quality sleep we can detect this and knowing the hormones released after a bad night’s sleep that make you crave fatty foods, can suggest better alternatives and help make the next night’s sleep productive.”The Up3 will be available before Christmas costing £149.99 in two colours – black and silver.Jawbone MoveJawbone Move is the smaller, cheaper fitness tracker aimed at those interested in starting to track their daily activity.Photograph: JawboneJawbone also unveiled a new, cheaper fitness tracker the Up Move, which is a small button similar to theMisfit Shine. The Move tracks steps and calories burned using an accelerometer and can be worn using a belt clip or an optional wrist strap.It lasts six months on a single replaceable coin cell battery and will be available for pre-order from 7 November costing £39.99 aimed at those looking to start tracking their daily activity.•Misfit Shine fitness tracker review: small and perfectly formed•Sleep sensors: waking up to the need to study our night’s rest•‘Sleep trackers made me far more interested in my sleep’
SoundCloud has signed its first deal with a record company in what marks a significant move for the world’s second biggest streaming music service after YouTube.Despite having 175m monthly unique listeners, the platform has not paid royalties to artists or labels since it was founded in 2008.However, Soundcloud’s deal means that artists on Warner Music Group labels will now be paid royalties.The deal has been made possible by SoundCloud’s decision to introduce a subscription service next year, which will generate revenue along with advertising that will be seen by non-paying users.Rob Wiesenthal, Warner chief operating officer, said: “[SoundCloud] has a rare ability to drive music discovery while enhancing the connection and collaboration between an artist and their following. Our deal will foster that relationship, while providing a powerful range of income opportunities for WMG’s artists and songwriters.”His colleague Jonathan Dworkin said the partnership would allow SoundCloud to expand and bring in funds while preserving the elements that had made it so popular: “It’s a win for artists, for rights-holders and for consumers.”Some artists use the service to make additional songs or remixes available to fans that have not been officially released, while others upload mashups or mixtapes.Alexander Ljung, the founder and chief executive, said he expected the deal to generate significant revenue for Warner and its artists.Royalties paid to artists by streaming services have become a bone of contention throughout the music industry, with Taylor Swift deciding to withdraw her music from Spotify because of the small amount of revenue it generated. Spotify has some 40m users, but only a quarter pay £10 or $10 a month to avoid advertising and be able to download songs to mobile devices for offline play.However, SoundCloud pays artists even less than the average of $0.007 per song play generated by Spotify. Swift criticised that sum in an article she wrote earlier this year for the Wall Street Journal.Warner, the smallest of the three global record companies, will not licence its entire catalogue to SoundCloud in the deal. Its artists include Kylie Minogue, Ed Sheeran, Coldplay and Bruno Mars.Soundcloud has also held talks with Universal and Sony Music. Two music publishers, Sony/ATV and BMG, are already partners in the scheme known as OnSoundCloud that will introduce advertising for certain artists, starting initially in the US.The company’s move could generate anger among users. One warned on Twitter: “All those ad-less streams of music you were enjoying on SoundCloud … Days r Numbered.”SoundCloud revamped its mobile app in June to reflect the fact that two thirds of its listening comes on smartphones and tablets, up from just 50% at the start of the year.• This article was amended on Wednesday 5 November 2014. SoundCloud has 175m unique listeners a month rather than users. This has been corrected.
By and large, the most popular internet companies like Apple, Google, Twitter, LinkedIn and Facebook reside in the US. As such they are protected by the first amendment of the US constitution. For access to their software, we all did a deal. We ticked a box which gave us their services free, and in return they use our data and make an enormous financial killing from it. This cannot be right or fair. But that’s by the by. Robert Hannigan, the new director of GCHQ, must know that they will protect this data for fear of legal action by any of their subscribers (Privacy not an absolute right, says new director of GCHQ, 4 November).The answer therefore is for the UK to take a lead by creating a world body (much as we did with the World Service and the British Council) for the internet, and for starting the journey to agree some fundamental rules which cover cybercrime, child pornography, terrorism et al. We are rather good at soft power and some of us have argued that’s all we have left in foreign policy.Derek WyattFounder, parliamentary internet group and Oxford Internet Institute
We don’t yet have a date, but we know it’s coming. At some point this month, probably soon, the government’s onlineVerifyscheme will at last give government departments a centralised way to digitally identify each citizen as they go about their business. The DVLA, Defra and HMRC will be part of the first wave of public beta testing, and while renewing your driving licence or doing your taxes may not quite become fun, it should at least be quicker, and won’t involve digging out any documents or posting things.Not that everyone will be pleased. Labour spent billions of pounds, and most of the noughties, trying to launch compulsory ID cards against implacable opposition, eventually launching an optional version just in time for it to be scrapped by the newly formed coalition government. Nevertheless, a cadre of libertarians continues to live in fear of ID cards re-entering their lives, doubtless through some sinister back door.Could Verify be it? Well, there are some important differences. First, there is no card. The whole point of the Verify scheme is to make most government services, in the government’s own phrase, “digital by default”. Second, it isoptional as well, at least for now, so the best course of action for people who don’t want to use it is probably, you know, not to use it. Third, the government digital service has gone to quite a lot of trouble to avoid holding a vast database of all your personal information. Instead it will hold merely a lot of your personal information, while the information needed for the verifying process will be handled by your choice of private company – Verizon or Experian to begin with, plus Digidentity or the Post Office by the end of the year.Users must input their name, sex, address and date of birth, demonstrate their identity with information from their bank or driving licence, and then undergo a background check, perhaps involving their credit history. After 10 minutes (“usually”) they get their key to the system. At no time will the government hold that key, and the identity companies will be banned from sharing the information with anybody. Let’s hope their servers are secure.
The battle over encryption of consumer internet users’ data has pitched US technology companies against the US government itself, former NSA general counsel Stewart Baker said on Tuesday.Speaking at Web Summit in Dublin, Baker claimed that moves by Google and Apple and others to encrypt user data was more hostile to western intelligence gathering than to surveillance by China or Russia.“The state department has funded some of these tools, such as Tor, which has been used in Arab Spring revolutions or to get past the Chinese firewall, but these crypto wars are mainly being fought between the American government and American companies,” he said, in conversation with Guardian special projects editor James Ball.Baker said encrypting user data had been a bad business model for Blackberry, which has had to dramatically downsize its business and refocus on business customers. “Blackberry pioneered the same business model that Google and Apple are doing now - that has not ended well for Blackberry,” said Baker.He claimed that by encrypting user data Blackberry had limited its business in countries that demand oversight of communication data, such as India and the UAE and got a bad reception in China and Russia. “They restricted their own ability to sell. We have a tendency to think that once the cyberwar is won in the US that that is the end of it - but that is the easiest war to swim.”Baker said the market for absolute encryption was very small, and that few companies wanted all their employees’ data to be completely protected. “There’s a very comfortable techno-libertarian culture where you think you’re doing the right thing,” said Baker.“But I’ve worked with these companies and as soon as they get a law enforcement request no matter how liberal or enlightened they think they are, sooner to later they find some crime that is so loathsome they will do anything to find that person and identify them so they can be punished.“Tech companies are picking a big public fight with the NSA because it looks good, as opposed to changing the ability of government to get data,” he said. “The crypto wars have about as much to do with the outcome of security as the Soviet-Finnish war of 1939 had to do with the outcome of WW2.”Matthew Prince, CEO of Cloudflare, defended the tech firms, saying these businesses depend on trust and that the Snowden revelations had been “a shot across the bow for companies like Google”.“Where in the past there was a willingness to work with law enforcement, that time has gone,” he said. “I have faith in the math [of encryption]. No-one can monitor that - and I’m not sure we want private law enforcement taking on the law and picking which traffic is good or bad.”Prince said that high profile security problems, including Heartbleed and Poodle, had demonstrated how mainstream security issues had become.“But there is now a team at Google going line by line through the software that makes up the core foundation of the internet, and the ancillary effect of what is happening from Snowden is that we are building a better internet.”•GCHQ chief accuses US tech giants of becoming terrorists’ ‘networks of choice’
The notoriously white collection of emoji characters are about to be diversified.The Unicode Consortium, an industry body devoted to the development and promotion of software standards, has proposed adraft planto add a range of five skin tone options for human emoji characters.People all over the world want to have emoji that reflect more human diversity, especially for skin tone. The Unicode emoji characters for people and body parts are meant to be generic, yet following the precedents set by the original Japanese carrier images, they are often shown with a light skin tone instead of a more generic (inhuman) appearance, such as a yellow/orange color or a silhouette.Emoji are cartoon-like pictograms often sent via text messages to convey emotion and humor.The available tones are based on the Fitzpatrick scale, a standardised method of classifying human skin color used by dermatologists. Users will be able to change the skin tone of all human characters and body parts, from the dancing woman to the praying hands.The skin tone modifier will affect both characters in an image. So adding a brown swatch to the kissing couple would make both the man and the woman brown. To correct this, if desired, the consortium suggests using a combination of single and multi-person emoji to get the point across.If the skin tone modifier isn’t supported by a device, the reader will receive the character and a color swatch so the intended meaning is still conveyed. If no color modifier is selected for a human emoji, the group recommends that the character default to a non-realistic skin tone, such as the yellow used for the smiley faces.The plan is still in a draft phase, and there is no timetable for when the changes will be rolled out.The proposed new emoji.Photograph: unicodeUsers have long decried the almost uniformly white emoji available.“If you look at Apple’s Emoji keyboard, what do you see? Two different camels. A smiling turd. Every phase of the moon. But of the more than 800 Emoji, the only two resembling people of color are a guy who looks vaguely Asian and another in a turban,” read a petition posted toDoSomething.orgthat called on Apple to diversify the emoji available on its keyboard.Earlier this year, Apple responded, telling MTV that it too wanted emoji characters that reflected the wider world.“There needs to be more diversity in the emoji character set, and we have been working closely with the Unicode Consortium in an effort to update the standard,” Apple’s vice-president of worldwide corporate communications, Katie Cotton,told MTVAct.
The European Union has committed €14.4m (£11m) towards open data with projects and institutions lead by the Open Data Institute (ODI), Southampton University, the Open University and Telefonica.The funding, announced today at the ODI Summit being held in London, is the largest direct investment into open data startups globally and will be used to fund three separate schemes covering startups, open data research and a new training academy for data science.“This is a decisive investment by the EU to create open data skills, build capabilities, and provide fuel for open data startups across Europe,” said Gavin Starks, chief executive of the ODI a non-for-profit organisation based in London co-founded by inventor of the world wide web Sir Tim Berners-Lee. “It combines three key drivers for open adoption: financing startups, deepening our research and evidence, and training the next generation of data scientists, to exploit emerging open data ecosystems.”Money from the €14.4m will be divided into three sections. Through the EU’s €80 billion Horizon 2020 research and innovation funding, €7.8m will be used to fund the 30-month Open Data Incubator for Europe (ODInE) for open data startups modelled on the ODI’s UK open data startup incubator that has been running since 2012.‘Radically change the way organisations value data’The new European startup incubator will be operated by the ODI on behalf of a consortium of seven organisations, including the University of Southampton, Telefonica, Fraunhofer and the Guardian. It launches in spring 2015 taking on up to 50 new startups, which will receive between €50,000 and €100,000 to develop an idea, along with mentoring, technology and infrastructure support.“Open data has the potential to radically change the way organisations value data,” said Elena Simperl, associate professor at the University of Southampton. “An incubation program like ODInE’s will offer small and medium innovators in this space mentoring, technology, and financial support, helping to build a business network around open data across Europe.”“ODInE stands for those entrepreneurs, startups and small to medium sized enterprises that wish to use open data to create economic and social value,” said Daniel Dietrich, co-founder and chairman of Open Knowledge Foundation in Germany. “This is the logical next step needed to grow the European open data ecosystem towards a sustainable data economy.”‘Open Data currently only covers the tip of the public data iceberg’A further €3.7m will be used to fund 15 researchers into open data posed with the question “how can we answer complex questions with web data?”. Two research posts will be made available for PhD students at the ODI and University of Southampton in the UK, University of Bonn and Fraunhofer in Germany, Université Jean Monnet Saint-Etienne in France and the University of Athens in Greece.A third fund of €2.9m will be used to establish a new European Data Science Academy (EDSA) using e-learning technologies to create a new pan-European portal for analysing data and educating data scientists. The ODI and the Open University will lead the project with seven other organisations across Europe.“Our experiences while building various open-data portals showed, that Open Data currently only covers the tip of the public data iceberg,” said Sören Auer, professor at the University of Bonn, and head of department at Fraunhofer. “Significant further efforts are required to increase the depth and breadth of available open data as well as to facilitate their integration and use to truly establish sustainable data value chains.”•Web inventor’s open data organisation announces new global network•Obama to Berners-Lee, Snow to Domesday: a history of open data
Dropbox and Microsoft are partnering to integrate Microsoft Office with the cloud-storage platform more closely than any other save Microsoft’s own OneDrive service.The joint venture brings Dropbox the credibility in the enterprise that it has been fighting for in recent months, while smoothing the sharp edges on Microsoft’s public image, proving that the Redmond-based firm can “play nicely with others”.The integration will launch with new versions of Office for iOS and Android in the next few weeks, and let users of both services save into Dropbox directly from Office, and edit Office documents directly from Dropbox.In early 2015, the integration will also extend to the two services’ web apps, and to the newly-announced Dropbox for Windows Phone app.“Today, Dropbox has 300 million users, of whom 70% are international, and a ton of them use Dropbox to get work done,” said Dropbox’s Ilya Fushman. ‘These people have uploaded something like 35bn Office files. Today, they get a great experience on the desktop, but what we’re doing now is taking that experience to mobile and the web.”“The other thing to note is that this has been one of the top customer requirements” from Office users, added Microsoft’s Amanda Lefebvre. “We want to be working where they are working, so this is a win for Dropbox and Office users.”The announcement took many by surprise, since Microsoft already has a cloud storage product: OneDrive, formerly SkyDrive. Lefebvre insists that OneDrive is “a continued investment”, and analyst Jeff Mann of Gartner agrees that the firm views OneDrive as a long term investment.“They are direct competitive, and I think Microsoft would prefer that everyone uses OneDrive,” he adds, “but there’s a couple of reasons why this happened. One is that for Dropbox it gives them enterprise credibility. It’ll look like an endorsement from Microsoft for using it for business, which is something that Dropbox is really anxious to do with their Dropbox for business and moving towards paid licenses.“And for Microsoft, it makes it look like they play nicely with others. Because there’s beginning to be grumbling about ‘it’s a closed system, and it has to be everything Microsoft’, and so they’re trying to show that they can play, that they’re willing to open things up, to work with others in the industry, so it gives them props for playing nicely.“And both of them decided that they’re not really a threat. If they can work with each other, against the common enemy Google, primarily, or to some extent Box or the other competitors that are in this market. Because Dropbox is not going to be challenging Microsoft in any other areas, and Microsoft is unavoidable.”In September,Dropbox announced another partnership, this time with Google itself, aiming to make security tech easier to use. The two firms created Simply Secure, which has the mandate to improve adoption rates of security tools such as two-factor authentication in the wake of the Snowden revelations.•Why Slack is worth $1bn: it’s trying to change how we work
When I was 12, my favourite book in the world was An Illustrated Guide to Rifles and Sub-Machine Guns by Major Frederick Myatt. I was fascinated by it, I memorised every fact; I could have told you the muzzle velocity of just about any weapon in the modern armoury. I thought the Colt Commando rifle was the most beautiful object ever designed.I turned out fine.As humans, we’re often interested in terrible things – and sometimes these things are sport and war. If you think about it, the two are inextricably related. Sport no doubt evolved as a form of ritualised combat – a counter-point to hunting as a method of exploring and releasing aggression. In his fascinating book The Soccer Tribe, the people watcher Desmond Morris observed the primal, atavistic appeal of the sport – its theatrical representation of victory and defeat, enclosed in a stadium of baying supporters. For hundreds of thousands of years, we all lived by spears and senses, killing to survive, relying on bodily systems of speed, violence and adrenaline. Those chemicals still sluice inside a lot of us.So I’m not at all surprised that, every year, the best-selling games are Call of Duty and Fifa. What’s more, I don’t think that the people who enjoy these annual excursions into tribal competition are stupid. Primarily because I’m one of them.The joke about Fifa is that it’s the same game every year, just with new team sheets and tweaked shirt designs. This both is, and isn’t, true. It is also an utterly irrelevant complaint to fans, who understand that football itself both is, and isn’t, the same every year. What these fans want from Fifa is the chance to experience the competition they adore at the highest level; the school-boy fantasy rendered in pristine detail. Within the game, co-conspirators find a graphically alluring representation of televised sport where they can enact playful jousts and pretend they are grand encounters.It is, in short, a social role-playing adventure; a shared imaginative journey. Indeed, when the writer Alice O’Connorpreviewed Fifa 15 this yearfor gaming site Rock Paper Shotgun, she brilliantly treated the game as some strange new entrant into the fantasy strategy genre:If you’ve played Unreal Tournament’s Bombing Run mode, you’ll get the basics: two teams are fighting to gain control of a bomb (defused, in this) and launch it into the enemy’s goalzone. Except you only have melee attacks. It’s made trickier yet by playing from a third-person perspective, and having 11 characters yourself. You only control one at once, switching in real-time (no tactical pause!), while an AI babysits the rest.It is true though. In Fifa, you represent your team, the team you love, and you battle your friends, online or in the same room, and you live out that rivalry, that pain and pleasure, that all sports fans are cursed to live out every Saturday. Except in Fifa, it is not as a passive viewer, unable to intercede, except through superstitious routines or shouting at the opponent’s keeper before a penalty. In Fifa, the football fan is finally in control. It is glorious catharsis. And better still, you get to play against and beat your friends and talk and laugh about it, which for some people is as close as they ever get to saying, “I love you, old pal”, without alcohol.Meanwhile, Call of Duty is a machine of absorption. Every component of this military shooter behemoth is painstakingly designed to put you into Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi’s “flow state” – that sense of total immersion into the task at hand. The quick-stop menus, the stabs of guitar music, the blipvert loading times, the smooth 60 frames-per-second visuals; the speed of death, the speed of resurrection. A Call of Duty multiplayer map is a football stadium crossed with a Sam Peckinpah movie – everything is fast, brutal and lusciously choreographed. The bullet noises, the footsteps, the re-loading animations, they all work like the flashing lights and hypnotic tunes of the Las Vegas slot machines, lulling you into woozy world of repetition and psychologically pleasing feedback.In his documentary The Perverts Guide to Cinema, Slavoj Zizek refered to video games as a medium of self-expression rather than escape. Both Call of Duty and Fifa offer many avenues for ostentation, allowing players to developer and display skilful brilliance – they let people be creative in a very direct and visual way. You have to be a fellow fan to see it and appreciate it, but that’s part of the allure. These games are about identity too.Both “franchises” also say something important about games - and about entertainment in general: that any work of popular culture can be simultaneously enjoyable and problematic. Call of Duty tells a neo-con fantasy of victory through brute firepower and fetishised military technology; it tells us nothing of suffering or the ripples of hatred and resentment that pass from one generation to the next through every chemically scarred war zone. Fifa joyfully accepts and reproduces the crass monetisation of football, celebrating the excesses of TV coverage and the vacuous cult of the superstar player. Its simulation is hyper-realistic; it is football’s Disneyland.But as entertainment products, these games understand their audiences and provide exactly what is required – a competitive space in which battle can be seamless and enjoyable. Both games fit into people’s lives, effortlessly filling minutes, hours or days, whatever is available. Each fresh instalment promises a grander experience and they usually deliver it to an extent, but like soap operas, sitcoms and James Bond moves, they don’t stray too far from the underlying formula.We all think we want new experiences, but most people actually don’t, not really; we work on repetition and security, we like familiar systems of pleasure. Every goal is a narrative refrain to savour and celebrate. And in Call of Duty, every kill is a catchphrase.Fifa 15 review – not flawless, but still the bestCall of Duty: Advanced Warfare – a pro-gamer’s guide to multiplayer
Cloud service Evernote is preparing to raise the price of its premium subscriptions in early 2015 from its current $5 a month, according to chief executive Phil Libin.“We’ve never changed our price: we launched seven years ago at $5 a month, but we realised a couple of years ago that it was the wrong price,” said Libin, speaking at the Web Summit conference in Dublin.“I know it was the wrong price because we picked it at random seven years ago and never changed it, so our chances of getting it right were very slim!”Libin said that Evernote has spent the last few months “trying to work out what the right price is” and plans to announce its plans early in 2015. “I think it can go up in some countries and probably down in some countries,” he said.Evernote currently has between eight and nine million paying users, according to its chief executive, who reaffirmed his belief that premium subscriptions rather than advertising are the best business model for his company.“We don’t data-mine your information, we’re not selling you to anyone. Our fundamental belief is that we make money when our users say ‘we love this product and we want to pay for it’,” said Libin.“That’s a slow start: there’s no tricks. You can’t pull a lever and be all of a sudden ‘we’re going to show more ads’. It takes longer to get started, but ultimately it gives us a shot at building a 100-year startup. If we were doing 42 revenue tricks, how could you possibly sustain that for 100 years?”Libin added that Evernote’s business model also means it does not end up in conflict with its community of developers. “We’re not worried about someone making something so great with Evernote as a developer that it pulls eyeballs away from Evernote,” he said.“If a third-party developer makes something great that gives people a great experience, we make more money. Other companies have this love-hate relationship with developers. For us it’s just easy: it’s love.”Libin said that Evernote has rethought the core of its business, drilling down on work and businesses, rather than consumer note-taking.“We’re about work. Last year we made he decision to really focus on work. We don’t really talk about Evernote [as something] for your hobbies any more,” he said. “What’s the biggest impact we can have? We realised that the biggest impact we can have is have work suck less.”He said that Evernote’s own staff remain the main testing group for new features, and warned startup founders to trust their own instincts more when coming up with a new digital service.“We make things we love. I think that’s critical. Product/market fit is kinda a bullshit concept. You can’t approach it that way: ‘What should I build? Let me go and see what the market needs!’. That doesn’t make any sense: your only competitive advantage is to make something great,” he said.“How are you going to make something great unless you make it for yourself? How are you even gonna know that it’s great? You make something you love, and then you find the market that it fits.”Libin stressed that the free version of Evernote remains “the main version” as the company focuses on persuading people to start paying because they love it, rather than by restricting the free features.“It’s more important that you stay than you pay. But the longer you use it, the more likely you are to pay for it,” he said. “In the first month, we have only about one half of a percent of our users paying. After a year it’s 5%... and after six years, 30% pay. So it’s more important that you stay than you pay.”Quite the slogan. “Business models that rhyme are just better,” joked Libin.•Evernote talks user experience, privacy and developer relations
The fictional land of Kyrat is ripe with storytelling potential. An amalgamation of Nepal, Thailand and Tibet, its culture and landscape mix ancient lore and the realities of the developing world into a wholly unique cocktail of violence, redemption and intrigue. It is the perfect place for a Far Cry adventure.The fourth title in Ubisoft’s free-roaming adventure series tells the story of a prodigal son, Ajay Ghale, returning to his native land to find it torn apart by civil war. On the one side stands The Golden Path, a rebel movement that’s seen better days and whose loyalties are split down the middle. One of its leaders, Sabal, is a religious zealot who places a premium on the sanctity of human life. The other, Amrita, is a liberal pragmatist who sees nothing wrong with taking over Kyrat’s drug cartels if the profits allow for the construction of schools and hospitals.Kyrat’s controlling voice is its flamboyant dictator, Pagan Min, a sharp-suited, silver-tongued psychopath who is as charming as he is lethal. Min and the leaders of The Golden Path are locked in a battle for Ajay’s soul. The outcome of Far Cry 4, we are told, will largely depend on how the player interacts with these conflicting forces and what choices they make.The paradox of freedomBut who really cares about any of that when you can flip a jeep filled with enemies off the side of a mountain pass with an elephant? As important as narrative and plot have become in shooters over the last five or so years – and the jury on this importance is still out – the principle draw of games like Far Cry 4 is the ability of players to cause unparalleled mayhem.Far Cry 4 offers more opportunities for anarchy than most; players can ram elephants with SUVs, detonate sticky explosives on the back of rhinos and fire bazookas at peacocks. The land of Kyrat is like mainlining ADD; players on their way to complete a mission are a likely to get purloined by myriad side-quests, firefights, map unlocks and dynamic events. How do you craft a narrative around a game structure that encourages players to hurtle off-piste at a moment’s notice?It’s a problem Mark Thompson, the narrative director on Far Cry 4 is all too aware of. One of the principle draws of Far Cry 4 is how it places players in the boots of a protagonist who is a fish out of water. Even though Ajay is a native of Kyrat returning home after a long time, he’s still rediscovering himself – much like the player.“You never really have an idea of yourself fully formed unless you experience something new,” says Thompson. “I left college and I didn’t go into the world knowing who I am. I’m fully aware that there’s this post-education identity crisis in this generation where we don’t leave uni and fall into a job where our future is mapped out.”“So it’s interesting to take [Ajay] and throw him back into a culture he comes from but that he never knew.”“It’s a good symbiosis with the player’s experience. When you pick up the controller you know nothing about Kyrat or its culture and you learn at the same pace as Ajay. To all intents and purposes you become Ajay and it’s all about discovery and a sense of identity that the player crafts for themselves.”It’s that sense of discovery that provides the glue that holds Far Cry 4’s narrative together. Since the player is as invested in Kyrat as its protagonist, they can be as invested in its cultural, social and political problems as they care to. In this world, tormenting the local fauna makes about as much sense as digging into Pagan Min’s forces. Forward progression is always looming in the background, but it’s an option for as long as the player wants to put it off for.“As Ajay discovers who he is, you discover who you are,” says Thompson. “We never put you in a position where you’ll disagree with what Ajay says or decides.”“You make all the decisions.”Far Cry 4 is released on PC, PS3, PS4, Xbox 360 and Xbox One on 20 November.Far Cry 4 hands-on – beauty and danger at the roof of the world
The chief executive of Facebook-owned virtual reality firm Oculus VR has warned rival Sony not to launch a VR headset until it has solved problems of motion sickness.“We’re really looking forward to this as an industry that takes off… A number of companies will come in, even companies we haven’t heard of yet two or three or five years down the road,” said Iribe, who was speaking at the Web Summit conference in Dublin.“At the same time we’re a little worried about some of the bigger companies putting out product that isn’t quite ready. That elephant in the room is disorientation and motion sickness.”Past developer versions of his own company’s Oculus Rift headset have sparked debate about this issue, with some users reporting suffering motion sickness when playing games while wearing them.Iribe said that he expects the consumer version of Oculus Rift to have solved these issues, but delivered a warning to rivals. “We’re encouraging other companies, particularly the big consumer companies, to not put out a product until they’ve solved that problem,” he said.Sony was the obvious target for his remarks: it announced itsProject Morpheus virtual reality headsetearlier this year, while Samsung has chosen topartner with Oculus VR on its upcoming Gear VR product.Iribe added that Oculus has already invited Sony in to see its latest prototype, complete with the advice: “Please make sure your product is as good or close!”Oculus boss said that since being bought for $2bn by Facebook earlier in the year, his company has focused on recruitment, as it beefs up its research and development division alongside working towards a commercial release for Oculus Rift.“It’s been a very exciting time for us to partner with such a big company and really supercharge our effort to make this a reality,” he said. “The biggest area we’ve focused on over the last seven months is recruiting… to put the right structure in place to build this and take it to the consumer market.”Oculus has grown from 50 people at the start of 2014 to more than 200 now, said Iribe. “We’ve attracted some of the very best, top-talent engineers in the industry. And a big area we’re able to focus on now is research: R&amp;D,” he said.“Typically it’s hard for a startup to have a whole separate research group while you also have a product group… Now with Facebook’s partnership it’s been incredible who we’ve been able to bring on board, and we now have one of the best research groups in the world.”Iribe described VR as a “brand new industry… we’re just at the beginning” while acknowledging that the technology itself has deep roots in past efforts.“We didn’t know how big this would be, or what the killer application was going to be. Was it just going to be gaming?” he said, before suggesting that a number of virtual reality veterans have been joining Oculus with ideas.“What is the killer application for VR? Again, it’s too early to say. We just don’t know what that application’s going to be that most people are going to use. What game, or what real-time entertainment application… or is it going to be face-to-face communication?” he said.“One that really resonates with most of us internally, and a long-term vision, is this is going to have a big rooting in gaming… There’ll be a market of a lot of really fun entertainment experiences where you’ll feel like you’re in the game, and it’s going to be awesome.”However, Iribe said that virtual reality’s more mainstream application will be more around communications – something that surely plays into the reasons Facebook paid $2bn for the company.“For me the real time when this is going to change the world is when we can have real-time face-to-face conversation,” he said, suggesting that virtual reality will become an alternative to travelling for meetings, as one example.“Most people travel, and we get on airplanes and cars to go have face-to-face communications. If you could in the future throw on a pair of sunglasses and we could have that same conversation with people around the world… looking at each other’s eyes, looking in each other’s mouths… that’s really transformative,” said Iribe.He also claimed that this could have an impact as deep as past communications technologies like the telephone, internet and personal computers. “To have virtual reality where you can have these face-to-face communications, that’s going to appeal to billions of people,” he said.Iribe also talked about the importance of community to Oculus VR, from its days raising money on crowdfunding website Kickstarter.He said that crowdfunding “really does change who you are, the the culture: being completely transparent, being attached and in touch with the community, and every step of the way we think ‘how is the community going to react to this, is this the right thing to do… Maybe we shouldn’t be doing this, maybe this sounds a little evil!’”Iribe also talked up the latest developer version of Oculus Rift, Crescent Bay, which was announced in September. “Crescent Bay is where it all begins: that quality level,” said Iribe, who later said that his company still hopes to fit its technology into a pair of sunglasses at some point in the future.Iribe was asked how close Oculus is to releasing the consumer version of its headset. “We wanna get it right, we really do. We are not going to ship it until we get it right, and we don’t want that to be four or five years from now. We want it to be soon,” he said.“We’re getting much closer: we like to say it’s months, not necessarily years away. It’s many months, not just a few months. Crescent Bay, I’ll go on the record as saying that hardware-wise for the headset, it’s arguably almost there for the consumer product, and now there are some other parts.”The Bravemind virtual reality application being demonstrated at Web Summit.Photograph: Stuart Dredge for the GuardianEarlier, Albert ‘Skip’ Rizzo from the University of Southern California talked about the potential for virtual reality technology, showing demonstration applications for treating post-traumatic stress disorder in soldiers, children with attention-deficit disorder, and recovering stroke patients.Rizzo said that he has been working on medical VR applications for many years now, but that “the technology has caught up with the vision” through improved computer processing, 3D graphics and interface devices including Oculus Rift and Microsoft’s Kinect.Rizzo showed off Bravemind, a “virtual reality exposure therapy” application that enables soldiers with PTSD to virtually experience “trauma-relevant scenarios” as part of their treatment.“The thing that will make virtual reality in the clinical domain more acceptable now this time round for the second coming is we’ve got a lot of data to show that it works,” said Rizzo.He cited a study of Bravemind with 20 soldiers with PTSD that saw 16 of them no longer meeting the medical criteria for the condition at the end of the trial, although the technology had no effect on the other four.“We’re creating immersive simulation that targets a very difficult psychological condition,” said Rizzo, as he triggered explosions and sent planes and helicopters flying low over a virtual street in his demonstration.“We’re not saying that the technology fixes anybody: it’s still just a tool in the hands of a well-trained clinician who understands how to deliver this evidence-based treatment.”
Designing the perfect Lollipop? Strawberry and sherbert, and it should be the size of my face, please.But no,Google’s latest post on its Official Android Blogis less about sweets-on-sticks and more about Android Lollipop, the latest version of its smartphone and tablet software.It started rolling out to devices this week, and colleague Sam Gibbs has alreadyput the new software through its paceswith a five-star review:Lollipop is a complete visual overhaul of the standard Android look, making it a much smoother, more coherent and connected experience – a big step up compared to previous iterations of Google’s software.It is also faster, lighter on battery and adds a lot of what third-party manufacturers have had to manually bolt on to their customised versions of Android.Google’s blog post focuses on the design aspects of Lollipop, particularly the way its “material design” aims to be “one consistent design language flexible enough to span devices across mobile, desktop, and beyond”.Is the company onto something? If you’re using Lollipop already on one or more devices, how are you finding it, and do you think material design will deliver on Google’s promises?What new features are looking most useful, and what would you like to see added in future updates? How do you think Android Lollipop stacks up compared to Apple’s iOS 8? The comments are open for your views.What else is on the technology radar today? A few links to chew over:Social service Ask.fm, which has faced scrutiny over cyberbullying, isappointing a law enforcement affairs officerand providing more information on how to block and report users and ‘problematic’ content.Christies ispreparing to auction offthe “only known surviving Apple-1 documented to have been sold directly by Steve Jobs to an individual from his parents’ garage”. Although you may need up to $600,000 to nab it.US startup Paracosm certainly sounds ambitious: it’sraised $3.3m of fundingto, in CEO Amir Rubin’s words, “take the digital world beyond screens and enable machines to understand the world as we do, turning your living room into a holodeck”.Veteran technology site CNET is launching... a print magazine? Yep.A print magazine. It’ll be quarterly with an initial print run of 200,000 copies and exclusive articles. “We’re trying to make a statement that we’re investing in print because we think it’s a viable way to reach this audience...”Finally, a snapshot of mobile gaming in 2014, as King reveals that the soundtrack for its soon-to-launch Candy Crush Soda Saga will be performed by the London Symphony Orchestra. No news on whether the musicians stopped playing halfway through and demanded that King pay more money, etc etc.If you have views on the stories above, or other links to suggest to the community, dive in below the line.
It's Tuesday.
It’s easy to get paranoid if you spend too much time on the internet. Reading the reams of scare stories on Ebola, an imminent third world war or cybergeddon, an internet apocalypse caused by hackers, would send even the calmest of people into paralysing paroxysms.When MH370 went missing this year, some suspected the mysterious disappearance was the result of a digital attack on the plane. That theory has little factual basis, however.The City University professor Dr David Stupples researches cyber terrorism for the UK government, and has previously secured communications satellites for Hughes Aircraft Corporation. He says the systems on the doomed flight were set up in such a way that such a hijacking attempt would have proven extremely difficult.Though modern airplanes have integrated systems, connecting difference pieces of the network architecture using abus, which might allow hackers to move around a plane’s network to cause trouble, MH370’s on-flight communications were more segregated.“If we talk about MH370 that certainly didn’t have this level of integration at all,” he explains. “But with the A320 and A350 and 787 [different models of airplane] we have got this level of integration.”Digital compromise of an aircraft via a ‘cyber bomb’According to Stupples, the potential for digital compromise of an aircraft is certainly possible, especially if perpetrated by those threatening to use a “cyber bomb”, where hackers place malware on aircraft systems to disrupt them sufficiently and cause the jet to crash.That’s why Stupples and researchers at Cranfield University, known for its aviation expertise, are developing a network architecture that would prevent such attacks. The system would recognise dangerous malware as soon as it made its way onto the aircraft, as its attempts to access and tamper with flight control software should be recognisable.The network would then “reconfigure” itself around the malware, Stupples explains. “We can do that in a variety of ways which will hopefully not defeat but out-manoeuvre the bad guys.” The most likely way of preventing the hackers moving to more critical parts of the network would be to shut non-essential systems down, he adds, noting the same kind of techniques could be used in power plants or other critical infrastructure. The overall aim is to take the network to a safe, known state.Stupples alludes to discussions with GCHQ about the issue. “We have to address the problem completely differently. We need to look at architectures that can survive a malware attack. This is really important for infrastructure such as power stations, water plants, all of those things, [as well as] aircraft,” says Stupples.Has this ever actually happened?When there are so few examples of hackers targeting planes, such statements could easily be written off as histrionic.There was much breathless reporting in 2010 when details were released on Spanair Flight 5022, which crashed shortly after take off. Some believed anEl Pais reporthad claimed malware was the cause of the tragedy. But ittranspireda computer system used for monitoring technical issues with the airline’s planes was infected, not the aircraft. And the main cause was the incorrect positioning of the flaps and slats on the wing, which were fully retracted. Though the system designed to warn of an inadequate takeoff configuration did not work correctly, there was little evidence this was the fault of the malware.Yet the Spanair crash does point to one obvious avenue for attacks on jetplanes: compromising the airline’s network with malware that could then be transmitted to the flight systems. This could either be done by an external hacker with vast expertise and knowledge of their target, or by an insider with high level access, says Stupples.A disgruntled employee could load malware onto the aircraft via a USB pen, he suggests, or it could spread from the company network when the jet connects to a data port at the gate. These data ports often update the inflight entertainment systems, from where attackers could start probing other parts of the network as they attempt to compromise the controls, Stupples adds.“The disaffected employee would have to be someone associated with the systems. If that’s the case, there’s a better than 80% chance they can either get to the data being transmitted on to the aircraft or get onto the aircraft itself [to load the malware],” he says.“I’m beginning to get the view we’re fighting a losing battle in the malware game because there are a lot more people doing malware - the dark side has a lot more people than the light side. The dark side people are also very clever and we mustn’t underestimate them.”Few disagree that as planes adopt more wireless communications the potential for remote attacks - those carried out by a hacker sitting at a desk rather than on a plane - increases. A number of the protocols (the rules that determine how systems interact with each other) used by aircraft have previously been shown up as vulnerable in recent years.Attackers could install malware under certain circumstancesRuben Santamarta, a researcher from security consultancy IOActive, hasexploreda number of the protocols and machines used for satellite communications, which provide broadband internet access or for data and voice communications used for safety on flights.He looked at various satellite communications devices and software made by big-name manufacturers - including Cobham, Inmarsat, Harris Corporation, Hughes and Iridium - that cover those two areas on a variety of airplane.At the 2014 BlackHat security conference, Santamarta said these vulnerabilities may have allowed an attacker to install a malicious firmware with or without physical access to the device, under certain circumstances. “If we control the firmware running in the satellite communications gear, an attacker can potentially to intercept, spoof or disrupt it,” he tells the Guardian.Yet the cyber threat has been exaggerated. For the digital terrorist, they need more than just a handful of vulnerabilities to take control of a plane while it’s in the sky. They need to figure out a way of moving around the aircraft’s network to compromise its control systems. This is where Stupples believes today’s hackers will come unstuck.“You have to get into the autopilot and to get into the autopilot and run it from somewhere you don’t know - it’s very difficult,” he adds. “[To do that] you’ll have to have the whole network architecture of the flight system. And all of the interface points to that. Yes, it’s possible, but you have to have a great deal of knowledge.”Dr Phil Polstra, professor of digital forensics at Bloomberg University and a qualified commercial pilot, thinks the most obvious way to “do something bad to an airliner” would not be via cyber means but to co-opt someone in maintenance who could subtly tinker with the mechanics. “That would be a lot simpler and a lot more likely to be successful than a really high-tech attack.”‘Airlines rely too heavily on redundancy and determinism’Despite some predictablyhyperbolic reporting, Santamarta says anyone who exploited the weaknesses he uncovered would only cause disruption rather than gain access to the controls. “In my research, if you compromise a satellite communications device that doesn’t mean you can crash an airplane. However, aircraft safety heavily rely on redundancy and determinism to provide security, so any unexpected behaviour is a risk,” says Santamarta.Polstra believes hackers would have a very hard time causing any disruption to a flight whatsoever. Looking at Santamarta’s research, he says that while everything the study found was correct, being able to send fake communications would have little chance of tricking pilots. “[In aircraft today] we have two pilots in the loop. If you were to send a bogus communication to tell them to do anything unusual, they would instantly check with the airline,” Polstra notes.For instance, if a malicious message is sent over the Aircraft Communications Addressing and ReportingSystem (ACARS) to reroute an aircraft - a method suggested by Santamarta - it first appears on a screen and then on a print out, says Polstra. The pilots then have to manually enter the message into the flight computer and execute it. Put simply, any pilot worth their salt would notice anything strange. “It’s not the case you could send a bogus message and then it would make the plane go in another direction,” Polstra adds.From a cyber perspective, we can be thankful that the research shows attacks are limited in their scope. Paper concepts alone can’t hurt us. And human intervention can prevent a disaster.
Victoria’s taxi regulator has demanded that Uber scrap its service that allows unaccredited drivers to pick up passengers.The Taxi Services Commission (TSC) has issued a “cease and desist” letter to Uber over its UberX offering, citing safety concerns. Queensland and New South Wales have already cracked down on UberX, with NSW issuing $2,500 fines against those who offer the service. Overseas cities such as Montreal have also taken a stand against UberX.While the Uber Black service requires drivers to be accredited and therefore face ongoing criminal checks, UberX does not generally demand this.Instead, members of the public can connect with signed-up drivers via Uber’s smartphone app, allowing them to select the nearest driver to pick them up.“The TSC welcomes competition in the industry, but not at the expense of passenger and driver safety,” a spokesman for the TSC told Guardian Australia.“UberX drivers are generally not accredited and do not operate licensed vehicles, meaning that they are not held to the same high standards that taxis and hire cars are.“For example, accredited drivers are subject to ongoing criminal checks, ensuring that they are fit to drive, whereas UberX drivers are only required to submit a police record check prior to commencing and no ongoing checks are done. “Fears over the safety implications of UberX were raised after a driver in San Francisco was accused of assaulting a passenger with a hammer in September. Another driver, in Washington DC, was arrested earlier this year for allegedly raping a customer.Established taxi drivers in Australia have spoken out at the take-up of Uber’s in the country, with UberX a particular target of their ire.According to Uber, which was originally founded in San Francisco, UberX fares can be up to 50% cheaper than a standard taxi, with more than 1,100 drivers joining Uber’s service every month.“We understand that introducing change can be difficult but we continue to work with governments in Australia and around the world to recognise the role ride-sharing plays in improving transport options for their cities,” an Uber spokeswoman said.“As indicated by the Taxi Services Commission, this includes working closely with them on accrediting UberX partners in Victoria. We will always stand by our partners. Uber doesn’t believe anybody should be fined for providing safe, reliable and affordable transport.”
The government is asking the bitcoin community for advice on dealing with cryptocurrencies, in an effort to bolster Britain’s lead in the financial technology sector.The Treasury is asking for information on new digital currencies from the public, law enforcement agencies and financial regulators – but also from so-called “FinTech” firms, which include bitcoin afficionados.Bitcoin is largely unregulated across the globe, although New York’s department of financial services has suggested creating a “bitlicense” to impose some constraints on the currency.The Treasury will be looking at examples of regulation in other countries, but emphasises that the lead will come from responses to its own call for information. “Digital currencies and digital currency exchanges are currently unregulated in the UK,” said a Treasury spokesman.“We’re considering the potential benefits of digital currencies to customers and the technology that underpins them, and whether we should take action to support innovation in this area. We’re also looking at the potential risks, and assessing whether action is required to address any concerns.”The fact-finding mission follows August’s announcement by chancellor George Osborne that the government intends to focus on cryptocurrencies, and FinTech in general. “It’s only by harnessing innovations in finance, alongside our existing world class knowledge and skills in financial services, that we’ll ensure Britain’s financial sector continues to meet the diverse needs of businesses and consumers, here and around the globe, and create the jobs and growth we all want to see in the future,” the chancellor said at the time.Jeremy Allaire, founder of Bitcoin bank Circle, says the the early drafts of New York’s license were “over-reaching”, but supports regulation of digital currencies.“Digital currency firms, especially those that act as custodians of customer digital assets, and those that offer exchange and conversion between local currency and digital currency should be subject to the same rules that apply to existing payment institutions and money transfer businesses in the UK,” he told the Guardian.
